-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Madden NFL 06
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/maddennfl2006/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Player models, coaches, stadiums, and menus are major upgrades over anything you've seen before.
 New play-calling menus are a breeze to get through.
 Gameplay is true to the series.
 New commentator is better than you'd expect.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Many of the unique gameplay features of the last couple of Madden games are missing.
 Lots of missing modes--all you get is a husk of a franchise mode and online play.
 Some unsightly animation and graphical hang-ups that stick out all the more on a next-gen console.
 You can't challenge plays.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 18, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.5, 58 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 3,092 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Nov 16, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The next-generation of football gaming kicks off with mixed results in Madden NFL 06, a game that's 
 pretty to look at, but has less to it than you'd probably expect. 

  It appears that reports of the birth of next-generation football on consoles have been greatly 
 exaggerated. Yes, Madden NFL 06 has made its debut on the Xbox 360 -- but not in a form that could 
 really be called next gen. Certainly this is a graphically impressive game that's far better than 
 anything you've seen on the current roster of consoles. Player models, stadiums, tackles, catches, 
 and throws have never looked this good before. But beyond the impressive technology backing EA's 
 newest football game lies a number of holdover issues that stand out all the more blatantly when 
 placed in direct contrast to the game's newest graphical components. Plus, there's really very 
 little about Madden 06's gameplay that you haven't seen before. And for that matter, there's a 
 lot you  have  seen before that's simply just missing from this edition. So, while the graphics 
 of Madden have eked their way into the next-generation, the rest of the game still has a ways to 
 go.  

          There's no doubt that Madden NFL 06 is a great-looking next-gen football game...     

 
  One thing that must be made clear from the get-go is that Madden on the 360 is not just a port 
 of Madden NFL 06 as it appeared on other consoles. The game has been built pretty much from the 
 ground up, though it still feels very much like a Madden football game. The controls are as responsive 
 as they've ever been, making good use of the 360's controller. Passing feels tight; runs can be 
 very satisfying (especially if you implement the truck stick, which was introduced earlier this 
 year) ; and defensive stops and big hits are just as good as they've ever been. What's different 
 is the way a lot of these actions look. Animations have been adjusted in a number of ways to make 
 things seem more realistic. Jukes, stutter steps, wrap tackles, ball strips, tosses, bombs... All 
 these things look just a little bit better than they ever have in the past. The fluidity of these 
 animations is really quite impressive, even if the game doesn't exactly operate much differently 
 from the way it has in recent years.  

  It's clear from the very first time you boot up the game that EA Tiburon spent the vast bulk of 
 its time making Madden look a whole lot better. The player models and stadiums can be downright 
 fantastic-looking at times. Up close, you'll really get to see a hell of a lot of detail in the 
 players. Muscular definition in the arms and legs, shine off of helmets, and player faces -- when 
 done right -- are phenomenal. Unfortunately, a lot of major players didn't get the full treatment. 
 Big guys like Donovan McNabb, Michael Vick, Corey Dillon, and the like all look really, really 
 accurate to their real-life counterparts. But there are lots of starting NFL players that simply 
 don't look right. Take a look at someone like Brian Griese or Kerry Collins, and there's a pretty 
 significant difference in accuracy. Still, even if the faces are off, the bodies look excellent. 
 As for the stadiums, while the turf still looks a little funky in some spots, nothing else does. 
 The crowds are great, and the sideline players and coaches are extremely detailed. In fact, in 
 some cases you could argue that the coaches look better than a lot of the players, which is actually 
 kind of weird. Incidentally, while Madden NFL 06 obviously looks its best on an HD setup, it also 
 looks quite good on a normal TV. Some of the details are blurred-over, and you won't get the crispness 
 you'd get from HD, but the upgraded graphics still look very much upgraded on a standard TV.  

 
  While so much work has gone in to the graphics, there are still a lot of little annoying things 
 that detract from the visual experience. Shifting players around before the snap results in some 
 stiff, jerky animations that seem well out of place in such a glossy-looking game. And in some 
 cases, guys moved on defense will get stuck standing up, unable to get back in to a defensive stance 
 after you move them. The old vibrating blockers issue is still just as prevalent as it's ever been, 
 as blockers are still unable to avoid buzzing back and forth while trying to figure out which defensive 
 players to block. This leads to some ugly-looking bunch-ups at the line, as well as during kick 
 and punt returns. Running backs still get stuck on linemen; players will freeze on the ground after 
 a play is over (and they'll stay there in the background during an injury cutscene if one presents 
 itself) ; there aren't a ton of celebration animations (and you'll see a lot of them repeat over 
 and over again) ; and you'll see some very abrupt transitions between cutscenes and gameplay. Many 
 of these things are the types of problems that have existed in Madden games for quite a while now, 
 and the ones that aren't seem like by-products of a shorter-than-average development cycle. Undoubtedly, 
 Madden NFL 06 is an impressive-looking game, but you'll be hard-pressed not to notice its blemishes, 
 as many as there are.  

          ... but all the pretty graphics in the world don't make up for all the missing things in 
 this game.     

  While there's clearly been a lot of effort put into the graphical end of things, the rest of the 
 game, as a whole, feels pretty hollow compared to what we've grown accustomed to over the years. 
 Many of the nifty gameplay and game mode innovations that the Madden series has introduced in recent 
 iterations are either gone or have been stripped down. Defensive playmaker controls simply don't 
 exist, so there's no way to change how an individual player on defense plays. You can shift around 
 the defense to show blitzes, press or pull back, and align with assigned players -- but that's about 
 it. And the alignment feature is almost too good, since you can basically reposition your entire 
 defense to hold down every single offensive player at the touch of a single button.  

  On offense, there are no formation shifts, though you can activate hot routes, call audibles, and/or 
 send players in motion. The controversial quarterback-vision-cone feature from this year's game 
 does make its presence felt in the game, though it defaults to "off." The computer player always 
 uses it, so it's actually fairly easy to see where a quarterback is looking, but you yourself do 
 not have to use it, except when you change a primary receiver before the snap. For some reason, 
 the vision cone will pop back up, even with it turned off in the settings, whenever you do this. 
     

  One gameplay addition made to Madden on the 360 that is definitely an improvement over anything 
 found in the last few Madden games is the new play-calling screen. It still works mostly the same 
 as any other play-calling screen, but it's sorted out into multiple categories. There's the Ask 
 Madden section, where John himself tells you what you should go with. There's the coach section, 
 where the team's coach gives you some advice. And then there are sections broken out by formation, 
 play type, and key player. If there's a go-to receiver whose hands you absolutely want to get the 
 ball into, now you can jump on it quickly. Just want to select a quick pass? Now there's an easy 
 menu to find one in. There's another added feature, albeit a far less impressive one, in the form 
 of the new kick meter. It's not too dissimilar from the kick meter 2K Sports used in its football 
 games, where you try to nail down a moving arrow to set your accuracy and then hit a moving power 
 level to set, of course, your power. It's not an altogether bad addition, but it also seems like 
 just about the most unnecessary thing to mess with in a game that's rife with missing features. 

          The new play-calling menus are probably the best feature this game has to offer.     

 
  The biggest omission of all in Madden's gameplay is the ability to challenge plays. This is a 
 fundamental part of modern football. There is nary a game on the schedule that doesn't involve 
 at least one challenged play of some sort, be it a first-down play or a touchdown that simply wasn't. 
 Well, you can forget about it in this game. That fumble your quarterback dropped that was picked 
 up by the defense for a touchdown -- the one where you're absolutely sure your quarterback's arm 
 was moving forward, thus making it a tuck-rule scenario? Too bad. It's a fumble. Maybe this is 
 just a case of John Madden getting his way (he's always hated replay, and he frequently laments 
 about how "a fumble is a fumble") , but the total absence of such a big part of real football, and 
 one that's been in multiple football games for  years  now, is simply mind-boggling.  

  Those missing features extend well beyond the basic gameplay, as well. There's no minicamp mode 
 in Madden NFL 06, no practice mode, no minigames, no create-a-player, and no superstar mode. While 
 nobody's likely to be singing any elegies for the loss of the superstar mode, all those other components 
 were highly useful and enjoyable parts of the Madden experience. Minicamp has been such a mainstay 
 of the series that without it, the whole game seems to suffer. Franchise mode, for instance, just 
 isn't the same without the option to play the minicamp games during training camp to build up your 
 players. That's not all the franchise mode is missing, either. The whole EA Sports radio thing 
 with Tony Bruno is gone, as is the news tracking and e-mail stuff, with the licensed newspapers 
 and players talking about how they want more contracts or more playing time or whatnot. You can't 
 even scout rookies prior to the draft. So, basically, what you're looking at is a franchise mode 
 circa 2001, where you can do all the basic management things in a series of text menus -- and you 
 can do them fairly well. However, all the personality has pretty much disappeared.  

  The online play is the only other feature in the game. It's online play the way you've come to 
 know it in recent years. You can challenge players, and they can challenge you to ranked and unranked 
 games. It's purely functional, and again, lacks anything beyond its core components (such as the 
 online minigames found in the PlayStation 2 and Xbox versions) . The online play is solid, performance-wise. 
 Our testing on prerelease servers yielded no lag or other such unpleasantness. The one thing that 
 might put a few people off is that all ranked games seem to be set to the all-pro difficulty, and 
 the kick meter on that difficulty goes some kind of crazy. It just moves really, really fast for 
 any kicker that isn't up to Adam Vinatieri level, and it's kind of off-putting if you haven't spent 
 a great deal of time playing on that difficulty level in the offline game. You can get used to 
 it, but it's really a bit much.  

          Drew Brees seemed like such a nice guy in real life. Who knew that he was actually a member 
 of the walking undead?     

  Interestingly enough, John Madden is also absent from Madden 06 -- at least from the commentary booth. 
 Madden still provides plenty of glib, generally uninformative comments in the Ask Madden feature, 
 but commentary is handled by an EA Sports radio announcer, which is probably some code name for 
 "guy whose name we don't actually know." Surprisingly, though, he's mostly really good. He really 
 nails that sort of radio broadcaster overenthusiastic delivery by shrieking "He's at the 30! The 
 20! The 10! Touchdown!!!" and things of that nature. It's the kind of enthusiasm you just don't 
 get from Al Michaels, you know? The rest of the audio mostly sounds the same as it did in the other 
 versions of Madden 06. The soundtrack is exactly the same, and the sound effects, while maybe slightly 
 different, aren't noticeably so. Incidentally, you'll hear more in the way of player dialogue on 
 the field, but it tends to fade in to the din of the crowd noises.  

  Madden NFL 06 on the Xbox 360 has the look, and it plays fine. But beneath its lambent sheen is 
 a skeletal game of football that's lacking many of the things that football fans have grown accustomed 
 to in recent years. Pretty graphics are great to have and all, but everything else about Madden 
 on the 360 feels like a step backward -- and one that makes its higher price tag very difficult to 
 justify. Undoubtedly, many (if not all) of the things missing from this game will be implemented 
 next year, perhaps in addition to a new feature or two. But that still leaves us with a game that 
 just doesn't compare to what Madden has been in recent years. 360 owners ought to at least give 
 Madden NFL 06 a look, if only to see its great graphics and to take a peek at what next year's 
 NFL game will have to improve upon. However, this is not one of those must-own 360 launch games. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (357 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 10:44 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  The long running Madden series makes it way with its first installment on the Xbox 360. This review 
 is based on the fact you know a little bit about football. Also keep in mind I am writing this 
 as if it is new experience and only comparing it to previous years and not later releases. 
  
  
  Game play: 8/10
  While I have to say there is great improvements in the 06 version compared 
 to 05 on the PS2 version I played. The vision controls while takes some time to get used to is 
 a nice added feature. The play calling is simple yet diverse. While the main game play is basically 
 the same from previous version, its still fun to play and a couple of new moves have been added 
 as well. The use of the right stick adds some excitement and sometimes a difference maker in winning 
 or losing a game. The online aspect could use a little more work but its decent. 
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  While there are only so many improvements one can make to the a long running 
 franchise like Madden. There are great improvements in this installments in terms of players and 
 stadiums. Not only the players look realistic, their moves are not the same all the time. There 
 are numerous new moves like cut backs that look realistic. The stadium modeling makes each home 
 venue look and feel different.
  
  Sound and Music: 8/10
  The music in the menus seems like the standard assortment of music added in all sports game. The 
 game sound is the real difference maker. You hear the crowds cheering and the players hollering. 
 The commentators add depth and its not too repetitive for one game. They do get repetitive is you 
 play seasons but not so much in one game.
  
  Difficulty: 5/10
  While the game has various settings. While it may be easy for some it might be too hard for others. 
 It does have a varying degrees of difficulties for various skill levels of players to make each 
 game enjoyable.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  While this game might seem obsolete given it was released over four years ago, you can find it 
 is most stores for a fraction of current release. It a decent addition for most collectors and 
 gamers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathHeart95
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Ah Madden, how you have gone down the tubes since your exclusive NFL license. This being the first 
 game that you have one, you should have taken advantage of it. Instead, you make one of the worst 
 Madden games in the series.
  
  Now, Madden games are usually decent, so it's still an okay game. The game play is good enough, 
 the graphics are nice. However, there are some key things missing. For one thing, YOU CAN'T CHALLENGE 
 PLAYS!!! There have been a multitude of times that I saw what could have been a bad call, then 
 pause it going to challenge a play, but realize I can't. But wait, there's more. The only modes 
 are franchise, quick play, and online. So therefore, after you play through franchise (franchise 
 ends after 30 years) , there really isn't anything you can do. The lack of modes and the ability 
 to challenge plays really brings this game down.
  
  This game does, however, have extremely easy achievements. You can get all 1000 points in a few 
 days, maybe less if you play constantly. So if you're an achievement junkie, this is a great game 
 to have. Also, since the game is so old at this point, you can get it used for $3 at GameStop. 
 A pretty good bargain as well.
  
  All-in-all, this is not a really good game. It's worth a rent for most people (if you could care 
 less about football STAY AWAY) , for football fans and achievement junkies, it's a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick_manthe
Rating: 7
Date: May 21, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Madden 06 for the Xbox 360 is okay but the Xbox version is better. The graphics are spectacular 
 for one of the first next gen console games. Though the downfall for Madden 06 is that a lot of 
 the extras that are on the last gen consoles aren't on this one. Like the creat-a-modes have dissapeared. The 
 achievements in this game are very easy. You could get them in about 5-10 hours. I liked the gameplay 
 in this madden and I also liked that Brett Favre actually sounded like Brett Favre. If you have 
 an Xbox i'd get it on the Xbox and save a buck. This isn't one of the best maddens but it is still 
 good. This is a pretty average game and it doesn't go high above my expectations. The madden franchise 
 has been improving each year and bringing back the fun that the last gen consoles had. If you haven't 
 played this game i'd recommend a rent especially if you like getting a lot of gamerscore fast. That's 
 why I believe this game deserves a 7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadlynatas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Not bad graphics and good for achievements! I would say i do not regret buying this game. I would 
 keep it in my collection but i bought the 2007 version so i will try that then move on. If you 
 are a madden lover you definaltly want to add this to your collection and at a low cost. I think 
 it was worth the money and easy to play the other later versions have some better parts to it but 
 this is still a good buy! Football it will keep a man coming back! The 30franchize year run for 
 a whopping 400gs achievement is nice just be ready to sim quite a bit of games. The only problem 
 i see is that when you are playing the game the camra zooms out while the play is in motion. I'm 
 sure you can change this but its an annoying start out situation. Other then that get this game 
 its great then move on to madden 2007. GOOOOOOOOOOOO Gammmmmmers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trw534
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Madden football game have been made since like 1970s. They are on all platforms nintendo, microsoft, 
 and sony. they are great games... each years gets better Anyway madden 06 is a great for sports 
 fans, kids, and everyone. The are even for the hardcore gamers. You can do dynasty where you pick 
 a sports team and controls them for as long as you want then there is for a year which is you control 
 the team for a year. Then you can play
  now which is you can just play a game now. The playing is awsome you can make substitutes, call 
 different plays..... and so on. you can play as any team and any player... This is a great game. you 
 can make your own team from the team name to the team color to the city. You can also create a 
 fan like his colors and what he wears. you can control the teams offseason. like the draft, spring 
 training and so on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatermag
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely abysmal. for people that dont know what abysmal means, it means DONT buy 
 this game. the gameplay is horrible, running backs get stuck in animations and stuck on the line 
 and cant even run backwards once on the line. They stripped this game down so much from the previous 
 ones. There is no fantasy draft which is my favorite part of nfl games. there are no training camp 
 mini games. madden is completely off of this edition which isnt all bad. once you catch a ball 
 you just keep running in that direction straight out of bounds most of the time so swing passes 
 are really bad. receivers and cornerbacks are just robot running right next to eachother never 
 getting juked or getting open. when receivers catch the ball they dont care about the sideline 
 and just run out and so it gets called back. This is a terrible game and is not worth anyones time. 
 Dont buy!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  This doesn't offer any of the major additions later Maddens have, and it also doesn't have alot 
 of modes, but it is still a great game. The gameplay is great, and is very fun. The sound and graphics 
 are also very good. The players look real, as does the enviroment. This is a great game if this 
 is your first football game and you want to be introduced into the series. Otherwise, you might 
 want something with more meat. The cool thing about this game is that you can buy it for a low 
 price ($10 or lower) used, so it is worth buying this great football game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryguyb87
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is good for a starter on the xbox 360. I have always been a fan of the ESPN franchise 
 but since that has been bought out this is your next best buy. The graphics aren't that great, 
 just decent. The game play isn't all that to wright home about. Its a madden game and that pretty 
 much sums it up. If you own the newer version of this game don't even bother. If you don't own 
 any football games just go get the newer version. I think this game pretty much killed any expectations 
 I had about most football games. The ESPN games were probably the most fun I have had with a football 
 game. Till next time game on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 12, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  As any fan of the Madden franchise has known, over the past few years it's clear EA has hit 'cruise 
 control'. I have played Madden ever since it's inception on the Sega Genesis. I also haven't played 
 a Madden game with any good innovations since Madden '04. And even that wasn't like it changed 
 the world of football videogames or anything. My point is that Madden has been on a downslide for 
 a few years now and the '06 edition certainly didn't help that in any way.
  
  In this Xbox 360 version, you get very nice looking graphics. And that's about it. Most of the 
 gameplay features were stripped out due to the timeframe this game had to be released on. And any 
 annoyances you had with the earlier Xbox/PS2 versions of the game were still here in all their 
 glory.
  
  The main problem with this game is that it didn't add anything good to the gameplay and stripped 
 the game of most of it's features. Obviously, that is a mistake and I can't believe EA let this 
 out the door and charged $60 for it back when it was released. Then you have the core-problem of 
 the game itself. The 'new' features are all pretty lame and the most hyped of them all (the cone 
 vision passing) , is one of the worst features I have ever seen in a videogame. EA basically admits 
 to this, since the cone-vision passing is auto turned off in this version (unlike the 'current-gen' 
 games) .
  
  Essentially what you have here is EA trying to cash in on a new console. Sure the graphic upgrades 
 are nice, but this is a rushed game that shouldn't have made it out the door in this condition. 
 The only reason to buy this game is if you can get it at a heavily discounted price ($10) and you 
 are going for the easy achievements. And if you must own a Madden '06 game, I would recommend the 
 Xbox version of this over this rushed turd. I would give this a rent, get the easy gamer points, 
 and never look back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 4, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  For anyone who has been playing Madden football games since the 90's they can tell you with a straight 
 face that if you like the grid iron world of the NFL this is the game to live it up in. Sadly, 
 since the 98 version of the series I've felt totally let down in what EA has been producing since. 
 Even now when terms like next gen are used so loosely, you may find yourself wondering how so many 
 people can be attracted to a game that is in so many others eyes sub par and the easy answer is 
 simplicity.&nbsp;&nbsp;
  &nbsp;
  GAMEPLAY
  Everything you expect from a standard football game is here and fully intact. Not to say more is 
 necessary in such a sport, but it does say a lot when simple things like the franchise mode lacks 
 any real depth. When actually playing the game the real quirks become more visble than a kicker 
 who pats butts a little too much. From the moment of the coin toss you notice the presentation 
 is there, but due to strange laggey transitions from on field action to replays, the delay effect 
 becomes a very painful thing to stomach. Controls are basic and the highlight/hit stick are a fun 
 concept that tend to work well with star players but can be silly with anyone  
 &nbsp;
  &nbsp;
  VISUALS
  Ever hear of the expression all flash but no substance? In no way am I saying for a football game 
 on a great system like the 360 Madden could have been better, BUT! What is a gamer to do when they 
 purchase something new but walk away feeling like they already been there, done that? All financial 
 complaints aside, the game is pretty identical to what was on the Xbox and Playstation2. If you 
 are a fan of the original animations and player gestures and such, then you might actually be pleased 
 to see much was not changed. As for being wowed by stellar celebrations and awesome stadium atmosphere, 
 don't hold your 
  &nbsp;
  AUDIO
  One question, how does EA slide by creating a game representing the name of one the most recognized 
 men in the sport and not actually use him within the game? I got no answer for you!! Besides the 
 standard field ambience of players talking trash and the crowd cheering and booing during gameplay, 
 Madden doesn't speak a word in the entire game. Maybe you'll hear him during EA's extra content 
 side video, but instead you are left with some no name announcer who is not only alone during the 
 broadcast, but his mic seems to be lacking any BOOM. At the very least, if you are a music person 
 you will find some familiar names to jam out to during the menus and much props goes out to my 
 guy Sam Spence who makes great NFL related music&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  &nbsp;
  EXTRAS
  If you are a sports fan and you want 1000 gamer points in a few sit downs, this is your ticket. 
 The achievements in Madden 06 were more or less an after thought, which could be blamed on the 
 fact that its an early 360 game and for the few of them that suffered from those times, there isn't 
 much effort to recieve them besides playing the game from start to finish. One thing I must admit 
 to is the 30 years in franchise mode. 400 gamer points has never been known to be easier and I 
 now know why thanks to an afternoon of pure simulation. Once you simulate to the year 2033, which 
 I highly doubt anyone will actually play that much of this game, the achievement is pretty much 
 yours. The sour note for me was that the people at EA assume that football or humans will no longer 
 be around by then, so you are forced to either start another franchise or simply stop playing the 
 
  &nbsp;
  OVERALL
  With lackluster presentation, sluggish gameplay, moronic computer Ai, and most notably a massive 
 audience who takes full advantage of every exploit and considers themsevles skillful NFL guru's, 
 Madden 06 offers nothing more than something to do for a few hours. I hope that future versions 
 are much more worth while or at the very least better put together for the next gen ventures that 
 EA seems oh so confident in taking head on.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike11230
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 6, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  WHAT CAN I SAY THIS IS ONE OF MY FAVORITS SPORTS GAME FOR ABOX 360 SPECIALLY FOR THE GRAPHIK. ONE 
 CAQN NOT GET ENOUGH OF THIS GAME YOU CAN PLAY OVER ANVOR WITH DIFFERENT TEAMS AND EVEN TAKE A SELF 
 MADE PLAYER THROU A HOULE FOOTBALL CARE UNTIL YOU DECEIDE WHEN TO RETEIRE. SO OVERALL I SAY ONE 
 CAN NOT GET BORD OFTHIS GAME NEVER SPECIALLY WHEN PLAYING MULTIPLAYER OR WITH A FRIEND ITS JUST 
 CRAIZY AND IT BRINGS OVER THE NFL RELLY GOOD OLMOST LIKE IF YOU WHER THERE. With its new modes and 
 enhancements, Madden NFL 06 offers an authentic football experience. Among the game's offensive 
 enhancements are the QB Vision Control, which gives each quarterback a unique field of vision, 
 and the QB Precision Placement, which lets you throw the ball more accurately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imfeelinpanda
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 18, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  madden is a fun game that keeps me wanting for more. if u think u have to be a football genius 
 to play this game then ur wrong. i dont play football and have really just started watching it 
 and i pick up the controller and won 48 to 0 and it was fun. the gameplay is fun cause its so damn 
 easy... but u cant challege plays ( that is if i know of) . the grafics are ok for the starting line 
 out for the 360 but i expect 07 to be better then this. the sound is good but could be better. 
 i still think 07 would be a better buy because of the date im writing this rewview 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kessler44
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Madden 06 has great graphics, just check out the screens on gamespot. com and you'll see. EA built 
 this game from the ground up but the core Madden feel will still be there. The problem with this 
 is that the problems the EA had seemed to fix in previous versions are off here. The sound is kind 
 of bad since if one does not use the ask Madden feature there is almost no announcing. Most of 
 the features are also gone. There is just quick play and franchise and that's it. With Madden 07 
 out this game is cheap but not that great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jk_rulz
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 28, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  hey ppl i dnt kno wat is wrong with this game but i have tried 4 1 hour tryin to find a way 4 me 
 n my friend to play on the same team but have found no way of doin that is there a way that u can 
 play on the same team or not any help will be apreciated thanks ppl. i am really anoyyed at this 
 game the graphics are good as the gameplay a bit disapointing. i think it is way over priced i 
 think it should be free coz its crap. 07 is proberly bettter maybey most lickly coz this game is 
 bad so bad it hurts ouchhhhh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theironmanmatt
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Though it is highly playable and realistic, it simply lacks many features that made the previous 
 Madden games so enjoyable.
  
  The good: Excellent player models and very realistic movements; Very realistic overall and is highly 
 playable; several different modes of gameplay; cool new picking plays system; The bad; many features 
 that simply made the previous madden games are missing, such as the many different practice modes, 
 create a team, and create a superstar; there is really no form of story mode in this game
  
  Although it definitely lacks in features and could be better, it is still has an iconic gameplay 
 style that simply couldnt be improved, if you are a football fan, then this game isdefiniely worth 
 playing, but you should rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asher20
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 17, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  I know I'm going to get over it, but I haven't yet... WHY does Madden have to have the exclusive 
 rights to the NFL franchise???? It's the most retarded thing ever. I've been playing ESPN NFL 2K5 
 for a couple of years now (I know how out of date the rosters are... trust me) and have loved it. 
 The graphics are great for xbox, the coaches pick choice for defense plays is a very good feature 
 for those of us who don't keep up with every detail of football and the sound... it sounds so good 
 when you sack or tackle someone. Simply amazing. Well after getting my 360 recently, I felt it 
 was about time to upgrade to a newer game and roster. My friend had a copy of Madden 06 for the 
 360 and was willing to give it to me for free, because he already had Madden 07. I thought I was 
 upgrading games, but I was sorely dissapointed. Here is my review of each section of my score:
 
  
  Gameplay: 5
  The in-game play isn't all that bad. Play selection takes a bit to get used to and can be frusterating. 
 I realize this is a Madden game, but who wants to know what Madden would pick?? Targeting your 
 players can be frusterating and I didn't care for the controls set up very much.
  
  Graphics: 7
  This is a 360 game, so the graphics do look pretty sharp. However, what's up with 
 the shiny, plasticy, glistening player models? It doesn't look like real skin, unless they are 
 all waxed up bikini models. The close-ups are good, but in regular gameplay the graphics don't 
 look THAT much better than xbox graphics.
  
  Sound: 2
  This was the most dissapointing features of the game. The commentary is bland and too quiet most 
 of the time. You can barely hear your QB before the snap. What's most dissapointing is the sound 
 effects. In ESPN 2K5, you hear a thundering crunching, smacking noise when players run into each 
 other, and tackle. There is none of that in Madden. It takes the gory out of it when I go to get 
 an enormous sack and hear, thhhh. It sounds like something went flat... and it has here.
  
  Value: 2
  Why is this game still $40 new in the store? Madden 07 is out!! For the lackluster 
 football game you are buying, it's definately not worth $40!! If you need a 360 football game, 
 I guess it's the cheapest way to go though...
  
  Tilt: 1
  For $1.99 at EB Games you can get a copy of ESPN 2K5... the game only falls short in graphics (but 
 only slightly) and updated roster. Other than that it offer superior gameplay, sound, commentary, 
 game options, play calling options.... just about everything. Even though Madden 06 has dropped 
 to $40 in most stores I still say spend the $1.99 and save the other $38.01 for another game... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan729
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  
  Overall, the graphics in this game look very nice. From player models and animations to stadiums 
 and fans, everything looks substantially better than current-gen games. The snow and rain effects 
 look particularly good. However, player's faces often look very different from their real counterparts, 
 which can be disappointing. Player animations are realistic, but sometimes there are glitches in 
 animations which can be very amusing and annoying. Frame-rate in the game is good, but there can 
 be stutters and I encountered a few instances where my game briefly froze. However, this has not 
 happened in a while, so it may have been only a temporary problem. Stadiums look great, but I encountered 
 some times when there were black empty spaces where a dome or sky should be. The scoreboard on 
 the bottom of the screen is nice, as it displays stats of different players. However, I wish that 
 it would also have displayed scores from other games going on in the league. The play-call menus 
 are a huge improvement over past Madden games and are easy to navigate.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Madden has always been a great football game in terms of gameplay, but every year the developers 
 implement a new feature of some sort. This year, with the appearance of McNabb on the cover, the 
 new feature is the QB Vision . It is basically where you can move a vision cone with the right 
 analog stick which allows you to find open receivers easier and make a more precise pass. Unfortunately, 
 I rarely found myself using this feature, and when I did the ball was either intercepted or not 
 completed. The problem for me was the the vision cone was hard to control, and with defenders coming 
 at you it was hard to use it efficiently. Luckily the QB Vision is not essential to the game. Other 
 than that there are really no improvements to gameplay. However, I was very disappointed to see 
 that the Coach's Challenge ability was left out of this game. This is an important part of the 
 game, and I find it hard to believe that the developers left it out. In addition, the Superstar 
 and Training Camp modes do not make an appearance, which is a letdown. That only leaves Franchise 
 and Online as the two main modes. But overall, the gameplay here is true to the Madden series.
 
  
  Sound
  
  The crowds sound good, as do the players. The commentary is pretty decent, and can add a lot to 
 a touchdown or interception. Thankfully they appear to not say the same things over and over again 
 which is good. EA Tracks has some good songs.
  
  Value
  
  Since the 2007 version is out now, you can easily find this game for $30 or less. It is missing 
 some key modes which really does hurt the replay value. But you can still have a good time playing 
 with friends, by yourself, or on XBL.
  
  Verdict
  
  Madden 06 is really the game for those who are not looking for too deep of a football game. The 
 game is more for those who just want to play a game every now and then without having to pay $50-60. 
 Sure it is missing some features and modes, but if you simply want to play a game of football at 
 an affordable price, then look no further. Madden 06 gets a 8.0/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kithooton
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 16, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  OK well the NFL Madden Games have been great on the PS2, and even this years 07 is much better 
 than the xbox360.
  but i like the great graphics, the sounds of a great hit, players talking, it feels like your there.
 
  
  ok there maybe less play books, but theres enough for the average jo.
  
  online, well? in the UK unless its my broadband it doesn't want to work, but saying that, I haven't 
 really tried enough times to comment.
  but all the mini games, customisation is there if you know what the hell your doing.
  
  the 
 franchise is always great.
  
  good NFL game
  
  Kithooton 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I've been a die-hard football fan for many, many years. Along with strapping on shoulder pads in 
 real life, I played football on the Atari 2600, upgraded to Madden's first version on the computer 
 long before it hit consoles - then there was Tecmo Football, more Madden, NCAA footall, NFL Fever, 
 NFL Blitz, NFL Street and so forth and so on. I'd say this game is on the level of the Nintendo 
 64's Madden with current generation graphics.
  
  It's a super-stripped down version of Madden just so they could meet the deadline of being one 
 of the first games on the 360. I'm glad I bought it used instead of new, but even at $35 instead 
 of the fresh $60 price tag, I feel I have been supremely ripped off.
  
  The new X-Box 360's acheivements are all too easy to get. You only have to actually play football 
 for about 1/4 of the points. The rest are pretty much freebies. I hated that, and then I was glad. 
 Why? Because I can't finish playing a single game! It's not that I hate the gameplay much, which 
 I do, but that the already horrible game keeps locking up during every game that I play! This game 
 pisses me off so much I don't even want to keep the game disk to use as a coaster! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _R3SP3CT_
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 2, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 2006 (X360)
  
  EA is really using the advantage of having the NFL license in a bad way, this incarnation of the 
 popular Madden series is one of the worst if not the worst Madden game ever. They basically took 
 Madden 2005, added a useless feature and strapped an 06 and a new person on the cover and bam, 
 Madden NFL 06 was born.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  + They made some minor improvements in Defence but nothing big
  +/- Added a new QB vision feature 
 (this adds to the realism of the game, but in the end is really is just another gimmick)
  - The gameplay hasn't changed since the first 3D Madden game.
  - The AI is either too easy, or 
 too hard.
  - Online play is filled with cheaters.
  - Game is really weak, even compared to the XBOX and PS2 versions.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  + The 
 graphics are the best on the 360 version as one might expect.
  - While it does indeed have the best graphics, they aren't much better.
  - The animations of 
 the game are average.
  * Overall this game does not look next-gen, if you were hoping for a next-gen football game this 
 will not be it, consider waiting till the next version of the game. Pretty dissapointed in the 
 graphics department of this game.
  
  SOUND:
  
  + The game has licensed music
  + The announcer commentary is good for the most part
  + The player shouts and grunts are good
 
  - The commentary can get repetetive if you've played the game long enough
  
  VALUE:
  
  * This game is not worth the money. This is one of the most dissapointing games on the Xbox 360. 
 The only thing the game is worth is the updated roster, which isn't saying much. If you have any 
 other football game, skip on this one, and wait till next-year and hope EA makes actual improvements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight292
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  From the intro line you can tell this wont be pretty. Since back in the day, EA has been the sport 
 videogame giant that always churned out great, consitantly good games. But in the past few years 
 EA has started to slip. The 2K franchise is giving EA some stiff compitition. And if EA stays on 
 the decline like this 2K will soon take the throne of sports gaming. Lets get the obvious out of 
 the way. The sound of the players grunting after a huge hit is a dead-on impression. And Madden is 
 ohhh so pretty..... but beauty is only skin deep as you'll find out after the first hour or so. The 
 controls have been changed and may make playing somewhat difficult for some players not used to 
 the scheme. The animations are few, and you are liable to see te same one twice, even three times 
 in a row. The A. I is practically brain-dead; you can run the same pass or run play 5 times in a row 
 and it wont be stopped, regardless if the defense adjusts. And now the big draw back; Almost all of 
 the major features are gone in this  
 pretty much a sub with one slice of meat. The only feature here is the ever-lovin Franchise mode. And 
 even that seems dry. Another draw back is that with the complicated controls, and the absence of 
 Mini-Camp mode, new players will have to go through game after game after game to get the controls 
 down. Maybe EA was too busy working on another game, but this just seems like an unfinished project. Lets 
 just hope for EA's sake they step it up for 07. Rent it to get some easy gamerpoints, if you gotta 
 have your madden then go ahead and waste 60 bucks, but If you need your madden fix and still want 
 all your features, buy the original Xbox version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 6, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  Before becoming a huge fan of the Xbox 360 I was a huge fan of the PS2, and of all the games I 
 ever played on the PS2 the Madden games were always the most enjoyable and most time consuming 
 of all. There was nothing like 3 of my friends and I meeting up and playing 8 to 10 hours straight, 
 really pissed our girlfriends off, but it was well worth it. After purchasing my Xbox 360, I didn't 
 look into this game at all, I just figured it would be all it had been and more to me. The graphics 
 are stunning, as expected, but that sums it up for me. Everything is missing. Madden isn't saying 
 his cheezy sayings during the game, you can't edit rosters, and mainly you can't play on the same 
 team with a friend. WTF!!!!!! I thought they would change this with the 2007 version, but they 
 didn't. EA bought the rights to the NFL name and is feeding us a box of crap with the NFL logo 
 on it, its a disgrace to the NFL and mainly to gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo5387
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  If you loved all the other madden games, then dont get this one. This one is more like basic play 
 then anything else. In franchise mode you only go to the draft round and a couple of other basic 
 functions you already know. You loose the ability to make your own stadium and try to get income 
 in, as well as upgrade your staff and others. The gameplay it self is more life like. Like in order 
 to thorw a pass to some one you have to be facing them. You also loose the ability to create your 
 own players as well as reviewing the play ( you know when the officials call it wrong and you have 
 a chance to review the play) . You have no more training games nor cards to collect and use. This 
 is as basic as you get. The achevments are really easy to obtain too. cept for one but thats up 
 to you if you want to go 30 years in a franchise. This game will definately be in your bargin bin. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  This is Madden 2006. What more needs to be said. It's a good football game and it's on the Xbox 
 360. I got this for the easy achievment points. Nothing more, nothing less. That said, it is a 
 fun game and now that Madden 2007 is out, the cost is very good. Add to that the cost of a pre-played 
 copy, and you really can't lose. If you want some solid football action, then get this. If you're 
 looking for a cheap game, get this. If you're looking to get and easy 800 points (I didn't bother 
 with the 4 sacks in a game or the 300 yards rushing, I'm more of a passing man) , then get it. If 
 you don't like sports games, or especially football, then don't get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natedoggy11
Rating: 6.9
Date: Sep 28, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  First off, this is defiantly a rental game, its a fun game but only for about 2 hours when you 
 are playing it, it just doesnt seam like a Madden game. The graphics arent the best (but still 
 are good) and there arent that many features. There is no longer a superstar mode or a practice 
 mode. The original Xbox version was much better. If you are thinking a bout getting this game I 
 would say defiantly get 07.
  
  Game Play: 6/10 Like I said, Is fun but only for so long
  
  Graphics: 8/10 Some of the faces are a little pixilated even on an HD screen
  
  Sound: 
 9/10 The sound was good, what else can I say?
  
  Value: 6/10 This Game to me is only worth about $20 at max Tilt: 7/10 I gave it this score because 
 2 player on a 60 HDTV with your friends isnt all that bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remixmasta
Rating: 5.7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  this game would die compared to it brother on the origanal xbox which lets you create your own 
 player and also gives you challange play those are the two things that piss me off the most becasue 
 to add graphics for all you carzy graphic fans we gameplay fans here lose out on the fun that comes 
 from the xbox so if you are planning to buy yhis game dont because u could save money and get more 
 on the xbox version so when you are at the store just slap the person who even picks this up for 
 my sake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: proudcubeowner7
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 16, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This Madden for the Xbox 360 is still a fun game of football, but with all the missing features, 
 it's hard to recommend. It's got a franchise mode and online play, but it's missing superstar mode, 
 owner mode, practice mode, mini-camp, mini-games, and some stuff online, like the EA sports locker. 
 So all in all, this game is not a buy but maybe a rent, considering all of the features that they 
 just left out.
  
  The graphics are top notch. They are amazing and has one of the best graphics that I have ever 
 seen. It's really pretty to look at. The stadiums look amazing, the player models look great, and 
 all the other small details like the crowd is pretty good too. So the graphics are flawless, except 
 for some of the faces of the players, it showing you what the next-generation of games should look 
 like.
  
  The sound is like the regular Madden 06 for the current-gen consoles with one thing missing. The 
 announcers isn't Madden or Al Micheals, instead bringing you some guy that hardly talks and is 
 quiet when he talks. But besides that, it the same Madden sounds.
  
  The value will not last you as long because of everything that it is missing. There is no more 
 superstar mode to keep you busy for a long time. Franchise mode is like the franchise mode 3-4 
 years ago, with no onwer mode and no nothing. You just play games and make trades and stuff like 
 that. There is no more mini-camp or no mini-games for things to do when you're bored. No more practice 
 mode to polish your skills and to study playbooks. And it's also missing some stuff online, like 
 the EA Sports Locker and EA Rep. But that stuff really doesn't matter, because playing Madden online 
 is just great.
  
  So I would have to say that this is game that you would get pissed at for missing so many things. 
 So the question you have to ask yourself is if you I want to spend $60 on a game with just souped 
 up graphics but is missing like 5 things from the regular version of the game? My answer is no. 
 Sure it's pretty to look at, but it's not going to last you long. Wait for the Madden 07. And if 
 you can't wait one week, then buy NCAA Football 07. Because both of those games offer way more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srickert12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 14, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  They remove a lot of menu options and controls you had in the XBOX version. I know it takes more 
 space to improve graphics, but from what I have seen the game just isn't as fun. I haven't found 
 if or if not you can upgrade or build a new stadium for you team in Franchise mode, but if you 
 can't that to me is something they should have never removed. The gameplay itself is great and 
 the graphics are incredible, but the loss of features and player tracking is kind of a turn off 
 in my opinion. They seem to be doing this on a lot of the 360 sports game and I and thinking it's 
 due to space on the disc, but they need to find a way to keep the classic features and improve 
 the game. When a new version of a game comes out the old features should be there along with new 
 features. You should never take features out of a game. NCAA 07 did it with the race for the Heisman 
 which is why I won't get it. Also the lack of backwards compatability on these games is a BIG disappointment 
 in my opinion and needs to be corrected in future games. Microsoft also needs to add backwards 
 compatibilty to all the sports games if there features are missing on the 360 and not on the XBOX. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psppro2
Rating: 1.4
Date: Aug 10, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  Wow what a great Gnarls Barkley sound effects this wat amazing. Gnarls Barkley did a great voice 
 of the boat and that funky any way car. Ya. that happens alot. What now sucka! What now! Anyways 
 any way anys ways anysways the graphics where awesome positively awesome. THe gameplay had me saying 
 fo **** for 18 weeks. Dave Chapplle said this game was good well I say it rocks!!! Anyways anyway 
 anysways Ms. York started bragging about this game which go annoying. All I have to say to you 
 Ms. York is (and i quote) "GET A LIFE!!!" Anys ways anyway If you like football get this game all 
 write. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunitballer07
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 1, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  Pros: This game has great gameplay! It has the QB Vision, Truck Stick, and Hit Stick in this upgrade 
 from the previous consoles. Also the new layout when you are picking a play is definitely next-generation. 
 The hits in this game look great and many of the players faces look real. 
  
  Cons: Where is all the Game Modes!? There is no Superstar Mode or Practice Mode. Also there is 
 no longer Madden Cards to collect in this game. Also there is no Fantasy Draft in this game for 
 those of you who prefer this feature over default NFL rosters. Also this game is way over-priced! 
 60 dollars for a game thats missing half the game modes than its 35 dollars counterpart withholds.
 
  
  Final Thought: This game looks, sounds, and feels next-generation but is missing many of the Game 
 Modes that makes a Madden game a Madden game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aftermath6
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game leaves out all the extras that has made Madden, Madden. You can't even challenge a play. 
 Who cares if there are next -gen graphics with 16-bit gameplay. Avoid at all costs... if you are 
 itching to play football just make a friend rent it and don't waste your money. Hopefully they 
 wise up and make 07 the game we are all waiting for.
  It is almost better to just sit and watch the game than actually play it. Not to mention the knew 
 play-calling system is cool but does not cater to a two player matchup because you have to know 
 way too many buttons just to hide your play. 
  Not even worth a rent, and that is sad to even say because I bought the game and am obsessed with 
 the older maddens and am praying the new one is worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Zanaforia
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  This game wasnt very good at all. It was a good LOOKING game, but the flash led you to spend 60$ 
 on a product that was worth 35$. If you want to buy a good game with 60$, Madden NFL 2006 is not 
 worth it. The gameplay sound was good, but Jonh Madden made you wish you where deaf. Here can be 
 a monologue of any of John Maddens ramblings.
  (_insert players name here_) made a great effort on getting where the play was!
  Jeez. If i must 
 say, the graphics where amazing. Then again, 007 goldeneye's graphics where terrible, but was the 
 best damn game i ever bought. Like my classification says, all flash no substance
  
  FINAL VERDICT: 5.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rumstocker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  Let go back in time a minute. Do you remember when the Sega Dreamcast came out? Do you remember 
 the first time you played NFL 2k in some store? NFL 2k changed video games forever. Ok, maybe not 
 NFL 2k itself, because Crazy Taxi still looks good today, but the Dreamcast definitely introduced 
 the world to real life next gen graphics. NFL 2k changed how football games would be played from 
 a visual stand point; and although the leap to Madden 2006 360 isn't quite as big of a jump as 
 2k, it's still bigger than I could have ever imagined. Madden 2006 looks AWESOME... AWESOME... 
 AWESOME!!! Unfortunately, the game isn't the best. I am writing this review late, so I am not telling 
 you to spend more than 20 bucks on this game, but I am telling you this game is pretty. This game 
 is one of the best looking 260 games to date and looks spectacular on a standard television. The 
 gameplay suffers with a little lag and a lot of modes left out due to the rushed release. However, 
 a lot of stuff has changed in which EA says this is the way Madden will be in the future. Madden 
 2006 360 is the future of football.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Some lag. Not many extras.
  
  GRAPHICS: Basically the only reason to buy this game over a current gen version
  
  SOUND: I 
 hate to say it, but no Madden announcing sucks.
  
  VALUE: Only good to get a quick football fix. Nothing long term here.
  
  TILT: Buy it for 20 
 bucks or less. Show off your machine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrWhodey
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't even close to the ones before. The three main reason's why I love Madden games 
 (in order) : One, fantasy drafting... there's just nothing like taking ur created team all the way. 
 Two, creating my team (same reasons as #1) , and three, xbox live... showing off ur madden skills 
 2 other ppl across the world. And 2/3 of my favorite things don't show up, so naturally im going 
 to hate this game. The second thing tho... this game takes no skill... a reciever can be triple covered, 
 but the qb throws it in the ideal spot (which the controller has nothing to do w/) and BAM! first 
 down. Also, whats the point of ramming down the middle when all u have 2 do is take it to the outside 
 and get at least a 5 yard gain. Such a waste my money... traded it it along w/ some xbox games 2 
 buy NFS Most Wanted, which is 20x better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nygiants1080
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 06 for the Xbox 360 was a good game but the fact that it lacked many modes and features 
 from the orignal version ("current-gen") made it a little dissapointing. The only game modes are 
 a quick play mode, a franchise mode and an online mode. There is no mini-camp in the franchise 
 mode and is a lacking some depth. The superstar mode in the current-gen series is not here. The 
 controls are some what confusing in the begging and could be tweaked a bit. The gameplay is soild 
 and it is enjoyable to play. The difficulty is fairly easy unless you bump it up from its original 
 settings and the AI is at times stupid. The online is fairly soild but can lagg at times but if 
 you get the right connection its fantastic to play. Overall this game is worth about 20-25 dollars 
 not at the full price of 60 dollars. 
  
  If you enjoy football and can find it around my reccommened price range its a good pick-up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegito1669
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 11, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Undescibable... this game was a huge inprovement over madden 05... this game is nothing without the 
 hit stick... everyone can agree on that... my favorite team personally were the falcons... this game 
 is awesome, you can create your own character, play multi player, play in the NFL Season, or just 
 mess around and beat your friend... also can't forget about making a fantasy team... and the training 
 camps... this game is fun even if you don't really like football... the improvement on the visual 
 effect were really noticeable... and the gameplay didn't really change making the controlls fairly 
 easy for almost everyone... (OVERALL) AWESOME GAME!!!
  (I ACTUALLY LIKE THE SFO 49ERS!!!... THEY'RE GOING TO THE SUPER BOWL, SOMETIME IN THIS CENTURY...) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnPraser
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 8, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Graphics are better (like expected) ; Great online gameplay; New play calling features 
 give more depth to... the play calling system
  
  The Bad: Next-gen feel slows the game down and is very clunky and buggy (Example: the kicking system/a 
 player kicks differently and can't range as far on kicks) ; missing many of the great features once 
 existed in Madden (Example: missing Create-a-player and Create-a-team and player editing) ;
  can't challenge plays (biggest disappointment)
  
 
  
  Let's start off: this game has been broken up to a point where it makes it feel a lot watered down. 
 Second: you can't challenge plays. I mean... what kind-of a football game doesn't allow you to challenge 
 plays?? This was a huge rip-off. Like for example when a player catches the ball and both his feet 
 are out-of-bounds and they still call it first down, you can't challenge it. This I think ruins 
 the true rules of football, because challenging plays are needed, but this isn't the only problem 
 in the game. The kicking system has really lost itself. The thing about it is that it's really 
 slow, like for example when you attempt to kick a field goal 45 yards away from it, in a current-gen 
 game it would make it in your adjustments, but in this version with the exact same adjustments, 
 it won't make it. So basically, the kicks are really slow even if they're really powerful. This 
 Madden game is also missing many of the great features that once existed in Madden, for example 
 (again) , Create-a-Player doesn't exist. Nor does create-a-team. You also can't edit players either 
 (Example: Champ Bailey in this game has a black visor on when in real life it's a clear visor so 
 you would want to fix that; nope, you can't do that in this game.) Beware that Superstar is now 
 absent in this game as well, so don't get too exited about this game.
  
  But there are some good qualities to this game. The online gameplay can sometimes be a lot of fun, 
 competing with more competitive players throughout the nation (the online system of this Madden 
 uses a East Coast/West Coast system/it's only in the U. S.) . The graphics are as good I (and others) 
 expected it to be, so they aren't a disappointment, although it doesn't look completely real. The 
 player models look a lot broader than in real life in this game, so that's 1 reason why the graphics 
 aren't exactly THE best. The play-calling feature in this game has improved itself definitely though, 
 as it does divide plays into different categories. It divides it into Madden's picks, Coach's picks, 
 By Play Form, By Key Player, etc. Now this part shows the overview of the review categories of 
 this review. But I won't explain every part all the way through though.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Next-Gen Madden I'm afraid is just starting to lose it's edge a bit. Many of 
 the great features that once existed in Madden are now gone. The next-gen kicking system is screwed-up. 
 You can't challenge plays. But the good thing is that the online gameplay is great, and it's a 
 good use if in case you all the sudden get board with the game after a while (like me)
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  This game does show some of the 360's graphic capabilities, and is still great. 
 One of the only reasons why this didn't score higher is that the player models look kind-of oversized 
 and they don't really look like real-life shape, although player models do have a shiny texture 
 to them. The stadium backround looks much improved from the current-gen Madden games.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The music of this Madden game is still the great tradition: More rock and rap. This 
 version of Madden 06 has more songs than the current-gen Madden 06 soundtracks, so that makes the 
 music in this game better. If you're concerned about the sound of this game, don't worry, this 
 Madden game's music still rocks.
  
  Value: 6/10
  Unfortunately, this game's value doesn't last for very long. When you first play it, you may feel 
 exited, but like when you're playing franchise mode after a while and suddenly run across trouble, 
 you immediately start to become bored. This game's value in trade-in-game stores are noticeably 
 lower than other 360 launch titles, as this game doesn't have gameplay and other value that doesn't 
 last for very long. If you're bored with this game, I recommend the only thing to do left is to 
 either play it online a lot or trade it in before the value gets lower.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 7/10
  Overrall, this game does have some good value, but has noticeable flaws. 
 This game overrall has some good gameplay, but not great. This game has many great Madden features 
 missing, and overrall, it's a good game, but yet at the game time a broken and very disappointing 
 experience.
  
  That concludes the review, so now you can at least have an idea sort-of what this game is like 
 within it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greatwasabi
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 4, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  It's a good debut for Football for Next-Gen. Offers top notch graphics which was expected, but 
 they obviously had to take out alooot of the extra features which before made the game alot more 
 fun and added to the insane replay value which I usually find in all football games.
  
  Now then, the shining point of glory in this game. Graphics. Wow. Just looking at Madden on the 
 Xbox just makes me wanna stab my eyes out. This game features outstandingg lighting effects, character 
 details, the little ruffles on their jerseys, the stadium. The crowd also looks a thousand times 
 better now that each fan is actually 3-D. Mind you they aren't as detailed as the players on the 
 field. But it is infinitely better from the little 2-D sprites you found in the older games. Oh 
 and the players faces are beatifully done. Unfortunately the helmets don't pop off like they would 
 in the Xbox version but you can still go into Instant replay and look at their faces and it's just 
 amazing. I always play with Denver and players like Champ Bailey, Al Wilson, John Lynch, Tom Nalen, 
 Trevor Pryce, Jake Plummer, and many many more, are easily recognizeable. And yes, I know Champ 
 Bailey wears a visor, but just the bottom part of his face that you can see is just perfect to 
 his real life counterpart. There is not one single flaw in the graphics for this game.
  
  Ooh, another thing that was better in this game was that, well, they got rid of stupid John Madden. 
 Man he got annoying. Now they have somebody else who is much easier on the ears. Unfortunately 
 Mr. Madden does make it into the game in the new playcalling menu, which was one other good feature 
 that they added to the game. You can either, Ask Coach, Ask Madden (Ew) Look through your standard 
 formations, go through your Key Players if you want to get the ball specifically to say, Randy 
 Moss or some big time player, or you can opt to look through the last five plays you've picked 
 if you happen to have success with a certian formation. Back to the sound though. The crowd also 
 yells and screams at the right times. Before they would yell and scream anytime something big would 
 happen. And that means for either team. So before say you're the Kansas City Chiefs playing at 
 home against the Raiders. Kansas City has some crazy fans, sea of red, all that, you really think 
 they would jump up and holler and yell for joy when Trent Green throws an interception? Didn't 
 think so. That was something that really bugged me before and I'm glad they changed it. Tackles 
 also sound nice and cruncy as they always should. 
  
  Ah yes, now for the bad stuff. Why, oh why, no not why did they take out the option to Challenge 
 a play, whyy oh whyyy did they not let you save instant replays?! AH! I always get these really 
 awesome plays where I break a tackle, juke a safety, and bam, off to the endzone. And it's so much 
 more rewarding when that actually happens on All-Madden, and I just wish I could save those moments. 
 But nope. No save the replay option, which I guess won't anger everybody as much as it did me, 
 but really. How hard would it be to put that in? And yeah, for the no challenging plays, who cares? 
 Yeah I know it adds realism to the game, but when there's an iffy play, and then I go into instant 
 replay and look at it, I always see that the official made the correct call. So who really cares 
 if you can't challenge as long as the calls are ALWAYS right? And they are. So stop whining. And 
 yes, removing the Mini-Camps was a huge mistake. I loved going through those with my new rookies 
 to see if they were going to be up to snuff or if I should just be quick to trade them away. Also, 
 all the incoming rookies have very blah faces. You think they could just take some of the other 
 faces in the game, mix them up, and then stick them back in. Like rookie Linebackers would only 
 have actual in game Linebackers faces mixed up, etc. So yeah, that could have been improved. And 
 yeah, they could have kept the Super Star Mode in there, but I wasn't too much of a fan with that 
 so I guess it didn't affect me much. But I know alot of people out there loved that option so they 
 should have put that back in also. 
  
  Also something I noticed, this game, feels very non-Madden. I don't know what it is, but I feel 
 like I'm playing a bad mix of Madden and NFL Fever or something. I dunno why, but I really hope 
 they nail the normal Madden gameplay in 07, or I might just have to keep playing Oblivion. And 
 this lack of Madden Gameplay really took away from the replay value in the game. The pricedrop 
 made the game worth it's money now, but before this game was not worth the sixty bucks. Maybe you 
 should rent the game first and see if it pushes some of your buttons. I know for some people it 
 really didn't meet their expectations, but after I came in reading some pretty poor reviews I wasn't 
 expecting that much and was pleasantly surprised with what there was. Just rent it, try it out, 
 if you like it, well, even if you do I wouldn't recommend buying it. Madden 07 is just around the 
 corner.
  
  OH, on the side. The difficulty is now muchh more refined. Before on the Xbox I noticed even on 
 All-Madden the games were never close. I may have only won by seven points in some of them, but 
 that's because the computer did that stupid catch up thing where they bomb the ball six times and 
 score on every play. Normally I would dominate the whole way through save for the closing minutes. 
 Now the games are actually tight and I have only blown out two opponents, I think it was the Giants 
 43-12 and then the 49'ers like, 55-10 or something. And no not on rookie, All-Madden. But all the 
 other bazillion games I've played were generally in the area of 24-17, 17-20, 24-30, etc. And yes, 
 you actually do lose in this game, but generally I finish my seasons 14-2, or 13-3 as the Super 
 Bowl winner.
  
  Sorry, one more thing haha. I've noticed that the other teams do not ever post high yardage or 
 anything. Like I can usually take the Rushing Title with 1,100 yards. The first season I played, 
 my No.1 reciever Rod Smith had the most recieving yards with 947, my No.2, Ashley Lelie, followed 
 him up with 880, and then my No.3 had third place in the league with 760. Don't know what happened... 
 same thing with Passing. Peyton Manning had the most yards with something like 3,340 in my third 
 or fourth season playing. I dunno. That just kinda bugged me cause I remember on Madden 05 I would 
 get 2045 yards rushing only to have Clinton Portis beat me with 2180. I don't care if it's not 
 realistic that three or four running backs get over 2,000 yards every year, heck, even one year 
 I had over 3,000 rushing yards with Tatum Bell, but that's not the point. It's alot more fun to 
 get tons of yards, then to have none. It's not like leading the league with 1,100 yards is very 
 realistic either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7/10
  
  Good game modes, the gameplay is easy and accessible for anyone to just pick up and play.
  
 
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Very good graphics for a sports game the character models looks very detailed proably the best 
 graphics ever in a sports game and looks even better on the xbox 360.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  I found the menu music to be very good i was basicly forced to listen to some menu music to sim 
 30 franchise years for an achievements :) . Also good announcers too.
  
  value: 6/10 
  
  The achievements are WAY too easy thats what basicly ruins the replay value if EA took some more 
 time to put harder achievements the replay value would be increased by a lot.
  
  tilt: 7/10
  
  I had some fun with the game and would recomend it to any football fan.
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyt332
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 1, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  it stinks no one should lik it i dont no how it got a good score it got boring after 30 minutes 
 it barely has any features.. lik wat the hell i kno it was rushed but i didnt kno it was goin to 
 be that much of crap... i actully liked the gamecube version better no wait wayy better to sum 
 it all up its crap and dont buy it or rent it dont even look at it buy this games for current gens 
 but not the 360 i wouldnt get this crap if they even payed a hundred dollars wait till madden nfl 
 07 that game wasnt rush and so far it doesnt look lik crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nosobriety
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 28, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  In a gaming era of fresh technology, better graphics, and advance gameplay, you wouldn't expect 
 the main goal of a game-producing company to be merely sales and profits... or would you?
  This is one thing I just don't like... case in point, Madden 06 for the xbox360. A game that ignores 
 gameplay and value for the dirty dollar. 
  The first thing you'll notice when you turn it on is how clean and crisp the graphics look, no 
 doubt, they are quite nice, and why shouldn't they look nice? after all, this is on a nex-gen system 
 which also comes with a price tag of $10 more than it's current gen-brother. Once you actually 
 start playing however, you'll notice that the gameplay is truly incomplete... and why should it 
 be? after all this IS on a nex-gen system which also comes with a price tag of $10 MORE than it's 
 current-gen brother. 
  It comes to this point when developers get rushed, the game needs to be able to launch with the 
 new console, and the eager consumer pays for it. rather than do the right thing, just delay it 
 and fix the obvious problems, the developers release it anyway, after the game's flawless and ever 
 successful follow up on the ps2 and xbox half a year previously, and slap on a heavier price tag. 
 Now... let's get to it.
  The inability to challenge plays... this is HUGE because it can effect the outcome of the game when 
 it's neck and neck, add in the fact that the glitches and bugs cause players to step out of bounds 
 or fumble without being penalized, and you've got some pretty crappy gameplay. Even little things, 
 like the field-goal net and a fully-functional jubotrron... GONE! 
  Madden's commentary, as corny as it was, missing! I take that back, if you need advice when deciding 
 what play to use, he'll give you an earful, but c'mon... this is Madden... Mad-den. I actually liked 
 his stupid commentary, never thought I'd miss it. Other than that, the passing just doesn't seem 
 as tight and responsive as it's counterparts, correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't even think you 
 can change patterns on the fly before the snap. Career mode isn't exactly challenging either, no 
 matter what difficulty. 
  All in all, this game sucks... play with it a few times and you'll jump right back to the ps2 or 
 xbox.
  EA, you let me down with this one, next time, try putting in a little more effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chikkkenbutt
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jun 22, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is freggin' horrible. You cannot pass without throwing the ball away. This game is way 
 too overrated and praised. 7.4??? I say 6.5 ONLY because of the speed of the game and the graphics. 
 Now... as we all know, the 360 has "amazing graphics and has many new features" yes we all know 
 that by now. But the whole point of games is the entertainment we receive from it and that comes 
 from yes, the graphics, the sound, BUT MOST IMPORTANTLY ( I CANNOT STRESS ENOUGH!) IS THE GAMEPLAY!!!! 
 Isn't the whole point of games is PLAYING the freggin' game???? I'm confused. I had assumed that 
 that was the case but I don't know for some people. The game play for the passing game is HORRIBLE! 
 And you can't just run the ball the whole game, that'll take away some of the little fun you can 
 barely scrape up. But even the running game is bad. You can't use all of the controls moves and 
 abilities of your running back ( and especially the QB since you may only scramble if you sprint. 
 You can't just move a little to avoid the pass rush.) The only good part is the defense, well that's 
 not that great either. Let's just say that that is the best part of the game. 
  
  I guess the main bullet point of this message is uhhhhh... don't buy the freggin' game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaWeapon9
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 19, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  The next generation of sports game is under high anticipation. With Nintendo and Sony yet to unleash 
 there next-gen experiences on the market. Microsoft , respectably, has a first start this time 
 around as Sony had there's last time. With this being the first glimps of the major football series 
 Madden , for the next generation of gaming. Madden 06 lets off an amazing first impression with 
 its graphical prouless. However, the overall game that surrouds the graphical upgrade is a step-down 
 from what we have come to know from the series.
  
  First and four-most, the graphical upgrade for the series on the Xbox 360 is definitely a step-up 
 from the current gen systems. The player models look greatly in detail, and the fields, as well 
 as the audience all come together to give off an amazing graphical impression. However, after you 
 see the begining videos ( which look noticeably better then the in game graphics ) , and you see 
 the amazing character models and audience. You notice that taht feeling kind of falls away. It 
 doesnt constantly impress the player over and over again. There are some problems that come along 
 with this also. The audience for instance look great at time, and look noticabley different other 
 times. The menu's look a little blurry, if you dont run the game in high-definition. There are 
 also some noticable short comings that dont really take a whole lot away from the experience, yet 
 they are noticable and take away from the overall look of the game. The game also looks very very 
 good no matter if you are in HD or standard definition. However, it does look better in HD. But, 
 on the whole, Madden 06 is a great looking next-gen game. However, it just doesnt necessarilly 
 stant up to the standard set by other games on the console. Its most definitely, way better then 
 current gen-football games. And is most definitely worth player to see what the next-generation 
 of football game will look like. However, it isnt really a graphical showcase for the system.
 
  
  In the audio department, it most definitely sounds very good in all fronts. And the audio for every 
 aspect of the game holds-up completely. With a great soundtrack that fits the game perfectly, and 
 amazing on the field audio. Madden 06 is a great sounding game. Its not going to blow anyone away. 
 But it most definitely sounds very good.
  
  The gameplay is where Madden 06 lacks drastically. While the core on-the-field gameplay of Madden 
 is still the great football gameplay that the series is known for. The features that were in the 
 current-gen systems are compltely gone from the 360 version of the game. The SuperStar Mode which 
 was the new big feature for this years Madden game is gone. The Mini-Camp Mode is gone. Even the 
 regular practice mode of the game is completely absent from this years Madden . All that is left 
 is Quick Play , Franchise Mode , and the Online Mode . And all the features that are missing, really 
 adds up to a game that doesnt have a whole lot of value to it.
  
  There is a new gameplay feature in the form of vision cones to see where the area to throw the 
 ball in going to go. However, its not necessarilly any different to the regular handle of the ball. 
 Making it an OK feature, but nothing really noteworthy.
  
  There is also what seems to be a few bugs in the game. One of which is where players can sometimes 
 miss the ball when it is thrown to them. This is few and far between, they are noticable.
  
  Even the achivements, which are made to give 360 games more replay value. Are doled out way 
 to easy. Giving the game even less replay value, apone the low amount it already has.
  
  Its unknown if the extra work on the graphics took away from the time working on the gameplay. 
 However, the lack of features in Madden 06 makes for a game that is very low in replayability. 
 And considering that other versions of Madden 06 have a whole lot more for the player to do. It 
 really makes the 360 version of Madden 06 the lesser version. Adding in the fact that it costs 
 10 dollars more, even adds more to this analogy. And while the graphical upgrade to the 360 version 
 of Madden 06 is definitely a step-up from the current-gen, its not big enough to justify the perchase.
 
  
  However, thats not to say that Madden isnt worth checking out to see the upgrade in graphics. WHile 
 they may not, fully impress, they are definitely a step-up from what we have seen on the current-gen 
 football games. Making Madden 06 worth a rental. But with that said, its definitely not worth a 
 purchase, since there isnt nearly enough to last you for a long while.
  
  While the graphcal upgrade to Madden 06 is a nice one. The lack of modes add up to a game that, 
 while looks nice, doesnt offer nearly enough to justify the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: govinator07
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 19, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Before this game came out i was looking at this site to see what good games i could get for my 
 360 and i was looking at Madden for it (if u can even call it Madden) . the game looked amazing 
 in the pictures and in all of the videos that they had posted. i was soooo excited to see that 
 they had transported Madden to the 360 and that it was lookin great and that i was goin to go get 
 it..... when i got home and fired up this game in my 360 i was blown away at the beggining movie 
 sequence of super bowl XXXIX between the Philadelphia Eagles and the New England Patriots... and 
 then i wanted to create a game like that..... but first what i really wanted to do is create my 
 person (cuz i love makin a person and just demolishing the opponents when im on D) so im scrolling 
 through the menu options and i cant seem to find the create a player menu.... so i look over it 
 again and again and still cant find it so i was pissed that u cant even make ur character in the 
 game.... So then i decided i can get around it and so i started checkin out the games other menus 
 and noticed that there is no mini camp or any type of mini-games of that sort. So i started thinking 
 to myself "really, how Next-Gen is this game?!?!?!? Was this worth the $60??"
  
  Dont get me wrong on this.... the game is one of the best looking games on the 360 with all of 
 the player models looking like thier real life counter-parts.... they even got down to the knitty 
 gritty, getting even thier arm hair, moles on thier face and other places, and even writing out 
 the warning label on the back of the player helmet... then when u get a powerful hit or as they 
 catch a screaming pass on a rope they even scream and yell as they are in so much pain..... Not 
 only do these pretty graphics add to the game but the gameplay is somewhat similar to the prev. 
 gen Madden except for maybe you switch players differently or somethin. They also added a few new 
 hit motions and new ways to use hit stick.... and it all flows nicely... that is until the game 
 starts glitching or spazzing out....
  
  this game has all kinds of glitches in it and they really stand out because of the graphics and 
 thats where all the maddness begins. for instance if you try to move or position your linebackers 
 in a different spot and u accidentaly hit one of the lineman... they will try to get back into 
 position but will start like break dancin and glitchin all over the place..... or if u take control 
 of one of ur linbackers and then one of the opposing recievers goes in motion and ur corner is 
 followin them and u back ur linebacker up right as the corner is about to pass u, the corner will 
 then slide sideways up the field until u stop so he can get around instead of just going in front 
 of u.... so technicaly u can back up 100 yards and the corner will still be with u..... (kinda stupid)
 
  
  Overall i do not recommend this game to anybody except for all the die hard Madden fans that seek 
 to collect them all like they were some kinda pokeman (whatever thier called) or somethin. this 
 game is not worthy of the name MADDEN... it doesnt even have madden in it for goodness sakes... 
 it has some crappy live radio talk show as if u were listening to it on the radio and not playing 
 the game, cuz u definately want to listen to the radio when u could be playing right!!!! Do not 
 be fooled by these graphics people as graphics do not make a game they just add to it... a game 
 has layers upon layers of stuff to do including mini-games and extra content to unlock.... Madden 
 (or should i say Anti-Madden) for the 360 has none of this..... its just load it in and play.... 
 the only other way to play this game besides an exibhition is franchise... even then they failed 
 as its just play, then draft, play , then draft, over and over, and it only lasts 30 yrs. If your 
 looking for a football game for ur 360, do not make it this one (unless u cant wait 2 months) just 
 wait for Madden 07 or NCAA 07 because at least these there are mini-games and extensive work put 
 into it. i have not given up on EA but this has really but a dent in thier spot in my heart... 
 just check back here in a month or two as i will have a review for both Madden 07 and NCAA 07...... 
 : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunslingers
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 19, 2006 5:14 am PT
Review:  The game has good controls, gameplay, and graphics. Once agian like NBA Live O6, madden has some 
 major content issuse in my book. I come to the conusion that is preety much only good If you got 
 at least one other person ot play with you. I has a 40 franchise mode, Play now mode, 1 or 2 other 
 things. This game would be very good , but it is lacking on stuff for a gamer to do on it. This 
 realy makes me think that they rushed this game along with most other EA sports games so they would 
 be out at lanch! This is not worth your money unless you have some one to play it with or you love 
 football, or like football I say a rental would suite you fine.
  
  -The Gunslingers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darklinksbro
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 13, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  There is three things i look for in a football game 1. great graphics madden defiintly has that 
 with great graphics all looks real except for their eyes. 2. A solid Franchies mode and this has 
 one it lots down in some parts but hey i'm very addictive 3. Being able to invite some buddies 
 over and a round robin tounament and have funand i have done this very fun. So you may hate but 
 i love this game. The value in this game is of course extradinary you can play it over and over 
 just like any sports game and you can adjust the AI's skills as well for what challenge is best 
 for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamezmastah
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 12, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  Compared to their PS2 and Xbox brethren, this version of Madden 06 is rather thin and lacking features. 
 It still retains the excellent gameplay from previous Madden installments, and improves it with 
 the new roster, better physics and unbelievably good graphics. The detail on the players shirts 
 is incredible, and I was in awe while browsing in replay mode. The Franchise Mode is still well 
 done but I think it becomes a chore after 5 years or more, as you just feel inclined to simulate 
 the other seasons to get the acheivement. The Acheivements are rather dull. You can pick up about 
 450 points from one game if you do well in the rushing and passing departments. Hopefully Madden 
 NFL 07 will do the Xbox 360 justice and deliver a truly stunning sports title. Fingers crossed... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  This game was one of the most impressive games to come out on the 360, but then it failed by very 
 bad gameplay, and annoying AI.
  
  GRAPHICS: This game achieves a new all high standard on graphics. The game shows you every sweat, 
 muscle and tear from your players. You can also see how real the jerseys look as well. The stadium 
 and enviroment is decently done, detail was not as great as players but very well done. You also 
 have over 155 players rendered (Took pictures of players and programmed the animations to look as 
 them) . Very nicely done.
  
  Sounds: The sounds in this game are not as well done. Thanks to madden telling all the stuff you 
 do know and all the stuff you dont know, all the fun you seem to have is thrown down the gutter 
 thanks to his stupid comments. JUST SHUT THE HELL UP! The crowd also gets into it by screaming 
 and jumping around. Very, Very Sweet.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay seems to be the bomber of this game. With no new franchise things and very 
 little improvements to the real game, it seems like a 05 version, just enhanced graphics. You have 
 no challenge the play, which bursts lots of bubbles and no improvements to franchise. This game 
 makes lots sick and makes me throw up...
  
  This game is a solid rent title, but paying 60 bucks for a game with great graphics and decent 
 everything else, that isnt worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clcougars33
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  One thing that must be made clear from the get-go is that Madden on the 360 is not just a port 
 of Madden NFL 06 as it appeared on other consoles. The game has been built pretty much from the 
 ground up, though it still feels very much like a Madden football game. The controls are as responsive 
 as they've ever been, making good use of the 360's controller. Passing feels tight; runs can be 
 very satisfying (especially if you implement the truck stick, which was introduced earlier this 
 year) ; and defensive stops and big hits are just as good as they've ever been. What's different 
 is the way a lot of these actions look. Animations have been adjusted in a number of ways to make 
 things seem more realistic. Jukes, stutter steps, wrap tackles, ball strips, tosses, bombs... All 
 these things look just a little bit better than they ever have in the past. The fluidity of these 
 animations is really quite impressive, even if the game doesn't exactly operate much differently 
 from the way it has in recent years. 
  
  It's clear from the very first time you boot up the game that EA Tiburon spent the vast bulk of 
 its time making Madden look a whole lot better. The player models and stadiums can be downright 
 fantastic-looking at times. Up close, you'll really get to see a hell of a lot of detail in the 
 players. Muscular definition in the arms and legs, shine off of helmets, and player faces -- when 
 done right -- are phenomenal. Unfortunately, a lot of major players didn't get the full treatment. 
 Big guys like Donovan McNabb, Michael Vick, Corey Dillon, and the like all look really, really 
 accurate to their real-life counterparts. But there are lots of starting NFL players that simply 
 don't look right. Take a look at someone like Brian Griese or Kerry Collins, and there's a pretty 
 significant difference in accuracy. Still, even if the faces are off, the bodies look excellent. 
 As for the stadiums, while the turf still looks a little funky in some spots, nothing else does. 
 The crowds are great, and the sideline players and coaches are extremely detailed. In fact, in 
 some cases you could argue that the coaches look better than a lot of the players, which is actually 
 kind of weird. Incidentally, while Madden NFL 06 obviously looks its best on an HD setup, it also 
 looks quite good on a normal TV. Some of the details are blurred-over, and you won't get the crispness 
 you'd get from HD, but the upgraded graphics still look very much upgraded on a standard TV. 
 
  
  While so much work has gone in to the graphics, there are still a lot of little annoying things 
 that detract from the visual experience. Shifting players around before the snap results in some 
 stiff, jerky animations that seem well out of place in such a glossy-looking game. And in some 
 cases, guys moved on defense will get stuck standing up, unable to get back in to a defensive stance 
 after you move them. The old vibrating blockers issue is still just as prevalent as it's ever been, 
 as blockers are still unable to avoid buzzing back and forth while trying to figure out which defensive 
 players to block. This leads to some ugly-looking bunch-ups at the line, as well as during kick 
 and punt returns. Running backs still get stuck on linemen; players will freeze on the ground after 
 a play is over (and they'll stay there in the background during an injury cutscene if one presents 
 itself) ; there aren't a ton of celebration animations (and you'll see a lot of them repeat over 
 and over again) ; and you'll see some very abrupt transitions between cutscenes and gameplay. Many 
 of these things are the types of problems that have existed in Madden games for quite a while now, 
 and the ones that aren't seem like by-products of a shorter-than-average development cycle. Undoubtedly, 
 Madden NFL 06 is an impressive-looking game, but you'll be hard-pressed not to notice its blemishes, 
 as many as there are. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: demon75
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  EA is rebuilding Madden from the ground up and it shows in this initial next-gen version. It was 
 rushed out to make the 360 launch without Owner Mode or Mini-Camp. To make matters worse, the frame 
 rate is choppy, the players are squatty, and the gameplay is stiff and slow. Animations are missing. 
 On the positive side, the playcalling menus are very cool and intuitive. An actual improvement 
 over the current gen title.
  
  Casual fans may find this edition to be acceptable because it is flashy and sorta feels like Madden 
 on the surface but true fans will immediately notice this is a lame duck and will go right back 
 to the current gen.
  
  I think EA is putting it's focus into 07 (I hope.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuriousFragnito
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  - Great graphics
  - Great gameplay
  
  Cons
  - No custom teams
  - No create a player
  - Little John Madden presence
  - No tournament modes (or any other former 
 game modes)
  - Glitchy
  - Seems rushed
  - Plain
  
  Probably a lot less than you would expect. No extra features, have you wanting more for your money. 
 I would not have bought this game I knew what it was like. Extremely bad compared to other Madden's. 
 
  
  
  Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not 
 buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do 
 not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy 
 Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not 
 buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do 
 not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy 
 Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not 
 buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do 
 not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy 
 Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not 
 buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do 
 not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy Do not buy 
 Do not buy Do not buy Do not 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer_marc
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  Madden 2006 is a very good football and it lives up to its hype. The best part of this game is 
 that it is very is to get into, after one or two games it becomes very especially for newcomers 
 to the Madden series. This is the first time Ive ever bought a Madden game (or any NFL Football 
 game) . Before I bought Madden 2006 I wasn't too much into Football games or sport games at all. 
 I tried to play Madden 99 but I didn't get interested nor did I find it entertaining or fun. When 
 I tried Madden 2006 I've realized that Madden '06 has improve in its controls and made a shorter 
 and more fun learning curve. In Madden '06 the plays and strategies you use during actually depend 
 the outcome of the game. Thus, in Madden '06 you have to think which plays or strategies you use 
 to be a better player. Madden '06 also introduce more customization of your plays on the field 
 such as line audible and hit stick. Madden '06 also improve in the team creation and player creation. 
 Besides the many new improvements, Madden '06's graphics are ok and stiff. There happens to be 
 a downgrade in graphics in this years Madden. It also improved in many things such a franchise, 
 custom play books, team creation, fan creation and player creation but you are left wanting more. 
 I feel that Madden can improve many of the features (how small or big they are) to make Madden 
 a more complete experience. Beside the Single Player portion of Madden '06 and the On-line Mode 
 is very good and fun (for all experience levels) . It is a fun and entertaining experience and the 
 best NFL Football game out there but there is always room for improvement. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  EA has dropped their prices on their sports titles ie: 
  NBA 06
  Tiger Woods
  FIFA
  Madden 06
  
  So if you didn't purchase Madden for $60.00 because of poor reviews
  The game 
 is easier to digest at $40.00.... well just a little with Tagamet.
  
  This game is definately a "ported" game with none of the features that
  are in the "original". Basically 
 you get a football game. No more and alot
  less. Graphics are pretty impressive except a few of the players, like
  Eli Manning don't look 
 like themselves. Eli looks in real life like he's twelve
  The Eli is Madden looks like he missed his calling as a character in Halo.
  
  Gameplay ---Well 
 throw everything you learned or mastered in the "old"
  Madden. This Madden everything is totally changed, at least that "cone-tunnel-vision" quarterback 
 foolishness is not as visible in this version as
  the last. I found it to be very annoying and spent most of my time running
  the heck out of running 
 back and fullback. This version passing the ball
  to your tight end and wide receiver is once again -- F U N!!
  
  If you need your football fix 
 and can't wait half the summer before NCAA Football 07 or Madden 07 comes out. At $39.99 this isn't 
 a bad for a medicore game..... it will hold you over.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillyhox
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 30, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Well I am going to have to go with my instinct that Madden 06 was rushed. I believe that others 
 out there will say the same thing. Now when I booted it up and started playing it I had a really 
 good time. But it could have been better. The graphics in the game were totally better then the 
 old xbox. If you dont mind not having those damn QB vision or whatever then this game is alright. 
 I was never one to like those kinds of options so this game was decent. I may sound all over the 
 place with this review but for a person who just likes to play games and thats all then this is 
 it. This game was very good and if you just want to play football then go out and get the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l33t_gamer_88
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  so the question on a few peoples mind is: is madden worth buying on the x-box 360? in my opinion 
 yes, but only because i dont play it strictly for the purpose of playing the extra features, i 
 play the franchise and thats about it. so, if your someone who is looking for new additions to 
 madden, this is not your game, in fact it is missing features. ( create modes, mini camps etc...)
 
  on the other hand, madden contains a couple of rewarding improvments such as Phenomenal Graphics, 
 and i mean amazing graphics! also, madden offers a much smoother gaming engine. the gameplay has 
 nothing choppy about it at all anymore and that is definately a satisfying feature:-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sidney_765
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 28, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite dissapointing, specially the graphics, EA didnt deliver the quality they promised, 
 the textures dont look quite as good as EA showed on those "rendered" vidoes on the xbox 360, and 
 the animations, they are the same as the console versions, the way the players tackle each other, 
 it doesnt look quite painful at all, EA is makin us pay $60 for this garbage, and wont stand it 
 anymore, if you want to play a football game, go play blitz the league instead, hahahaha!!!! ha 
 ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutonyachin23
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 28, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  The Madden series has always been a series thats been always great but with the 360 version of 
 the game it falls way short of expectation the graphics are very nice but the gameplay and gamemodes 
 that it didnt bring from last-gen maddens and the ability not to challenge really was a let down, 
 the controls are also a big downgrade with all the buttons mixed up for ex. sprint is now RT (right 
 trigger) and now you juke with the button which is really frustrating. EA sports needs to step 
 there game up next season beacause madden is the best sports series ever!!! And if they dont that 
 will dissapoint all there fans like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asdffdsaasdffds
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 27, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  Some games have only graphics. Its just like game companies just want you to be like WOOHOO! GRAPHICS! 
 Well Madden 06 doesnt do that. It includes graphics AND sound. YAY! Other than that the game's 
 pretty lame, the stats of players are kind of pathetic even after the update. Whats terrible is 
 that you can't even change their stats.
  
  This game is great to look and great to listen to the quarterbacks (which were completley reanimated 
 in a good way) but the gameplay is lame! There is no superstar mode. They have a terrible new kick 
 meter. It costs $10 more. Go spend it on a pizza. You'll enjoy it more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fauij
Rating: 4.2
Date: May 18, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This is probrobly or I should say, is the, worst game on 360. This game lacks everything of what 
 a real madden game should be. First of off this game has a one on one games only and you cant let 
 another player join if you are playing offline. Second, This game lacks many features such as practice, 
 create a player, francise mode, create a team, and countless of other features. Third, the players 
 dont move as smoothly as the madden on the original xbox. I am very dissapointed at EA Sports for 
 actually even releasing a incomplete game. And I hope that the Maddden 07 will be much more better........... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 7
Date: May 17, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  its only half a game but cost more why because its on 360 !!1
  that is uncool
  the game play suxs
  graphics arent taht good
  why does this have less features than a current 
 gen game?
  very dissapointed in EA... Especially the achievement system got almost all of them in 1 game !!!! 
 that doesnt make the game hard... good thing for me Walmart messed up and charged me only 35 for 
 it haha 
  
  hope next yr is better considering they have the liscense for the next 15 yrs or so. I hate how 
 Ea got this liscense and Sega got the MLB one and both those games r awful. They shouldnt have 
 spent so much to get rid of competition and spent it on actually amkin a new game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slappnuttz
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 28, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  Ok, so this is from a die hard 2k football fan. I have never liked the Madden games mostly because 
 I have been playing its arch rival as long as I can remember. Since there are no other NFL football 
 games I decided to rent this one and try it out. I had read all the reviews that stated they rushed 
 this one out to be ready for launch and there were important things left out.
  I totally agree. I have to say that the gameplay was surprisingly easy and the graphics are very 
 good. When you first start playing this you know that it was rushed out and that it could have 
 been such a better game.
  I have read all the previews regarding the 2007 addition and am extremely excited so I guess the 
 2006 game was good enough for me to like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 13, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that if you did buy madden 06, you bought it most likely for the ps2 
 or Xbox. With saying that, there is no way in my right mind I can believe this was a project that 
 is suppose to separate it from the others in a good way.
  
  Gameplay - personally Im a PS2 madden guy so I had to change the controller in a ps2 manner. After 
 that it was smooth sailing. Standard stuff in a new presentation. Franchise mode, quick play, and 
 online
  
  Graphic- while these graphics are great it doesn't save the game in any manner. some players though 
 have an undertaker thing going on and have white eyes. fix that EA.
  
  Tilt- this game has no tilts what so ever. The football season is over and 07 is around the corner. 
 
  
  RENT FOR THE ACHIEVMENTS ONLY!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chirurgeon
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 8, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  This game was with out a doubt just hurried along to say that EA has got a football game on the 
 xbox 360. I admit the PLAYERS look good but, that is about it. I hope no-one else wastes ther money 
 on this sorry excuse for a MADDEN game. And if you i did , i'm really sorry to hear that : ( . I 
 also cant believe John Madden isn't even on it ! What is up with that crap? The total lack the 
 news commentary is a disappointment , that was one of the key features that made it cool. And what 
 is up with the cheesy scoreboard animations , they are damn ridiculis and look like something from 
 atari 2600. To be honest i really felt like i wasted 60$ on a game i will never play again !! Yes 
 , it sucks that bad... really bad!! I really hope people take this review seriously and wait for 
 another company to release football games for the 360 , because this failed attempt just ruined 
 my faith in EA and i will not waste another cent anything have to do with!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zonmom2508
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 1, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  Many people said that they hated this game because it was missing a lot of things. But i have something 
 to say... This game is fun if you just enjoy it. The only complaint i ever had was not challenging 
 calls because of the tuck rule fumble situation during the game. Other than that its pretty fun. 
 Graphics are insane for something that had to be rushed into production for next generation. If 
 you think about it ea owns the nfl rights so they can do what they want in a game. Trust me the 
 next game will be better than this. Game was still fun because it was a football game and i enjoyed 
 it very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edscma1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 27, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  This is what happens when somebody gets exclusive rights to the NFL .the game seems rushed its 
 like they said well the game isn't finished yet but lets put it out there anyway because if the 
 want football they have to come to us no create a nithing team stadium player nothing no extras 
 where are the all time teams nfl europe teams this is ridiculous Nfl 2k we miss you so much cant 
 wait to see you guys back to take the crown from these idiots im upset an i only paid $29 for the 
 game if i would have paid the full price i would have given this game a zero the psp version is 
 better than this good graphics is it oh yeah were is the commentary an why are all the teams rated 
 in the 80's oh boy did they let us down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViVaLaMaTT
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Ok not much to say here since I wrote a review on a Madden Game already. I think it was 06. O well. 
 Its Graphics are the best thing about this game. The People in the stands are 3-D. The Backgrounds 
 behind the Stadium are replicas. And There are alot of more great animations. All in all, it's 
 still a Madden Game if you get my drift. Nothing New, Acheivements are Easy, and The Players Still 
 dont look like them selves. Maybe the Quarterback and all the other players with big ego's but 
 that about it. 
  In the end, I beat this whole game in about 6 hours. And there are better games out there. So I 
 would recommend A rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malitz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 20, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Maddens graphics are fantastic, they're definitely among the best i've seen. No more stumpy player 
 models, and tackling is very well done with players wrapping up and what not. I for one never really 
 got into superstar mode, never really cared much about the mini camp. I do sort of miss the challenges, 
 but the game just makes the right call instead. The gameplay is very solid except for the catching 
 animations. There might be like 6-7 catching animations total. So, even when a pass is right on 
 the money, the reciever makes an awkward catching motion that often keeps you from picking up yards 
 after the catch, not very fluid looking. Other than that the game itself and gameplay is extremely 
 fluid. Madden has definitely made a nice debut on next gen. Oh yeah and the crowds have always 
 been big to me whether it be their appearence or their reaction to the plays. Both have been dramatically 
 improved. the crown jumps arround and reacts to every play, cheering at the right times. When your 
 team is on defense at home, if you pump the crowd up they all get on their feet and start jumping, 
 very cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 07pimp
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  A fun game when play against some one ells. Horrible game for franchise mode.
  
  It has a whole new control setup, along with the game play. When kicking you have an arorrow that 
 you aim, then it goes side to side for accuracy, then and has red going up and down threw it for 
 the power. Then for speed its the right trigger and to juke its the A button.
  
  When you are playing a game with your friend at home you need to know how to fake pick plays and 
 all that because every can see the plays you pick. Other then that is is a pretty good multiplayer 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greedygoblin45
Rating: 3.7
Date: Apr 14, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  All flash no substance. That's all that Madden for the 360 is. On Draft Day 2005, the supposed 
 "Next Generation" of Madden was going to be shown. But the problem was that, the commercial didn't 
 even show off the game's engine. It was just a movie that really just tried to make Madden look 
 good. But then, when all the Madden freaks got their 360s, they had to get Madden as well, not 
 knowing that they would be buying about 1/4 of a game.
  Don't get me wrong, I am a MAJOR Madden freak, but believe me, I know Madden, and this game is 
 NOT Madden.
  When I first played the game, it looked very cool. The presentation and all was top notch, showing 
 the pre-game warm-ups and an overhead view of Heinz Field. But then the first thing I noticed was................ 
 No Al Micheals, and there wasn't even JOHN MADDEN!!! It was just some no name that was supposed 
 to be commenting over the radio. Now don't get me wrong he's decent, but he's not the power duo 
 that is Al Micheals, and John Madden.
  The gameplay in Madden 06 has actually really changed from current-gen to next-gen. But not for 
 the better, this actually feels nothing like the other Madden games, and that's not a good thing. 
 They have also changed the play selecting menus. But it's really not that great and actually can 
 get confusing at times.
  Now the MAJOR thing that is wrong with Madden 06 is that they took virtually EVERY SINGLE MODE 
 off of Madden 06. No mini-camp..... no 2 minute drill...... no owner mode........ no newspaper....... 
 no radio....... and NO DEPTH AT ALL IN FRANCHISE MODE!!!!! All that is there is set your lineup 
 and play. It's just so ridiculous that EA takes everything out of the game that made it fun in 
 the first place.
  
  Overall, Madden is just a product that was rushed to match the XBOX 360's launch date. And with 
 all the features that made Madden great taken out. It's hard to really get any enjoyment out of 
 it. In my opinion, just wait out till next year, and hopefully EA will put all the features in 
 Madden NFL 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-Woof43
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  This was a waste of time and money they just rushed this thing out. I mean look at it the graphics 
 are the best but the game sucks! They left out every thing i dont know why but they did including 
 dynasty mode and you dont have a franchise or nothing. They just put it out on the market when 
 the 360 came out just to make a quick buck out of a game that had the best graphics. They just 
 through some of the best things in on the commercial and tricked every one into buying it well 
 MADDEN YOU ARE GETTING A LITTLE OLD SO I THINK IT MIGHT BE TIME FOR YOU TO JUST LET IT GO ALRIGHT!!! 
 I mean the 2K5 football game was alot better not in graphics but in gameplay dont waste your $60 
 dollars on this game thats for shore want a real football game for the 360 i guess your going to 
 hafe to wait until one comes out lets just hope Madden dosnt do this again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erbac
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 13, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  How's it going, reader? I know every football fan out there who is a gamer was excited when they 
 heard about Madden being released on the Xbox 360. Looking at this game, I cannot blame them. First 
 of all, I love the graphics, I am so glad we do not have to put up with those plastic, stumpy looking 
 player models anymore. It's about time they changed that look. I can't be the only person to have 
 complained about those graphics every year. I do not even want to look at the PS2, GC, or Xbox 
 versions of Madden anymore. They are now officially ugly. This right here goes to the more realistic 
 NFL 2k series kind of look. The gameplay is just as pretty as the graphics. If your used to the 
 Xbox version then you should be able to pick up and play this one quite easily. The expressions 
 on the players faces are so realistic also. As for the commentary, no John Madden which is pretty 
 stupid, they could of just recycled it from the other versions and put it in this version, who 
 would care? There are some complaints to be had which keep this from getting a perfect score. There 
 are no challenges. No minicamp or superstar mode from the previous versions. Even so, I would still 
 much rather have this than the other versions no matter what anybody says because it still at least 
 has franchise and the other modes. Seeing this Madden, I will never play Madden on anything other 
 than a next-gen console. I can't imagine how sweet Madden 2007 is going to be on the 360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasuke55
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the screens for this game I was like WHOA!!! After playing I am really disappointed. 
 Where to start? First they are missing a number of things from the game, like the mini camps training 
 and a host of other modes. What makes this game not worth buying is the lack of the ability to 
 challenge a call. How many times have you played a Madden game and won because of a challenge when 
 you know your foot was in? If you get this game get ready to be cheated. I know this is a minor 
 port the first game on a system is usually has no major improvements but did they have to take 
 away everything? And more importantly would they have done this if there were other NFL licensed 
 games to compete with? I hope this is just a fluke because if not I won't be buying 2007. The only 
 plus I could say aside from the graphics is that the game play is still intact and the animations 
 and takling is breathtaking.
  
  In short RENT IT!!!!!! buy at your own risk.
  
  PS: I want to see JadaKiss and Nas on the 2007 soundtrack.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darmi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  Once you get past all the features in the xbox version, all you are doing is playing games anyway. 
 And playing games is what the Xbox 360 version does better. With next-gen graphics and excellent 
 play calling menus, the X360 version brings suberb gameplay in an easy to play and learn layout.
 
  
  If you have played Madden games (or other NFL games) before then it will not take long to learn, 
 just a simple case of learning some of the new controls. But if you are new to the NFL experience 
 this could take a few matches to get into.
  
  One negative point is that the in-game commentator is very boring and he only says exactly what 
 has happened in the previous play.
  
  The online mode is very good, allowing you to play ranked matches against people you do not know 
 or unranked matches against your friends. 
  
  The franchise mode can last a long time and as you advance through the years players are inducted 
 into the hall of fame and you can see the stats from all previous years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffdog_65
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  Madden has got to be the biggest dissappointment for me than any other game on the 360 that i have 
 played. EA has really let us down on this game. Graphics and Sound are good but too bad gameplay 
 isnt very good. Madden does not have much to offer. There is a season mode and a play now mode. 
 That's about it. There is no superstar, no create player, no challenges, no nothing. This game 
 was rushed and the effect was a horrible game. Do not buy this game. Just rent it and get the very 
 easy achievements. If they would have made this game like they did for ps2 and xbox it culd have 
 been the best sports game on 360., but it wasnt. Hopefully Madden 07 will be much better than this 
 one. This game is not worth $60.00. Just wait for the next Madden game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666_NOTB
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Madden 360 is one game from August that I agreed that I wouldn't get. Well I tried out the demo 
 and was pretty much blown away by the graphics. The screens for this game don't do it any justice 
 at all. Once you see it in motion, you'll realise how good of a game it is. Madden 360 is a good 
 sports title on the 360 and it's got all the good gameplay there, but it fails to deliver because 
 of cut out options from it's Xbox, Ps2, etc versions.
  
  Gameplay: Got all the regular goods. However, cut out features really hurt this game alot.
  
 
  Graphics: Wonderful. If you like sports and are a graphic whore, then you might want to pick this 
 up.
  
  Sound: A little improved from past versions. Big plus would be no more commentators!
  
  Value: 
 Wait for Madden 2007.. or if you can't, than rent this game or get it pre-owned at your local gameshop. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crunchy12489
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 31, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 2006 for XBOX 360 Review.
  
  People are always telling you to get this game and get that game, and you are not really sure if 
 you want to believe them or not. Well, I am here to tell you that you should NOT BUY THIS GAME.
 
  
  I have been playing all Madden games from Sega Genesis to PS1, PS2, XBOX, and XBOX 360. Believe 
 me, it should have stopped at XBOX. Okay first of all, EA Sports obviously rushed this game into 
 development just to knock off competition and start a hype with this game. Greedy EA Sports, yet 
 again, fails to deliver us features from the console before. The funny thing is, they take out 
 the HUGE features that you play the game for! Here is a list of what is missing in Madden 06 for 
 the 360.
  
  [ Missing ]
  
  Dynasty Mode, Playmaker on defense, Season Mode, Training Camp, Madden Challenges, Challenge play 
 for posession of ball, Half of the play book from the previous consoles.
  
  [ Menu ]
  
  Play Now, Options, My Madden, Play Online.... haha! thats it!
  
  EA Sports! Why?! Why would 
 you leave out the important features in the game? What the hell is wrong with you people! Just 
 like in NBA Live 06, leaving out dunk contest and Dynasty Mode! What is with making us come up 
 short?
  
  I am not going to lie though, the gameplay is solid. The graphics and sounds are marvelous, but 
 I mean visuals don't make the game a "game."
  If you have XBOX Live then this will be a great game to play, but other than that, it's useless.
 
  
  And yes, you do not have playmaker on defense AT ALL. You can't move your safeties, cornerbacks, 
 or even put your lineman into a position of a blitz or a man coverage. It's gone. Challenging plays 
 for the posession of the ball, GONE. So basically, this game is nothing but play someone one on 
 one. When you are at home you will find this game EXTREMELY boring. Believe me, I was a Madden 
 freak on the PS2. CPU gets boring time after time.
  
  [ Bottom Line ]
  
  If you are willing to waste hours on a game thats built poorly, then be my guest. If anything, 
 i suggest renting it ONCE. Because after that one time, you've already got the most out of this 
 game. I traded this game in for Fight Night Round 3, another EA Sports game. Now that is a game 
 that is worth its money!
  
  Hey EA next time INCLUDE THE KEY FEATURES OF WHY CUSTOMERS BUY YOUR GAMES WHEN YOU EXPORT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterles
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  this game is probally as boring, and as homasexual as the nba 06 game. i had no fun playing either, 
 and i only played them becaues of the easily earned gamerpoints. the last football game i played 
 was on the original nes. it was tecmo bowl. i think i enjoyed that game, it was so long ago. oh 
 man, that was a long time ago. not too long. i dont know, it doesent matter. no it does not. but 
 anyway. this game in my opinion is not worth playing. we all got all of the gamerpoints. but we 
 all felt very homasexual. its not worth trying to explain all the little niches about the gameplay 
 and graphics and what not. but if like the madden series, you probally wont read this, or any review 
 anyway. so whatever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonelyeagle14
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  i usually dont like madden i like espn 2k5 but this is a great game a must play but if u dont like 
 football games stay clear of it but i wished they would have more content than what it had but 
 it was good as is plus i dont like that stupid qb sight thing well at least u dont have to have 
 it on so that is good and the graphics are most impressive i have ever seen in a football game 
 gameplay is pretty good not as good as other football games if u want this u might wait till price 
 drop 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cc3d
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 27, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I guess this thing was play tested in some country where football has a whole different meaning. 
 
  
  The camera modes are A) too damn close or B) too damn far away. The players run like they're between 
 preperation H applications. The between-scene animations are so repetitve that I started getting 
 nauseous. What's with the announcer? Is he in a friggin box broadcasting from a transistor radio? 
 The images are too dark. Why change what works? There is just no feel to this game. They should 
 try having football fans playtest football games. They'll have a better chance of making football 
 fans happy.
  
  Graphics are great, but I just didn't enjoy the game. I'll hook my XBOX back up for NCAA 06 since 
 I can't play it on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VarsityGamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  madden 06 features a nasty tradeoff making its first next gen appearance on the xbox 360. in exchange 
 for the best graphics ever in a football game you have to sacrifice a ton of features that have 
 made madden one of the most addictive franchises around. The gameplay also feels a little bare 
 bones at times, although I do prefer the new type of play calling, the gameplay just doesnt quite 
 feel as sound as in previous games. Playing threw madden 06 felt more like a really deep tech demo 
 then a fully fleshed out next gen experience. Its back to the drawing board for a franchise that 
 needs to add something spicy into the mix or risk losing some of its fan base.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDL54876
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  i have been a long time madden player, and i can tell you this isn't on the same level as its predecessors 
 game play wise, but graphically it is the best yet. People say that sometimes it freezes, or that 
 when quarter backs walk to the line of scrimage their eyes roll, but i don't see that at all. As 
 far as i know, the graphics are the most impressive yet. Camera angles could be fixed, and they 
 need to add the features in that they took out, such as defensive play maker. The game play isn't 
 as bad as people say, i still have my qb vision, but it can be improved. I ranked madden for the 
 PS2 a 9.3. This i ranked an 8.9 in my other score. It is a joy to look at, but I guess expecting 
 this game to be horrific, which people have made it out to be i was pleasantly surprised to see 
 that it wasnt a total bust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMightyGwin
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is all about the graphics. Pure and simple. Career mode is bad, season mode and dynasty 
 mode are very boring. But for those of you who dislike Madden, you are in luck. He doesn't say 
 much at all. In fact no one does. This is the first game since '94 Madden not to have play-by-play 
 announcers. This sounds bad, but it's not so bad when online. The online play is what makes this 
 game worth buying. Fast paced, this game allows for a true football feel. Remember, if Michael 
 Vick is quarterback, blitz the corners. Oh, and go 49ers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crippla87
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Much like the saying, Madden o6 is a big step back if you are used to the current gen edition. 
 Now create-a-plaer, team, play, and mini camp modes. The franchise mode also got slapped back to 
 the stoneage. This version is the bare-bones how the hell is it $60 edition. There is also an obscence 
 of being able to challenge which really blows becuase it is definatly needed in this game! The 
 ballspoting is horrible, in the NFL, the ball is spotted to the farthest spot the ball HAS been 
 not where its spotted where it lands! A lot of the same animations get repeated as well despite 
 EA saying they have created a plethora of new ones. I also sadly miss Madden's obvious comentary 
 to make me laugh and instead your stuck with some Joe Smoe. Despite all the bad, the game does 
 look and sound great and features some good presentation for what it has. The stadiums also look 
 really nice and the crowd finally looks believable! If your new to the series as well, the game 
 to me feels easier and passes are usually caught pretty easily on the default settings. I also 
 like how some of the league's top players look exaclty like their counterparts. Sadly, the ones 
 who are nobodys still look way off which stinks and numerous coaches aren't even in the game (Dallas 
 and New England, etc) Overall, this game is no way worth the $60 and you should wait for next year's 
 edition to see if they bring back all the missing modes that were so key to the current editions. 
 Take it from me and don't blow the $60, if you want to play it, rent it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackHawk2599
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  When i first popped this game into my new 360 i had high hopes, better graphics, more modes, and 
 better online... Oh boy i was in for it. the game totally got rid of all of the game modes except 
 for exhibition matches, franchise, and online matches. ??? Why in the world would they do that? 
 To lose all of their fans? One more thing, wtf happend to John Madden? The game has got his name 
 in it, but where is he, all you get is a local commentator. That's pretty much where i drew the 
 line. Other than the lack of game modes AND LACK OF JOHN MADDEN, graphics are solid, online is 
 fine, and gameplay is great, but $10 more for less game modes = rip off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmjm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  A very satisfying game that will bring hours of great entertainment.
  What can I say, this game is great. Yeah there are features missing from the Xbox release but the 
 graphics and tunnel vision and more fluid gameplay more than make up for it.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Once of the better features in the control set for Madden NFL 06 is the addition 
 of QB Action Mode. By pulling both triggers, the QB moves like a running back, but can still throw 
 the ball (provided hes not over the line of scrimmage) . You can juke, dive, spin, and even pull 
 off Playmaker controls with the right stick.
  
  Sound:
  This is Madden, the sound is quite good. It is and sounds how and where it should be. 
  
  Graphics: 
 On the 360 the graphics are so crisp it is almost as though you are really watching football on 
 ESPN. The clarity is crystal and the game plays so fluid that you don't miss a beat.
  
  Overall:
  
  Madden NFL 06 will not knock your socks off. However it has been revamped to bring 
 some freshness to the franchise. The A. I. and replays are so nice and crisp it is just amazing. 
 The game clock is actually ran a lot better than in previous editions of Madden NFL. I am really 
 impressed with the game. I highly recommend it if you own any console. This is my favorite Madden 
 since Madden 2002.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dajo128
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  It let me down because all of the features of the old system were taken out, but maybe it gives 
 them a chance to rebuld the game to be better. The game is relatively short to learn, but can be 
 challenging at first on the harder levels. Overall the game is an ok buy, but i suggest a rent 
 and a wait till next years version. The game somtimes looks to appear have more features built 
 in, but locks up on firing or trying to get a new team EA did great on graphics. They need to remember 
 the best games have greatness of play and looks all in one, if you miss it then the game is a flop. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinrf12345
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Man this one just pissed me off. There was somethings that I was SERIOUSLY missing from the PC 
 versions that NEEDED to be on the console. One this was there was no challange the play!?!?! and 
 I have definatley seen some catches out of bounds and that was a quater of the fun of the game 
 was pissing the refs off with your challenge play flag. And what ever happend to the capture the 
 instant replay for those hilarious moments when you are down four points and you throw a bomb and 
 it nails some opponents in the groin, but your guy catches it in the end-zone. I mean come on that 
 is some good family video. And finally only 1 on 1? What EA didn't have time to make it so another 
 person could play the reciever or the running back on the play instead off sitting and watching 
 the other two controller hogs having ALL the fun? Now don't get me wrong this was a fun game with 
 some good parts like the ablitiy for frachise and the amount of difficultiy level, but it was missing 
 some serious components that made the other ones great. I think my N64 version had instant replay 
 saves. What is up with that?? Oh and finally music was GREAT not that boring crap you usually have 
 to put up with games this one had real song. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coopster
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 12, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  graphics are ok but its a good starting game for 360 when it first came out. it had ok gameplay 
 but could use more modes. Cant wait for madden 07 though hope it is better. any way i like the 
 new kicking it better more fun to use. the only graphic problem is that everyone is huge could 
 have toned it down a little more for like kickers and some quarterbacks etc... i personally thought 
 it was a little to easy but still enjoyed until i got more games. wouldnt recommend it for someone 
 with just enough cash to buy one game but if your a really hard core fanboy this was for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CassiusVII
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Madden's second 06' game. Whats wrong with that sentence? It says MADDEN! I mean come on ... if 
 your going to buy out 2k at least make your name better. Anyways here it goes...
  Gameplay- Its fun. I cant say that it isnt. I liked it alot, but the only reason it didnt get a 
 10 in gameplay is because of the things that comes after it.
  Graphics- Really good! I didnt see a flaw besides online, and you can blame my internet for that. 
 Perfect 10.
  Sound- GGGG AAAAAAA YYYYYYYYYYYYYYY! I am not the smartest guy in the world so I have to pick Ask 
 Madden. Meaning you have to hear his voice. That isnt that bad but the music isnt good either...
 
  Value- Its worth it... overall its a fun game
  Like I said its a football game... I liked it... But come on THEY NEED TO GET RID OF MADDEN IN 
 THE NAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 12, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Again with EA what are they doing! With all of there for next-gen titles they bairly put anything 
 into them! All they work on is graphics. Now this game is not as bad as live 360 ( or as i like 
 to call it live 180 ) . It actually has gameplay, "did I hear that right an EA 360 game with gameplay"
 
  "why yes you did hear that right my friend" 
  It keeps the gameplay that was pretty much the same as was back on the current-gen systems, and 
 has fantastic graphics to boot. But to make all this work it seems that they had to take out what 
 made Madden, Madden in my mind. Like the superstar mode mini-camp mode and a create-a-player mode 
 ( how do you have a football game without a create-a-player mode?) and they have a franchise mode 
 from like 3 or 4 years ago. Oh wait they have a new kick meter, yay a new kick meter, wow! So they 
 take out pretty much all their modes and put in a new kick meter, I have to give them a standing 
 ovation for that! If EA just put the same game that they had on the consoles but just rehanced 
 the graphics i would be very happy, but they didn't, I think that they have to start taking classes 
 from 2K sports on how to put out a 360 game, and to top that all off this is the only NFL game 
 that we can have. Now i recommend that you rent MADDEN 06 for the 360 just because it has great 
 graphics and gameplay, but I don't think you should buy it because it just doesn't have enough 
 to satisfy you for that long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  Madden 06 for the Xbox 360 is kinda like a car that just drove through a huge explosion. It still 
 has its base, but is stripped of its specialties. Madden is just a port from the current gen consoles 
 except it is really shiny and nice looking. The stadiums are grop dead gorgeous and the player 
 models are outstanding. Another thing that was a nice change was that they finally got rid off 
 of the dreadful announcer..... John Madden. What lacks from Madden is the game modes that have been 
 taken away. This is what made Madden so great for the current generation, but it is not available 
 on the 360. Of coarse this game will sell well though because of its name. Overall, I would say 
 that if you are a hard core football fan or a Madden fan than pick this up. If you aren't either 
 rent it or just wait for next years batch of sports games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeftonesXIII
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  not even close to what i thought this game would be.. for 60 bucks i feel totally ripped off with 
 this game. this should be a rent only considering you cant challange any plays, you will get bogus 
 penalties against you like earlier i was called for roughing the passer when i was at least 3 feet 
 away. i would advise you not to go out a just buy this game, its not worth the price its sold for. 
 read the reviews before buying and remember stores wont take back opened games so dont waste your 
 money. the only reason im still typing here is because i have to have 100 words or some crap to 
 submit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 11, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  Well from the start the game dosen't have season mode. It's still a fun game of football , espicially 
 if you play it on live or with a friend. There are barley any matches on live though .
  
  When you are playing the game though whenever you go to the play screen it pauses for a second 
 and then goes to the screen. After awhile it get's REALLY anoying. 
  
  Also, tthe game dosen't feature madden as the anouncer , instead it has whatever home game announcer 
 the stadium would have , but the sound quality for the announcer is so bad you can't even understand 
 what he's saying.
  
  Rent this game and see if you don't mind the downsides to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hendrix_986
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  To sum up Madden 06, take the Madden franchise to 2006 on the 360, good graphics, slow controls.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Not as it should be. I expceted more as I got my first game on. Controls are twitchy 
 and slow, but for some, its not enough to notice. Other than that, the button functions are friendly. 
 Same as Xbox/PS2 version (which is WayTF better!)
  
  GRAPHICS: PERFECT 10! I like the perfect roundness of the helmets and their reflextions (even the 
 marks from the other teams helmets show up! I zoomed in (in replay) on the football and I gotta 
 say, THATS NEXT GEN!
  
  SOUND: No real surprises here!
  
  VALUE: Best football game on the 360, but in the gaming world, the Xbox/PS2 version is what you 
 need.
  
  MY CHANGES: Contact with tackels, and better responce. (can't play football without these!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattw1555
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 06 looks really great on the XBOX 360 and has he closest feel to a real NFL game to 
 date. The gameplay can be considered innovative has you have control of every player you have on 
 the field, including defense. That was something we haven't really seen in the Madden sries before. 
 The gameplay is realistic as well as the player motions. The presentation and look of the game 
 are second to none. There are several draw backs to this game. Instant replay is not on the 360 
 version. though it is on the XBOX and PC versions of the game. That is sorely missed because the 
 referee AI is set up so that they miss a call here and there. I have had no catch calls numerous 
 times when it was a catch and vice-versa. There is also no superstar mode which doesn't hurt my 
 feeling any, but you have to wonder why they left that out. Overall it's a great playing football 
 sim, just lacking in depth compared to previous installments in the Madden series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_ky
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 7, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  EA's Madden 06 is pretty good new controls great graphics alright game play alright here we go 
 EA dident live up to there name being that they own the NFL liscense you would think they would 
 make this great but the persicon passing is so much harder than on origianl xbox and the personal 
 fouls are just rediculious every other play its a dam blow to the head on the quarter back some 
 glitches are obvious but i still had a ball with it one HUGE pluse this year is YOU DONT HAVE TO 
 LISTEN TO JOHN MADDEN TALK YESSSS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! now you listen to local comentators thank God 
 pretty good sound track but no superstar mode dam EA or challenge so yeah hope the reffs are for 
 you when u play cause ur not gunna be challenging a close call this year but if you are a solid 
 football fan then its prolly a buy i love this game but it also can get boring ohh and they have 
 a new kicking system also its kinda weird but i like it and calling plays is a lot better now you 
 can ask coach, ask madden, by formation, or by play type if you dont like football that much and 
 you need a football game to be revolutionary to buy it then this is deffinetly gunna suck for you 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJSlackerjr
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  Though there are many good things about Madden in the past. Seems like they will mail it in year 
 after year from here on in. Since no one can compete with them it will only be the same old thing. 
 
  
  QB Vision - not a fan
  
  not many bells and whistles on this title. All the QB look like they staring into space. Sometime 
 the eyes are going other ways. Its not pretty. From afar it looks ok. but up close there isn't 
 much here.
  
  Needs cool unlockables. Maybe a theme or game picture. Is it me or is the best Madden from 2003 
 when they had the Hall of Fame players in there. That was the best. Take you bad team and adding 
 Troy Akiman, Gale Sayers, or any of the other great players from the past.
  
  Something that would be nice is after winning a Super Bowl or something maybe changing the background 
 of the players fav team to have the 2006 champs or something in back during the next year. Some 
 of the nice thing that were done on the XBox version were left off. So I would not buy this game, 
 rent it. Beat it then save your money for a game that is worth your hard earned cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OoofMich
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  madden 2006 for the xbox 360 is easily one of the most dissapointing games i have ever played. 
 starting on a good note is that the graphics look amazing. some of the players have real face scans 
 done. but some of the not so popular players do have a generic look though. 
  
  the BAD stuff. the franchise sucks, it has a duration of 30 years, but trust me you won't want 
 to play that long. there is no mini camps, no practice/challenge mode, and no madden cards to collect. 
 they also took away the "superstar" mode that the original xbox version of the game had.
  
  they also competely ruined the fun things that you were used to be able to do with the rosters. 
 there is no "create a player", nor is there a "create a team" option available.
  
  i guess this is the result when EA is a bunch of jerks and buys out the football license. lucky 
 them, they can ruin one of the best franchises ever... and madden 06 for the xbox 360 is one giant 
 leap towards it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhuls
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  All everyone says about Madden 06 for Xbox 360 is that there is no challenge option during games. 
 Yes, challenges can change the direction of a game, but the main focus of Madden 06 for Xbox 360 
 should be the graphics.
  
  If you throw out all of the game playing and just focus on the graphics, this is one of the best 
 games for Xbox 360! These graphics are very good. 
  
  Let's bring the game play back into view. The biggest disappointment for Madden 06 for Xbox 360 
 has to be the Franchise mode. In Franchise mode, there is:
  1. No scouting prospects (prospects already scouted)
  2. No signing of assistant coaches
  3. 
 No creation of stadiums (which also means no relocating)
  4. Always 5 minutes/quarter
  
  The classic Madden style of play is still in the game, but the Franchise mode has been stripped 
 down to the basics. But to defend the developers, they had to create this version of Madden from 
 scratch since it is the first of many to come on the Xbox 360 console. 
  The graphics are the biggest asset to this game. Even if you live for the Franchise mode, this 
 is a must-get game for any Madden fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechosenone827
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Madden 06 for the Xbox 360 is fun, but it is basically your typical football game. There are not 
 that many features and most of the Xbox Live Achievement Points are really easy to get, almost 
 all of them in 1 game with the exception of a few like winning the super bowl and 30 years franchise 
 mode. The graphics are where this game really stands out. The player models look amazing, after 
 playing this game it is really hard to go back to the current generation version of the game even 
 though current gen versions have more features. The gameplay plays like most madden games and the 
 sound is really good, but I could do without the radio commentary, it is better having Madden doing 
 the commentary. If you can find a used copy for a decent price it is well worth it just for the 
 graphics alone, but I can't recommend buying it new because it is not as good as it could be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopfacemanboy
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 06 is just basicaly football. All it contains is an online mode basic footbal games 
 franchise mode and a roster manger. Its jsut playing football with good graphics nothing special 
 of worthwhile in this game. It contains evry team and evrything is pretty much up to date. The 
 only reason i could see anyone buying this game is unless your a diheart football fan. I didnt 
 get to much out of it because I couldn't even finish one game, hopinf for more I looked around 
 and found nothing.
  
  Buy this game If you want to play football and thats all........
  
  (I'd say dont buy it or rent it)
  
  I played this game maybe....45 minutes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorge_16
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  the other day i borrowed this game from my friend and its a decent game just not worth pissing 
 away 60 bucks. as you already know the graphics are some of the best ever on any game and any platform. 
 but once you get past the graphics and you will you'll realize that its not worth the money. the 
 franchise sucks and you fumble the ball every other kick off. if you have to play this then just 
 rent it and wait for 2007 to come out. hope fully then everything will be put back in with new 
 features and great graphics. if you want a good sports game for your 360 then get fight night round 
 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukewind
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 3, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  First off, I am biased because I have always held the belief that the 2k sports series were always 
 10 times better then any madden game out there but I made a concerted effort to give this game 
 a chance.
  
  Guess what , bias substantiated. Madden is still a bad game. I do not understand why so many people 
 play this series, its like they have brainwashed millions of gamers.
  
  Instead of a normal review lets just list the good and bad 
  
  THE GOOD
  
  1. The Graphics 
 are nice!
  2. UMMMMM I GOT NOTHING
  
  THE BAD (GOT AN HOUR)
  
  1. Players still look like they are skating not running
  2. Characters all look alike (WHY IS 
 ELI MANNING CROSSEYED)
  3. The Announcers are a joke
  4. The game is full of glitches
  5. BORING GAMEPLAY
  6. NO DEPTH 
  
  I could go one with about another 10 of the bad but I 
 think you get the picture.
  
  NFL FEVER 2003 for XBOX is better that this game (THINK ABOUT THAT)
  
  Thank god today I saw 
 an article that if the nfl players go to a lockout it could void EAs contract with the NFL and 
 bring back the good sports games.
  
  EA makes 1 or two good games a year and spends the rest of the year putting out insulting garbage 
 like this (SORRY MADDEN FANBOYS BUY YOU PLAY AN INFERIOR GAME)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killamike241
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  An added bonus for those who like to take it to the sky is a Precision Passing feature which allows 
 some after touch to occur. Instead of an algorithm always throwing to a receivers hands or breadbasket, 
 Madden NFL 06 allows the QB to tap the stick in any direction to throw a ball lower, higher, or 
 away from a defender in any direction. Field generals will also be able to direct their receiver 
 down field a bit more to pick up critical third down yardage and call a quick audible on the line 
 without tipping off their opponent.
  
  EA also included the Truck Stick in Madden NFL 06 to counteract the defensive Hit Stick analog 
 move with a specific jolt just for ball carriers. The Truck Stick is the answer to hulking RBs 
 getting flattened by puny D backs; now the offensive guys can lay some wood, with the only trade-off 
 being a slightly increased chance of a fumble.
  
  Gameplay Controls:
  
  Once of the better features in the control set for Madden NFL 06 is the addition of QB Action Mode. 
 By pulling both triggers, the QB moves like a running back, but can still throw the ball (provided 
 hes not over the line of scrimmage) . You can juke, dive, spin, and even pull off Playmaker controls 
 with the right stick.
  
  This is football weather!
  
  The QB Vision system is always active, but you dont necessarily have to use it on every play (or 
 any play for that matter) . To activate, you simply tap the right analog to bring up the cone. The 
 Precision passing system is always active too; just nudge the left stick after the ball is released.
 
  
  Some of the more basic controls in Madden NFL 06 have been re-mapped and changed a bit this time 
 around. For instance, A and B buttons are juke and spin respectively, and are both armed with directional 
 control. Moving the left stick while breaking ankles or pirouetting will send you in the specified 
 direction.
  
  Bumper buttons aid the QB in faking the snap or throwing the ball away. The backs dont get any 
 more moves with the well-designed bumpers, and it seems as though this would have been a perfect 
 place to put some new RB jukes.
  
  Overall Gameplay Impressions:
  
  Madden NFL 06 will not blow you away with its fancy gameplay modes or with a staggering amount 
 of depth in the online arena, but it is fresh and fun to play. Sure, some of the gameplay features 
 like QB vision and Precision Passing are carried over from the last generation, but the action 
 has a sheen of realism that was absent in last-gen iterations of Madden NFL 06. Youll feel more 
 a part of the action with the new play calling system which has page after page of pro plays, and 
 suggestions from coaches, and Madden himself.
  
  The tuned A. I. reacts more realistically, and usually makes the right decisions on the field. For 
 example, an opposing A. I. QB will actually run the two minute drill properly in Madden NFL 06; 
 none of this grotesque clock mismanagement garbage from years prior. Even the new control set aids 
 in getting you more into the game, as QBs have much more control over running or passing, leading 
 receivers, or looking off wideouts in hopes of fooling an eye-watching D back.
  
  One interesting feature in Madden NFL 06 is the ability to zoom out and check receiver routes and 
 to view from sideline to sideline. This is a standard feature in most pigskin games and doesnt 
 sound all that strange, but for whatever reason, you cant zoom back in when using this mode pre-snap. 
 Youll be stuck in a zoomed out mode that makes it hard to get a look at gaps or receivers routes. 
 There are no camera options either, so its not even possible to move the camera closer for a better 
 look.
  
  Im still a little perplexed how online leagues have been overlooked in Madden NFL 06. Yeah, they 
 were busy on the physics and gameplay engines, but cant we at least have a structured regular 
 season and playoff bracket via Xbox Live? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanleyHandyman
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 28, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  They could have simply done a port and given it upgraded graphics.
  
  Gameplay
  Good: Keeps the winning formula, true to the series
  Bad: SOOOOO much stuff gets removed in this 
 version, I finallt get the new Xbox controlls down and there is a new configuration
  
  Graphics
  Good: Best graphics in any madden game. period.
  Bad: some slowdowns
  
  Sound
 
  Good: Good soundtrack. FX
  Bad: Where did you go John Madden? Why is there some no-name announcing the game.
  
  Value
 
  Major Downgrade from the previous versions, only Franchise and Xbox Live are left as gameplay 
 modes other than quick games
  
  Overall:
  if you ABSOULTY, POSITVLY need a football game for 360 consider buying it. Otherwise the Xbox version 
 is much better than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalpierre
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  what is going on here. I own madden 06 for the regular XBox so i didn't want to buy it for the 
 360 and i am so glad i didn't. I rented the game and it flat out sucks. Sure the graphics are sweet 
 but they are supposed to be, it's a next gen console. Why can't i check my stats while playing 
 the game to know if Jamal Lewis has over 100 yards or not. And what's the deal with the camera, 
 i liked the older way better. Where are the mini-camps before the season, i loved those. Why did 
 they take out so much of the game (with the exception of Tony Brunno, screw that guy he was annoying) . 
 I don't know if I'm right or not but madden '07 better not be as dissapointing as '06. Plus it 
 takes 30 franchise years to unlock 400 achievement points, jeeze who is going to do that, there's 
 going to be a lot of simulating to get 30 franchise years. Think about the achievement points next 
 time on madden '07 please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360warrior
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Lets start out with madden being the best football game ever, also if you LOVE football like me 
 then there is no doubt that you run out and buy this game every august. The graphics on this game 
 are awesome, the helmets and the players are so crisp as well as the field. The cons of this game 
 are as follows --
  
  - The referee makes horrible roughing the passer calls
  - The depth of the game is bad, basically just a season mode
  - Only allows four user profiles 
 on the game
  
  The online is very impressive, no flaws as far as i can see. I use this game to play online and 
 to play peopla at my house, im still undefeated on my profile, 21-0 as of now. Anyways if u like 
 the pigskin pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kharvey12
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 26, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. All Madden games have been. Good soundtrack with big name bands. The graphics 
 got a great upping for the Xbox 360 version. The gameplay was just taken over from the regular 
 xbox version. One new thing they added was better play picking it is much easier for a person that 
 has never played a football game to pick it up and have fun with it. One of the minuses to this 
 version they spent all of their time on the graphics and didn't spend any time putting over owner 
 mode or the new superstar mode. This game is worth buying if you are a football game fan. If you 
 aren't don't waste your time with this game you will be bored and out 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxxMotoXxxX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: the same old madden. Not much to say here because everybody knows what a madden game 
 is like. The fun season and good games.
  
  Graphics: Pure jaw dropping beauty. It is so amazing to just look at the detail that went it this 
 game it is pure amazing. The environment are good. However, the most amazing the detail of grass 
 to reflection to curves, everything.
  
  Sound: regular high quality sound that will keep the game great. Players hitting each other to 
 the crowds and the commentary.
  
  Value: It's a game you could keep playing and playing by your self or on xbox live.
  
  Overall: 
 9.4 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wareagle23
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is AMAZING, ya its got nothing but graphics and gameplay but they more than make up for 
 what it lacks. theres no create a player, create a team, or edit player, the dynasty is basic, 
 and there isnt even a Super Bowl victory celebration, but its still the BEST IN THE SERIES. the 
 graphics rock, the players look so real, the jerseys look amazing, and the facial expressions are 
 so cool, but let me tell you the gameplay is better than anything you have ever played. its hard 
 to describe but it just feels better it feels real. you can change the controls to make any button 
 do whatever you want which is a huge upgrade so that all the controls are your personal settings, 
 and the announcer hes amazing. the things hes says are so much better than Madden and Michaels 
 form the current gen Madden NFL, this guy is a radio announcer for your team so he says stuff like 
 "We may be down but were not out of iy yet" and lots of other things like that and hes not as repetitive, 
 he says "Vick drops back" then "Superman drops back" and simple things like that which make it 
 a whole lot better. THIS GAME IS AMAZING AND A MUST HAVE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bandit_14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  This is the best game i have on the XBOX 360. It is so fun. There is one new features that sticks 
 out to me its the qb vision. It adds a new twist to the game. With this its easier to throw but, 
 then it is also easier to throw interceptions to. After you play this game for a little while you 
 will not even think about it you will just do it. The graphics are also way better in this. It 
 is it a big improvement from Madden 2005. The players have more details. They also have better 
 touchdown celebrations! This is a big step up form the others. This is the best NFL football game 
 around! I think it is a must buy for any system. If you have a XBOX360 it is definitely a must 
 buy for it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stover21
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 12:28 am PT
Review:  Yea, the graphics are tight, and the sound is good, but franchise mode totally sucks. Too many 
 things missing and too many glitches. I hope 360 will add the xbox version to it's list. They should 
 have ported the xbox version and polished this version for 07. The first game I bought for my 360 
 was Madden 06. Don't make the same mistake I did, give me $30, and I will poke you in the eye with 
 a sharp stick, you will feel better, trust me.
  I have been a hard core madden fan and have owned every madden game since 1992. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadynate82
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I have never seen a game so far, throw all the extras away too "concentrate" on improving graphics 
 like this before (2k sports did fine) . I will have to admit that the graphics and game play have 
 been tweaked dramatically and will look nice NEXT YEAR. If anyone has played the demo for this 
 which you can get free off LIVE I would suggest sticking to that. Just franchise mode is the only 
 thing you can access outside of just playing a quick game which leaves little Re-play value. The 
 menus look nice and I'm glad they have done that. Zero presentation except for the start of a game. 
 Injury visuals are needing to be explored a little further though there is potential. Button configuration 
 has changed and I think it will work for easier move mechanics. The player motions are a little 
 faster now so it adds to the realism. Commentary is from radio and is not for everyone. This is 
 a nice demo for Madden 2007...... what?.... It is not a demo? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davahsa
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 16, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I'm from Pittsburgh. We are a drinking town with a football problem and I am no exception. In Madden360 
 there is no create-a-player, no challenges for bad calls and Troy Palamolu has no hair. Now with 
 the exception of Tory's hair.... the 360 can handle those other features yet leaves them out. Not 
 cool. In my book this is not even a bare bones version. Any-hoo it sure looks and sounds good. 
 The annoying collision detection is not even very present on HD's so if you got one you might want 
 this but I say wait till 07. Mabey they'll even use that renderware stuff next year. That would 
 look sa-weet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTomlinson21
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I decided to go out and buy Madden 06'. I expected a great game and didn't let the bad reviews 
 stop me.
  Now I regret WASTING $60 ON THIS CRAP GAME!
  Anyone can tell that this game was rushed.
  It doesn't have SuperStar mode (like the other console 
 version) , when you zoom out it won't go back in, and the worst is you can't even challenge a play! 
 I mean, what the heck. Challenging a play is part of the game.
  It's just pathetic. I suggest not buying it, but i'll break the game down for you.
  
  Gameplay: 
 It's different then what you're use too but isn't all that bad. The motions are pretty sweet.
 
  
  Graphics: They are pretty damn good, besides the face of the players are pretty weird. They look 
 like Zombies. (as said on GameSpot) .
  
  Sound: The music is pretty much the same as the other console versions, with a couple of new songs. 
 The commentating is some random guy who is pretty bad. On normal settings you can hardly hear him. 
 I don't know where John and Al are.
  
  Overall this is a pretty bad, and I am VERY dissapointed with EA. They better make Madden 07' a 
 TON better, to make up for this crap of a game. I just hate that I wasted $60 on this game, when 
 I could buy a good quality game that I actually enjoy.
  
  I just hope I save some people money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topherstud
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  I think it is best to get this out in the open right away "2007 will be a great year for next generation 
 madden!" The current game however falls flat, mostly because it feels like a bargain bin attempt 
 at creating a Madden game. The graphics are nice, but they suffer from some serious glitches and 
 oversights, such as looking at the players on the sidelines and realizing that they are just the 
 purple blobs that haven't had the graphical player models laid over them. While it is cliche to 
 say it, this is a bare-bones Madden game. What always made the series interesting was the level 
 of depth and development that were offered to the player. Madden for the XBOX 360 takes most of 
 the depth out of the game and what is left is a poorly made shell of a game. No interesting modes, 
 a blandly presented multiplayer, and online play that doesn't come near the stability and stat-tracking 
 features in the current gen versions of the game. If EA had a shred of decency they would release 
 the emulator so 360 owners could play the XBOX version of the game, opposed to this sorry joke 
 of a product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBRM
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Not the full package.
  Madden 2006 for Xbox, PS2, and Gamecube was another decent/good game in the line of sports game 
 released by EA Sports. Unfortunately, for Xbox 360 Madden lacked many features found in the other 
 systems. The graphics do stand out as a next-gen Xbox 360 feature, but the lack of gameplay options 
 makes this game less of a fun experience. I guess the meaning I'm going for is "Trading looks for 
 fun/gameplay?" While Madden NFL 06 is a good-looking game it won't keep me playing for months or 
 weeks. Other features like challenging plays, mini-camp, superstar are not included. Now that gamers 
 have seen long series of sports games, I think the majority of gamers are looking for something 
 new (if possible) to inhance the sports gaming experience. Although, the passing system is much 
 improved -- but can be exploited by gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjakybob
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 15, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  Madden 06 was pretty good for the 360 it was just missing a few key factors like Challenge the 
 play or replay even create your own player like the xbox version had, but this game was still pretty 
 fun to play.
  
  Gameplay: It was preety fun to play, i played for awhile and i couldn't put my controller down. 
 The online was still pretty good it just took it some time finding some one to play with. But all 
 in all it was pretty fun it wasn't what i expected when people said this game sucked.
  
  Graphics: The graphics were top notch they look almost real and the move ment of the players looked 
 pretty good and i thought that it was well done this game really brings out the 360's graphics.
 
  
  Sound: It was just as good as the graphics but the only thing that i hated was they always repeated 
 them self to much they could have added a bit more comintary to madden 06, but the sound on the 
 field was pretty good even the fans sounded pretty good, but the reason why i gave it this score 
 was the repeditivity of the comintators.
  
  Value: For $60 its worth getting its not as bad as they said it was i had fun playing it but the 
 online could take awhile to find someone to play with you so i didnt play to much but it was still 
 pretty good Madden 06 is worth every pennie.
  
  I would have gave this game 9.9 but it was missing some key things that it should have had that 
 would have made this game perfect but it was still pretty fun to plat and the achivments were easy 
 as well i got half of them in one match. So if you are looking for a good sports game forthe 360 
 Madden 06 is the one ou should get its the best one out right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality4u
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 15, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  Madden 06 for the Xbox 360 provides players with the major step up in graphics that would be expected 
 from buying a next gen title, but comes short in really reinventing the wheel for the game. The 
 game play itself is not drastically different from previous versions of the Madden football line, 
 but it does leave out some of the features that the previous versions have introduced over the 
 years. Although there has been a very big increase in the graphical nature of the game, there is 
 really nothing that warrants the price jump of ten dollars between the current gen versions and 
 the next gen offering to the Xbox 360.
  
  Although there is an increase in the graphical nature of the game, mainly meaning the player models 
 and the stadiums there are always minor graphical bugs that will pop up here and there to bug you 
 to death. Mainly the most prominent graphical bug that really bugs you is when the player that 
 you are running the ball with gets caught up on one of the linemen. This can be extremely frustrating 
 if you see this enormous hole out in front of you and would get at least 10 yards, but you get 
 stuck up on one of your linemen and by the time that you are able to get un stuck you will have 
 gone backwards a little bit and the defense will have responded. Instead of getting that 10 or 
 so yards you may actually lose some yards because of this little graphical flaw that the Madden 
 franchise has had and still does not seem to be able to get rid of, but such is life.
  
  Another big part of the graphical issue is probably the inconsistency with the player models. You 
 will get some good player models that look exactly like the players in real life such as Tom Brady 
 and Donovan McNabb. In other times you will get players such as some of the kickers who look exactly 
 like a quarterback in terms of size. Now there may be 1 or 2 out there, but there is definitely 
 a problem when all of them look like quarterbacks especially when you know that a good majority 
 of them are actually the size of twigs.
  
  With the increase in the graphical value of the game, the game has had a lot of the features that 
 has been introduced over the years cut out in order to get the game out at launch time. The franchise 
 mode has been essentially gutted from all of the other extra things that Madden players have grown 
 accustomed to over the years. Things such as the create a player and create a team have also been 
 cut out in order to spend more time and resources on the graphics. This cutting out of features, 
 especially in the franchise mode, may be a welcome change to those casual gamers who want to be 
 able to do the franchise mode without the hassle of all of the other little off season and in season 
 things that occur that many people do like. Essentially the Xbox 360 version is a version of Madden 
 06 game that is for those who value the graphical importance of the game over the small detail 
 oriented features that the current gen versions offer.
  
  The game play of the game stays at the core of the Madden series and does not stray away from the 
 game. Now considering football has a set of rules that has not changed drastically, if at all, 
 over the years. Madden has introduced little features over the years that has helped give the franchise 
 a little bit of push for the game. Features such as the hit stick that was introduced last year 
 helped to introduce the ability to cause a fumble more often than when tackling the regular way. 
 This year there was the introduction of the truck stick that helped the offense player to plow 
 through a defensive player in a one on one situation. Some features such as the hot route is nice 
 really nicer for the defensive players more than it is for the offensive players, because it highlights 
 which person the player is intending to pass the ball too. This is especially so when you are playing 
 against the computer, because the quarterback almost always uses the hot route and passes to the 
 player that is in the hot route. Of course this feature can always be used to try and trick the 
 defense to pick a player that will not have the ball thrown too. The constant introduction of new 
 features with each new year provides new strategies and tricks to be created constantly.
  
  The AI of the game is refreshingly smart. If you are constantly running the same play over and 
 over, the computer will catch on and it will become increasingly hard to complete the pass or run 
 properly. The AI is very smart and sometimes you will swear that they new exactly what you where 
 going to do, and that can be especially frustrating if you are on a role and then all of a sudden 
 the computer starts to catch on and then stops you cold. This makes the game a little more realistic 
 because it would represent the fact that defensive coordinators always do research on to the opponents 
 offense and will sometimes find patterns in order to exploit during a real game.
  
  The sound of the game is actually quite refreshing because the sounds of the grunts and all of 
 the linemen come in nice and clear and there are no little extra sounds that try to take you away 
 from the atmosphere of the game. One thing that is evident that is missing is the commentary from 
 Madden that is replaced by some no name commentator. This may be a small thing that Madden players 
 will miss because it is named after Madden for a reason, but for most people, we will find it refreshing 
 because of the constant banter that Madden usually provides that gets annoying after a few minutes. 
 The only time that you will really hear Maddens voice is when you choose the Ask Madden feature 
 when choosing a play. Madden will say a little thing, but it is better to hear a short sentence 
 than to hear him constantly during the commentary of the game.
  
  It is to be debated what the value of the game is, especially at the 60 dollar price tag. It is 
 really a simple break down of what kind of person you are. If you are a person who does not want 
 to have to deal with or even see the little micro managing features that are in the current gen 
 versions of the game then this is definitely the version of the Madden 06 that you will want to 
 get and you will get a good value out of it. If you are a person who likes all the micro managing 
 or you have not yet gotten an Xbox 360 then you will most assuredly want to save that 10 dollars 
 and get the current gen version of the game.
  
  Despite the small amount of graphical flaws that the Madden series has still not gotten and the 
 lack of the micro managing features that the current gen versions have Madden 06 for the Xbox 360 
 a solid pick for the Xbox 360. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaChaorules
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 14, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  madden for the 360 is no different than the ones for the other ones. There are less features which 
 gets rid of mini camp and just about everything except play now online and franchise which really 
 makes the game boring. Sometimes u may drop out of online games also. No challenge option is added 
 in this game which makes it feel bland and weak. the commentary is different which may be a good 
 thing or bad depending if you like john madden and al michaels. the graphics in here are good just 
 like a next gen game should be but there are just oo many features taken out for this game to be 
 enjoyed that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beelzebub_CA
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 14, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  So... you wanted to play some football on your shiny, new XBOX 360, eh?
  
  You scanned the shelves at the local Best Buy to sift through the plethora of options and found... 
 Madden 06. Not because your shopping for games on a new platform -- because EA has exclusive rights 
 for use of official NFL teams and players and now produces the ONLY NFL-based football game on 
 the market.
  
  And the decline in this once venerable video football franchise has already begun.
  
  Allow 
 me to get the one improvement, the sole feather in EA's cap out of the way -- this game is pretty. 
 The graphics are a definite step forward, and you can expect to enjoy sitting in front your 50" 
 HDTV in awe of the player models.
  
  But if you're a veteran of the Madden franchise, or if you played the exceptional ESPN NFL 2K5, 
 you'll be wondering where the features are... 
  
  Here's a small subset of some familiar features once taken for granted that you're bound to miss:
 
  
  1) no custom playbooks -- you'll be sifting through the entire default playbook with every huddle
 
  2) no custom players -- don't expect to be creating "Me the Super Quarterback" and drafting yourself
 
  3) no advanced offseason features -- little things like previewing the pool of players for the 
 upcoming draft while deciding who to re-sign will be a real loss for you franchise mode junkies
 
  
  The list goes on...
  
  The game also suffers from the occasional counterintuitive control design, nearly unnavigable menus 
 (moving between options requires holding a trigger button and navigating with both the right and 
 left analog sticks??!?!?!?) , and poor documentation. The painful and limited menu music (sorry 
 for any fans out there) only adds to the aggravation, and it has lamentably deficient announcer 
 commentary too. I actually miss the old Madden commentary, but anything with some variety would 
 be a massive improvement.
  
  Net result -- Madden 06 is a very beautiful game, but it is as barebones as it gets. Think Madden 
 97 for comparison... what we gained in graphics we lost in functionality. But if you're hankering 
 for some football on the 360 this'll be the only game franchise you're playing for a very, very, 
 very long time... so, learn to love it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xJellyBirdx
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  This is, in my opinion, a terrible representation of what is to come for the Madden series for 
 the 360. The franchise mode does not allow the more simple things that Madden has had in the past 
 5 years such as a fantasy draft. There is no consessoins in owner mode as long with stadium upgrades, 
 city moving or training camp.
  
  The online play does not even allow you to know the rank of your opponent as most of the time you 
 are confused to the ability of your opponent.
  
  Gameplay: Atrocious. The gameplay and online play are both horrendous for the Madden series. The 
 gameplay does not allow good players to defend against good offenses as it is a offensive game. 
 It seems as though the long bombs and outs work everytime and there is really no defenses to stop 
 them.
  
  Graphics: Best of the best. The graphics are beyond stunning as they are the best in any game I 
 have seen so far. When looking in the backfield before I hike the ball, I find my brain refusing 
 to accept the fact that this is a videogame and confusing it for reality.
  
  Sound: Fair. Nothing special. Here many of the same sounds as other Madden games (audibles, crowd, 
 John and Al...) .
  
  Value: Football lover's game only. Not a good game to pick up and start playing if you have never 
 touched a football game in your life. Dont expect to see this for Madden 2007.
  
  Recommendation: Even if you are a Madden fan, resist the urge to buy this one. Its just not the 
 same Madden game of years past. Do yourseld a favor and wait until next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ijterrell
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  To me this is a good game to start with on the Xbox 360. I'm both a Madden fan and NFL fan so this 
 review maybe bias. I'm really looking forward to Madden 07. However this game do have some glitches 
 it is not perfect. Mainly the play calling. I'm sure the mini camp will be back for Madden 07. 
 The graphics is top of the line. To me the game play is not bad but not too good. Bottom line this 
 game is for true Madden fans and it may turn other sports fan into Madden fans. Got some work to 
 be done for sure but still good. To me with Madden you'll always get your money worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ja21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This game may only have franchise mode and online play but the graphics are unbelievable. This 
 is really all I need for now until madden 07. It has everything you need and the gameplay is great 
 you really start to get in the game and it starts to get addicting. When I first played this game 
 I thought I was watching the Pats on an HD TV. To make this game look great you will need an HD 
 TV but still looks good without it. You will never want to play another football game ever again 
 once you get your hands on this. It is definatley a must buy game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbioonthebloc
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  This is what i think
  
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay for this game was ok cause they took out be a superstar, create a player, 
 and the create a team.
  
  Graphics: The grapics for the game was AMAZING 3d crowd i mean even the jersey look just like it 
 was sticked and the fae for the players were teffic.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack for this game was very good and not to mession the commentary was awsome.
 
  
  Vaule: The vaule for this game was 60.00$ but i mean if u have live it is worth it bcuz theres not 
 enough game modes to just play normal
  
  Rent or buy: Rent first then buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 11, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  Madden on the 360 makes me wanna go play NFL 2K5 on my old Xbox. Really. It's rather slow, unresponsive, 
 and the best thing about the game, the graphics, are always zoomed out too far to see.
  
  So you want Madden... I say rent or borrow first. It's kinda love or hate and I'm leaning towards 
 that hate one. 
  
  The game itself relies WAY too heavily on animation. Like once it triggered an animation of my 
 linebacker getting shook right before a safety. Or my guy being triggered to dance out of bounds 
 instead of running. Fanchise mode still isn't that great. The thing I love about 2K sports games 
 are the generated rookie faces (you'll know if you played one) . Even if that guy is Lance Briggs 
 with some other skin tone, you get a feel for the rool instead of some faceless thing.
  
  The graphics are pretty, but you are always too far to see them. I fou go to to coach's cam, you 
 can't go back to the LOS view. Anyway, player models are great, faces too, and get mud on their 
 helmets and uniforms. Also, the reflections on helmets rock. It's fun to do instant replay and 
 stare. Except hit detection is horrible and they animate stiffly. 
  
  Sound is bleh. The new announcers (while 100% better than know it all Madden) are weird. Instead 
 of sounding like a TV broadcast, they sound like a radio. It makes my ears hurt. And the "biased 
 hometown radio announcers" always root for your team.
  
  I dunno. Hardcore Maddeners will probably love it, but you may want to rent it or borrow it from 
 that kid with a 360 down the street first.
  
  Oh yeah, Madden 07. I'd probably wait for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtifulguitar
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 10, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  As I mentioned in the title, I usually don't play sports games. The last Madden I even touched 
 was Madden 03 for Xbox, and it was for about 15 minutes at the most. The only football game I ever 
 played "religiuosly" was NCAA Gamebreaker 98 for PSOne, and that was because it was really fun 
 playing with my brother, you know, cracking jokes, punching each other when something didn't go 
 our way, the goods. So it's not like I had high hopes for this game. As far as gameplay goes, I 
 can see the game is lacking in some features, like being able to challenge a play. However, overall, 
 all the main key aspects of football are there. There are tons of plays to choose from, all the 
 teams, a great franchise mode setup, and enough variety of gameplay to keep someone hardcore busy.
 
  
  Graphics:
  This (and I'm not a graphics whore normally) was actually the reason I wanted to play the game. 
 Just to see how real sports games could look. And while the graphics are amazing, there is still 
 just something there that isn't right. Maybe it's the fact that the screens we saw of the game 
 before release isn't the same as what it looks like now, but I don't know. Either way, the weather 
 affects, stadiums, crowd, players, everything looks top-notch and the best I have ever seen. Man, 
 even the jerseys are wrinkled!
  
  Sound:
  The staidum sounds are really good. Sounds real. So does the voices of the football players and 
 the crunch effects of the tackles. Very nice sound department overall.
  
  Replay:
  It is football, and it is the same thing over and over again. Bleh. But hey, for those that LOVE 
 football, I'm sure you'll keep coming back to it. As for me, about 4 hours of the game was enough 
 to keep me satisfied for a while.
  
  Overall:
  A very decent and well put-together game I thought. And, as I said, I don't normally play sports 
 games, so this game treated me nice. My guess is hardcore players won't like it as much as I would 
 because of the missing features, but since I don't normally play, those missing features showed 
 me no lacking. Madden 06 is a good game. Fun rental anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happierthanU
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Madden 06 for the 360 is "BROKEN". Stripped of Create a player, create a team, Superstar, custom 
 soundtracks, and the mini games. Just like my review deck said, saved by the gameplay. The gameplay 
 is fantastic!!!
  The play-calling is better. You can ask either Madden or Coach. Depending on the coach's ability, 
 he will call better or worse calls. The menus are corny. And should not have been changed. The 
 controls really upset me. That's when I got extremely mad at EA. There's no reason why they should 
 of changed the controls! They changed them from 05 to 06 on xbox, but completely changed them in 
 this low game. If they would've improvised and fit more game modes or create a team, i would give 
 this a 9.4/10. So would almost anyone else who is an actual NFL fan.
  Graphics- The only thing that kept 06 alive other than the gameplay. Player models, player pictures, 
 the crowd, and other stadium features. Some players look exactly like their real models. But otherwise, 
 they look like John Doe to me. Even though some players don't look like their real selves, the 
 graphics are still mind blowing. Gameplay is a major player, when you play a game you feel like 
 you're controlling your favorite team and guiding them to a victory or a sad loss. Get blown out, 
 lose in overtime, and vice versa. 
  Madden still impressed me without it's biggest features that guided them in front of the other 
 competitors.
  Final- 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gods_Crusader
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 10, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  Rsum:
  -Graphics: are amazing! The croud is finaly 3d!
  -Sound: is the best out of all the lauch games. The croud anouncer, the players all perfectly done.
 
  -Online: The online is very good but you come across many people who play this game a bit too much.
 
  -Single player: One word Excellent
  
  Graphics: The have answered my prayers, the crowd is 3d!!! The players all look awsome, they also 
 get dirty if they get tackled too often wich is cool, the stadiums look like they would in real 
 life.
  
  Sound: One of the best parts to this game is the sound, the anouncer, the players and the 3D fans. 
 All these conbined makes you feel like you bought the best seats in the stadium.
  
  Gameplay: One of the things i liked about the games was the control you have, you have a omniscient 
 view of your team, you control everything. The only downside is that there is no chalenges. Wich 
 could get frustrating after reviwing some replays.
  
  This game is the best sports game out, it is UNBELIVABLE. Can't wait for 07. Highly recomend this 
 game to any sport fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiketyrrell
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 10, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  Mini games arent the bulk of any game but can be appreciated. Especially when you consider that 
 there is no tutorial for the 360 version and mini games or at least practice mode would have been 
 nice. Gameplay is good but I expected more especially for the price! Players look the best ever. 
 New animations and everything look great. But one huge thing is you cant challenge a play, bummer. 
 I am glad I bought the game but I am a huge madden/football fan. If you are not, then maybe get 
 this game used or skip it until next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 9, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I don't like Madden football games because I thought the 2K Games/ESPN series played better but 
 I don't think the series is complete crap. But this version of the Madden NFL 06 is just crap.
 
  
  First off, the game is full of glitches. In slow motion, you can planly see the ball slides in 
 the hands. My wide recievers are seen jumping out of bounce and still getting the down. Don't buy 
 this garbage. I traded my original Xbox for this and I'm mad now.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Pros:
  Great graphics 
 and sounds (although glitchy) ; Pretty fun to play with friends.
  
  Cons:
  Glitches galore; There's no features and no real thing besides the game; You can't even watch CPU 
 vs CPU like in the old games; Graphics lag when the plays are loading; everything just sucks. Plus, 
 Madden is old.
  
  Overall:
  Get the original Xbox version. Fancy graphics fade fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oshiro_d
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Breathtaking... The visuals are amazing I dont know how I was able to play on a current-gen system (xbox) . 
 You will here many **** and moan about how that gameplay sucks, that is because that haven't given 
 06 for the 360 a fighting chance. The controls are differant and you can REALLY tell the differance 
 between a McNabb and a Vick in many ways not just speed. Said Vick is a mad man he is better that 
 any HB in the game but if your going to throw with Vick you have to pick up the Safteys of the 
 snap in 1/2 a second and a blitz in a 1/4 of a second, man or zone in a 1/4 of a second and what 
 type of play i. e. cover 2, cover 3, 2 man under, zone blitz etc... if you can do this he's your 
 man if not your screwed. This new madden is all about realism. All players feel differant WR for 
 another example you'll finnally be able to tell a speed reciever from a possession (route runner 
 or west coast type of reciever) and size has alot to do with it. You could run a west coast out 
 of shotgun 4wr w/seahawks Joe Jurvcious is the Y-rescever (closest to the Left tackle) and hit him 
 once you get the snap with out reading coverage. Witch is preatty real an 7-9 yeard pick up depending 
 on witch way he falls. Or put in DJ Hacket the seahawks #5 reciever one of my favouritie players. 
 His rationg is like a 72, 92 speed, if you user catch with him its too easy. DJ works his rear 
 off but gets no respect from Mike Holmgrem. I play on all madden but thats me. 5.1 surround sound. 
 51" HDTV
  
  Overall its a great game it is Next-Gen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nameswiley
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 9, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  No superstar mode, no create a player... not to mention I was playing a franchise, got all the 
 way to week 14 and couldnt play any further because the Jets couldnt sign a LT. This stuff shouldnt 
 happen! Graphics are good but dont mean a thing if the game dosnt work.
  
  There needs to be more focus on the game then the graphics. Horrible!! Not to mention you cant 
 watch the games, a team has to be selected, you cant play on the same team with someone and its 
 only 2 player!
  
  Maybe next year they should release a game with less graphics so they can spend more time on the 
 game itself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Youngdino
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 9, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  The madden franchise has always set the standard for football games and they continued tradition 
 with this version of the game. Madden 06 is great to look at and fun to play but it is missing 
 a lot of key elements that made the game so much better than the competition, but lets not forget 
 this is the first version of Madden for the 360 you know it can only get better. If they gave you 
 every feature all at once what would you have to look forward to in the future. So before you slam 
 the game think to yourself are your expectations even realistic, because alot of you have unrealistic 
 expectations you wanted the game to look better and they did that now give the people at EA a little 
 time and they will perfect the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidermanc2k
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 8, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  Another year, another Madden. Depending on who you are, you're either really excited or bored to 
 tears. Well, for those that actually like they're annual football, EA has ushered in the latest 
 in the series with Madden NFL 06, but this time for Microsofts new 360 console. Love it or hate 
 it, next gen football starts here. However, the transition has been a little underwhelming to say 
 the least. 
  
  Graphics: So much for target videos. Although these images aren't what we were expecting, they 
 still look good compared to the last gen games. Player models sport a lot more detail to the point 
 of being very close to resembling actual players. Most of the Star players you'll notice right 
 off, while some others will look a bit iffy at times. But the stars of the show are the crowds 
 and stadiums. And lets not forget about those ultra shiny helmets. The good news is, we can expect 
 to see a whole lot more towards that target video in the coming years.
  
  Sound: So you mean to tell me that "Mr. stating the obvious thing that I just saw" John Madden 
 is not doing commentary? Although he can be annoying at times, the game feels sort of odd without 
 him and Al doing their thing. The radio guy does add a nice touch to things though, and is a nice 
 alternative. However, it would have been nice to have the choice to choose between the new and 
 the old. All the other things like player chatter, music, and such is good but can seem very distant 
 at times. All in all, the sound package is descent.
  
  Control: If you've been playing a lot of the PS2 or XBox 1 Madden, then prepare to feel a little 
 disoriented at first. However, if you give it some time, you'll learn pretty quickly and it really 
 won't be too much different from what you're used to. Also, if you want, you can change the controls 
 around to fit your tastes as well. 
  
  Gameplay: Here's where Madden gets hit the hardest. Because this game was built from the ground 
 up, a lot of features that we know and love (or hate) were left out. What you can expect are a 
 normal Franchise mode and online mode to fool around with. What won't be here this time around 
 are the Mini Camp games, Fantasy Draft, Owners mode, EA sports radio, and Superstar mode. If there's 
 anything else I forgot, that's not in this game either. And don't expect to challenge that out 
 of bounds call, because challenges are not here either. All of the defensive options that you had 
 on the field are mostly scrap as well. To make a long story short, this is a rushed game that's 
 light on features. You'll find fun out of it if you're a fan, but you'll definitely be dissapointed 
 if you wanted an equal game to the other versions on the feature end. Well, there's always next 
 year, right?
  
  Challenge: About what you'd expect from a Madden Football. I found my biggest challenge was trying 
 to simulate through my season with the Philadelphia Eagles with the updated roster. For some reason, 
 a Jets vs. somebody game would never simulate and leave me stuck having to start over. But, I guess 
 a complaint for another time.
  
  Final Words: This is Madden, take or leave it. Although it would have been better to just port 
 the XBox Madden 06 and add better graphics (like NBA 2k6) in this case, EA chose to take what little 
 time they had to create an all new Madden..... that's not really all that new. But, despite the 
 shortcomings, it still plays a good game of football. However, with what's not included and next 
 gen price hikes, its hard to tell anyone to go out and buy this game. But if you really need next 
 gen NFL football fun, then this is your best bet until the more superior Madden 07 comes out next 
 Fall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billymbadass
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 7, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Folks, if you like pretty pictures I suggest you go to a museum and spend your time looking at 
 real works of art. Lets face it game graphics aren't art. This game is all pretty graphics *and 
 really not THAT PRETTY* (see DOA 4 if you want beauty) and the worst playability of any football 
 game since techmo bowl. I appreciate EA (aka ruler of the world, the dark empire, or whatever other 
 galaxy ruling entity you would like to call them) trying to come up with a new scheme to map the 
 controls to but it is total garbage.
  I bought this game like many of you out there thinking that this would be on par with the current 
 Madden 06 for the "last gen" consoles. NOT AT ALL.
  My advice.. 
  Keep Madden for XBOX or PS2 and send a clear message to EA by not buying this game. If you have 
 made the mistake, as I have please let EA know how you are feeling about this piece of garbage 
 and send it back to EA at the address below with a note enclosed. This is trash, you can have it 
 back.
  
  Electronic Arts-Tiburon
  ATT: Madden 2006 Team
  1950 Summit Park Drive
  Orlando, FL 32810
  
  We don't want your lousy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 25, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  When I turned this game on with my brand new S-Video cable, it is just amazing. The graphics are 
 so incredibly realistic and all of the body movements are perfect. It's so great and customizable, 
 you can even set up your own games so that it's 15 below and ice on the ground. It really doesn't 
 affect gameplay, but it's pretty cool to see. During actual gameplay you can see every little minute 
 detail, such as the cross stitching, and cleat marks in the field. With the all new shader engine 
 that advances the shadow position every play now and not just after a quarter or half. I love the 
 game, it's really great online and for multi player. That is the main reason I bought the game, 
 because most of my friends are all football fanatics like me. So if your a football fan this is 
 a must own title. Oh, and by the way the patriots won XL lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EscoDaddy14
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 9, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  AFter playing Madden 06 for the PC and PS2, I thought ," Wow a major improvement to the series 
 should definitely come with the 360 version." Boy howdy, DON'T EVER THINK THIS. Hands down the 
 game is garbage. I think the title explains it all, made by Madden, in 6 minutes. It doesnt even 
 feel like EA tried.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for the 1st stab at next-gen, but they focus way too much on the QB 
 faces, which frankly doesnt get me amped for the next play. THe men look a tad unproportioned , 
 and they dont seem to have a realistic body mould like that of Fight Night Rd.3
  
  The commentary is so bland, it makes you cry for good ol' Madden.
  
  One major problem is the 
 tackling. It never feels like a ferocious blast of power, but more of a marshmallow lay down. Just 
 not fun. They also stripped the game with some key features like, I dont know... Challenging!!! 
 This is a important game phase of the NFL, and the removed it. 
  
  All I can say is, if you owna 360, and desire Football, thank the football gods, ESPN 2k5 is backwards 
 compatible, because you'll need it until Madden 07 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stephen5148
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 6, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I've seen alot of people putting this game down yes theres less then what the others offer unless 
 you have the PSP version.
  anyway the on the field action is what matters the most and it is amazing.
  the new play calling 
 system in the game is great and makes it easier to shift packages and such.
  and the graphics are Amazing in this game one of the best looking games i've ever seen.
  and 
 the game plays well no hiccups at all from what i've seen.
  although theres afew little glitches here and there that will probelly be fixed soon enough but 
 they are not bad enough to ruin the game.
  if you like football rent the game.
  if you Love football like I do buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbolz
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 6, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  The best way to describe this game is a quick fix. It's good in the same manner that warm soda 
 is good to someone who just crossed the Sahara . It's good because you are thirsty, but when its 
 all said and done you are drinking disgusting warm soda. The game for me was very enjoyable for 
 the first few days because I was eagerly anticipating the new graphics and truly love the madden 
 series as well as the NFL as a whole. However quickly that dissipates and you come to realize your 
 left with very little in the way of features and functions you come to know and love in the series. 
 How you can create any NFL game completely missing the challenge rule is beyond me. Not to mention 
 there is no create a player, which is immensely popular, is just plain missing. Clearly EA was 
 rushing this title to get it out for launch, and hopefully this will be corrected with the next 
 installment. If you are looking to have some fun and just go through a season however, this game 
 is good enough for the NFL enthusiast to get a fix until 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpg
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 5, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Its great, no doubt about it. Yes, it worth paying again. I have been playing football and madden 
 since they began on video game consoles. Now, I have read the reviews from many, many web sites 
 and of course the game magazines. The game play is very, very much improved and just a tremendous 
 graphical upgrade. Sure the game is missing the challenge but I rarely used it anyhow. Some things 
 have been simplified but its good for a new start. All the extra modes before never appealed to 
 me. I would like to say that I am sure ea will release a completed version in time for next season 
 with all the bells and whistles that others down rated the game for. How can one say its a highly 
 playable game and give it a 7.4 All I have been reading for years from the expert in defense of 
 the ps2 was gameplay is what counts, not graphics!!! Well folks, I am here to say Madden 360 has 
 both of these. Yes, go and buy madden 360!!!
  
  MPG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtk2k
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 4, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge madden fan and I was very excited to get my hands on one for XBOX 360. BUT WHAT A LETDOWN! 
 First off, great graphics and the new camera angle is much better then the Ps2 one. Thats it, 
 thats all I can think of for positives. Now the negatives! No fantasy draft, No superstar mode, 
 and franchise is nowhere near as fun as the Ps2 version. Madden 06 for XBOX 360 should only be 
 bought for its online play, and its games. If you're looking for a game that goes in depth with 
 a lot of possibilities of things to do, then look elsewhere. What a disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXboxgamer73
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 3, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 06 has got to be the worst launch title for the Xbox 360. With masterful football games 
 such as ESPN NFL 2K5 in our past, theere is no excuse for this disaster of a sports game.
  
  Gameplay: It's the same as always.. oh wait, except everything is missing. It's basically just 
 franchise and quick game. If the lack of content wasn't bad enough, the graphics aren't even as 
 superior as they were supposed to be. Although it looks better compared to past Madden titles, 
 it still has an odd and unwelcoming look to it, and many of the player animations seem glitchy 
 and skippy. Madden 06 rarely shows replays, the commentary is lame, and there is no halftime shows 
 or anything. Even after beating the SuperBowl, I was hoping for maybe a few backflips from a cheerleader 
 or a tad of confetti in the air, but all i got was an "end game" screen telling me my score. Thanks 
 EA, I love how winning the ultimate game of a football season is no longer exciting.
  
  Graphics: As previously mentioned, some stuff looks really good, but other stuff just looks terrible. 
 The two combined results in something unimpressive at best, and youll see everything you need by 
 the time you complete the first half of a game.
  
  Sound: A boring commentary fused with typical and uninspired football grunts make this a game you 
 play with the headphones cranked up. The music however, sports an excellent variety, which I was 
 very impressed with. But good music doesnt make up for a terrible game.
  
  Value: It's like all Maddens of the past just not as good. For $60, Madden 06 is the biggest ripoff 
 launch title out there. I never knew taking away content meant it was time to boost the price. 
 Total rip, don't waste your hard earned dough.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: I tilt towards a "no buy". If you need to play it, rent it, but youll probably 
 bring it back before the due date arrives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikewrestler5
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 3, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  On Xbox 360 Madden 06 delivers good graphics, gameplay, etc...
  
  The Good: Graphics, Motion Capturing, Gameplay.
  
  The Bad: Lack of features, modes taken out.
 
  
  First of all this is next gen so, the graphics are fantastic and really detailed. But with a $60 
 price on this game its really expensive.
  
  Graphics: Madden delivers next gen graphics detailed, they finally look like football players on 
 the field, Its that good.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is a little easier in Madden 06, with specified plays you can pick from 
 and really easy to figure out.
  
  Game Modes: Madden 06 features Franchise, Exhibition, Xbox Live thats not good considering the 
 price and the lack of features.
  
  Features not in the game: Training Camp, Challenge Play, Practice, Situation, Create a team, create 
 a player, and create a fan. 
  
  There may be more but I couldnt remember them all.
  
  Control: The control for Madden 06 have been touched and been improved.
  
  With all that said 
 Madden 06 for the Xbox 360 is a good game and you should check it out but, with the $60 price tag 
 dont buy it rent it or borrow it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gilthar
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 3, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  While I have to admit that the graphics in Madden '06 for the XBOX 360 are very pretty to look 
 at, that's about the only good thing I can say about this game. I've played both the 360 version 
 and the original XBOX version and the latter is by far the better of the two. There are so many 
 features missing in the 360 version that the XBOX, PS2, etc. versions have that I want to cry. 
 If the 360 version of Madden had everything that the other consoles have then I'd probably have 
 given the game something closer to a 9.0, but as the game is now I feel that I was being generous 
 with the 6.3. 
  
  The game feels more like an early demo release than a finished product, and having to pay sixty 
 dollars for it is rather insulting. It seems to me that the game was rushed in order to make it 
 to stores before the Football season ended. My advice is to buy the XBOX version or wait for Madden 
 '07 on the 360. I imagine that Madden '07 will be a bit better put together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aknielson
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Madden for regular xbox is much more fun. sure this one has great graphics but they get old quick. 
 There is one animation of (insert any defensive player here) holding his finger in front of his 
 face and looking side to side. First time is interesting, nine millionth time, stupid.
  
  Save your money, maybe next madden they will put in the features that made them what they are today.
 
  
  =======================
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jnappi319
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 31, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  i am disappointed in how they rushed this game for the 360. no mini camp. scouting etc. no challenging???? 
 it doesnt even feel like football. i am a madden hardcore player and its hard to spend 60 dollars 
 on this game. i rented it but 60 bucks for a half a** effort. all i have to say is. they better 
 do it right for '07 when it comes out in august!
  
  positives: graphics are really nice. gameplay is realistic. a major step up from the old version. 
 no annoying al michaels or madden. 
  
  negs: mentioned above. injuries dont show as much graphic as was teased last summer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richiedbond
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 6, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  So after having this game for about 3 months my rating on it continues to fall. Besides the passing 
 not being very good they took out way to much. But first I want to start with the good; the graphics 
 on it are great the AI on it is really good and likeness for each person (not just looks but also 
 how any certain person hold the ball) is really amazing. Now for the bad; there is no mini camp 
 (which I loved) , the trading block on this version shows only the 3 top deals (what the AI thinks 
 is the top deals) , the passing sucks and makes no sense and there is really no depth to the game. 
 What you see is really what you get, no email or radio or newspaper, nothing. So overall I think 
 this version of Madden is in my bottom 3 and I have owned every Madden that has ever existed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drjdh
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 30, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  This is a game I'd expect from a Low Level Game Company in 1995 on the original Playstation. I 
 still can not believe how PATHETIC this game is... EVERYTHING about the game is WORTHLESS (graphics, 
 animations, gameplay, sound.... EVERYTHING!) . I love the NCAA Football series that EA produces, 
 I PRAY they do not use this LACK of technology in the upcoming NCAA version for the 360. RENT this 
 game IF YOU MUST, but even then it is NOT even worth the $3 rental fee. This is the worst game 
 I've EVER played (let alone a game on the 360) . Nice job EA - slap the Madden NAME on the box, 
 spend 10 minutes constructing a pathetic football game, and sell it for $60! WoW... what a rip off...... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PRliger04
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 29, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Just think about it... even the Ref looks real. It's this simple; my girlfriend thought it was real. 
 How could you over look a game that has your girlfriend fooled. From the second I set it up to 
 my 60 inche big screen HDTV I fell in love. Being a Cowboys fan I started right off in franchise 
 mode and started running wild. You get improved graphics with the QB eye and new ways to leave 
 the defense in the dust all in this one game. There is one problem with Madden 2006, it doesn't 
 leave too much room for improvement. I almost feel bad for 2007 I can't think of what it could 
 offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zbox360
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  Sure this game is visually stunning, amazing falls short to describe how good this game looks, 
 but what happened to superstar mode, i really liked the player creation, and the way u follow your 
 player throughout his footballs career. And no create a team mode, i am sure that anyone who played 
 this for xbox or ps2 had created a team. So it is a visually amazing game, u can don't even need 
 names on the back of the jerseys to tell who is who, but other than that, the game is not so much 
 user friendly. One thing that i liked about this game more than the other games is the user friendlyness 
 of the franchise game. Where u can pick your team, u are not just thrown on a team w/o any control 
 over what teamu play for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e-pro
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 27, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  although it is still madden, wait..... is it? what happened? i am a bit confused. the graphics are 
 stellar, but where are the features? man, its like they gutted this game like a fish!!! no play 
 challenges?... what the f#$%!!! i guess i will keep playing it though, even though the franchise 
 mode has been reverted to the sega genesis dayz. what a bummer, maybe next time EA should remember 
 what keeps us buying there games: in depth features and not just hot graphics.
  
  but, however,-with all that said, lets talk about the good stuff. the gameplay itself is great. 
 player moves are more realistic, and the atmosphere of the stadiums is engulfing. it is easily 
 the best madden when it comes to feeling like a real nfl game. my only real complaint is the way 
 the changed the hot route feature. it is a bit awkward, especially during 2 player battles. 
  
  so more or less this game is still a great time. although you may get bored with the lack of 
 depth in franchise mode (not to mention no fantasy draft! ouch!!!) and no play challenges, my bet 
 is you will find a way to love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeh1995
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 28, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I find it remarkable that as the technology gets better, the games in this series get worse. It 
 is not that this game is bad, the graphics are great, the depth of play is very good, and I like 
 the improved layout of the controller too. But I feel that since the release of Madden 2003 that 
 the game hasn't had for lack of a better word, a soul. 
  Maybe this is because I have played every year of this series since Genesis days, or maybe it is 
 because I am getting older. For 10 years I could play the game for weeks on end. I would spend 
 my whole day off playing it, now I buy it on a Saturday afternoon and will trade it in on Sunday.
 
  Topping the list of low-lights was the fact that the game takes great pleasure in zooming in on 
 the Quarterback face as he comes up to the snap, the problem is that unless you are a big time 
 QB you get stuck with a generic face that is borderline spooky. 
  Secondly, if you can manage the Salary Cap in this game in Franchise mode, I can think of about 
 25 NFL teams that should hire you as their GM. 
  And finally, there is a totally absence of John Madden doing any play calling or making his old 
 "Boom, he's on his back", statements. I know that they can get annoying sometimes, but come on 
 that what Madden Football is all about. Instead they have some guy doing what sounds like an old 
 radio broadcast. It's not bad, just not Madden football.
  Overall, if you are new to video games or have a desire to play a football game go ahead and buy 
 this. If not, pass this one up and hope that next year they try a Hail Mary instead of "three yards 
 and a cloud of dust."
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslade12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 27, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing for hdtv and lcd users i mean its not as great with the s-video cable but 
 the detail and... well it's just **** awsome the stadiums are awsome i mean i have miami dolphins 
 season tickets and the stadium is exactly the same to almost every blade of grass from every seat 
 to every scoreboard and ad. so if you dont have hdtv or an lcd monitor just rent the game. but 
 if your a real madden fan go right ahead but if your not sure, your not a madden lover just get 
 kameo or one of those other gay games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuntmonk
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 26, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the Madden Seris and recentlly got my xbox 360. I was talking to my other xbox 
 360 owning friends and we got on the topic of madden 06 360 and they said it was horrible, so i 
 decided to try it out. Now all i can say is WHAT HAPPENED? they ruined the game. They took away 
 fantasy draft, superstar, and challange play. The game is now only 1-2 players instead of 1-4, 
 and the gameplay is HORRIBLE! its just plain not fun. You can't even play with your friends with 
 out them knowing what play you are going to select. This is game is a waste of money and i hope 
 they make the old madden 06 able to be played on the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vagabond_gamer
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  To say that this is a bad game would to be lying, but to say that they completley F%&*$# up an 
 amazing franchise would be just Peachy keen. I mean i could'nt believe it when i popped this in. 
 Don't let the menus and flashy graphics fool ya, this is dissapointing. It's like when you were 
 10 and for your birthday yoiu expect that one gift that all your friends have only to open it up 
 and  Yep this game is those socks, it just plain sucks. 
 I tried to give it a chance but te play calling menus suck, the play by play commentary sucks, 
 the hit detection..... you guest it, SUCKS!!! Now i love graphics and making things look pretty, 
 but when you sacrifice gameplay you deystroy it all. Now this shoiuld be a lesson to EA about the 
 content in their games. Graphics good, gameplay even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barryjohnson87
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 25, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  The 360 version of Madden 06 is a complete rip-off. They don't tell you that the NFL superstar 
 mode is taken out of this game. The Franchise mode sucks because you don't have all the features 
 that are in the xbox version of the game. You can't build your own stadium, add features to make 
 your stadium better, or set prices for everything. There is no practice mode, no training camp, 
 and no tutorials as there are in the previous versions. It just feels like EA rushed to have this 
 game out by the 360 launch thus making the game incomplete. I enjoy playing the xbox version much 
 better than the 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlghola02
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  this game is what we have been waiting for good graphics great game play and tons of fun. ok the 
 mini games are gone and franchise mode is not like years past but this game was made to show you 
 the future of sports games lets just all have fun with this and wait for madden 07 they wont disappoint 
 twice. most likely you already have madden 06 on another console so have fun with that if you love 
 your mini games so much i am a true madden fan through the good the bad times and true madden fans 
 will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lipsander
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 24, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  "EA Sports: If it's in the game, it's in the game." Heard that before? Well this game doesn't live 
 up to that saying. 
  
  1) No challenge feature. That's in the Xbox version and it's in the real NFL, but not in this game. 
 Strike 1.
  
  2) On my disc, every first down that I get to, the play clock starts at 25 seconds, and should 
 be 40, the other downs are always 40, just not 1st down. Strike 2.
  
  3) When running the ball, the game seems to slowwwww down, usually happens while running up the 
 middle. Strike 3. 
  
  4) You cannot go to formations and set certain players in positions. For instance: Mike Anderson 
 is the RB for the Denver Broncos. If I want to make my 2nd string RB Tatum Bell the RB for my Shotgun 
 formation only, I have no option to do so. All of the other Madden games you can do this. Strike 
 4.
  
  You can tell that the makers of this tried really hard to push this and get it out. The features 
 and game play suffered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brutux1x
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  This game of course has pretty good graphics, even on a regular non-hdtv. Of course that is about 
 where it ends, it plays pretty well with nice physics, it also is fun to play online, but you can 
 do and see all of that on just the regular xbox or ps2 depending which you have. Than of course 
 the controls are easy to pick up and make the game just as fun as any other madden there is out 
 there. But with barely any features at all this game leaves a lot to be desired and only if you 
 must experience the better graphics of the 360 I suggest saving the money and only buying the regular 
 Xbox version, that one at least has a ton of fun features, but this one is just a football game 
 with not added features what-so-ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merriJ
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Solid disappointment for a launch title. After initial wow it fumbles on the goalline. I'm throwing 
 a flag for false start on EA for getting this one out before it was ready. The game feels more 
 like your watching from the stands rather than playing in the game. If it's in the game, it's in 
 the game except for you. There's a disconnected feeling I have while playing versus current gen 
 2006 versions. The goods news is that 2007 will be out in Aug. No doubt about what the other reviews 
 say. This is the first game I've ever returned. Down load the demo off Xbox Live to get your fix 
 and keep your current gen game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mada_Nniuq
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  The moment you see the menu of Madden 06, you can also see the game was rushed for 360 launch. 
 I don't usually review this way, but Madden 06 for the 360 is a game of plusses and minuses.
  
  Pros:
  +Good graphics
  +Great Soundtrack (Fall Out Boy, Coheed and Cambria, All-american 
 Rejects and more)
  +More realistic announcer voice
  +Games are more fun
  +Achivements are easy to earn. (like 100 pts. for a touchdown)
  
  Cons:
  -Not as good graphics 
 as seen in the goal video released in early 2005
  -Some sound glitches (i. e. the San diego charagers's touchdown sound clip sounds like "Touchdown, 
 Colts!")
  -Quarterback's voice has a extremely low-quality and annoying "Hutt!"
  -Footsteps can be far louder than they should be
  -MISSING MODES: Create a Team, Create a Player, 
 NFL Superstar, managing your stadium, ticket prices, etc. in Franchise, and more are missing.
 
  -computer teams have terrible AI and are too easy to beat. (you can literally do Hail Mary 10x 
 in a row and still be successfull, and no matter what, even if they are 4th and 1, computers punt 
 on 4th down)
  -No classic teams, only the current NFL teams, nothing else unlike in previous versions.
  -Music 
 lasts 5 seconds at a time in game (only while you are choosing play) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steven2626
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  Madden 06 for the 360 is a very solid game but doesn't include some basic features. There is no 
 mini-camp, practice, create-a-player, etc. Besides the lack of features, Madden 06 still provides 
 a good gaming experience for madden fans. The game as A+ graphics and very good sound, best experienced 
 on an hdtv. The game is pretty good considering that the makers of the game built it "from scratch". 
 
  
  Is it worth 60 bucks? If you are a die hard madden fan and cannot wait until august for the next 
 madden go ahead and pay 59.99. If you are just a xbox 360 owner looking for a game to add to your 
 collection don't purchase this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knockdowneight
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 19, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  When you play your first game on madden 360 it feels like you are playing a totally different game 
 from what you remember on ps2 or xbox. Madden 06 for the 360 takes sports games to the next level. 
 It might not have a mini camp, superstar mode, or a very deep online play, but trust me the graphics, 
 animations, and gameplay make up for that. The new animations on this game are incredible. On defense 
 the tackls now actually sound and feel like you are dragging someone to the ground. The new catching 
 animations on this game give more realism to the game, like when you throw the ball to a reciever 
 who is headed out of bounds they will make an attempt to get both feet in bounds and make the catch. 
 The passing game is slightly easier without having to use the passing cone, but still being able 
 to use precision passing. If you own an XBOX 360 I strongly suggest that you get up and go buy 
 it right now, because you will not find a better sports game than Madden 06 for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videohead20
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Well, it must be that time again. Madden 06 has hit the new xbox. Let us start with the normal 
 format.
  
  The good. I was very impressed with the great graphics. They showed alot of life like attributes. 
 Like most madden games the game play was smooth. The over all pick of players was not limited at 
 all which made making a team great. The controls were the same as they have been in the past few 
 madden games. Also the QB veiw was also a good touch. It was a little hard to use during a pinch 
 but help out durring most plays.
  
  Now the bad. It is still the same old madden. I didnt like the fact that you couldnt challenge 
 a play. If you can please let me know. Also there were a few small glitches with the game as well. 
 First of all when you conplete a pass and you are not even in the goal line and score. Then a ball 
 hits a guy in the back then he all of a sudden has the ball and is then running with it.
  
  Over all this is just another madden with a few new perks. Over all I say wait for the price to 
 drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falker27
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 19, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  I have been playing madden ever since I remember. This game has good graphics on the field but 
 it ends at that. I think the sound is horrible, they for sure rushed this game!
  
  Many things have been stripped off of this game to get it on launch date. I think this game should 
 have waited until 2007 to release. First off this game is missing the best parts of recent madden 
 games. I like using the hot routes and you just don't have the choices you have on Madden 2006 
 for the old Xbox. They do not have challenge play. Which I think is crazy, when I played with my 
 friends their were several times that we all agreed the play was called wrong and that it changed 
 the outcome of the game. 
  
  I hope that EA gets this game right next time. I wish they were not the only ones with the NFL 
 license. Looking forward to seeing what they do in next years game. I hope they put the old Xbox 
 and the new and combine the two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StankOnYa
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Madden 06 for the 360 is really a pretty good game. Now if you were to look at it like this game 
 was just some new NFL football game for the 360, it would be a "great "game. But It's not since 
 it has the name Madden 06 is on the cover. Bye now you should know a little something about this 
 game from other reviews. If not im so_____ sorry!! Instead I'm going to focus on some good aspects 
 of Madden 06 and how it feels overall. Player models look very good, no tats on them what so ever 
 but still pretty good. Gameplay is solid on both sides of the ball ,but better on the offensive 
 side. Once you learn how to juke real good you'll be able to pull off some of the greatest football 
 footage you may have ever seen. This game is 2 to 3 times better if your play it LOUD!!!! But don't 
 bust your speakers or ear drums. At times you will love this game and at other times it leaves 
 you feeling empty inside, almost as if someone knocked you down, stripped you butt naked in front 
 of a crowd full of your peers, then beat the H. E. double hockey sticks out of ya' . The radio announcer 
 isn't bad, but not too good either. You will end up missing AL and John in the booth. RENT IT FIRST 
 . P. S SORRY I HAD TO RUSH THIS REVIEW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20851948239850117501608001012182-ecg28713
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  This is Madden, everybody know what this game is. If you don't you should robably be shot. But 
 this game was anticipated to be greatness but, it fails in a lot of ways. 
  
  Graphics: the graphics are great and the stadiums are nice to look at but, the players sometime 
 look like they just toked up. Some of the players didn't get head scans and kind of let down fans 
 wanting to see photorealistic players and end up getting average joe.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is intact and is quite solid from kickoff to the final field goal. The problem 
 here are the fact that you don't have any camera options and challenging calls in non-existant 
 in this game. While they left out a few modes to get this out by launch it passes as a good game 
 none the less.
  
  Sound: The commentators do well in game and the best part is no Madden comments. Boom Biatch.
 
  
  Value: If you have all of the Madden game go ahead and get this one, just don't expect ESPN 2K5. 
 Also don't trade in your xbox version you should probably just stick with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody998
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  
  Madden NFL 06
  
  Madden at a first glance seems very impressive and is not just a straight port from the last instalment 
 but its a new game in its own right. From the beginning its obvious that the developers have 
 focused more time on the updated graphics than anything else like improving the gameplay elements 
 and such. Its very disappointing as its not worth paying that amount of money for a game similar 
 to the last instalment but it is still one of the best Football games to this date due to the next 
 generation compatibilities of the Xbox 360.
  
  The game has had a lot of Hype lately which from my point of view did not do the game any favours. 
 It was disappointing enough but with the hype it just made matters worse. A lot of the features 
 you have known and loved using from the previous Madden NFL games are completely gone such as the 
 defensive playmaker controls are now gone which is kind of a shame as it would be nice to see how 
 updated these features were using the 360s compatibilities. Some of the gameplay elements have 
 been edited and slightly tweaked such as the new improved kick meter but when the game has so many 
 problems it seems as if this should have been the least of their problems. Which makes you wonder 
 if it really is worth the money you are going to be paying for it if you choose to buy as the replay 
 ability is not great?
  
  Also Xbox live does have its share of problems in this instalment as there is really not that much 
 too it and its like you and your opponent playing Football and there is really no dynamic online 
 features to take advantage of. But some fun still can be had with the online features and its great 
 playing with other real people instead of bots. The two player game feature still remains great 
 strong point to the series which is one of the reasons the series is successful.
  
  The graphics are one of the best features of the latest instalment and look really crisp on a Nice 
 HDTV setup but still look amazing on an SDTV and if you are looking for a game to buy to really 
 see the best graphics of what the Xbox 360 has to offer this close to the original launch date 
 this may just be the one for you. There was a lot of work that got put into making your environment 
 all around you look great and realistic and make it feel just like the real thing or as close as 
 you can get to that experience all the same. Though you begin to wonder if some of the features 
 from the previous games have been removed for the developer to spend more time on the graphics 
 but it is hard to stay mad at that whilst playing a game that looks so lifelike. Also the animations 
 have been greatly improved and give an overall smoother and more realistic look to take in whilst 
 playing.
  
  If you like Football and want to see how the series has progressed you should at least rent it. 
 But dont buy it expecting great things just because you are a fan of the series because a lot 
 of the previous game stuff has been removed. But graphics aside the game is a disappointment and 
 a game I cannot recommend spending that much money on this purchase.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vodka100
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:35 am PT
Review:  I cant believe EA holds the rights to the NFL license. We need another company to compete with 
 them. Maddens controls are horrible. I think most would agree that less graphics and better gameplay 
 isnt a bad thing when it comes to sports games. The player controls are unresponsive and sloppy. 
 Dont try to set your defensive player up before the snap. The controls are so skewed that you dont 
 get an advantage by trying to crowd the line for a blitz. The graphics are nice, but if we wanted 
 to watch a football game we could just turn on the TV. I would rather play the sega genesis version 
 than this one but you know what? I own it because there isnt another football game available and 
 never will be it seems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carpe_Noctum
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jan 17, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  The first videogame football I owned, I think I was about to hit double-digits, was for the Intellivision 
 system. My friends and I would play football during the day and play that video game half the night. 
 The first Madden game I bought was Madden '96; for the Genesis. 10 years later and we land on Madden 
 '06 for the 360.
  
  I will try to keep this brief, as there is no point in going too much into things. I will start 
 with the good points. The kicking meter has been improved. It is far from as good as it could be 
 but it is MUCH better than what it was the last few years. Using play-action will actually get 
 the corners to "cheat" by jumping in for run support at times and leave a nice cushion between 
 your 
  receiver and the DB. That said, it doesn't happen very often and is mostly along the lines in frequency 
 of what you would see in a real NFL game. Another really nice, albeit typical feature, is in the 
 play selection. There is just a ton of nicely designed plays that, for the most part, match a teams 
 real-life playbook. There are some obvious omissions but it's still done very well. Also, the stadiums 
 look pretty good and a 3-D modeled crowd is a nice touch.
  
  What IS wrong with this edition of Madden '06 for the 360 is everything else. As to not take up 
 too much space I will stick to the glaring problems. The controls are pretty bad. Sure, they work 
 and, after time, you can get used to them but they are simply sub-par. I would say that the presentation 
 was horrendous; if there was any presentation at all. I can't really expand on that 
  as it is simply missing. The animations are bad as players tackle one-another without having actual 
 contact with the other player. The momentum-based style used is mostly broken, with among other 
 problems, leads to very sloppy route running even from crisp route runners like Rod Smith and 
 
  Marvin Harrison. Players get constantly "glued" to other players in the blocking scheme which 
 leads to frustration two fold. My defensive player gets "stuck" to an offensive player or it's 
 the opposite, which leads to big runs that I shouldn't have. Both are unrealistic.
  
  The commentary is horrid. I thought I was tired of hearing Madden say the same thing over and over 
 the last few years but at least Al Michael was better than Pat Summerall. I would have taken Pat 
 Summerall over what's in this game. Staying with sound issues, the constant same repetitive 
  bark from the QB is about enough to be the deal breaker and make the mute button your new best 
 friend.
  
  The graphics, they are bad, very bad. Yes, the crowd is poly-build but there is only about 4 different 
 people in the stands and the textures for them are atrocious. That is forgiven though as, who really 
 cares about the crowd? Easily fixed by just never showing them. All the players look bad, even 
 the "star" athletes for their respective teams look freaky. The player models are short and not 
 even close to proportionate but beyond that, the textures are repetitive on every player and aren't 
 even done good. I don't really care about cheerleaders and that's good because there are none. 
 That's fine if I am the Steelers at home every week but I am not. Nice way to ommit 
  some reality.
  
  I would recommend this game to people that like to play some arcade style, 
 goofed football, while having some drinks and having fun. Otherwise, Madden has a LONG way to go. 
 It's fun, it's just broken and far from a NFL football sim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandma1
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 16, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  How did i love the Madden 06 for regular consoles. The superstar mode took a while to catch on 
 but it was great. Franchise and owner mode still intact. And the best of all kicking your friends 
 butts in that game was fun. This is all the makings for a great football game, but Madden NFL 06 
 for xbox 360 took a big step back. Everything i mentioned has either been removed or is just not 
 fun anymore. Franchise mode is ruined and i could not believe i was doing a franchise. It felt 
 like any other old game of exhibition madden. Well playing online against your friends is still 
 fun right. Ya I guess, they didnt make the gameplay better, but it's still good ol' fun ol' madden. 
 "With only 5 seconds left on the clock seahawks find themselves with a situation to tie the game 
 and darrell jackson catches it in the endzone!!! What he's out of bounds!!!, Mike Holmgren wants 
 to challenge the play, What!!! he cant!!!!!! For some odd reason you cant challenge the play on 
 Xbox 360 and the field goals over 45 yrds. i find myself moaning and groaning jus to make it. Madden 
 overall is still a good game though. The player ALL look great and i love playing against my friends 
 in tournaments (I kick butt!) My gamertag is Grandma11 if you wanna go? So overall Madden is still 
 great and its fun and better looking, but i dont recommend this game unless you can find no other 
 game to buy for your Xbox 360 out there. Cya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n1ghtmare454
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  everything in this game seems to fake. everytime u have a player wide open for a pass they drop 
 it, but they always catch the impossible ones. most of the time ur quarter back throws it to the 
 wrong reciever also, and ur guys always miss blocks so its not that good for running. i think that 
 they should have waited cus this game seems kind of glitchy also. also the graphics really arent 
 that great, id say that the graphics for most football games on xbox were better than this one, 
 the only improvment is making the crowd look real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akessle1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  The graphics of madden are truely next-gen and blow away the other 360 games. The animations are 
 all new and look very realistic. The gameplay is also very fun and anyone can play the game. 
 
  There is also not that many features. No practice, no CAP, only a season and play now. That is 
 it. There are also many **** Sometimes different displays will get stuck on the screen and the 
 most notable is a glitch is one where you cannot sub for the quarterback. That would not be that 
 bad if the quarterback that you were stuck with wasn't the starting punter. 
  Overall, the only reason to get this game is the graphics but if you already have this game for 
 xbox you will be sad that there is nothing to do other that a boring stripped down season mode. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This past year has made me hate EA even more and more with the purchase to the Exclusive NFL rights, 
 which stopped 2k Games for continuing the ESPN 2k series which was starting to improve beyond what 
 Madden has miss out on in the past years. 
  
  Madden 06 delivers a good but just average playing experience with great looking graphics and more 
 detailed character and stadium models over the other platforms it is currently available on.
  
  Playing the season mode will frustrate you when bad calls happen and you can't do anything 
 about it, because there is no Coach Challenge in this version. FOUL FLAG has been thrown, hold 
 on a sec, its on EA, 15 yard Penalty on EA for not including the same features the are the other 
 platforms. Have you ever had that a dream of being a player for you Favorite Team, Well sorry to 
 disapoint but the game doesn't have a Create-a-Player mode.
  
  There are quite a few other modes missing from this game as well, but I'm gonna sum this review 
 up because it UPSETS Me so, I just can't go on rambling about how bad it is because I love Football 
 so much and I enjoy Madden Football as well but not this game. Sorry
  
  So Please Rent this one if you gotta get your football on or just wait til August when I'm sure 
 EA will release a much more useful Madden game.
  
  This is Probably my worst Review on any game and I'm sorry It just pains me so, But Please check 
 out my other reviews.
  
  Love you all
  -Crim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  But where are the rest of the things that make this game what it is in the past? I mean damn Ea 
 gave us all this graphics but took away everything else that made madden fun in the past. They 
 took away mini camp, created player, superbowl celebration, even the weekly radio show that they 
 had on the PS2 and Xbox verison. I mean I love the way this game looks don't get me wrong but damn 
 why take away everything that makes this game fun. Like the lil things like when you make a touchdown 
 you get a crowd reaction, when you get there's an interception they let us know or a fumble. Another 
 thing they took out was the replay challenge. All these things are missing from the game I just 
 hope when Madden NFL 07 comes out we get all those features back. All the things tha make madden 
 fun are gone. At least we have a 30 year fanchise but that's about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 15, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  well frist off at times the game locks up yeah playing a close game at the end of the game then 
 the game locks up. so far has done this two times, madden looks so real it is fun to play, but 
 it does feel tight, and it feels like it was rushed out, some stuff is missing from the game, so 
 EA its not in the game, for the AI in the game its fair some teams just play better, say like new 
 england to me they have them to weak new england dont play well, most fun i had is with the jets 
 and the colts, to me EA has to go back to the drawing board, i just hope the 2007 madden is total 
 new play system with the AI, i wish temco could make a new football game we need some other ones 
 in the market, this just EA not good, other companies think of new things and thats great for all 
 of us, like temco they had a great football game, love to see them do a xbox360 temco football, 
 time to say EA you are getting to darn big, think you just can block out everyone else so know 
 one can out do you its just crazy, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StArKaStiK
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  When i first saw the next gen preview last year, i thought... wow, this game is going to look marvelous 
 and play well. I was wrong, the game looks great.. i mean the character models are as detailed as 
 they can possibly be, but the game just doesnt feel right for some reason, it seems as if they 
 cut off everything that made madden 06 on current-Gen consoles great, in order to make next gen 
 graphics good. It gets boring way too fast.. the achievements aren't hard to obtain either, i got 
 7 out of 11 achievements in 2 hours. If your looking for a good football game to play with your 
 friends wait for 07 and see if they can improve there. I dont recommend this to football fans, 
 maybe only the hardcore ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Of_SeeD
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  Probably the biggest news in sports video-gaming history came last December, when the Electronic 
 Arts juggernaut announced that it had inked a deal with the National Football League for the exclusive 
 rights for use of the NFL license in video games. Whether you approve of the partnership, think 
 of it as a shady business contract, or are indifferent to the issue, nothing will change the fact 
 that for the next five years, the only football games you'll be seeing with up-to-date rosters 
 will be under the EA brand name.
  
  However, what a brand name it is! EAs Madden franchise is one of the most storied in the industry, 
 having been around since the early 90's and ultimately becoming a perennial top-seller and one 
 of the most anticipated titles for sports fans year after year. Many thought that, with the elimination 
 of EA's competitors, this year's Madden would ultimately turn out to be just a clone of last year's 
 game with a few minor additions. Are they correct? Well, yes and no.
  
  Madden NFL 06 ultimately turns out to be a mixed bag of tricks, and your impression of it will 
 likely depend on a few different things - not the least of which will be your previous experience 
 with the series.
  
  Although EA and Tiburon have tucked in a few changes to the core gameplay, they do not affect the 
 flow of the game as much as they have been touted to. The result is a game that plays like the 
 recent Maddens, but has a couple of neat ideas that ultimately don't pan out as well as expected. 
 It is a solid but hardly banner year for EA Football.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mole08822
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  Madden 06 on the 360 is not the greatest game that i have seen come out on launch, yet it was very 
 addicting. I love the graphics in this game. The players and the stadiums look awesome. It is a 
 shame however that they make you choose you play too quickly so you cant truly enjoy the replays. 
 The gameplay is good for a first try but needs some improvement ie. being able to challenge a play. 
 Also this game is missing a superstar mode and the create a player mode. (and John Madden) . Those 
 were sorely missed, in this game. Overall the game plays well and looks awesome, we just need a 
 few more things in this game and all of the modes. because there is only so much you can do in 
 franchise and online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niwom510
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  The controls on the XB360 Madden '06 are grrrreat! But the lack of very fun mini-games such as 
 Rushing-Attack, its a slight dissapiontment. Normal gameplay is at its finest, though. And wtf 
 with the radio announcer, why call it Madden if he doesent even commentate? I'm sure he's pissed. 
 All in all, its a great game with the control scheme and gameplay at its FINEST. I also like that 
 the refs actually CALL pass interferences. In Madden '03 there would be glitches where the defender 
 moved you but did not TACKLE you. I can understand why barely any features are in the XB360 Madden. 
 One thing is that EA had to make 4 games instead of 3. Not to mention 1 of the games is the one 
 that has to have unheard of graphics. And the XB360 game had a deadline. And one of the most important 
 reasons why is that barely any 360 consoles got shipped. If you were EA and you said, "huh, what 
 do I do, make a fully featured game for a console that only 10 people have in the world, or, cut 
 the time and spend it on making a good game lots of people will get (XBOX) , which would rake in 
 more money?" Ponder that for a moment..... if you didn't find the answer, Madden '07 will be waaayyy 
 better, with all the features, mini-games, and then some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgw798
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 2006 for the XBOX 360 takes small steps towards next-generation gaming. The graphics 
 are absolutely amazing, the player models are incredible, the stadiums couldn't look more exact, 
 and the crowd no longer has the one dimensional look as if cut and pasted from a photograph. As 
 far as the gameplay is concerned, '06 has the usual gameplay that you come to expect from the Madden 
 Franchise, with some small improvements. The Online Mode is certainly an improvement over the Maddens 
 of yester-year, as you now can choose from various options, including quick matches and sectionalized 
 lobbies. The only downside to this game is the lack of features. Madden 06 for the 360 has seemed 
 to have left out some of the key features, including training camp and the new superstar mode. 
 Overall, Madden 06 is a fun game with lasting appeal if played online. The graphics are certainly 
 next-gen but other aspects of the game are only minor improvements or have been left out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsferro
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 13, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Yes there are some simple things missing (some things thankfully so, like Bruno the annoying radio 
 announcer blabbing on in the backround) , but the bottom line is the few additionslike game logs, 
 tha bility to look at box scores for the entire season back, etc make this by far the best madden 
 for the fan of football statistics... but thats not where this game really shines..... This is by 
 far the best looking game I've seen on my XBOX. I have a 36" CRT HDTV and 4 360 games.... Madden 
 06, Kameo, PGR3, and DOA4 and Madden is leaps and bounds better than all of the rest !!! The only 
 thing close is DOA4, which has great character animations but occasionally grainy environments. 
 Full stadium recreations, all new player animations, photo-realistic characters, its true visual 
 bliss !!
  
  This easily is the game I put in my 360 without hesitation when I want to show off to my friends 
 the graphical sweetness that is this machine !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha-Omaga
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 11, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Madden '06 may look pretty, but it has many many flaws. First and formost, John madden doesn't 
 even anounce in it. Second, the higher the difficulty the more the 360 cheats. Thirdly, the jumping 
 in the game is automatic so sometimes your player might miss a jump. And last but not least, it 
 looks nice but there are still players going through each other. The good parts about it are first 
 that it looks nice, second the quarterback view thing works well to the ablities of the quarter 
 back, and finally that you can rent it.
  
  To recap, rent it if you are a fan of the Madden series and love football like me.... don't buy 
 '06, wait until Madden '07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whynotdairy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 10, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This game with all the teams the new modes, the cranked up graphics, and enhanced gameplay which 
 is nothing exclusive to the 360 version, however with the new QB look mode , which does in fact 
 make the game alot more convenient, as a QB, And as usual the owner and dynasty mode make the game 
 that much better. Not to mention the online play which is as well designed as any other madden, 
 wich means A-OK! this game is a good buy.. that is if you are looking for a good sports game for 
 your new system. However, if you are looking for a superb graphics, in-depth gameplay and amazing 
 story you might as well spend your money on a game as high a calibre as Call of Duty 2, But this 
 game is a very good playing game to play online if not.. than have some friends or game gets boring 
 after you have beaten every team 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackotack
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 10, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This Game didn't even come close to living it up to all its hype. All of it has to do that it is 
 a mid-season release and thus, many extras are removed, creating a very basic game. But its more 
 than merely bare bones, there isn't even an option to challenge plays.
  
  There are also very few options in terms of mini games or different types of play. Also the commentating 
 is dry, so dry that I would even have preferred John Madden's mind-numbingly dumb commentary to 
 the EA sports radio commentary.
  
  Also the game play is lacking and doesn't even completely feel like a true madden game. Obviously 
 Madden 07 for the 360 will more resemble what dedicated Madden fans are used to. Until then, EA 
 sports should realize that purchasing the rights to NFL names isn't enough substitute for a substandard 
 football game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike28647
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  First of all let me start off by saying this game freakin rules, I like the gameplay, the graphics 
 are great, and the animations are superb. first thing you see is the opening movie, which is great 
 by the way , and then you realize this is what the gameplay looks like, incredible! I play this 
 game everyday and never get tired of it. I love playing the game with other people as well, very 
 fun, especially for a party game. If you like sports games and you have an X-BOX 360 I really suggest 
 you pick this one up, but if you already own Madden '06 for Xbox than stick with it, its a great 
 game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddyc
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  im dissapointed that al michaels and john madden arent the announcers...
  theres no rushing attack..
  the franchise mode is weak
  
  the graphics are great but the 
 controls are different... its not the same... i know they are trying to get the next gen... game going 
 but... too much change is bad especially when they are trying to make it like 2k5... no one can be 
 like 2k5....
  
  i think ea just came out with a game right b4 xmas to make some dough and next years will be better....
 
  
  i like the new play calling mode but i dont like how you pick your plays... if you are playing 2 
 player your opponent can see what play you pick....
  
  also its weird that you can either have no qb vision or you can... it should just be qb vision.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgillmaine01
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 9, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  
  
  The only football game out for the next few years will be Madden. So like it or not. If you going 
 to play NFL football, Madden's your only option. But this is not bad when EA has been making great 
 footballs games. So with there first 360 game. They have there pro and cons. But they still made 
 in into the end zone.
  
  Game play: It's a whole different game this time around. It runs slower, which I think is good. 
 Being the fact, how can you see anything when a blitz comes every half second? The play calling 
 menu has changed. Which makes it easier to pick plays (kinda like blitz) and the best feature I 
 like is the key player option. Which lets you pick all the plays for your stars on the team? Now 
 there are some things that have been cut in the 360's version. No red flags. Why I dont know. 
 But I bet in every game I see something that I wish I had it. The Defense has been toned down a 
 lot. No more man blitzing or zone cover. You can only do it to your LB, DL, or secondary. But still 
 you have a great game.
  
  Graphics: Being on 360, why wouldn't you have a great looking game? And with Madden. They bring 
 it and more. Everything from the players movement to the stars faces. EA has done a great job 
 in this department. 
  
  Sound: John Madden has been taken out. Yes! Thats the best thing EA could have done. And I thank 
 them for it. Other then that. You hear what football use be. Hits and sounds of the players. Even 
 the QB's talk with there real voice. Nice job guys!
  
  Value: Most madden fans play madden all year long. And nothing going to change about that. And 
 with Xbox live the fun never stops. But EA has to keep there severs running well. Some days you 
 will get kicked out games and not connect to there servers. And the rushing attack has been taken 
 out for online play (and offline) . That was a good break from a long game. But if you got friends 
 and Xbox live. You will get lots of replay out of this.
  
  Overall I think EA did a lot of changes to stack to 2007's version. And I'm sure it will bring 
 back all that was taken out and more. If you need a football game on 360 and can't wait till August 
 then get this. If you want one of the best football games ever, then wait till 07 version.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJballer25
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Good Things: 
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics for this game are out of this world . You mite as well be controlling a Monday night 
 football game on national t. v. The muscle definition ,animations, jersey stitching, facial expressions 
 everything looks real. Oh yea did i mention that the crowd is finally 3-D no more cardboard cutouts.
 
  
  Play Calling
  
  It's cool that you can choose from all different types of things 
  ask Madden
  ask Coach
  Key Players etc.
  
  Kicking Meter
  
  The easy to use kick meter 
 makes for perfect placement on all those game winning field goals.
  
  No more Madden!!!!!
  
  no longer do you have to listen to madden babble on with his terrible 
 catch phrases and annoying and angering criticizing.
  
  Bad Things:
  
  no challenging
  no mini camp
  no practice
  Franchise mode is from like three years ago
 
  
  EA sports is heading in the rite direction. Next years madden will be one that can truly be considered 
 "next-gen" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermario2653
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  The first thing i noticed about Madden 06 for the xbox 360 was the graphics. They players are very 
 well defined. You can even see the sweat on the players after ahwile in the game. I even noticed 
 some actual scenery outside the stadiums. The game has the traditonal xbox control layout. I really 
 dont think they added any new game features from the previous madden. The biggest improvement is 
 the look of the game. Since Madden owns the rights to NFL games and you want a NFL game you are 
 forced to buy this one. I honestly think that SEGA sports made a better football game and they 
 used to be half the price. I dont know why people didnt catch on but madden took over. I guess 
 that comes to show there are a lot of poor consumers out there that buy for the name and thats 
 it. So i am not going to compare this to any other games. I think it is a solid NFL game with a 
 new look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kctree
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Here is a list you gotta' see:
  
  *There are NO minigames!!!
  *You cannot train your players!!!
  *You cannot see progression of players
  *There is no superstar 
 mode
  *No Tournament Mode
  *You cannot create a player!!!
  *You cannot create a team!!!
  *You cannot create plays
  *You cannot go into franchise mode 
 and do a fantasy draft
  *You cannot substitute players (only depth chart)
  *You cannot change the numbers on players jerseys
  *You cannot change the players possitions 
 from say LB to RB like on xbox
  *You cannot change the camera angle
  *No tournaments or season mode online!!!
  *Madden and Micheals doing play by play
  *Franchise 
 mode is missing stadium improvements and all those price changes in refreshments..
  
  Ok.. I'm sure I missed a ton of things. It would have been easier to name what IS left. The graphics 
 look amazing. The actual football game is pretty fun. I mean, it's a football game.. so I'm going 
 to like it. However, the framerate isn't the best. Also the players agility has changed so much. 
 I used to like Madden because you felt the momentum of the players. It felt like they were skating 
 on ice before, but at least you could control them. Now when you make cuts or barely change direction 
 your player completely freaks out. Seriously, if you have this game try to run forward after your 
 player starts to drop back in the zone. He will fall on his butt trying to change direction. Also 
 the game might be a little fast. I think they sped it up to make it harder. I enjoyed it this week. 
 Now I'm sending it back to gamefly for something with lasting value.
  
  I am so dissapointed. I was really excited about playing this game when I first heard about the 
 360. I won't buy it. I encourage as many of you as possible to boycott this trash. If EA had any 
 competition they wouldn't have even released this garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shavez2008
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  Man first of all Madden was always known for a dope football game on any system Playstation 2 and 
 Xbox It doesn't matter. But you would expect to see Madden on the Xbox 360 to be 10 times better 
 than PS2 and Xbox but its only 10 times worse than what U would think. I mean if they didn't take 
 the Mini Camp, create a player, and Superstar Mode, and changed the Commentary then I would have 
 gave the game a 10. The graphix are just right the game play isnt bad, but they just took off what 
 any Madden fan would like. I got the Xbox 360 for Christmas and my first game I bought was Madden 
 06 and I was upset because they changed every thing so hopefully it would be much better on the 
 PS3. Otherwise itz a O. K. game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaach11687
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Game Play: I can usually expect good gameplay from the Madden franchise and I still can. The gameplay 
 is pretty good just like previously on the old Madden games, but why did they change so many things? 
 There is no playmaker or the ability to chanllenge a play. 
  
  Graphics: Very good graphics. Small glitches like the ball becoming a hand, but nothing to cry 
 over.
  
  Sound: It is okay sounding graphics, nothing special.
  
  Value: DO NOT BUY THIS GAME!!! If you want to spend about 4 hours simulating a dynasty just for 
 the gamerscore because you got bored after playing your friend twice online, then buy it. For all 
 the other normal people, don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NRMunky
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  The Reason madden 06 sucked is because its only 2 players. I mean come on sport games should all 
 be 4 players thats the meaning of a 4 slot system. I was going to buy Madden 06 for 360 but when 
 i looked at the back of the case it said to players so i didnt buy it. I got 3 bros and we wanted 
 a new football game for 360 so we can start a new season. Madden Next Generation better be 4 players 
 because then ill buy it. But Madden made a mistake with 2 players on sport games that should be 
 4 players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worthlessme1231
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  I managed to, finally, get my hands on an xbox 360 and what was the first game I bought? Madden 
 06. Being a proud new xbox 360 owner, I wanted to get a game that looked next gen and satisfy the 
 die hard football fan in me. I looked no further than madden 06. I purchased the game on the original 
 xbox and was impressed by the amount of options and features that were put into the game. I was 
 indifferent on the qb vision, but it gave long-time madden gamers, like myself, a new feature to 
 play with. The first thing I noticed about the 360 version of madden, besides the amazing graphics, 
 was the lack of features in franchise mode.
  Well, to start things off, most of the in-game additions to madden are there with a few exceptions. 
 Hit stick made it, qb vision made it (but is optional) , truck stick made it... but you can no longer 
 audible a single defender. This isn't really a huge loss because you gain the power to "jump the 
 pile" as a running back. With those features making it, how could this game not be rated at least 
 a 9 out of 10? The reason is the VERY, and I mean VERY, limited franchise mode. 
  After a run or two with my favorite football team, I like to mix things up with a little fantasy 
 draft. Unfortunately, fantasy draft (like many other franchise mode features) was CUT COMPLETELY 
 FROM THE GAME. That's right, folks. No longer can you pick your favorite team's colors and create 
 a team from scratch. This was the option, or lack there of, that hit me the hardest. My favorite 
 thing to do on the xbox version was pick my home team and mix and match my favorite NFL players. 
 Not anymore. Another feature that was cut from the franchise mode is the training camp. I found 
 this to be troubling because I enjoyed kicking my players stats up in preparation for the new season. 
 It was also one of the most entertaining features in ANY football game all-together. Yet, it never 
 saw the xbox 360.
  One more area that lacks fine-tuning is the "dramatics" of a football game. Sure, you can watch 
 your players run onto the field (assuming you are the home team) but what about after a win? Nothing. 
 Your team is tied in the fourth quarter, you are pinned back at the 30 yard line and super bowl 
 rests on this final kick. The snap is made, the ball is in the air, and the crowd is disturbingly 
 quiet... IT'S GOOD!... the end. Literally, it is the end. No celebration, no MVP trophy (hell, 
 no trophy AT ALL) , no gatorade shower... NOTHING. Usually I am not one to complain about lack of 
 cinematics, but COME ON. At least give us a celebration for a super bowl win... or even a special 
 introduction... anything that would make the super bowl feel more flashy than a regular game. 
 
  With all of that being said, this is still the best game of football when the ball is on the field. 
 No other football game has made me feel like the real players were doing exactly what I want them 
 to do on the field. The graphics are definitely next-gen with room for improvement. The play calling 
 is great. The new animations are realistic and the AI is very good and exactly the same great quality 
 of previous EA madden games (especially on all-pro and up) . Best football game in terms of straight 
 football alone. 
  In summary, this game is worth the money for most NFL football fans. Keep in mind though; playing 
 football is pretty much all you will be doing. The loss of training camp and fantasy draft are 
 huge and the only major noticeable upgrade is found in the graphics. If you just like inviting 
 some guys over to play a game of football -- this game should do you just fine. If you play football 
 games to control a team's destiny and enjoy all of the things that made madden 05 and 06 franchise 
 mode great for xbox or ps2... you will definitely be disappointed with what madden 06 for xbox 
 360 has to offer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: southvike22
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  Let me say this , Maddan on 360 is a great game. When you start playing its hard not to get sucked 
 into it as you easily slip back into your favorite routine. And from the great looking stadiums 
 and incredible crowds yes finally !! to the tons of new animations, you will find plenty of visual 
 upgrades.
  However i also need to be the voice of caution here though and say this, If you are expecting to 
 ditch your 4-month old current gen. Madden for a game thats worlds better, you will for sure be 
 dissapointed.
  While some are okay with just the graphical upgrade others like myself would apprecaite more than 
 just that namely not having all these modes axed like create a player, challanging-5 minutes into 
 the game and 3 bad calls later you will be pissed to, and things like owner mode what happaned 
 ??????? 
  Online is where the value never gets old however and this game is worth buying just for that and 
 if you have an hdtv this game will shine !!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassoonrules27
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Madden 06 for the 360 is a completely different game than the one released earlier for consoles. 
 Basically, the graphics were boosted while gameplay was reduced. Superstar mode was sacked and 
 franchise was shrunk to nothing more than a way of progressing your team through a season. No pricing 
 peanuts or designing a stadium this year...
  
  Though the substance was reduced (most of it was lame... I mean who cares about how much you sell 
 souvenirs for anyways?) , the gameplay itself is fun. The graphics are instantly better... you can 
 literally see sweat and dirt clinging to your players' jersies. Running the ball is fairly difficult 
 and passing isn't much easier. If you play on easier difficulties, though, Joey Harrington plays 
 like Peyton Manning.
  
  Defense is one of the more challenging portions of the game. The D-line gets almost no penetration 
 and linebacker blitzes are almost always thwarted. Your secondary always gets beat deep and chooses 
 to beat the ball down instead of getting a sure interception. Defense is generally fun other than 
 that. Hits are loud, bonecracking beauties with the Hit Stick. Stripping the ball is hard, but 
 happens occassionally (if that makes sense) . 
  
  Madden 06 is a great game, despite some flaws. Online is fun and competitive and generally enjoyable. 
 Overall, Madden 06 is a must-have for all of you who haven't already purchased it or are fans of 
 the NFL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Madden 2006 isn't as good as the 2005 version of Madden, not even close. The graphics yes are alot 
 better, but the overall gameplay is not. One major thing I hated is the fact that there is little 
 to no features you can play with, no more challenging a play, which is annoying and the fact that 
 its hard to catch a ball is stupid. The franchise mode is nice, but for some reason when you try 
 to sim a season it gets hung up on a "jets" game and you have to start over a whole new franchise 
 which is an annoying bug. 
  
  The online is laggy and not fun since its the same stupid setup as 2005 online, which as we all 
 know, didn't work out well. I just don't know when EA will learn about online games. Anyway, Madden 
 isn't a total lose, the gameplay at times can be fun, but the animations are the same over and 
 over (I'm not joking, there is only like 4) .....
  
  Bottom Line, if you love madden, love football, hell if you even lose sports in general and have 
 a 360, pick it up and play it with your friends... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngagerqd22
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  There is no doubt that Madden 2006 for the xbox 360 is a big leap in next generation graphics, 
 but their are just a few things I didn't like. You can't challenge plays, and when you're picking 
 a play, it shows the opponent because they highlight the play. Overall I really enjoyed this game 
 and the wonderful graphics. If I could rate this game from a 1 to a 10 O would give it a 9. But if 
 it didn't have good draphics, this game would really suck. And rumor has it that Microsoft bought 
 the EA Sports licsense, and now EA only makes sports games for the 360! But yea, This Madden is pretty 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rayjrblue18
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  the game play seems like it took a few steps back lets say all the way back to about '93 or '94. 
 There's no create a player, the commentary sucks (EA Radio?) , no challenge plays, well nothing 
 is "In The Game" the only half way decent thing about this game is the graphics and even this wasn't 
 much eye candy. as a consumer you expect to get what you pay for, well don't expect this from this 
 version. hopefully ea sports will get it together in madden '07 or just like John Madden needing 
 to call it quits EA may want to think about doing the same with this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_hodges
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  There's no need to go into great detail since there are many other reviews. But I'll just hit the 
 obvious.
  
  Lack of content............ Other than the standard Play Now and Franchise Options (excluding the 
 multiplayer mode which is a given at this point) , there really is not a whole lot to do with this 
 game. Playing the game is fun. Looks great, sounds great... The animations are very detailed along 
 with the diversity of types of tackles, break tackles, catches, etc.... 
  
  Sound is great. With a 5.1 or better surround sound, you are surrounded by the stadium noise, other 
 players barking out calls, the tackles and the ball bouncing off the turf or being caught is spot 
 on. But the announcer is way too lackluster. We need a colorman and play by play. 
  
  Big gripes include not being able to call a challenge!!! As little as it seems to be, that's where 
 this game takes a big hit. By now, 2006, any football game should have the challenge option. The 
 menu system is a little quirky and confusing at times sending you around in circles. Multiplayer 
 can lag real bad sometimes and drops are common. Hard to find a decent connection with someone 
 else.
  
  Overall, Madden had a lot of hype before it's release. Graphically it does stand out, but looks 
 are not everything. Where's the content? 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspownertheone
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  This game is alright considering Ea was just experimenting what the 360 could do, whne Madden 2007 
 comes out then expect to see all the old features added in along with more amzing graphics. This 
 game can boost your gamer points very easily, get a first down, score a touchdown, rush for 250, 
 pass for 350, and win the super bowl, to name a few accomplishments, this game is very fun on two 
 palyers because it's easy to score, but you should rent it first before you buy. Bdd h hfdf h fdh 
 fj dhfkdj hdkljdhf jkf h fkjd hfd kjfh fjk d  hfjfdfdh 
 fdlsk jf d hlfd sjfh dfjkd fdkjfhdfjkd hfjdkfhfjlkdhf jdkfhdsjf d hjd ks hfdjf dhfdkjfh djl fkdfdjlfhdfjldh 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cambal1979
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  This game for anyone who has played madden before will see so much missing. Just get into the game 
 and enjoy the 'football' feel. There are somethings that do piss me off like the constant highlights 
 being abit crap for next-gen machines. Would of liked to see 2k have a go at bring out a football 
 game. EA has won a good deal for themselfs having rights for the next four years or so but hell 
 they must be able to but more into the game bring back some of the minini games withed opened up 
 more players and improved players with helped you out. So in the end realy just have fun with this 
 madden and i'm shaw EA will bring something alot alot better next year.
  
  Cambal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vidharr
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 06 for the Xbox 360 is a lame, lifeless, pale, anemic version of the same game for the 
 original Xbox. It is quite obvious that Electronic Arts just hurried it out the door in order to 
 make the release date of the Xbox 360 console, instead of bothering to fully convert the original. 
 Even the overall graphics of the game are LESS appealing than the original Xbox version, with only 
 the character models being better looking in the Xbox 360. 
  
  The Xbox 360 version of Madden 06 is missing so many game modes and features it doesn't even deserve 
 the title of "Madden 06 LITE". It's crap, don't buy it. 
  
  Buy the original Xbox version of Madden NFL 06 instead, as it is a Great game, especially combined 
 with the modes and features of NCAA 06. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: su_cory2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  madden 06 for the xbox 360 is a great looking game. It is the best looking football game ive ever 
 seen... and beleive me thats a lot. anyways it is sad because there are no longer practice mode, 
 no minicamp, and no rookie career mode. : ( its sad i know. anyways if u just like playing quick 
 play and franchise youll love madden 06. if your a person that looks forward to all the other modes 
 and practice and minicamp and what not youll feel lost, dazed and confused. i mean i thought i 
 bought a demo or something. Oh yeah almost forgot also there is no nfl europe teams : ( no BERLIN 
 THUNDER noooo. lol i also noticed teams seemed a lot better than in 06 previous to xbox 360 like 
 the texans are in the 80s not the 70s actually theres only like 2 teams below the 80s. the graphics 
 are the best especially the cinematics play after play :) . the selecting a play is easier for those 
 who arent major football fans so its pretty simple. the kicking is easier in my opinion because 
 the kick thing goes slower and it goes back and forth. instant replay was down graded now u have 
 too be in play call selection or at least not on the field ready to play when u figure u want to 
 look at the replay it wont let u. They also made it so u cant challenge plays which sucks so much 
 because we love challenging. also u cant create a player or a team. well thats my short summary 
 i would also like to note if u read this and hate ea now dont because they had to hurry up and 
 make a new game for a new system with less than 6 months to do it plus everyone knows there working 
 on 07 :) anyways expect 07 to be this good looking with all the good stuff back and more features... some 
 how :) thank you for reading also this is my first review ever let me know how it is . i would 
 buy this game if i had 50 extra bucks :) oh and its should be your difficulty theres like 5 lol 
 and i just bought it 2 days ago and its easy to play if u have before and its worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelersDJM
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I was very disapointed with this game early on, until I set the quarters to 6 minutes and played 
 a fast paced game. One major flaw that I had to accept was the computer and human players never 
 miss a field goal within range. Accuracy is always straight no matter where your arrow is when 
 you hit A. I also couldn't find a good setting to get the refs to call a realistic amount of penalties, 
 so I left them all set at 50 and was lucky to get a few penalties a game called. Thought it was 
 goofy when I couldn't draft my players during the offseason. All in all this is an enjoyable game. 
 Great graphics and player animations. Every game I played with 6 minute quarters was quite enjoyable. 
 I came to find that the gameplay was quite remarkable compared to a real game. All in all there 
 needs to be major improvements. Everybody knows that there is a huge lack of features. The potential 
 for Madden 07 is endless. Unless EA only adds a few new/old features each year, which wouldn't 
 surprise me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n3oS7oRm
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:58 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately this year isn't so hot for the Madden series on the X360. It's missing some key things 
 that has made the madden series so great. Such as the player building and the Create - a - player. 
 I hope they definately push forth and make the next one a whole lot better. The graphics are amazing 
 I love the way they look, I find myself asking though was it worth it? The visuals for less gameplay? 
 Least they keep the franchise thats all I gotta say, thats the only reason besides the graphics 
 that made me grab this game. In the end it was definately worth it. But if your a fan of Madden 
 ask yourself this, Are you more worried about the game depth? or the visuals? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skihawks
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:38 pm PT
Review:  I feel about Madden as I do the other EA releases for the 360 -- Yes, all the extras were eliminated 
 but EA is taking the Madden franchise to a new plateau. The graphics are what you would expect, 
 but I still see room for improvement. Here is a breakdown:
  
  Negative
  --Faces need a major makeover
  --No chain gang?
  --The framerate moves at PS One speed
  --Magnet 
 blockers back in action
  --Still has QB vision, which if you try to throw to your receiver assigned to the LT (left trigger 
 button) instead of passing, it pulls up the vision cone..
  --No replay challenge (which wouldn't be so bad if there weren't errors made during plays (guys 
 catching a pass with one foot inbounds and it is ruled complete)
  --Lack of options (including no alternative or old school uniforms or teams)
  --No unlockables
 
  --Sluggish controls (juking and spins are delayed)
  
  Positive
  --Player models are nice
  --Sound is excellent (real QB voices and player chatter)
  --Weather 
 and lighting effects
  --No Madden (radio voice-over is a fresh option although I would be shocked if it is in next year's 
 version)
  --Tons of animations
  --Intuitive menus and playcalling screens (definitely next gen)
  --Game plays well....
  --New 
 kicking meter adds challenge
  --On-line roster updates 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Although some of the stuff is missing it is still great! I say get this game. Although some of the 
 stuff is missing it is still great! I say get this game. Although some of the stuff is missing it 
 is still great! I say get this game. Although some of the stuff is missing it is still great! I say 
 get this game. Although some of the stuff is missing it is still great! I say get this game. Although 
 some of the stuff is missing it is still great! I say get this game. Although some of the stuff is 
 missing it is still great! I say get this game. Although some of the stuff is missing it is still 
 great! I say get this game. Although some of the stuff is missing it is still great! I say get this 
 game. Although some of the stuff is missing it is still great! I say get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th316
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 2:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is a graphic masterpiece. If you want to play some football, Madden 2006 on the 360 is 
 the game to get. By far this Madden has the best graphics and gameplay of any football game out 
 there. With that said the game is far from perfect. 
  
  I've been a long time Madden fan, it's probably been the game that I have followed the most throughout 
 the years. Especially since Madden debuted on the Playstation the game has really stuck to a system 
 of play which hasn't changed much over the years. One of the reasons I don't play alot of other 
 football games is that I don't want to learn a new button system, play call system, or a bunch 
 of "New" options. I want to spend time playing not fliping through the manual trying to figure 
 out some crazy button combination. My last Madden was 2004 on the PS2 and and it's probably my 
 favorite to date. The graphics clearly don't even come close to touching '06 on the the 360, but 
 graphics aren't everything. What you won't find on this version is most of the owner features from 
 the franchise mode, create a player, and the ability to improve players through training camp. 
 To me the last being important because it allows you as a player to improve out of a game setting. 
 '06 on the 360 is just a straight football game. I think this particular game sacraficed alot of 
 its previous features to show case its graphics and online play. 
  
  One new thing that you will notice immediately is the play calling menu. I still use ask madden 
 for defensive calls, but the option to choose plays by key player is a huge time saver. The one 
 downside is that again I think this game was meant to be played online because head to head has 
 alot to be desired. You will find that audibles are easier than ever to change and use. I do hate 
 this kick meter though, not to say that the old one was the answer. One thing that has been a big 
 improvement for me is the switch from Madden on the PS2 to the XBOX. It was something I should 
 have done earlier. Just the lack of memory cards should be enough to make the change, and the controls 
 are so similar you won't even notice.
  
  What I have noticed about the gameplay/graphics is that there are alot of quarks. How many times 
 has the camera angle end your play in the locker room tunnel? I've also noticed that there are 
 problems with plays that have the receiver catching the ball as he is running across the back of 
 the end zone. Depending on the stadium your playing in you might get a great view under the end 
 zone bleachers. There was also some plays that just had me wondering. I chased Vick way past the 
 line and he chucked the ball 50 yards for a score. I thought maybe I had changed the penalty settings, 
 nope. I then had some running plays that clearly went several yards beyond the line for a loss, 
 and a pick that ended with a run back to the 5 and the ball went back to the Packers with a first 
 down and no record of a fumble"?" I think there is at least one of these quarks per game. It's 
 nothing major and you can over look it.
  
  Value versus fun depends on what you are looking for in a football game. For all of you out there 
 that are just looking for graphics you will be happy. I look for fun. The graphics are great but 
 I wanted the game to be fun and be able to play it for awhile. This game is offense driven. You 
 will note that alot of time was spent on all aspects of the offensive part of the game and it shows. 
 The motion of the offensive players is totally realistic. There are no more cuts that would shatter 
 a mortal humans legs, there is realistic momentum, and the QB's throw is actually affected by his 
 movements (no more 80 yard passes while running backwards) . The defense has alot to improve on. 
 Most of the time I don't think I am even controlling my defensive player. Plus there are some defensive 
 quarks thaty are just annoying. I have had some beautiful shots at the QB and for some reason my 
 linemen moon walks on over to a blocker that is not even in the play"?" The momentum and break 
 a leg cuts don't transfer to the defense. You will have to get used to changing players on defense 
 in this game. You will notice that sometimes the player that is highlighted is not always the player 
 you were expecting to control"?" When that happens you miss bad! You also usually take yourself 
 completely out of the play. 
  
  Overall I would say that if you are just looking to play some football this is your game. If you 
 want more out of your football game there might be a better option out there. At any rate it is 
 worth playing even if you make it a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulletproofcow
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:49 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. I think that it looks very good. The controls are good, but it can take 
 a little while to get used to do to the new controler. Otherwise, this game amazes me. The graphics 
 are very good, though the players look like they all have lazy eyes. It is very fun to play, and 
 I recomend it to anyone who loves the series. The gameplay is very good, and multiplayer is as 
 always intense. My first game on the 360 ended in triple digits, 102 to 100. Although the lack 
 of challenging caused this game to be closer than it should have been. My opponent through a pass, 
 an his receiver caught it out of bounds and landed inbounds. He was standing out of bounds before 
 he caught it. Anyway, good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stratomaster558
Rating: 5.1
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:39 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the ESPN 2K series of football games, and sports games for that matter. 
 With Madden being the only football game out there, I thought I'd give it a try. Wow, how disappointing. 
 No create a team or player? I can't even challenge a play?! Yea, the graphics are good, but they 
 should be. That's what they were aiming for, not awesome gameplay. They players feel like they're 
 always running on ice and aiming the tackle misses half the time. I dont know, none of the gameplay 
 mechanics or the menu options make much sense, I always thought it was more fun when you could 
 actually create and run your own team in a franchise, not take an existing team with its players 
 and let the computer run it. I can honestly say I am totally displeased, and would rather go back 
 to playing NFL 2K5 rather than an up-to-date version of football like this. I'd only recommend 
 this if you're a hardcore football or Madden fan, otherwise, don't waste you're time or you're 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthDravvid
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 4:56 am PT
Review:  Madden, basically "the" football franchise in the digital world, seems to have completely missed 
 the mark on this one. EA tries to make up for lack of modes seen in older titles (ie create a team, 
 practice etc...) by bumping up the graphics and making the gameplay more flashy. Well, this is 
 one gamer that did not fall for it. I got bored very quickly with this game because, well, I myself 
 am not a huge NFL fan. Don't get me wrong, I loved the Madden games, but this one seemed to try 
 a little too hard to make it seem like WATCHING a football game. It just doesn't make the user 
 feel as involved in the game or the season as the old ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roguereptile
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Great Use of Photoshop...
  Its a shame EA Sports spent their entire budget on graphics and textures. Just imagine the quality 
 of gameplay had they just included the same features available on the xbox and PS2 game, but hey 
 give EA credit they have some huge knockers charging $59.00 for a game thats only half finished. 
 Maybe they'll do something right after this abortion and release an update that includes the ability 
 to challenge a play or even create your own players, teams and stadiums (the things that make the 
 game fun after you play it 3 or 4 times) . Well Im not holding my breath. I went so far as to write 
 a complaint to EA regarding the above issuses and havent heard back from them yet. Well I'll never 
 buy another EA game again and its a shame too because I really liked their past games but it looks 
 like their more interested in $$$ then quality now. Maybe if enough people write them and complain 
 about all the missing features in this game they'll get the picture or at least fire the game producer 
 for screwing EA's fan base. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holdintheheata1
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:52 pm PT
Review:  this game is worth 40$ at the most. i understand that the game was rushed out into the market, 
 but even if u did jus take superstar , create player, tournaments, and training camp. At least 
 keep the same great gameplay. the controls are different, the players run weird, and the camera 
 view is horrible. the game doesnt not seem like it is any madden i played before. id take madden 
 2004 over this. this game has nothing better compared to anyother madden except the graphics. i 
 am a person who loves football but cannot sitdown and play this game everyday 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Hollowell-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Madden 06 is a must buy for any football fan who owns a 360. However for the gridiron novice who 
 likes some sports games but doesn't get them often. Stay away. Football for me is like cocaine 
 for a crack head. I have to have a football game to play on my console. So I had to buy Madden 
 being the only option for the 360 at launch. The game is a dumbed down version of Madden. The graphics 
 are terrific, the sound is great, but thats where this car slams into a brick wall and goes up 
 in flames. 
  
  The only thing keeping Madden together is the decent gameplay, beyond that its cheese at best. 
 The gameplay feels like ESPN2k5. The running game is very difficult to begin with, being nothing 
 like past Madden's. However the learning curve is steep. You will figure out as you play that rarely 
 are the wholes open up the middle unless the defense is playing a 3-4 or a Dollar package. You 
 learn to cut outside and get 5-10 yards or even breaking it open. The passing game is very relative 
 to your QB. If you have a bad QB you pass horribly. If you have a great QB like Manning, you can 
 pass all day. The defensive AI is pretty bad also. The Dbacks have odd plays where they'll just 
 not pick up their man and stand there doing nothing. Or if the safety goes up for the ball, they 
 will do something completely wrong and miss the ball completely. The pursuit of the backers and 
 backs are bad also. They act as if everyone else on the field doesn't exist. Say the running back 
 is doing a HB toss to the left, and your WR is blocking the DB. If you run on the outside of them, 
 chances are the LB in pursuit won't pick up that the WR and DB are there and run right into them, 
 causing you to run for huge amounts of yards. 
  
  Playing against someone thats sitting right next to you is practically impossible. Instead of choosing 
 your plays with the X, A, & B keys. You get one box to choose your plays from so your opponent 
 can see exactly what you're picking. Online is fun, but lag is sometimes an issue. 
  
  Franchise mode is practically gone. Its a glorified season that doesn't let you do anything but 
 play the games, trade players, and thats it. The draft is assisted and you really don't get to 
 do anything. 
  
  All-in-all Madden is a fun experience to play online, but after you play enough singleplayer there 
 isn't much replayability left. If you aren't a Football crackhead like myself, then don't bother 
 getting this game. Wait until it comes out next year. It is bound to be 10 times better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: froaderick
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:43 am PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 version of Madden 06 is an ambitious but unfinished game. 
  
  Reading most of the user reviews of this game, I really expected alot more. I can understand being 
 loyal to a franchise but I cannot see justifying this mess of a game.
  
  I call it a mess because overall, it has an unfinished feel to it. The controls at times can be 
 intuitive but then moments later, you get lost. It's like they refined only parts of the game and 
 left the others behind.
  
  The graphics of course are amazing. The fully rendered stadiums and crowds are very well done and 
 yet you feel detached from them. The animations are good, but there arent that many of them so 
 you tend to see the same celebrations and same transitional animations over and over again. The 
 camera is annoying. You are either right up on the line or too far away.
  
  The sound is excellent. I had a hard time getting used to the radio announcer. I personally prefer 
 the play by play and color commentaries which are absent.
  
  I can understand that they had to rush to get the game out by launch but EA should take a page 
 out of Blizzard's book and not put out a game until it's finished. 
  
  You should rent this game first and make your own evaluation.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyns510
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:27 am PT
Review:  The 360 version of this game is worth the purchase, simply because it offers a nice spin on the 
 gameplay you already know. I agree with Gamespot and a horde of other critics that have said that 
 EA has axed a number of important features that were fun in the past - but honestly- I am really 
 in it for the gameplay. I never used most of the options like superstar, training camp, etc. I 
 have a full time job and when I sit down to play I want to play football, not tell the players 
 what to wear and eat for breakfast. To make a long story short, If you own a 360, pick up the game 
 and get used to the controls so you can become acclimated to what is bound to be the future of 
 video football.
  
  dp 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFfReAk320
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:23 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 06 wastes no time in letting you know that it's the only game in town if you want to 
 play as an NFL team. In fact, it's printed right on the front of the box. I remind you of this 
 because if the NFL 2K series still existed, this year's Madden would definitely have made a convert 
 out of of me. I've been a loyal Madden fan since 2001, and this is the first Madden game I've played 
 where I felt truly ripped off. I'll keep this one short, because most of the professional reviews 
 are right: the game is so stripped-down of everything that makes Madden fun that it's just not 
 worth playing. 
  
  The only thing I really liked about this game was that the uniforms and stadiums look spectacular 
 on an HDTV and cannot be beaten on an Xbox 1 or any other system. I was also blown away by the 
 sounds of the crowd coming through my surround-sound speakers. These two things alone make the 
 game worth a rent, but you'll soon see what I (and most others) mean in terms of gameplay. The 
 QB Vision feature was annoying and I couldn't figure out how to use it (a result of Training Camp 
 being removed from the game) . I ended up turning the radio announcer all the way down, just because 
 I hated him that much. I was never a fan of the Madden/Michaels combination (not that I didn't 
 like them, I just would have liked two fresh faces for once) , and believe me, the radio guy is 
 no step up. All he does is tell you exactly what happens on the field and gets excited every once 
 in a while when you throw a long pass. He doesn't tell you anything you can't see with your own 
 two eyes, so he really has no purpose in the game. Yes, that's right, there's absolutely no color 
 commentary. Would it have really been so hard for them to get two new announcers, or just send 
 John Madden and Al Michaels back to the recording studio with some new dialogue? 
  
  In short, if you already bought Madden 06 for any other system, this is worth a rent just to see 
 what the 360 can do in terms of sound and graphics. Definitely don't buy it if you don't have an 
 HDTV or surround sound. And if you're a 2K fan looking for a football experience, stick to Blitz: 
 The League - this game will definitely leave a bad taste in your mouth.
  
  There's always next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blax1976
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 3, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  Ea Sports dissapoints True Football fans twice in the same year. First they buy out the NFL license 
 and ESPN. They say they wanted to be the only game in town. Don't believe the hype. What they really 
 meant was that, 2ksports has made a better quality game than they have for 3 years in a row now, 
 and they were afraid of what was going to happen with the advancements of NFL2k6. They were determined 
 not to get out done once again, so basically they dished out 12billion to save face. What alot 
 of people don't know is that they hired 2 guys fron 2k to assist with the madden players and graphics 
 for the xbox 360. Thats actually the only good part about the game.
  Secondly, we as fans, have no say in the matter, and no choice. We are left wondering how good 
 2k6 could have been this year, and will Ea sports and madden ever make a realistic game. I'm a 
 fan of football, and I love football video games, and I believe as consumers we should be entitled 
 to our own choice of which games we want to play, whether its 2K, Madden, or anything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvonAllStar15
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:33 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 06' is the best football game to hit any console yet. The graphics are amazing yet, 
 gameplay and Live are amazing. This is a stepping stone to what is to become in the future. If 
 you think about it, this is the first of many football games for the 360. It will just get better 
 and better. This game is very exciting, and the graphics look so good and realistic, once you start 
 playing its hard to stop. 
  
  I give Madden NFL 06' a 7.9 out of 10. This game is great. The only thing holding it under an 8 
 is the fact that some important elements of the game were left out. Even though they were left 
 out, this game was still very good. The ability to create a player and challenge would be the biggest 
 upset to this game. Other than that this game is good.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who likes sports, especially football. I would also recommend 
 this to people who dont play sports. It would open up there eyes after playing this, and leave 
 them wanting more. This game was very well put together, and is definately a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedBuffy
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 12:49 am PT
Review:  Dont buy this game. this is crap. The only good thing about Madden are his graphics but thats 
 all. For all of you that miss NFL 2K, bad news you are going to miss it. Its a shame that EA have 
 the exclusive license of NFL and make this kind of games. when you play with another player in 
 the same XBOX 360 he and also you can see what play choose from the playbook.
  Running in this game is almost impossible. Passing is too easy. the 90% of the times you will complete 
 it.
  For all of us that love NFL 05 from visula concepts, its an insutl to play a game when you dont 
 have action replays, and tv style presentation. If you do a touchdown, nothing happens, there are 
 not fans celebrating, there are nothing only the player makieng silly celebrations.
  Well in a few words this is crap.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgracindo
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:58 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you are going to notice in this game is its graphics. You are going to be hard 
 pressed to find a sports game with a more realistic look than Madden. Even the animations are good, 
 once you start playing it it has a quitte different rhythm from xbox's madden, it looks more like 
 real football. The gameplay is not bad, in my opinion much too defense-minded, but still enjoyable. 
 Alright, let's start talking about problems...
  First thing: there is no practice mode! It is hard to believe, butif you want to practice a certain 
 aspect of the game, or if you have never played it, the only way to learn is getting your butt 
 kicked on the field, quite frustrating. It gets worse, the only game mode you have is the franchise 
 mode, which wouldn't be so bad if you could do something other than playing your schedule. You 
 can't adjust prices, build stadiums, create your player (I for instance MUST create a player and 
 name him after myself!) . If you get this game you can only do that or play online, that's it! 
 
  If I was reading this I would think, ok, there are flaws, but I really love football, and I just 
 spent a lot of money on my 360 and HDTV, so I want a sttunning looking game, it's ok. IT IS NOT! 
 There is one more major problem, more frustrating than the others. You cannot challenge any play. 
 Period. It is just unbelievable such important aspect in football just left out. What happens is 
 all the time when your QB is being rushed it doesn't matter whether the arm was going forward or 
 backward, if the QB let go of the ball it is a fumble! It happens so often you won't believe it! 
 And there is nothing you can do once you can't challenge plays.
  Well if you are thinking about getting Madden think twice. I love football, and I must have a foot 
 ball game to play with mu buddies and etc. What happens is that the problems in this games are 
 so great that the whole experience is compromised. I STRONGLY recommend that you rent it before 
 buying it, and decide yourself if the need of having a football game is great enough to put up 
 with its problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoDVeteranx5
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:49 pm PT
Review:  i was really excited to get madden 06 or the 360 because i love the madde nseries and i was looking 
 forward to see it on a next gen console. but i was surprised with what i saw the most interesting 
 thing was that Qb vision was missing and that was what was so cool about madden was that feature 
 i mean there is a little thing that acts like it but it wasnt up tp par with all ea other madden 
 games. the second thing that made me mad was the feezing of the game for no reason i mean what 
 is with that not enough power? 360 promblems? i really dont know all around it was a good game 
 the graphics were good and the detail on the characters was the best ive seen on and console thus 
 far. but that you want from your $400 console right? i mean that is what the big deal is new graphics 
 that doesnt make up the whole game you know . i mean the thing i look for in the is the gameplay 
 and how sound it is if the gameplay sucks no matter how pretty it is i'll stop playing with it. 
 that is sort of the promblem with this game is. it not that bad it's that i think it was rushed 
 a little bit and they hoped that people would buy it because of the hype of the system. don't get 
 me wrong i love ea sports it is the only sports game i play it all the sport game i own. but i 
 wished they waited a little longer and polished it up and tested it a little bit more so i was 
 just as complete as its xbox counter part.
  
  OVER-ALL
  
  8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spooner007
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:22 pm PT
Review:  WOW!!! At first look the game looks great, graphics, sound, and action are all great. Then comes 
 the matter of Madden; he puts his name on the game but nothing in the game is from anyother Madden 
 game. They took out the Madden challange points from the other consoles. They took out challenge 
 plays, and reviews. Then comes to the anouncers, not that I am complaning that Maddens voice isn't 
 there but some of the stupid comments and things where kind of fun. So I think that they should 
 call this game just EA NFL 06. *smile* WHERE IS MADDEN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedBengal
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I am floored by the overall lacking of this game. The Madden name, on this powerful of a system 
 should command more. I got this game for around $10 (long story) and it's not worth much more. 
 Aside from the many features just flat out missing (no challenges? what?) , just plain stupid things 
 happen. I saw a field-goal hit the cross bar and bounce over, it was ruled no good. That's just 
 terrible programming. The online roster updates are bad. Basically every team is between an 82-86. 
 Playoff teams are within a point or two of 4 win teams. In some case they're even, or even the 
 bad teams are higher (Seahawks 84, Bills 86) Again, these are the UPDATES!
  
  Madden '07 should rock the house on this system because they'll have plenty of time to work it, 
 but this effort to me was just atrocious for all the expectations and especially the price tag. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kruegmeister
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Having no Competition and a Monopoly is Great... For EA.
  There are no extras in this game at all. Just Quick Game, Franchise, and Online. The Graphics are 
 not that amazing for a Next-Gen Title. There is no Highlight Show like in NFL2K5 for XBOX. Disappointing.
 
  Some of the Players look plain weird. The sideline and stadium is improved but not much, there 
 is nothing special going on.
  The Controls seem slugish, you make a move and sometimes it seems that it is lagging behind.
 
  
  Now for my Favorite;
  I'm playing as the Lions (Poor me) against the Packers in Green Bay.
  Packers have a 3rd and 
 Goal, Favre sends the receiver in motion, the Receiver runs into Favre and is sliding him behind 
 the Tight End. With the Receiver running in Place the Center hikes the ball. It still gets to Favre 
 who is not behind center???
  This is just one example of the sloppy job EA did with Madden06.
  
  Avoid this Title at all 
 cost! Boycott EA and their Exclusive License!
  If this is the Turd Programming I have to put up with till 2012 then I will be disappointed because 
 NFL Football Video Gaming is my Favorite Genre, what's a Gamer to do.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAm-Jeff
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2005 11:33 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, no. The game is beautiful with stunning graphics and visuals but there is so much 
 missing from this game that it doesn't even seem like part of the Madded franchise. 
  
  You can't customize players. This was something I always loved about the previous madden games. 
 Changing little details like helmets, facemasks, sleeves, all of that was something that made the 
 game last longer and added depth. It's completely missing here for the xbox 360.
  
  No challenges. What?! You can't challenge a ruling on the field? Well that's just rediculous.
 
  
  Madden and Michaels commentary missing? I haven't been able to find a way to turn on commentary 
 in game by them. Maybe it was left out?
  
  Lack of superstar mode. I really enjoyed this mode in the PS2 version of Madden 06 and I'm sure 
 others did as well.
  
  It just seems like this game was really rushed to make launch and a lot of key features were cut 
 to do so. Big mistake IMO. Hopefully Madden 07 will redeem the franchise and it's next gen offerings. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible! MARK MY WORDS, i dont care if you are a hardcore football player DO NOT 
 BUY THIS GAME! Heres the scoop, EA SPORTS RUSHED THIS GAME and rushed it badly. EA is counting 
 there money laughing at me and anyone else who bought this game. I am a HUGE madden fan but what 
 they did to us fans by puttin this game out is unacceptable. You will feel sorry if you buy this 
 game. I want to take it back but i cant since i was dum enough to open it cant trade it in, cus 
 hey it was $59.99 ill get like 25 bucks for it. Then EA will be really laughing at me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirlotto
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 7:35 am PT
Review:  Here's what I think:
  
  Pro's: Graphics are stellar. The gameplay seems a bit more realistic in moving around and actual 
 speed of each player. The stadium and crowd looks great. Many more well known players look great 
 but some of the other players still look basic. The PA annoucer is a nice addition. However, at 
 times, even in the first quarter, he says one more good play will seal off a victory... That's very 
 odd that they have that, that early in the game. Online play is very good as well as just playing 
 at home against a friend.
  
  Con's: Alot unfortunately. When your receiver runs a come back pattern and they catch the ball, 
 it automatically makes your receiver take about 3 yards worth of steps backwards before being able 
 to move forward. When you are in a formation other than shotgun, sometimes the control automatically 
 makes the QB step forward and getting sacked. In multiplayer, your opponent can always look at 
 your play. There is no create a player or superstar mode... nor minicamps. Franchise is very dull. 
 No control of defensive players (reads, blitzes, zones) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cms2127
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 26, 2005 5:37 pm PT
Review:  madden has the graphics, but it misses way 2 much of the original xbox features. the QB's look 
 like retarts when the go back 2 throw! But in the game wen u play a com. they r kind of a challege 
 compared to the original xbox com. i like the fact jon madden's voice is not in this game a lot. 
 hes annoyin. another gay thing is that there is no challenges. i look at the replay somthimes nd 
 the reciever caought the ball out of bounds but they rule the ball in. Overall this game is pretty 
 descent. also the sound is amazing if u got surround sound! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewezzy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 26, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  The next gen version of madden 06 is here, but does it contain the same things as the current gen 
 version ? Madden 06 for the 360 is here and it doesn't contain a lot of the great features for 
 the current gen. All of that effort put into the graphics should've been used for the features 
 . No superstar mode ? What's up with that ? That was the best they had and they forget about that. 
 No wonder it didn't get a higher score. Well at least the gameplay is still what it is. No problem 
 about that. There is still franchise mode and everything else. Some of the new things are kinda 
 good and that little injury x-ray is cool..... for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Madden 06 for the 360 is absolutely phenominal! People always complain about how there's not enough 
 content. Well... guess what? It's because EA rushed it. They only had to rebuild the whole damn game. For 
 a rushed game it's great.
  In it you have your play now, online, and franchise. The graphics although far from what they were 
 shooting for, are absolutely awesome. The gameplay is even more enjoyable than usual because the 
 vamped look. The loss of John Madden's comentary is no loss to me, because the guy on the radio 
 has a lot more enthusiasm.
  In conclusion, if you love every other Madden pick it up. If you love football rent it, you will 
 probably like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanepoopsicle
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 26, 2005 12:52 pm PT
Review:  This was a major let down to all in my opinion. I mean, come on, you can't challenge plays, create 
 players, build up a superstar, or edit players.
  Sure, the graphics are insane, but gameplay is poor. If I were you, I'd either forget it all together, 
 or rent it, because you'll be dissapointed, trust me.
  I am a fan of Madden games, i have madden 06 for ps2. believe me, you'll be shocked and appalled. 
 I'm still waiting for a good xbox 360 game to come out. I might try perfect dark zero. Dont bother 
 getting PGR 3 of Tony Hawk's American wasteland. Suck and Suck.
  Thanks you very much for reading my first ever review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonLizard
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Madden 06 has sweet graphics and menus as well as the little details such as sweat, breath, and 
 the best looking fans I have ever seen. 
  All that is great but did they improve other aspects for 360? Not really. They basically took every 
 other madden spiffed upped the graphics and removed some options. They still have franchise mode, 
 online multiplayer, and exibition modes. But they dropped 4 player support!!!! I don't understand 
 why they had to drop the 4 player support? Can the 360 not handle 4 user controlled players at 
 once? This is mabye the most annoying part about the game because I want to play with more than 
 2 people. 
  Bottom line is if you have played madden before you know what you're getting but with insane graphics 
 and display enhancements. I can't wait until next year's madden but for now this is definately 
 a good game of football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyruler12
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 3:11 pm PT
Review:  When you first pop in Madden 06 for the Xbox 360 and play a game, you will be amazed by how incredible 
 the graphics and overall gameplay are. But as you play the game more and more, you will start to 
 notice how little has been packed into this $60 game. First off, Owner mode has been dropeed, along 
 with mini-camp, the new superstar mode, and CHALLENGES! How can you honestly call a game as real 
 as it gets if you can't even challenge calls. 
  
  The gameplay is pretty good all around, along with amazing animations, but the presentation is 
 just not there. The announcer doesnt really follow the plays very well (even he is fooled by your 
 play actions) , and makes no comments at all about the replays after big plays. 
  I wouldn't really call this a complete game. It's got a franchise mode with only the most basic 
 things, a play now mode, and thats pretty much it. 
  
  EA Sports launch titles were all just demos pretty much, all graphics no features. I know EA was 
 rushed into making their games, but when the 2K games have all of their old features when they 
 started developing the games at the same time, its hard to believe them.
  
  This Madden game is great for people who are casual gamers, but if you want a game that you can 
 keep on playing over and over again, don't buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I do understand that EA had to get this game out for the grand entry of the Xbox360, but man I 
 cant believe they continue to put out such crap! I wouldnt how long they think their fans going 
 to put up with this mess.
  First off, the graphics are wonderful, but even here, EA just piss me off, and Im sure others, 
 but not allowing the user to change the freakin camera! That is just about the lamest thing Ive 
 seen in years. 
  The sound it good, if only because they mercifully took Madden big mouth out of the game, the rest 
 of the game sound is pretty much like last years.
  That is just about it, there isnt anything else really in the game, EA pretty much dumped everything 
 else for this eye candy of a game. No mini camps, no superstar mode, no editing players, you 
 pretty my have the game and the online play.
  EA has a lot of nerve selling this game for $60. I only have it because it came with my 360, and 
 I cant wait to get to the store and trade this bad, bad boy in. This is without a doubt the bottom 
 of the barrel for EA. They were better off not putting out anything, then to put this thing out.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrt20
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 23, 2005 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I have played the Madden series every since the 90's. I have never been so disgusted. It looks 
 like EA sports just wanted an appearance on the new xbox 360 console. No time effort or even thought 
 was put into this game. It lacks all the greatness that Madden football is about. You might as 
 well just watch the computer play, who wants the camera that close to the line? and who wants to 
 pull the R Trigger to Sprint? Who would box this game and get everyones hopes up of having a good 
 football game to play on their new Xbox 360? "Someone Please stop the sale." Do not waste your 
 59 dollars on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360boy1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 7:20 pm PT
Review:  game because the graphics are great and so is the gameplay so what if they took away challenge 
 it was rigged from the beginning, as for the mini-camp did'nt really see any point in it. If they 
 would just put an owner mode and improve the graphics, enhance the rosters, make sure the stats 
 are right and make them worth something; i don't won't a 92 rated speed tiki barber and everyone 
 is hawking him down on defense on next years game i'm good to go. But anywayz this a great game 
 you need this game for the xbox 360 it's worth the $60 dollars, this game will keep you occupied 
 until madden 07 comes out with i hope espn features. but all in all DO NOT I REPEAT DO NOT LISTEN 
 TO THE KNUCKLE HEADS THAT GIVE THIS A BAD RATING BECAUSE EA DID A GOOD JOB NOT GREAT BUT GOOD JOB 
 WITH THIS GAME BUT THEY COULD NEVER BE AS GOOD AS NFL2K. (WHATS WRONG EA CAN'T COMPETE WITH THE 
 COMPETITION, DOESN'T MATTER B/C NBA 2K IS TAKING CARE OF NBA LIVE AND I HOPE 2K SEES MY IDEAS ABOUT 
 A FOOTBALL GAME ON THERE FORUM AT THERE WEBSITE.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rick2438
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 23, 2005 9:49 am PT
Review:  EA has taken steps backwards on this and sold a crappy product to you for a extra $10. It seems 
 like the masses has been fooled by EA's smoke and mirrors trick. TRUE Madden followers were not 
 fooled at all. EA's claim to fame WASit's in the game". Well ..., they took it out of the game. 
 This watered down version of the original game was disappointing to say the least. This was EA's 
 opportunity to save face after having their butts handed to them by the 2K team last year. Well 
 If you can't beat them .., buy them. Being that EA is the only team on the block now dose not mean 
 to slack off on the product. 
  
  The true Madden followers love the FULL game. The Franchise , the ability to challenge a call, 
 the ability to set individual assignments on "D". The ability to draft-up from NCAA. and the list 
 goes on. 
  
  What's NEXT : EA will make a big deal for the ' 07 version of Madden by adding back on all of the 
 stuff left off. This game feels rushed. 
  
  Message to the TRUE Madden followers : Lets hope that one day EA will get it together and get back 
 to the basics of producing a good COMPLETE Madden football game. 
  
  Game Highlights : There is one good thing about this NG version. It has nice graphics, however 
 PC gamers have been experiencing this for years. 
  Message to EA : Do it right or don't do it at all . Some one should have lost their job behind 
 this crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tempest91
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I have played Madden NFL since its birth. Every year there seemed to be vast improvements upon 
 the previous edition. Then came Madden 2003. This installment seemed to regress the gameplay in 
 exchange for some gimmicks that i have since pushed aside in my own mind. I played 2004 and still 
 I couldn't get excited so I picked NFL 2k4 ESPN and was immediately impressed. Since then I have 
 played NFL 2k5 and Madden 2005 and I was still more impressed with 2k sports rendition better. 
 I was very disappointed that instead of making better games that EA Sports chose to simply buy 
 the rights so that 2K could no longer beat them in quality gameplay and presention. So I just got 
 Madden 2006 for 360 and I found myself right back in 2003 again. Stuck with amazing sound and looks, 
 yet gimmicky, cheap, and very poor looking gameplay. Tackles look weak, catches are ok but throwing 
 the long ball is much too easy, and throwing mechanics as well as many other aspects need a lot 
 of work. I can only hope that a year can give EA enough time to develop a good next gen game that 
 I will enjoy. And not gimmicks surrounded by a shotty presentation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LIL-G-07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2005 7:26 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS THE BEST MADDEN YET. GRAPHICS ARE A 10. GAMEPLAY IS GOOD, TAKES A WHILE TO GET USED TO. MISSING 
 A FEW GAME MODES ,BUT OVERALL THE GRAPHICS MAKE UP FOR IT THIS YEAR BECAUSE IF THEY DID THIS IN 
 A SHORT AMOUNT OF TIME THEN THINK OF WHAT THEYLL DO WITH A WHOLE YEAR. LOOK FOR MADDEN 07 TO BE 
 OUTTA THIS WORLD. PLUS THEY GOT RID OF MADDEN (THANK GOD) AND NOW U HAVE A LOCAL ANNOUNCER. THE PLAYERS 
 LOOK AS REAL AS EVER AND THE FACES LOOK LIKE THE REAL PLAYER. I JUST CANT GET OVER THE GRAPHICS. OVERALL 
 THE GAME IS GREAT AND I LOVE THE GAME AND I THINK EVERYONE ELSE WILL ALSO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Locke_Seven
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Opening video, Super Bowl 40, Eagles down in points, hardly enough time left on the clock, Mcnabb 
 complete's a short pass, and quickly down's the ball. Time enough for one last play, and then the 
 video ends. Wow, great graphics in that video, you have a great feeling and great expectations 
 before you even get into the menu. Well that feeling doesn't last long, you get into the menu of 
 the game and wait.... it's missing NFL SuperStar. Wait wasn't that one of the selling points of 
 Madden 06, well of course it is... for Playstation 2 and Xbox (org.) , but they took it out of the 
 360 version. Well that's ok, nothing that big of a loss, I mean you still have Franchise mode. 
 So you start playing, opening graphics of the game great. Kick off, you receive the ball, start 
 running, first thing you notice is the way the opp. tackles you. Not that same old blocky take 
 downs, very smoth and well done. Now you select your frist play. Well this is one of those disappointments, 
 they changed the entire selection of the play layout. But that's ok too, nothing big there. So 
 you go to snap the ball for the first time. Yet your view doesn't fell right, for some reason they 
 moved the camra angle to be right behind the QB, so close you almost feel disconnected from the 
 play. You snap the ball, frist play it got intercepted. Now your on defense, you choose a blitz 
 play, waiting for the snap you go to move one your defensive player's that are going to blitz. 
 Instead of blitzing you want him to be in QB spy mode, but wait you can't do that, all of a sudden 
 you at a loss. In PS2 and XobX you could select anyone player and change his action for the next 
 play, but now in this game. So the play is started, the QB throws the ball, the WR goes to catch 
 the ball, but it looks like he doesn't have both feet in bounds, yet the ref. calls it a catch. 
 So you go to challenge the play, yet wait you can't, another thing that was also taken out of the 
 game. 
  
  I think the game is great, the graphics great, but why did they take out things from the game that 
 were already in place. I just don't understand. Other than the loss of some things in the game, 
 it wasn't a intire loss.
  
  Plus one last note, John Madden isn't even commentating in the game..... WHY? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muhen
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 22, 2005 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review, so excuse me if I do something "wrong".
  
  Let me just say, I think that the 360 version of this game is the best version out of all of them, 
 the crowd is no longer a group of flat-card board-ish looking people waving their arms about, the 
 graphics are great and game play is very nice.
  
  This 360 version does have some glitches though. Sometimes you'll run right through the the defender, 
 or when you're trying to tackle someone, you'll just drive at them, but wont grab on and pull them 
 down. Sometimes you'll throw the ball to your receiver, and they'll just let it smack their chest 
 without even moving their arms as if they cant see it. Luckly though, these slight bugs rarely occur, 
 so they don't shatter game play to badly. So don't cancel out on this game because you think it'll 
 bug up to much to be enjoyable.
  
  Overall it's not to much different from the old installment (Madden NFL 05) . Precision passing, 
 and the new commentary is obviously a nice add on, although precision passing never really comes 
 in use ( and is recommended that only "skilled" players try to use it) , and the commentary still 
 gets annoying after a couple weeks of play.
  
  This may sound like I'm bashing the game into the ground, but I'm only pointing out the bad things. So 
 lets move to the really good points.
  
  The graphics, wow, just wow. They're great! When I first played it, I was amazed, I couldn't get 
 over it! It's so realistic, and dirt actually gets on your uniform depending on what happens, as 
 opposed to the other versions it just appears on you're uniform after the first half. It also shows 
 the injuries as they happen, no more of the taking the guy off the field and then about 5 minutes 
 later they tell you he'll be okay. It will show you what was strained, broken, fractured, pinched, 
 and so on.
  
  Those are really the only "big" changes with the 360 version, aside from a few small tweaks with 
 game play and controls.
  
  
  Any one that has a 360, and enjoys football, should definitely check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chief_Kuuni
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was lacking in the everything compartment except graphics. It was missing create 
 a player, can't challenge a play. Alot of the little things here and there, I can't wait to get 
 the new one next year, when it gets everything right. I know it's the first year of the console 
 and they probably rushed the game to get it out. Just wish they could have put a little more into 
 it. Threw the reviews it wasn't something I normally wouldn't have bought but it was madden for 
 the 360 and I really wanted it for the graphics. And it's exactly what I expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostNC360
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 9:53 am PT
Review:  Madden 06 for the Xbox 360 greatly disappointed me feature wise. What kind of football game does 
 not have a fantasy draft for franchise mode, create a player or team, or alternated jerseys. Also, 
 whats the deal with the coin flip screen. People want it to look like it is actually happening, 
 not just see a coin. Plus, the pre-game show where the players run through the tunnel is terrible. 
 Last time I checked, there is more than 7 guys on a football team. Isn't this game supposed to 
 be Madden. Where is his commentary during the game? All we get is a radio station that sounds horrible. 
 I know it sounds like all I have to say is bad things about Madden so here are a few positives. 
 For those of you who just like to play with friends or do quick matches with the CPU then this 
 game is great. The actual game play is solid and as for the graphics, well they are just amazing. 
 Playing against a friend or on Live is really fun to because you aren't worried about all the horrible 
 features. Overall, I expected more out of the "Best selling football franchise's" next-gen game. 
 There is a good game in Madden. It's just hidden under multiple careless flaws. Hopefully Madden 
 07 can straiten things up for us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiitana
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 20, 2005 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, I was throughly disappointed with Madden 06 for the XBox 360. It was bad enough 
 they got the exclusive license, but then they had to blow it on this. Frankly, it's just laziness. 
 To have nothing more than the base game, that's unacceptable.
  
  Gameplay:
  Nothing more than you'd expect. It's pretty much standard Madden gameplay through and through. 
 Nothing new, but nothing horribly missing. One big problem though, only two player multiplayer 
 per console!
  
  Graphics:
  The one redeeming quality of the game, and frankly the only real reason I got it. However, I'm 
 selling it to a friend of mine (a Madden freak) at a lower price just to get rid of it.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is pretty good with some decent voices. The announcers don't get all that annoying.
 
  
  Value:
  Frankly, this game is just not worth it. The only modes are a Quick Game and Franchise. That's 
 it. No Create-A-Player, Create-A-Team, Create-A-Anything! Sorry, there is no excuse for this.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  Wait for next year. If you must play this year's Madden, get the XBox version so you get the extra 
 features. Graphics alone are not enough to warrent the $60 price tag (the cost when I got it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blinke916
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 20, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  Madden 06 should not even be called Madden 06. Madden got rid of all the things that made madden 
 so fun to play in the first place. The graphics are really good and they put in the hall of fame. 
 To be honest i have not played the game long enough to put any players in the hall of fame. If 
 madden 06 was not rushed then the developers did a really bad job. They got rid of fantasy draft, 
 different camera angles, the ability to edit player appearances, the ability to challenege a play, 
 and franchise mode lost all of the unique aspects that made madden better than all of the other 
 football games. Not being able to do the day to day business for the franchise or move the team 
 to another city really has me disapointed. All of my friends that bought Madden 06 have stopped 
 playing it and have been trading it in for $25 store credit which is what i would recommend all 
 owners of Madden 06 to do in protest. I will give Madden 07 a chance but if it is the same as madden 
 06 then I will be forced to give up football games permanently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsxpilot02
Rating: 3.4
Date: Dec 19, 2005 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I bought this title even before I got a 360 because I thought for sure this was one title I thought 
 I couldn't go wrong with. I played the XBOX version and it rocked even more than '05. But upon 
 finally getting a system I popped this game in and was horrified to find everything had been changed. 
 The graphics even looked sloppy. The menus are different, and the gameplay is all messed up. Wait 
 a year if you're looking at this. They even switched to the ESPN style kicking, which was aweful. 
 No mini-camp, no precision passing, no QB vision. It's like playing Madden 99 or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 4:47 pm PT
Review:  People who complain about this game losing features piss me off. I mean I thought when you bought 
 Madden you bought it to play football not make stadiums. I mean come on listen to yourselves. The 
 is a great game for playing football. The garphics are great the sound is stunning. The new animations 
 are insane. It still has franchise mode and you still get to re-sign and do the draft. But most 
 importantly playing the games are a blast. This is the greatest foot ball game i've ever played. 
 I reccomend to all true football fans. It is truly a next gen experience. Online is pretty laggy, 
 so don't buy it for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake0401
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 18, 2005 12:12 am PT
Review:  When you first fire it up, Madden 06 for the xbox360 offers an adrenaline rush only matched by 
 those high-school football friday nights. This is ever apparent in the HD version where everything 
 looks crystal clear and you would almost say it looks better than watching standard definition 
 broadcasts. The look, atmosphere and depth of the playing field, and the warriors that are put 
 on it is phenomenal. However getting into the bread and butter of the gameplay is another issue. 
 For instance the defensive assignments that you can tinker with are now gone, your challenge as 
 the opposing team tosses one up and catches it out of bounds, gone, zooming out when you are using 
 the coach cam, gone. Yes the list goes on.... and on..... superstar gone, minicamps gone.... oh 
 the sadness. Luckily the overall presentation and feel of playing a buddy next to you is pretty 
 unmatched. It really is a visual blessing as far as football is concerned. There definately is 
 room for ALOT of improvement, not only wiht the further implimentation of missing features, but 
 also with improved face scanning technology, no more fake spike on the left analog, and also the 
 general flattening out of the games many wrinkles. This game is for me something that is very enjoyable. 
 I wanted a football game for my next gen console and ea was the only one with the butter. So I 
 picked it up, and although its great for me and satisfying (online is great!) as well as a great 
 game to pop in with the boys and drink some beer and get intense, it really excites me because 
 I know what is coming. I think next years xbox360 version of madden will be a grand football game, 
 bold prediction, best ever. However I think that this is more like a preliminary Madden 07, a beta 
 build, and one that needs extensive work. Regardless if you are a hardcore football fan Madden 
 will find a place in yours, and your friends, hearts. However if you are looking for a great looking, 
 more fun sports game hit up nba 2k6 or nhl 2k6, both of which had an ample amount of time spent 
 into making them than any of ea's launch titles. Its fun, and its pretty, but less is definately 
 not more, stick with your xbox or ps2 version and wait it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notetoself1
Rating: 2.1
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  graphics are good, gameplay is horrible, wen marvin harrison drops passes thats wen i draw the 
 line, its the worst football game i've ever played. madden on the xbox had 100 times more better 
 gameplay, and i thought that game wasnt great. ea should just get rid of the god dam contract and 
 put it up for grabs cause they cant make a good football ever. in this so called next gen game, 
 excellent players like: marvin harrison, tony gonzelez, jeremy shockey, terrell owens, chad johnson, 
 and whoever else you can think of that has great hands in the game, drop the ball, they all just 
 drop the ball, typical ea stuff, half assing a game and charging you 60 bucks. all i have to say 
 is ***k ea, they just ruined my whole next gen football experience, they suck, alot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmoore70
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 14, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  In some aspects and opinions this a greater game than all other Maddens before it. It may not include 
 the indepth owner mode or preseason drills or superstar mode. It may be better than the current 
 gen versions of it because everything that is included in the game it exceeds, and does an excellent 
 job of. This is the Madden I've been waiting for ever since I started playing football games. REALISTIC 
 GRAPHICS-REALISTIC CONTROLS. It doesn't have the lame superstar mode or okay preseason drills or 
 the mediocre owner mode.
  Sure the drills and owner mode were fun; but the superstar mode was completely abismal. I dont 
 care about those features ina sports game, I'm a college athlete myself, and ive always wanted 
 a game to mimic every movement and detail in the game i play in real life. I'd rather give up complex 
 features for the level of detail it gives you in the gameplay, ther is no other football game like 
 it. If you're looking for that then Madden for the 360 is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore0115
Rating: 3.3
Date: Dec 13, 2005 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible. The only good thing about it is the graphics, and even those will be twice 
 as good next year. It was rushed and you can tell. Please do not buy this game, rent it just to 
 see the graphics. Piss poor franchise mode. I didn't even like the gameplay. I know that everything 
 will be ten times better next year. If only 2K could of come out with a football game, it would 
 be complete and great just like their NBA 2k6 which destroys live on the 360. I buy madden every 
 year, but this was just plain bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 3:00 pm PT
Review:  In Madden 06 for the 360 the graphics are amazing. I like the gameplay more then the ones for the 
 other systems. But some small details bring this game down. When you are playing in a game when 
 its snowing and there is snow on the feild it looks like your players are hovering off the ground 
 a little not a big deal but still a little annoying. The frame rate in this game isnt the best 
 either but truthfully the frame rates in all of the launch titles are choppy. But other then that 
 this is actually a really good football game. If you enjoy the maddens pick this game up and give 
 it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilfalcodihokuto
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 12, 2005 7:02 am PT
Review:  As many others wrote, the graphics are superb, sound is in the average, but it lacks many things 
 we were (I definetly was) expecting from a Madden game.
  
  The only game options you have are single match or franchise, no mini camps, no drills, nothing 
 else.
  
  This makes it quite harder to learn controls for people like me coming from a different controller...
 
  
  No Madden cards like in the PS2 version which I found nice to collect...
  
  Obviously EA didn't have enough time to finish this, but they found the time to charge 60 bucks 
 for it, and who cares a Madden game will sell anyway.. won't it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingisaactheiv
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:21 am PT
Review:  Let's Start with the horrible gameplay. Receivers seem to catch every pass coming there way. They 
 took out a LOT of the many modes that madden had to offer. And there is virtually no commentary. 
 You better have your ipod on stand by to entertain yourself while you play, because the commentary 
 is terrible. Madden doesnt even make an appearance in his own game!!! This is exactly what happens 
 when a company buys the rights to a game. They usually put out garbage and force us to buy it if 
 we want to play nex-gen football. That's not fair EA. If you buy the rights to a game, at least 
 put some effort into the gameplay and not just the graphics. It goes to show you that EA is only 
 concerned with money, because the Live franchise is struggling of late as well. They take there 
 top sellers and never imporve on them after many complaints. And then have the nerve to charge 
 $60 for this crap??? Shame on you EA!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydrolite
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 11, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Madden 06 is a solid football game but a terrible madden game. It plays out like a real football 
 game as well as any game can but thats just not enough. When making two identical games (refering 
 to madden 06 on xbox) the second edition must contain more content or some kind of improvement. 
 There is none!! If there is anything there were reductions! Okay first off it wasn't just some 
 elements of gameplay but just the game of football. You can't even challenge plays! I've lost one 
 game and it was off a fumble after my QB tryed to throw the ball it was returned for a TD. I am 
 sure it would have been overturned if i had reviewed. 
  
  
  Now just for the general reductions for the series and from the last gen system. Where did madden 
 go? He dosen't commentate in this game! It's like making a tony hawk game without being able to 
 skate as him. Also several game modes have been cut and the franchise mode has been slimmed down. 
 Basiclyy this game has lost all attitude and emotion of the NFL and madden.
  
  The graphics are okay but don't take advantage of the new system like a launch game should. With 
 the cuts in the game it is really not worth the extra 10 dollars. All in all though it is a fair 
 football game and is worth RENTING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpspeed
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 9:27 am PT
Review:  I just picked this game up because I finally found an Xbox 360. I have been playing the Madden 
 football games since the days of the Sega Genesis. I have always been a huge fan of the series. 
 Madden 06 for the Xbox 360 looks fantastic. It plays very smoothly and the new play calling system 
 is interesting. I just have one huge gripe... why is Madden not doing the in-game commentary? I 
 understand that they scrapped some ideas to make sure they had the game out at launch, but this 
 is a glaring error. The game just doesn't feel like Madden football without the commentary of Mr. 
 Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeeswin24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 10, 2005 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Madden NFL 2006 for the XBOX 360 takes small steps towards next-generation gaming. The graphics 
 are absolutely amazing, the player models are incredible, the stadiums couldn't look more exact, 
 and the crowd no longer has the one dimensional look as if cut and pasted from a photograph. As 
 far as the gameplay is concerned, '06 has the usual gameplay that you come to expect from the Madden 
 Franchise, with some small improvements. The Online Mode is certainly an improvement over the Maddens 
 of yester-year, as you now can choose from various options, including quick matches and sectionalized 
 lobbies. The only downside to this game is the lack of features. Madden 06 for the 360 has seemed 
 to have left out some of the key features, including training camp and the new superstar mode. 
 Overall, Madden 06 is a fun game with lasting appeal if played online. The graphics are certainly 
 next-gen but other aspects of the game are only minor improvements or have been left out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExquisiteGaming
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 6:27 pm PT
Review:  STRENGTHS: The Visuals Are By Far The Best Feature This Game Has To Offer. The Players And Stadiums 
 All Look Fantastc, With A Huge Amount Of Detail Going Into Both. All The Uniforms Are Perfectly 
 Designed Down To Every Little Stitch And Blemish. Helmets Look So Real Its Scary And Even Feature 
 Water Drip Marks When It Snows Or Rains. Players Also Have Sweat Beads That Roll Off There Skin, 
 Which Is Awesome. All The Stadiums Are Exact Down To Every Last Seat And Window. The Actual Gameplay 
 Is Another Strong Point. With Over 5000 New Animations, Everything Justs Looks And Feels Very Realistic. 
 You Will Be Amazed How Close The Action Looks To The Real NFL. The Pace Of The Game Has Been Slowed 
 Down Quite A Bit, But It Brings Out Things You Have Never Seen Before In A Football Game And Once 
 Agian Just Makes The Whole Expierence More Realistic. The Actual Control Is Dead On And Flows Very 
 Nice With The Rest Of The Gameplay And Thats All You Can Ask For. The Presentation Has Totally 
 Been Revamp With New Commentary, Cut Scens And A Play Selection Screen That Provides A lot Of Depth. 
 If You Don't Already Know Madden And Michaels No Longer Do The Commentary. A Radio Broadcaster 
 Does The Play By Play And Gives Some Extra Exitment. The Sound Is Great As Well With Loud Crowds 
 And Player Chatter. Each Superstar QB Has There Own Voice Tones And Cadence Calls.
  
  WEAKNESSES: The Value Of Madden 06 Really Takes A Big Hit Due To The Lack Of Features. No Create 
 A Player, Superstar Mode, Mini Camp Drills, Practice, Edit Rosters, Challenges, Camera Changes, 
 Cheerleaders... The List Just Goes On And On. There Is A Dynasty Mode But It Has Been Stripped Of 
 All Its Ownership Features. The In Air Ball Physics Are A Bit Off Expecially When Passing Over 
 The Middle. The Footsteps Of The Players Are Way Too Loud. When You Put A Player In Motion Or Look 
 At Your Receiver's Routes, The Camera Zoom's Out And Does Not Zoom Back In Until The Play Is Over. 
 
  
  OVERALL: I Personally Love This Game. As A Huge Fan Of Madden Games Of The Past, I Think We All 
 Would Agree Madden Was In Desperate Need Of A Total Makeover And Thats What It Got. Yes, The Game 
 Is Missing A Ton Of Features, But With An All New And Extiting Presentation, Slick Gameplay, And 
 Graphics That Will Take You Breath Away, The Game Is Truly "Next Gen" And You Really Can't Go Wrong 
 With This One. I Recommend People To Just Look Past What Is Missing And Look At What The Xbox 360 
 Has Created... Which Is Hands Down The Best Football Game Ever.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ladel924
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 10, 2005 4:31 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Madden. They sweat, they drool, they run accoridng to deadly accurate speed 
 numbers. Madden 06 lacks many of the cuddely features we loved to snuggle with, such as training 
 camp, owner mode, and replay saving. However, execeptional graphics compensate for the lack of 
 cuddlyness, as well as the facial depictions of many superstars. Eli manning has a WAY bigger nose 
 in the game then he does in real life, so flaws are aplenty. Instant replay sweat on the players 
 makes me sweat, and me weiner grows bigger. This game is fun, online is the best part. Thank you 
 fans! I love you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAFDOG
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:13 pm PT
Review:  okay well its about time i had my say on the Xbox 360.
  
  MADDEN NFL!!! i hated the older versions wastn really looking forward to playing this one but i 
 gotta say, my eyes are feeling good.
  
  At first glance i looked at it and thought... eah it looks okay.. but then after playing it some 
 more and noticing how well teh characters move, how smooth the gameplay is, there is 100% solid 
 framerate in this, it simply looks amazing.
  
  too be honest the menues are a letdown, there nto very entertaining or lively and kinda boring, 
 its a stab at somethign new, but otherwise meh. and the lack of an actuall coin toss or any view 
 of friendly before the game interaction between teh 2 teams takes away from the realistic broadcast 
 look.
  
  The players themselves look amaznig, from details to facial hair, to dimples, to frekles, to well 
 just alot of detail.
  
  one thing that really shows off this game was whenever a play finished off with something spectacualr 
 itd have a kool lil player close up thingy like a eral broudcast. and this is when the detail 
 really shines. from the way the clothes move, to the players faces (and all the details i said 
 before) and to possibly the best thing of this game, the massively realistic looking sweat just 
 dripping down the players neck, it looked awsome. and i was very satisfied.
  
  Maddens picks make the planning the next play very much easier to all novices and non footbal fans 
 out there, and play calling is also quick and easy. even if ur not adept with the football, or 
 fully into the GREat american sport taht u like to call NFL, u should like this game. But be fair 
 warned, ull need at least a slight grasp on the rules of this to enjoy it. 
  
  soooo..
  
  If u like NFL, and dont have any sort of disliking towards madden. well this is one to get.
 
  
  If u dont like NFL and ask urself when u see the cover hoos madden and why does he always have 
 earphones onthen avoid this.
  
  but if ur neither of them but like sports games, then thsi one is definately worth hiring.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReviewWriter
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 11:30 am PT
Review:  Certainly the moment you play/played this you knew it wasnt the same Madden. The Last time I seriously 
 played madden was 2004 for PS2, and how I miss it. But it didnt take me long to see the hype of 
 Madden 360 was just nice looking models which you cant really see because Theres no camera angles! 
 
  
  Like NBA Live 06 (it hurts to say that name) , Madden 06 disappointed the crap out of me. There 
 are some cool new features like the controls and the players breath being shown when its cold, 
 but this isnt good enough to cover up why the game isnt good.
  
  Many of my Madden loving friends even said its just not the same, some even said it feels like 
 ESPN football. I got Live and Madden the same night and well theyre both made by EA Sports, so 
 does someone have to go down there and say No thats a bad job! They rushed Madden because it 
 is new in a way, but they left so many features out like mini camp, practice etc. Not so much but 
 enough to make you say Why? 
  
  Not so many glitches that I know of, but the players do leap through each other sometimes.
  
 
  The game does have an okay play list and the best thing about the game is the Achievements that 
 will add on to your Gamer Score which is time consuming; mostly because of the 30 year franchise 
 unlockable, but I managed to get all 11 achievements.
  
  Even though I was disappointed with it, I did get used to it, but still its not the same. Like 
 I said for Live Maybe Next Year.
  
  Final thought: Play it, so you too can see what was done wrong and right, and its over priced. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcalisti
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 10:06 am PT
Review:  Madden NFL 06 on Xbox 360 is a good game. It's just that the new console version is lacking some 
 of the unique qualities that EA usually produces. Little features such as...
  
  - No squib kicks
  - No practice mode
  - No mini camp drills
  - No alternate uniforms, just 
 your standard home and away.
  - Can not edit player's equipment
  - No storyline central in Franchise
  
  This is some what disappointing. I tend to think that 
 the game was rushed. It also seems that the actual game play has something missing. The tackling 
 and scramble just doesn't have good fun feel as prior Maddens. Graphics wise, the game is beautiful. 
 The jerseys, helmets, faces and crowd look incredible. The clarity of HD is amazing. Also, the 
 surround sound is great. This is their first step onto a new generation of gaming. I feel Madden 
 NFL 07 will make up for it, now that they have an entire year to work on it. All in all, Madden 
 NFL 06 is a good game and is a must buy for any Madden series fan. But for someone who is looking 
 just to pick up a quality football to play from time to time, this may not be for you. I look forward 
 to next year's Madden. Hopefully they will throw some of those old goodies back in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tygerlucas
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 7, 2005 6:32 pm PT
Review:  ok madden u mest up you just did i dont think that if it does the same thing on next ger ration 
 they will make that much munny i dont know why you cant challenge i do like the play calling is 
 just great and also the graphics is just the best that ever came to football 0-0-0-0-0 i like the 
 controols but there is not alot of madden talking so you know what i mean we need to do better 
 you not what i mean pease yall players go xbox and you need to get halo 3 out there really fast 
 and dont get the core xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superstarue
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 7, 2005 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Alright enough with these reviews about how gameplay features are lacking. Think about it, it's 
 a whole new game with a whole new system. Ea was givin around 3-4 months with a final developer 
 kit to build this game. Not alotta time by any standards. I gave this game a low grade because 
 of the gameplay alone.
  
  Gameplay - 5 
  
  Really this is next gen correct, how can people run through each other. And it does'nt happen once 
 every few games, it happens atleast 3-4 times a game. No challenges? Cmon give us simple challenges 
 and redo it next year if that was your plan. Now us Madden players of a few years will know this 
 lovely thing. How many times can a ball go through a players arm/body/helmet, this is very saddening 
 when you think you make a great play and then the ball goes through your arm. Super dives and the 
 amazing defensive back play is still in. Defensive lineman can now dive 5 yards instead of just 
 corners. Thats enough for now cause I can continue to complain for a few more paragraphs.
  
  Sound - 8
  
  The sound is really good, hits sound good and the everything seems to put 
 you into the action. Crowds need to be more realistic with their chants cause it does'nt seem to 
 ever get really loud in a stadium. And the footsteps seem kinda loud sometimes.
  
  Graphics - 9
  
  Simply put they are great and I'm not even playing on a HDTV... yet. My only 
 complaint is with little things like a players jerseys are off. Some should be tight not all jerseys 
 have longer sleeves on them.
  
  Controls - 9
  
  Controls are very smooth and very easy to find and use. I got used to them in about 2 games and 
 i had barely played an x-box up until I bought the 360. Been a PS2 boy for a while.
  
  Overall - 7.75
  
  Overall, this game is'nt to bad, and it could be much better. If youre into 
 football you should pick this game up. This game is good/okay, it's missing alot from gameplay. 
 That is where it counts. If EA this year would just work on gameplay and not adding back superstar 
 mode I would be extremely happy. But we all know they will only add more and more gimmicks and 
 less and less gameplay. So EA really needs to get on the ball cause since 2K sports left the market 
 EA has gotten even lazier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ASUPfunk
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 6, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  The game has great grafics but it takes out about 60 percent of all the game. The game has basic 
 madden gameplay but with great grafics ...... thats about it. The let some no name annoucers do 
 the commetary which gets extremely anoying over time. The mini camp is taken out as well as the 
 practice mode. But the worst thing of all is the removal of reviewing plays. All of the plays called 
 wrong cannot be overturned which gets very frustrating. I think by the time madden 07 rolls around 
 it should be perfect and everything missing will be put back in. IF YOU ALREADY HAVE MADDN 06 FOR 
 THE NON NEW GENERATION CONSOLE DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. SAVE YOUR MONEY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BL1NDS1DE
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2005 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of Electronic Arts games, and I have been since the late 80's. So it's with much 
 displeasure that I admit that EA is headed in the wrong direction. Each year it seems that they 
 tend to cookie cut their way to success, with the exception of a few titles. Giving us the same 
 game year after year is starting to take it's toll, and irritate EA's loyal fan base.
  
  Madden 06 of the Xbox 360 unfortunately doesn't even take this distasteful approach. Instead EA 
 attempts to take away many of the game's features that are beloved by fan's instead of put in some 
 extra work and improve them. Gone is the owner mode, that while flawed, could be something great. 
 Create-a-player is gone. Ever wanna challenge a play? Forget it. EA's Madden team must have had 
 one heck of a brain-lapse when working on the 360 version of madden.
  
  Gameplay wise, on the field it's pretty much still the same, although a few features such as playmaker 
 before the snap plays are gone. The game controls great and still plays a great game of football.
 
  
  Graphically the game is hit or miss. Player models, textures, and stadiums look great, but the 
 animations need some serious work before next years release.
  
  Overall, Madden is a fun game, but loses some of it's longevity due to some stupid steps taken 
 by EA to rush this game out for launch. Let's hope next year is a big improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IloveGodcards
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 6, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is not what they say it is. The graphics are the same than in any counsel system. Dont 
 waste your money and buy it for 65 when you can buy the same exact game for 55 in a old counsel 
 system. The graphics are the same, the sound is the same, every single thing is the same. I was 
 expecting more since I wasted 10 dollars more. If you are going to buy this game, I reccomand you 
 to buy for xbox and just play it on your 360. Dont botter and waste your money on the 65 dollar 
 version of it because its practacly the  
 So do me a favor and not waste your money, but then againg, I dont give a crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirage5
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 6, 2005 10:50 am PT
Review:  I would like to start by saying EA doesnt care anymore. Chances are if you call yourself a gamer 
 you probably own an EA game. So if you call yourself a gamer you probably already have Madden 2006 
 for X-box or Playstation 2. Sure this version might have updated graphics, and well thats where 
 everything goes downhill. On top of that the graphics did not match the pre-rendered pictures that 
 were released. Game modes still the same, no new additions, no new features, and yes it cost more. 
 Its been years since the gameplay of Madden has been refined since it was brought to the Playstation 
 and X-box. Im not talking about the little things such as playmaker, hit stick, and truck stick. 
 Im talking about gameplay itself. I still want to know why footballs pass through humans, and 
 why the football weights 20 pounds. So without adding anything new why take anything away? (Like 
 challenging calls) Simple put EA doesnt care anymore and why should they. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrls69
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 2:54 am PT
Review:  Madden 06 for the X-Box 360 is a good game the graphics are awsome gameplay is great and the presentation 
 is awsome there is some char. details that they missed but im sure 07 version will be all good 
 but since EA had to cut several features to get the game ready in time for launch. Hopefully it 
 means next yrs version will be great considering they will have more time to develop all the features 
 and extra things they can with with the 360 so just wait til madden 07 hits the stores it will 
 be awsome not sayin it will be since EA has no compitention anymore so just keep ur fingures crossed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve812
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 5, 2005 11:18 pm PT
Review:  
  EA sports has cornered the market on NFL football games. The lack of competition shows in the quality 
 of their recent work in the Madden series. This bare bones editon of Madden has all of the options 
 you would expect to find in the palm pilot edition..... oh wait, the palm pilot editon has a franchise 
 mode. I recently heard a radio interview with Jordan Edelstein of EA sports. He and EA were thoroughly 
 ripped by several callers (including myself) for the fact that they are charging 60 bucks for this 
 mediocre effort. I've heard the excuses about the difficuly of programming for a new system. Honestly 
 though, would it have taken that long to at least PORT the franchise mode options, or a ref challenge, 
 or a practice mode? I remember back in 99 when Sega released NFL 2k for the brand spanking new 
 Dreamcast system? If I remember correctly, it was the best football sim ever made at the time. 
 In fact, that 6 year old game is still technically better than this shoddy effort by EA sports. 
 I wonder if thier exclusivity contract with the NFL has a product quality clause. Well, perhaps 
 the game will improve next year. Either way, my days of buying madden without reading a review 
 are over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llost1
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 5, 2005 11:07 pm PT
Review:  They put way to much hype in to this game, when they took almost everything out of it. This would 
 look great for the older gens, but for the 360? Well, it was a let down in everyway except the 
 gameplay itself. Nice to see I can have a passing or rushing game, and get the occasional sack 
 in, but the sound, lacked, the graphics could use a lot of touch ups, the facial expressions and 
 body movements could use some more variety (QB always gave 1 of 2 looks when camera is up close) . 
 If your a hardcore madden fan, even you would get disappointed in this title, if your a hardcore 
 football fan that does not care about anything but the playability in the game, then this is for 
 you. Rent before you buy if at all possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevLar1980
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 5, 2005 7:35 pm PT
Review:  How come I'm still playing the regular Xbox version of Madden 06??? I'll tell you why.... the 360 
 version is straight trash. The more I played it, trying to give it a chance, the more angry I was 
 getting. I kept on hearing, "We can do so much with this system." Well, think again. I feel this 
 game was rushed (bad move) . Ok, no training camp, no practice mode (which some people may need 
 because the game feels a little different) , a wack azz commentary (I 'd rather here annoying John 
 and Al instead of this crap) , and the little things were missing. How come there are no refs on 
 the field (they got in the way sometimes, but that's what made the game fun) . Why isn't there a 
 field goal net (come on now, how much time would that have taken to add. Most of all, why is there 
 no "challenge the play." I catch the ball and get hit at the same time...."FUMBLE." What? I didn't 
 even land yet. Gimme a break. Here's a suggestion, make all of these features downloadable.... as 
 much as this system cost.... why not. Anyway, all of my other games are fun (Need for Speed, Call 
 of Duty, NBA 2k6, and Tiger Woods) , except for this one. After typing all of this, I hope Gamespot 
 sends this to EA, or whoever. All those lovely graphics, and bad gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rooster2day
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2005 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a game for football Lover's. If you love football, you will love this game. The graphics 
 are MINDBLOWING!!! While there isn't a whole lot to do, I just want to play football. On the review 
 given by the dude from the website, he complained that there wasn't enough content to satisfy him, 
 but the main thing when playing a sport game is well.... THE SPORT! And he never once mentioned 
 the new Truck Stick, which allows the Runner (whoever has the ball and is running down-field) to 
 lower his shoulder and slam into the guy trying to hit him. It's great. I absolutely love the new 
 QB throwing vision, because it makes sense, and the precision passing is beautiful. So, if you 
 like football games for the actual football game, then yes by all means buy it. But if you're in 
 to all the little mini-games, then no stay away from it, and let somebody who does like football 
 for football buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaggi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 5, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I have loved playing the madden games from the begining and have to say this one really is a leap 
 forward in terms of graphics and gui. I love the way the stadiums look, the players move and the 
 ui for calling plays and just moving around the game.
  
  The only big comment I have about the graphics is that the players still look like they are made 
 of plastic. I know that the hardest thing to generate is real looking skin and it seems like this 
 version of madden still has not accomplished it. I do think they are getting closer, but it might 
 be a couple more versions before they get it right.
  
  I wish this version had the same extra features the other '06 maddens have. The superstar is one 
 game I loved playing on my original xbox's madden.
  
  That being said, I still think this is a great game to play if you can overlook the lack of featureless 
 version of this game. I assume they spent so much time trying to make this thing look great, that 
 the side games went away. From looking at the other EA games, I think they all went through this 
 slimming of features.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: austingamer
Rating: 4.6
Date: Dec 5, 2005 7:22 am PT
Review:  For the hard ware that the xbox 360 provides EA did not take advantage of it with this game. They 
 took a lot of stuff out of the game that is in the playstation 2 and xbox verison of madden 06. 
 Personaly I think that they could have done a lot better with the game play graphics. There is 
 nothing in the game to keep you coming back for more, the only thing they offer is a franchis mode 
 and online. The franchis mode is not worth doing because the only thing it allowes you to do is 
 play multiple season's with the same team, nothing extra. I am a pretty big madden fan and I expected 
 a lot better game considring the history of the game and with the new xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dluv
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Reasons why I have givin' Madden Xbox 360 such high reviews. For one basic reason, it levels the 
 playing field. I like playing other people as opposed to playing the computer. 
  I date back to Tecmo Bowl Football, where you have to use joystick skill to win a game not how 
 many buttons can you push before the snap of the ball. 
  With this version of Madden, there isn't that much you can do prior to the snap other than shifting 
 players. That leaves you to use what you got, like the early days of the wild west of gaming.
 
  My brother doesn't like it because of that fact. For me, that is why I like the NCAA from EA, 
 all is determined after the snap, not before. 
  The real charm is this, you have a friend over that hasn't played the much awaited Xbox 360 and 
 he plays one half of single player against the computer and then you play versus mode against your 
 guest, not using a powerhouse, and you can really have fun.
  The package choice instead of formation, you can select inside handoff, quick pass or outside run 
 and it desplays all those types of plays no matter what formation.
  Man, that is a dream for someone that likes to play others. You can enjoy the graphics as well 
 as competion.
  TO BAD FOR THE SUCKERS THAT LIKE TO PUMMELL PEOPLE BECAUSE THEY CAN PUSH BUTTONS FASTER. 
  NOW, 
 READING FORMATIONS AND MAKING PLAYS GETS BACK TO THE ROOTS OF THE FUN WE USED TO HAVE........
 
  
  EA, Keep making it simple for those that truly have skills after the snap...
  
  Look for me on line, I'm not the best but I love KEEPING IT REAL, as Dave Cheppel says.
  
  
 p. s. leave the instrutions open for your guests so they learn inside of one half of practice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rattlehead80
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 12:08 pm PT
Review:  ESPN 2K5 still is the best football game out on console today. EA you guys make me sick and lost 
 all my respect on your little stunt of taking over the rights to the NFL. What ever happened to 
 "having a choice", you guys are basically telling me either you like this football game or dont 
 buy none at all.... and god forbid Blitz is not my second option. SEGA SPORTS ALL THE WAY! Oh yeah... the 
 game..... well its ok I guess... not great. ESPN 2K5 still champion... PERIOD. For $59.99 this game 
 is crap. Hell the damn instruction booklet is only 6 pages. What the? 
  
  Bottom Line ... Graphics doesnt make a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetStreak
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Madden 06 was one of my most anticipated games for the xbox 360. Now here I am; I've had it for 
 a week.. and I've only played 3 total matches for it.. The reason why? It's too boring to finish 
 a whole game thats 5 qts long!
  
  Which is why my online record has a really high DNF%. Let me just get down to the piont.. This 
 game sux, its nor fun, its repetitive.. The quarterback walks to the line every single play - the 
 camera view zooms in on him and theres only 2 things he can do.
  
  A.) Point at his recievers
  B.) Fix his facemask..
  
  How Unrealistic!
  
  Also, there 
 are absolutely no offline features other than Season Mode. What happened to everything that they 
 hda in the previous titles? Like Superstar mod? Cmon EA.. Stop thowing this crap at us - just becaues 
 you have the NFL liscense doesn't mean you can be slackers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshgarcia89
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:51 pm PT
Review:  The game's physics are great and the graphics are flawless but the game has also lost some of its 
 features. In this madden 06, you no longer have the ability to challenge the play. The madden 06 
 for the xbox and the madden 06 for the xbox 360 are very different. The only reason I would buy 
 this game is if you are a Madden fan. The Online games in Madden 06 are extremely laggy. It is 
 easy though to get gamerscore points in this game, probably the easiest game to get gamerscore 
 points. Overall I think this game is a big dissapointment to all Madden fans out there. I don't 
 recommend this one folks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExquisiteGamer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: With Over 5000 New Animations, Madden's Gameplay Has Been Upgraded In Every Way. The 
 Game Now Has A More Slower Pace To It And Makes Everything Truly Feel Like The NFL. All The Jukes, 
 Stiff Arms And Power Moves Look And Control More Realistically. The Passing Game Is Solid But Suffers 
 With Some Slow In Air Ball Physics. Not Being Able To Challenge Plays Really Gets Frusterating 
 At Times But You Learn To Live With It After Awhile. A Whole New And Exiting Presentation, Features 
 A Fantastic Play Calling System And A Slew Of Entertaining Cut Scenes That Finally Take The Bore 
 Out Of The Madden Series
  
  Graphics: The Best Visuals I Have Every Seen In A Sports Game, With A Huge Amount Of Detail Going 
 Into The Players And Stadiums. Every Little Stitch On The Uniforms Are Exact And The Helmets Look 
 Fantastic. Faces Are Dead On With The Superstar Players But Not So With Others. Sweat Beads On 
 The Player's Skin And Helmet Drip Marks When Its Snows Or Rains Are Truly Remarkable. 
  
  Sound: If You Don't Already Know John Madden Does Not Do The Commentary In This Game. A Radio Broadcaster 
 Does The Play By Play Which Is Better Than Al Michaels But Is Really Presented In A "Radio Voice" 
 That Is Different But Pleasent To Listen Too. Crowd Noise, Hits And Player Chatter Is Almost Perfect, 
 But The Footsteps Of The Players Are Way Too Loud. 
  
  Value: The Game Really Falls Short In The Depth Department. There Is No Create A Player, Challenges, 
 Mini Camp Drills, Super Star Mode, Edit Rosters, Accelerated Clock, Madden Cards, Cheerleaders. 
 The List Goes On And On. Combined With A Franchise The Has Gone Away With Ownership Mode And You 
 Have A Very Stripped Down Game As Far As Features Go.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Overall Madden 06 Is Missing A Lot Of The Features That We Are All Used Too. But 
 Remember That EA Built This Game From The Ground Up And Only Had A Very Short Period Of Time To 
 Do It. The Gameplay Is Amazing And Brings A New And Exiting Feel, Combine That With Revolutionary 
 Graphics That Will Knock You Socks Off, And You Have The Best Football Game To Date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FusionC
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:07 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about the Madden franchise that hasnt been said a million times? Well take all that 
 stuff and throw it out the window. Welcome to Madden 06 for the Xbox360. It is a new dawn for madden 
 and one that has been a long time comeing. Now im not going to talk about the features that are 
 no longer in the game. Just the actule IN game play, which is amazing. It takes a bit of getting 
 used to since there is a NEW ingame engine, but once you get used to it, welcome Finally to the 
 TRUE Madden experience. The players move with unbelieveable realism, and if you have seen the commerical 
 with McNabb throwing to LJ Smith the actule in game graphics ARE that good. Everything plays so 
 well it will blow your mind. So is it worth buying if you already own the game on say PS2 or Xbox? 
 OF COURSE IT IS, this game so early on shows you the true power of the 360, so if nothing else 
 it is worth to see really, better than with any other launch title what the Next gen of system 
 is really able to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legendofcobra
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 2, 2005 12:54 pm PT
Review:  These are great graphics, but it is kind of irritating that EA completely changed the game play 
 and didn't put a practice mode in the game. The view from the line, limits many things that I used 
 to do in the xbox version of 06. I am a defensive strategist, but the adjustments I would like 
 to make are virtually impossible in this game. The Madden Strategy guide was formatted to fit every 
 06 version, supposedly, but it doesn't fit this one. Has anyond heard of Dollar defense before? 
 No, cos its not on 06 XBOX. Personally If they don't do something to assist, I would rather play 
 the xbox counterpart.
  David LaMar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Madden 06 is the best football game i have ever played. The graphics are mind blowing and i think 
 the game play is better. Now its twice as realistic. When your on defense the computers offense 
 runs down the clock and plays like the nfl. At the end of the game the stats will be very realistic, 
 no more 24-56 for 456 yards. Expect to see 13-22 for 195 yards. And now they actually call fumbles! 
 Before the qb would be hit and drop the ball and it was called an incomplete. My only problem is 
 that the players look bad when they run. Remenesent of nfl2k. Other then that this game is amazing 
 and anyone who has a 360 and enjoys sports should buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lions24
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Madden 06 is a good game over all. But since they didnt have enough time to complete the game and 
 had to rush it out they couldnt get all the features they watned to put into it. The game looks 
 great once you play the game you will tell a difference the second you turn on your 360. Like most 
 people i dont have an hd in my room but in my living room i do. Madden still looks better then 
 any other madden game with out HD but with HD you will be in a new world of gaming. Just one more 
 thing if you want to play games that dont look like the xbox graphics stay away from the 2K games 
 because if you dont have hd the game looks like all the old games for the older system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackbandit36
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 1, 2005 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Major issues:
  
  1. Game sounds like junk. No need for surround sound
  2. Major design flows
  3. Graphics are not as good as XBox
  4. Players line up wrong
  5. 
 Passing icon does not show all the time
  6. QA look around before snap, not able to get out of that mode
  7. Players stand outright up 
 after you move them 
  8. All players have the same face expressions
  9. Many more noticeable defects.
  
  The game is not worth the money. If I could, I would sale 
 this game for $20. If you want a real game buy NBA 2K6.
  
  WE need to do something about EA football and the JUNK they sale us!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomservo51
Rating: 4.6
Date: Nov 30, 2005 7:52 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS SEGA SPORTS. THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS SEGA SPORTS. THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS 
 SEGA SPORTS. THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS SEGA SPORTS. THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS SEGA SPORTS. THIS GAME 
 SUCKS, I MISS SEGA SPORTS. THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS SEGA SPORTS. THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS SEGA SPORTS. 
 THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS SEGA SPORTS. THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS SEGA SPORTS. THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS 
 SEGA SPORTS. THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS SEGA SPORTS. THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS SEGA SPORTS. THIS GAME 
 SUCKS, I MISS SEGA SPORTS. THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS SEGA SPORTS. THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS SEGA SPORTS. 
 THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS SEGA SPORTS. THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS SEGA SPORTS. THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS 
 SEGA SPORTS. THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS SEGA SPORTS. THIS GAME SUCKS, I MISS SEGA SPORTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_zombie
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 30, 2005 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Ok... let's get started with Madden's debut on the PS2... the graphics were awful but the gameplay 
 was good, then Madden 2002 on Xbox and Gamecube proved decent. Then came Madden 06 for the 360... 
 not good, looks like we're back in the Madden 2001 but better.
  
  Graphics:
  Beautiful... pure and clean. Peyton Manning looks like Manning, Vick looks like Vick, Brady looks 
 like Brady, Carr looks like Carr, Portis looks like Portis and so on. The crowds and the stadiums 
 look really next gen especially the lightnings and reflections on the helmets and visors. There 
 are more people on the sidelines now and the coaches looks like their real life counterparts especially 
 Denny Green of the Arizona Cards.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is where it falters... like the Oakland Raiders in the 2002 Super Bowl. Gameplays and features 
 are missing here that causes the game to be a low replayabilty sports title. Your wondering what 
 is the BIGGEST missing link in this game. I'll tell you, and it's something that you'll miss... 
 BIG TIME. The challenge system is gone... yeap... you can't review plays especially the infamous 
 "Tuck Arm" rule. Your going to need it because about 75% of the time that the refs are gonna call 
 an incomplete pass a fumble especially when you QB arm is moving forward. The other missing feature 
 is the franchise mode... it's gone, you can create a season but it isn't the same as the franchise 
 mode. You can't modify/edit players and you can't create a player... why?
  
  Sounds:
  It's great, the sounds of the field is there and it sounds like your in on the action. But the 
 crowd seems out of control all of the time... you can barely hear the announcer because the crowd 
 is going nuts especially if the home team is trailing by 40 pts. The radio announcer replaces the 
 mundane Madden and Micheals to add more emotions into the gameplay... pure and brilliant move ever 
 done by EA. Instead of the regular "Touchdown" you here from Micheals you'll hear the announcer 
 going crazy like "He's at the 30, 20, 10, TOUCHDOWN! TOUCHDOWN! TOUCHDOWN!". Obviously, you'll 
 enjoy this type of announcing and it's sounds like your listening to pure good ol' fashioned smash 
 mouth football.
  
  AI:
  Too good... way too good. Remember making those 80 yard bombs for the past 5 years? Well kiss that 
 one good bye because your going to be making those RARELY! The CB and Safteys had gotten a MAJOR 
 AI overhaul. They are so tough that they are hard to read especially on the offensive side. The 
 offensive AI is tough too, it seems that they can read your defense really well as Peyton Manning 
 could.
  
  Overall:
  With all of the missing gameplay and features, it's hard to choose because of the graphics and 
 the sounds. Basically, I like it because of the missing review system... it's back to "old-school" 
 football... my favorite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezmoney96
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 30, 2005 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Madden 06 is missing a lot of cool features that previous maddens had (i. e. mini camps, red flag 
 challenges, create-a-player) . But before you give up on the game you have to look at the big picture 
 and that is the gameplay. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Te gameplay is better than ever, with tons of new animations and revamped AI. The game still holds 
 to its roots and that is a fun and challenging football game. The new play calling interface is 
 amazing, you can now pick plays by either asking the coach, asking madden, by play formation, play 
 type, or by choosing the key player. This allows for quick and easy play calling. The new camera 
 angle is also very good. Don't worry the hit stick and the truck stick is still here, so there 
 are still bone crushing hits. The tackling animations look a lot better than previous madden games. 
 Hot routes and audibles are still a huge part of the gameplay, letting you change your play on 
 the fly. The game is very fluid and smooth.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics which i am sure you have already seen are unbelievable. The stadiums look almost as 
 if they are photo realistic and you can actually name players by only looking at there face, yeah 
 there that good. The players sweat and the uniforms get dirty towards the end of the game.
  
  CONCLUSION
  All in all madden 06 is a solid football game. Its unfortunate that EA left out 
 some of the features but the game is still amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hilldd
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay.. 
  Well the Madden games of the past offered so much more than just football.. Here we are left with 
 just the extreme basics.. There are no mini-games, no owner mode, no create a player, no create 
 a team, no create a fan.. EA has shipped a simple football game.. However, it has changed the way 
 you call plays, and for someone who likes formation calling found it difficult at first to navigate.. 
 This XBOX 360 Madden, well lets just say, if it is in the game, you wont find it here.
  
  Graphics..
  The graphics are the best part of the game, however that is the basic concept behind 
 the new console.. To drasticly change the look of video games.. EA has done a wonderful job for 
 the most part.. Players look, at times, very close to their real life counter parts.. I don't think 
 that a game is worth buying just over the graphics.. If it was, maybe it should be a movie instead..
 
  
  Sound..
  I would have to say it is like all previous versions on madden.. A hard rock beat that usually 
 gets mutted for my own preferances..
  
  Vaule..
  Rent if for the weekend.. Take it back.. Don't get stuck with the high dollar price tag to get 
 dissapointed, and have a empty wallet that feels the pain with you..
  
  Tilt..
  I was extremely disspointed in the game play.. Also I have had several instances of were the game 
 has frozen up, but the biggest problem by far is that play calling screen comes up and you are 
 unable to call any plays.. This happens in 1 out of every 3 games I play.. Not very much fun when 
 you are winning in the fourth when it happens.. I have really enjoyed previous madden's, but I 
 not be looking for the next release.. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnm00
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:40 am PT
Review:  I'll say this, now that EA has the exclusive license with the NFL, the expectations are huge and 
 so far they're falling way short in my book.
  
  OK, so the graphics are great. Not just great, fantastic. I've never seen such detail before. The 
 expressions, the motions, the subtle lighting and shadow effects; all of them are fantastic. But, 
 let's go beyond the look for a minute.
  
  Where's the play by play? Sure, there's some radio announcer at the game giving you some play by 
 play details, but, not nearly what you'd expect. Don't get me wrong, I'm not a huge fan of the 
 big guy himself doing the commentary, but to go from Michaels and Madden's annoying inappropriate 
 comments to practically nothing at all was a shock and a disappointment.
  
  Where are all the other features? No challenge flag? No roster edits? No custom players or teams? 
 No superstar mode (not that I liked it anyway) ? No custom playbooks? No alternate uniforms? I mean, 
 holy cow, what is this? Madden for your PDA?
  
  This has to be the single most disappointment with the Xbox360 and the worst incarnation of Madden 
 I've ever seen. Please, EA, say it was just a fluke! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craft24
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 29, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  What are you guys playing out there ? It must not be this awful game.
  Wow this is bad. Now that EA has all the rights to the NFL they are asleep at the wheel. The olny 
 good thing is that the graphics are O. k. just O. k.
  The game play is just pathetic. The camera is either to close or to far away.
  There is a disconnected 
 feeling with the player you are controling.
  Bring back the NFL 2k series and see if EA would actually spend a little time and make a better 
 game. I guess I have to wait for next year to see if this junk game gets better. EA give football 
 back to football fans this sucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dahairybeast
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 29, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  When I first heard that Madden was coming out for the XBOX 360 I expected the game to be awesome. 
 Why should I expect anything less for $60. 
  
  Needless to say I was very disappointed. No instant replay challenges! - What is that about? The 
 menu options where put together sloppy, changing routes, audibles and sending a man in motion was 
 not as simple as I thought it could be. 
  
  It just seems that they chopped down some of the features they had in the previous releases. 
 
  
  In ESPN 2K5 you get much more for $20. The graphics is great, the game play is smooth and it was 
 a lot more fun.
  
  Next time I am going to wait until I read more reviews on Madden NFL 07 before I go ahead and purchase 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maricio25
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2005 10:25 am PT
Review:  Madden 06 for the 360 looks phenomenal. The incredible amount of detail that has been put into 
 the visuals have far exceeded my expectations. Gameplay is still just like past Madden games, but 
 they have eliminated some of the newer features like Superstarmode and the minigames. I didn't 
 really play that stuff anyway so its no big deal to me. They still have franchise and online, my 
 personal favorites. Some other stuff was left out like formation audible, challenges and individual 
 player audibles. Franchise doesn't offer much in the area of innovation, but I didn't think it 
 needed any. Despite missing some of the newer features Madden is an overall fun experience. With 
 great visuals and A. I. tweaks that make the experience a little mor realistic, Madden is sure 
 to provide any football fan a rumblin', bumblin', stumblin' goodtime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arrin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2005 5:06 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is killer. And the graphics are tight. If you haven't play this, then you gotta grab 
 a controller and start killin' in Madden 06. The best team on there is the colts. So if you want 
 to dominate, then pick the Indianapolis Colts. The best thing about madden 06 is that you can create 
 your own rookie and move to a superstar. Also you can export your star from nfl street and put 
 him on madden 06. The best WR on madden is Terrell Owens. He is my favorite WR on that game. That 
 is why I always pick the Eagles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webste78
Rating: 3.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:44 pm PT
Review:  The game looks great, sounds good, but plays terrible, i have no idea what EA was thinking when 
 they made this game. With the great power that this XBOX posses you would think they could make 
 a game that is as enjoyable to play as it is to watch. Sure the graphics are superb and the players 
 look real. But who cares about that when you hike the ball and your quaterback starts to pump fake, 
 and the players run so wild they are basically uncontrollable. This seems like a game that was 
 rushed, they took so much out of the game that i rather play the PS2 version all day than to ever 
 have touched the xbox controller at all. I'm sorry EA you have to put out a better project, and 
 i hope you can all ask yourselves was it worth it? To put out such a terrible game when it had 
 so much promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfearlessmaster
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt the graphics for the game are great, however there are some graphic glitches that 
 really shouln't be there in a a next-gen football game. The sound in it is also good, and it has 
 a nice choice in menu music. A couple bad things is there is no mini-camp like there is in Madden 
 2006 for Xbox. Another bad thing is you can't challange plays, which is one of the dumbest things. 
 Also there really are no other features in the game other then Franchise, Multiplayer, and Play 
 Now. It is missing a lot of things, but the gameplay itself is still good to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lpdragon4get
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:32 pm PT
Review:  If the features of the game were still there, the two biggest being john madden commentary and 
 the ability to challenge a play then it would be pretty much perfect. i think the biggest let down 
 is that there is no superstar mode and that you have to turn the QB Vision on pre-play, each play. 
 At least teh truck stick is still in tact. Also the lack of mini-camp, rush attack, and two minute 
 drills really is a let down, me and my friends use to have fun with those. A lot of fun. So over 
 all it is a good football game, but it could be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kleankut
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 28, 2005 2:10 pm PT
Review:  The Madden version is not half bad. I just want to know how come my wireless controller doesn't 
 vibrate. Can anybody get back at me about that. They (EA Sporst) need to put everything back into 
 the game. At least let me spat my players up, and give me more uniforms to chose from. Also I hate 
 to say it, but let Madden speak a little more. Not to much, just a little more. And can we get 
 two versions. I played college football, people curse and they bleed a little. Can I get both of 
 those in a Rated M for Mature version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dejam4
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Man I love the madden seris, I mean I have owned every madden there is to date. So when I picked 
 up the xbox 360 I expected this monstrisity of a game when all i Got was roast beef. I mean where 
 should i start , for a hardcore madden fan like me i expected alot out of madden 06 sice then had 
 enough time to revamp the bad madden 06 on the ps2 and x-box. Even though this game looks like 
 your watching a sunday nfl game and feels like your on the field. Off the field is a different 
 story . Ok i can deal with no superstar mode and no owner mode but why in the heck did EA get ride 
 of the practice drills and some of the other cool options like that. I think this years madden 
 was a prototype of madden to go with the new system but i think that they will do beter next time 
 since they do have the only NFL lisense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pipios
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:03 am PT
Review:  Skating and stupid wait of players to move drives me crazy. They wasted all the time on player 
 faces and next gen grapchics ( which is a great thing ) , but they left out the gameplay experience 
 that I expected from my first next gen football game. I really think NFL 2k5's gameplay is 2 times 
 better while being an old gen game, and that's really shameful.
  
  Great graphics, lack of gameplay = That's the way to describe this game. For me it's not good that 
 EA bought NFL license cause it makes them lazy because noone is cometing with them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumanje
Rating: 2.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 12:57 am PT
Review:  First off, let me begin by saying I have been a big fan of the Madden Series since the early 90's. 
 The folks at EA have really gotten away from the basics. (I. e. make sure the game looks good, is 
 easy to play, affordable, and most of all Fun) . At an average price of $60 a pop, I expect a game 
 to be at or near perfect. This game is FAR from it. 
  
  Compared to the Xbox version which I also have, several things become immediately evident: 1. No 
 Superstar Mode, 2. No Make a Player Mode, 3. No vibrations in the controller, 4. No commentary 
 during the game play other then the stadium announcer. 5. Ask a coach is nice but I can't understand 
 him, 6. I can't challenge a call, 7. Other then the fact that it looks great, there is nothing 
 new, 8 for the price I paid, why is it possible for me to compare this game to the Xbox version 
 and 9. With all the hype on release day about how powerful the 360 would be, I sure as hell dont 
 see it in this game, and Im totally disappointed. 
  
  If you haven't been ripped off by buying this game, youre lucky. If you truly want to try the 
 game out just because its on the 360 wait and buy it used or better yet rent it. Believe me there 
 will be more then enough to go around in a few days.
  
  The people at EA need to regroup and realize they are in a new era. Sub-Par Games at outrageous 
 prices WILL NOT SELL. Remember most of the people buying your games are older then 10 and won't 
 be suckers just because you put shinny helmets on players and made your stadiums pretty! Microsoft 
 better take this warning and get a grip on third party developers because if this keep up the 360 
 will go down faster then another powerful new age looking all white system. Remember the hype of 
 the SEGA Saturn!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingMyro
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 26, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  Okay I have spent extensive time with this game. My cousin bought it and we have played on and 
 off since tuesday, so dont just write me off as a "madden hater" or some rubbish. I am just being 
 honest here. I give it a 5 out of ten. This is NOT for the cut features either, this is simply 
 for the gameplay. The game feels glitchy, it feels hollow, and it also feels dumbed down. There 
 are numerous reasons why. Like for example the defensive line. I have 1 move, the spin. Thats it. 
 I cant "swim", I cant "rip" all I can do is just repeatedly run into the opponent and basiclly 
 get held. Wow how innovative. The palyers seem to have far fewer animations, the announcer is horrible, 
 generic, and not to varied. He also seems to have NO emotion whatsoever. Interceptions almost never 
 occur, even when the ball is thrown right to you, you plant your feet, and totally set up for it... it 
 just bounces off your hands. The pause between halftime in nonexistent. It almost feels like you 
 are just running another play. What I mean is the time runs out in the 2nd quarter and then BOOM, 
 your play screen is up and its time for the next play. The end of the game is totally anticlimatic 
 as well. 3..2..1.. boom over, the end. Thats it. There is no presentation to speak of. There are 
 so many other flaws. The stiff arm is useless. It just gives them something else to "touch" and 
 your tackled. And yes, even a touch seems to tackle you, regardless of momentum. I guess this is 
 another way to try to force you to use thier lame "truck stick" or whatever. In 2k you simply hit 
 y to lower your head and charge, much more user friendly than forcing you to use this gimmicky 
 stick. I think this is something they added just to make it seem like they were coming up with 
 "new" innovations, like the vision cone, when they are actually taking a step back and making it 
 more complicated. This game says rushed all over. It is pathetic that EA would charge full price 
 for this half done, graphics demo. If EA dosent step it up in a MAJOR way then they can kiss my 
 (and probably everyone else but the biggest Madden fanboys) dollars goddbye from now on. Shameful! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dtmrt1968
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 11:41 pm PT
Review:  I feel for the marketing hype, ok, I'll admit it. I have posted messages on the Nba live and Madden 
 boards applauding EA's efforts in trying to come up with something truly next-gen. Well, I purchased 
 both Live and Madden, and I returned them both for store credit to purchase NBA2k6. It's obvious 
 that EA, all for the sake of the might dollar, rushed all their titles in order to meet the launch 
 date. Madden is a joke! Nothing about the gameplay reminds me of the madden that I once knew and 
 loved. In fact, this garbarge reminds me of NFL Fever! I AM NOT KIDDING..... NFL FEVER! I thought 
 it would be good to have a new engine and all that but after playing NBA2k6 for about half the 
 day, I have come to a conclusion: If you have great gameplay in your title, keep it the way it 
 is and update the graphics and add extra little things that helps in creating an immersive atmosphere 
 while playing the game. EA, I rented Tiger Woods and Fifa... you guys blew it big time. Next time, 
 don't rush your titles. I mean, what's the point of rushing me my dinner and it's not even cooked!?! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquidsnake66
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I want to clear up this whole mess about Madden 06 being a bad game that doesnt bring much to the 
 table. To tell you the truth i did not expect much more out of this game. I mean the game was not 
 in development for very long and you have to give it up to EA, they pulled off releasing a half 
 decent game with the time they were given to make it. The visuals are jaw dropping, they're much 
 better in HD but still very good on a standard television. The animations are great, from the tackles 
 to the catches to the throws and even the celebrations, the game looks great. Personally I liked 
 the way the game played. Its a much more realistic tempo, with togher AI. The running game is much 
 harder this time around, but that makes ripping through the defense for a long gain even more rewarding. 
 Do not get me wrong, this game does have its flaws. There are a few glitches, especially on the 
 line that arent game changing but are just plain annoying. Also the loss of some features and a 
 lackluster online mode make the game a bit less appealing. However, it is a great football game 
 that i love to play but also think is not worth that pricetag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guru55
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 25, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This game kind of reminds of Madden 64 for the nintendo years back. I actually was blown away by 
 the graphics at the time and it played a good, solid game of ball. This iteration of the series 
 is visually jaw dropping and plays just fine in my humble opinion. Thats the good.
  
  The extremely bad is that there is no play challenging. no create a player, no draft mode, no mini 
 camp, no madden cards, no single seaon or playoff mode, no player attribute editing, no camera 
 adjusting, no fatigue adjustment in franchise mode, there are way to few in game cut scenes (they 
 just repeat over and over) , a clunky stat menu (two sticks to navigate) ,
  and finally no supstar mode or EA in game radio.
  
  I am 32. I have been gaming for over 15 
 years, a madden player all the time, and I am not happy. That being said, I am blown away but what 
 little they presented. I will play through the current NFL season and enjoy the online and head 
 to head games....... but I do feel pretty insulted that EA didnt make more of an effort here...........
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giflow
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Okay this game is awiight, i copped it expecting a lot more, and it fell way short in that area. The 
 Graphics are the best ever for a football game, which it should be, they could of added a lot more 
 real faces and every body in the NFL was working out with Bruce lee, because everyones legs, have 
 a lot of muscular defintion. But i was blown away by the crowd graphics and coaches and stadiums 
 are very well done. Sound is good not great ive heard better in NFL 2k5. The commentary is a little 
 better than al micheals and madden ,with the typical hype radio announcer, but they still should 
 of put madden's mouth in their to talk about stupid stuff like he does in real life after plays. The 
 gameplay as far as the after snap action is very good they actually responds quicker to your button 
 commands, running is a lot smoother and quicker, kinda of reminds me of 2k5, and it still has realistic 
 momentum, a excellent Job EA. The animations are good for the most part, i hate seeing the same endzone 
 celebrations over and over again, waz up that, they could of added a lot more. Now i dont know what 
 happen to the other parts of the game .No playmaker, no challenges, no mini camps ,no better than 
 2k5 halftime, postgame highlights, no pregame show, no a lot of things. And honestly aside from the 
 QB vision and graphics, Nfl 2k5 is probably still a lot more overall realistic reprensentation 
 of a NFL football game experience. The new play calling is innovative but stupid, because you are 
 showing your opponent the play your picking and their is no way to hide your play selection ,Ea 
 what were you thinking on that one. For some odd reason the Qb pumpfakes when you dont press any 
 buttons and messes up the timing of your passes. The game needs more life to it the commentary is 
 better but it seems boring during play breaks ,take some notes from (blitz the league) .Most serious 
 madden players will be dissapointed with the ton of missing gameplay options and so many other 
 things ,it almost seemed like the madden games of the old, aside from the graphics and sound of 
 course .Shoot you dont even have the option to see the cpu play the cpu. Overall this game lacks 
 a lot of everything that made madden ,madden .But youll be impressed with the after the snap action. This 
 game needs the stuff of the xbox and ps2 versions has and a lot more to be a great game. And why 
 have all those buttons on the controller and you are only able to use a couple of them ,especially 
 on defense, add a ankle grabbing manuever or something. Ea since you wanted it to buy the NFL license, 
 a lot of football gamers expect a lot more out of yall ,Madden 06 reminds me of a first round bust, please 
 make it up next year, im cheering for you or give us a updated version which we wont see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatshott
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 25, 2005 3:22 pm PT
Review:  So here it is the football game of games maddens 2006. well thats about it first off the graphics 
 are the best we have seen. Players look great stadiums at certain times look awesome other shots 
 during the game just so so. Game was rushed you can tell there are no challenges in this version. 
 What a shame something which has been so much fun when you know a ref blew a call. There is no 
 more training camp. You have to jump in and learn the old way. Also once you pump up the level 
 of difficulty good luck trying to run the football. One of the major flaws is trying to defend 
 passing in this game my nephew use Vick he can drop back 20 yards from the line of scrimmage and 
 throw the ball 60 yard bullet down the field and almost always complete the pass stupid. And also 
 all of a sudden this year running back kick returns for a touchdown is quite easy. sound is ok 
 at best have to laugh that the score boards work in this game but look closely if you are away 
 team and score it will say after extra point good then home team every time all in all fun but 
 needs work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hallgren
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 4:26 am PT
Review:  I have been a big fan of both the madden series and ncaa football and i love the gameplay of both 
 of those titles. The problem that I am finding with madden 360 is more on the offensive side of 
 the ball. Sure this game looks great but i find the running game very difficuly especially while 
 trying to run inside and it seems as soon as you get touched you go down. Also it seems as if your 
 offensive line is just inferior to the defensive line. There is always a defensive lineman or backer 
 filling a hole because somebody missed a block. I know missed blocks are a part of the game but 
 it happens way to often. The other problem i have with the running game is the juke move and the 
 truck stick, the juke move just doesn't seem to make a huge difference and being able to fake out 
 defenders including the inferior ones. I have played a total of ten games and I have yet to run 
 over someone with the truck stick. The passing game seems to feel right to me as it is easy to 
 control not that it is easy to pass as it takes some practice but that is alright that is where 
 the challenge comes in but at least you know you can improve with practice. On the defensive side 
 of the ball my only complaint comes from not having the old defensive linemen moves. All you have 
 is a spin and a power move and they just don't feel right when you use them. The biggest draw for 
 me in the game was the ability to map your controls to what ever button you wanted which was the 
 reason in the past why I would play madden only on the ps2 because the controller layout was just 
 far superior. Is madden a bad game, no not at all but it is not what it should be! I do play this 
 game on all pro so I know the game will be more difficult but it just isn't as enjoyable as I was 
 hoping for. EA has put out 3 sports titles for this system and all of them are inferior to the 
 current gen products. Save your money and wait for next years versions to see if they get it right, 
 and they better!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H2gtasarcua
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok madden 06 is a great game in all but i think the developers really focused on the graphics this 
 time around and not the gameplay itself. Dont get me wrong the graphics are amazing but what could 
 of been alot better is the lack of features it has. First off they dont have the mini camp mode 
 which was alot of fun in previous versions but is a no show in this version. There is no practice 
 mode whatsover so if u need to practice u only have the regular 'play now' games to go to which 
 is pretty lame. Theres a couple others things missing but lets get on to the 'good' part about 
 madden 06 for the 360. As i said before the graphics look amazing and when u go itno replay mode 
 and zoom into the player u can see vains and muscles etc. The stadiums look fantstic with lighting 
 affects that just look incredible. The features that they did bring back from current gen version 
 was the hit stick, truck stick and vison and precision. Those are all great but there could of 
 least put a few more thing s in the game to satisfy the gamer. In game gameplay is solid and woulds 
 feel original if uve payed previous versions of madden. One thing that they did change in the running 
 game this year is that insted if having the juke button being the bumpers they put the juke move 
 to the A button. This difference is kinda weird cuz u really cant pull off those awesome juke moves 
 that u used to in previous versions. This year theyve added double the amount of animations as 
 the current gen version. U can kinda tell a diffrence in the tackles and such but not a huge diffrence. 
 Besides all the lacking of features in this game its still a solid football game but if u want 
 the most out of yur money i wouldnt recommed picking this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyKC
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:09 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure what makes me sadder, the fact that this game can be passed off as a next generation 
 offering, or the fact that the majority of people posting their reviews believe this to be an excellent 
 game. EA and Madden have now become a prime example of how how quality can suffer when a monopoly 
 is established. The sad thing is, their customer base is so strong, their marketing so far ahead 
 of the next competitor, and their pockets so much deeper, that a brain washed following may never 
 speak up or be heard, because EA doesn't have to listen. Their sales are guaranteed. 
  
  The most detailed, in depth, simulation of the NFL experience was ESPN 2K 05. I know that's over 
 and done with, but rather than compete, EA new they were beaten in terms of quality, but the marketing 
 muscle kept them in front.... in order to stay in front, they "took their ball and went home". My 
 fear was realized, and unfortunately it looks like they will get away with it. 80% of the people 
 posting reviews on Gamespot are satisfied with this effort. It saddens me.
  
  I believe their developers read these forums, so I hope it gets to one of them. I think the consumer 
 is being successfuly manipulated, and those who are aware of the product that is being force fed 
 are suffering. Not to sound too dramatic, these are video games, but this is what happens in a 
 monopolistic market. I hope you are proud of your efforts EA! This effort is truly sub-standard.
 
  
  Graphics: 7
  Animations: 5
  Control: 4
  Options: 4
  Sound: 2
  Presentation: 4
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yah00atyah00
Rating: 2.8
Date: Nov 24, 2005 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Don't waste your money on this awful game! It is a disgrace to the series of Madden games. I am 
 a "Maddenaholic" and this game lacks all of the features that make Madden football, Madden football. 
 After wasting $60 I sold this game on eBay, and went back to playing Madden 06 on my original XBox. 
 I am extremely disapointed in the quality of this game and I urge everyone to borrow or rent this 
 game before wasting your money. Screw Flanders Screw Flanders Screw Flanders Screw Flanders Screw 
 Flanders Screw Flanders Screw Flanders Screw Flanders That should be 100 words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2005 3:50 pm PT
Review:  You know, I love football. In fact, this was the first game I wanted for my 360. After all, we 
 all saw the graphics. Little did we know that there is nothing else 
  "next gen" about this game. Forget the features. That is the one thing I am willing to forgive. 
 But here is the skinny: No ability to challenge plays, penaltys
  are never called, animations repeat often, no divits in the field, no grass stains on player's 
 uniforms, no real touchdown celebrations, no cheerleaders. Get the picture? But above all else, 
 this game has zero presentation. ZERO! EA needs
  to take a lesson from ESPN, because they have no clue about presentation. Gamers WANT Tv style 
 presentation.
  Bottom line: I still love football, and I still enjoy this game, but that doesn't
  change the 
 fact that it is an utter disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evildeadite666
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 11:58 am PT
Review:  So im new to the Madden series, i think the last one i played was 02 or 03, but i had to get this 
 when i saw the graphics, and i wasnt let down. The game itself was easy to jump right into franchise 
 mode and start playing, and being a Raiders fan i though i would get owned, but i actually one. 
 Now i've always been a college fan but after playing this i think Madden might be on the list every 
 year from now on. Replay value is great, either alone or with a group of friends, and even online, 
 which i should practice alot more before i venture to that. Must have for a launch title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FMastro
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:44 pm PT
Review:  This game was rushed out the door completely unfinished. Not only is there no commentary that we 
 are all used too, the game has minor changes that I can't tell are flaws or bad design. 
  
  Worse madden game ever.
  
  Just comparing it to the last game, the quick flip of the coin, 
 like someone didn't have time to program in all the flasy things we are used too.
  
  The game play was easy and at times too easy. You don't even have to control the characters to 
 play. And didn't help that my friend could see my plays chosen with the obvious selection box. 
 Or maybe when it says "flip RUN play" like duh, I'm going for a run. 
  
  This game just doesn't hae the feel that I'm looking for, you have to play to see for yourself.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilxkev
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 7:23 pm PT
Review:  From the moment I saw the high quality players on my HDTV I pretty much freaked out at how real 
 it looked, then I got into gameplay, it is prolly the best gameplay we had from madden in awhile, 
 I really like the new control features and play calling..... glad they diddnt port the old madden 
 like VC woulda did (2k fans) ...... ANYWAY theres one thing that bugs me about it and thats no challenges 
 and lack of features (training camp, owner mode) 07 is gonna be a 10/10 complete game that is a 
 must have but IMO this is only a must have if you simply watch football every sunday and enjoy 
 madden alot, and your in love with football like I am......... if your one of those owner box geeks 
 and over-hyped features then you will prolly be better off sticking with ESPN 2k5 ..... with your 
 old roster set haha.
  
  GiVE ME CHALLENGES NEXT YEAR!!!!!!! thats all I ask 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anonymus72380
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 23, 2005 3:54 pm PT
Review:  this games has beautifull graphics (behinds everybody's crazy lookin eyes) . and actually it plays 
 better in my opinion than its xbox and playstation counterparts. however its lack some key features 
 for example instant reply, Commentary from madden, and mini camps... but once again as far as str8 
 up game play minus those features i still think is a really fun enjoyable game.. Next season i 
 predict people rushin to stores to pick it up because as far as i can see it is has unlimitied 
 potential u can just still ea jus as to spent more time on it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanzi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2005 11:49 am PT
Review:  the xb360 version of madden 06 is amazing in its own right. the gfx of the game are just plain 
 amazing, maybe some of the best of the launch titles as a matter of fact. the one thing that madden 
 on the xb360 suffers from is the lack of many key extras to the game. there is no training camp 
 in the game along with many other extras that you have come to expect and love with the madden 
 franchise. the one big thing that you miss out on in madden 06 is that you can no longer challenge 
 plays (or at least not in this version) . overall this game is a must have launch game that should 
 be in any sports gamer's 360 right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 19, 2005 7:42 pm PT
Review:  I have owned this game for a month now.. and I have to say ewww. I hate to admit buying this paying 
 $65.00 after taxes and I regret it more and more. This game is not fun. I am sorry I bought it. 
 The game LOOKS good. There is nothing NEX-GEN for fun experience. If anyone that read my 1st entry 
 saw a 7 and bought it... I AM SORRY. This game is so short of money that it owes a refund to people 
 who expected a real game. I gave it a chance... I gave it alot of chances. I still go back to ESPN 
 2k5 for FUN. I am tired of EA Sports. This game had alot of chances... ugh. EA can do whatever it 
 wants to do, due "NFL LICENSE" ohhh that is scary... that is why Blitz the League got better reviews. 
 That game is actually fun... different... but funner. EA needs to stick with letting competition 
 make games too... they got FIGHT NIGHT which is good.... I guess I am glad to see they can not make 
 a baseball games :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArcturusRamirez
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 7:21 am PT
Review:  Madden looks fine. It and EA's nba live models are some of the best I have ever seen. Madden's 
 areas and weather effects look fine. But that's where it ends. You'd expect EA after buying the 
 NFL rights to create the next gen of Madden games with at least all of the other console features 
 to be included and of course some new mind blowing feature that gives us that much more reason 
 to fork over 60 dollars. But it doesn't, in fact aside from the single player mode and the off 
 the bat online feature this has to be the shallowest game since bitz 98. You'll start noticing 
 graphic glitches that bug you and ask you, 'why didn't they fix that?', you'll notice a lot of 
 nic nacks that you'd just expect in a football game that are just no where to be seen.
  
  All and all Madden is only good for one thing, bringing friends over every weekend to enjoy the 
 only football game carrying the NFL tag. Rent only, can't ever see myself saying it's a worthy 
 buy until it drops to the 15 dollar range. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I waited 9 hours in line at Fry's to purchase an xbox 360 premium and boy let me tell you I'm really 
 ticked off. First off, I'm not happy with the system and second of all the game titles are really 
 weak. I know its launch year and titles won't be as good but we're talking about the future of 
 video games, the mother of all mothers and nobody can provide us any good titles?
  
  EA has done it again, they failed the video game industry by producing one of the worse football 
 games dating to win Atari first released it's football version. I'd rather play stick figures football 
 rather then Madden 06.
  
  The game play is horrible. I cannot seem to find any difference with the original title on the 
 xbox and the 360. I find it to be a bit more slower and sluggish. 
  
  The graphics do look a bit stunning but the color is way off. My beloved Chicago Bears never wear 
 black so what is up with that? The animations are extremely slow and doesnt feel like a football 
 game. If you want to play madden 06 and see some good graphics, purchase the PC version and it'll 
 do you some justice.
  
  They have taken out the most important thing in madden football; the practice mode. How on earth 
 do you take out practice? I would rather have practice mode then franchise. There is a high percentage 
 of players who find themselves playing practice mode more then anything because in P mode you get 
 to hone your skills and learn the game. When you take P mode out, you pretty much have to practive 
 in exhibition or franchise and I don't find that fun.
  
  I said this once and I'll say it again. EA is laughing at the consumers because they know you have 
 no choice but to purchase this horrible football game. I'm ashamed at microsoft to allow such a 
 title to launch with the 360. Where is NFL Fever 2006? I would rather play that then madden football. 
 At least microsoft would put in work for their games rather then port half a-ss job like EA developers 
 do.
  
  You need to seriously thing this game over before you purchase. If your a proud owner of the xbox 
 360 bundle, you'll probably have no choice but to buy madden 06 and totally agree with that I have 
 to say. I'm a hard core football fan and what I saw today brings great sadness to the sports video 
 game world. We the gamers and football fans have been cheated by the video game giant Electronic 
 Arts. The only way to stop EA from making crappy sports games is to boycott them.
  
  ESPN 2k5 is hands down the best football title ever created on a console. I'm talking about the 
 original xbox against maddens 360.
  
  I better see over 50 trusts on my review because you all know I'm right about this. The game lacks 
 presentation and the game play is down right horrible.
  
  God help us all!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scstephens
Rating: 5.1
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I will make this short and sweet.
  
  Madden has been progressing on nearly all levels for 15-years now. With the XBOX-360 version, the 
 only area where Madden improved was graphically. Every other area was either eliminated or all 
 the enjoyment from a feature was removed.
  
  The top 3 complaints I have:
  1) Like many people have said, the play calling went to the NFL street style of play calling. It 
 is a horrendous change and if EA changes anything for next year, that MUST be changed, otherwise 
 they will start losing customers.
  
  2) No variety! You play a game of football. There are no records being kept. There are no madden 
 card goals to achieve. The game has gone back 6-10 years backwards in its in depth of gameplay.
 
  
  3) Announcer is horrible. Sometimes it is nice not to have Madden say the same thing 20-times in 
 a game, but on this game it feels that the announcer was a last minute add-on (as with many other 
 things.)
  
  One more complaint that I have, is the AI is not that great. For example: I was playing the colts 
 today and Peyton Manning likes to run his own game. The only issue is that he would wait for the 
 play clock to count down to 5-seconds EVERY TIME! It did not matter that the game clock was stopped. 
 It did not matter that they were trailing by 7-points with 1:30 minutes to go. He burned his own 
 clock time! That would be unheard of in any other current version of Madden, not to mention it 
 turned a game into a 1-hour marathon, when I can finish most other versions in 25-30 minutes.
 
  
  Bottom line: Avoid this years Madden, it was obvisouly thrown out there to grab as much Launh Title 
 cash that it could. I think they did some serious damage by doing it though and hopefully they 
 are able to bring the full game back for next years version. I can tell you right now, that I will 
 be renting next years version first before I buy. I was cheated out $60 this year and it will not 
 happen again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmccann11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2005 8:54 pm PT
Review:  First, i'd like to stay that the graphics are crazy!! It's incredible the amount of difference 
 between the generations of consoles. But beyond that, i'm not so sure about the rest. IT will deffinately 
 take a while to get used to the new play book menu structure. After 10 years or so of madden, you 
 kinda get stuck in your ways. Then there's the default button layout. They pretty much changed 
 everything around. Who would use RT for speed burst??? Takes about 5 minutes to get the controllers 
 half way descent. Then there's the camera view before snap. It's viewed directly behind the quarterback 
 and then pans out and up. I don't know about anyone else, but I don't like it much. 
  
  Call me a creature of habit, but I liked the Madden series menus cameras etc. just the way they 
 were. But other than that, the game plays great. Controllers are tight and passing is very fluid. 
 If it wasn't for the major overhaul of the interface, I would've rated this game higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acekilla808
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I have just played the 360 madden and i am blowed away by every aspect of this game. The graphics 
 are phenomenal the characters are so realistic they even argue and have atitudes. Each character 
 has a unique dance which is awsome because i have seen these before in the real games. This game 
 does not have the challenge feature which i am very disapointed in, but then i can understand that 
 they had to rush this game for 360`s launch, but i am expecting spectacular things from this system. 
 
  This is the best football game i have ever played yet. The stadiums are so realistic which makes 
 the gameplay so much more awsome, like when it snows eventually the whole field is covered adding 
 that much more graphics. I give this game two thumbs way up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kinremah
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Madden 06 for Xbox 360 is not what youd expect. Sure the graphics are great but thats the ONLY 
 thing good about this game. You can only play Franchise and single game oh and online. No practice, 
 Superstar mode, challenges, custom players (HA?) and i may be wrong but I think only one camera 
 angle. And prolly maney more i havent relized yet. RENT this game first, theres many other games 
 for the x 360 wit just as good graphics!! This game for $60 is just not worth it trust me, youd 
 think an xbox 360 would be more loaded than any other systems, the PSPs ver. of Madden 06 has more 
 stuff and features. Stick wit Madden elsewere! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dafugativ
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:09 pm PT
Review:  The game is much better on the Xbox. It is more user friendly and has more to offer. I think EA 
 bit off more than they could chew this time. This by far is the worst Maddens to date. Instead 
 of trying to launch it with the 360 they should have waited for a later release. I just think this 
 was very upsetting. There is no real commentary just some lame guy trying to act excited about 
 the game he was watching. Where is John and Pat? I mean if you are going to make a Madden at least 
 put his voice in it. No Superstar mode, challenging of plays, and most of all you can't hide your 
 plays when playing against someone else. I thought we were moving forward and not backward to the 
 days of Dreamcast, when you need a memory card in the controller so no one could see your play. 
 To be one of the most anticipated systems and games they really messed up all the way around. From 
 Microsoft, who didn't send out enough consoles. To EA sports who put out this trashy version of 
 Madden 06. I think if you want to experience Madden keep it for the XBox and lets just hope Madden 
 07 can win us back over. 360s Madden 06 should be called Sadden 06, because that is what it was 
 a sad attempt to please gamers with a half finished game. Thanks EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 22, 2005 6:30 pm PT
Review:  When I came home with my xbox 360, this is the first game that I put in. When it first starts the 
 game looks great. The players and the detail along with the uniforms are in extremely good detail. 
 I saw that the stadiums were a little darker than what I would have like. (I only played in doors 
 so dont take that a sure yes) . Im sure that the lighting outside is ok. 
  One thing that bothered me when I was playing was that it was too zoomed in on the players too 
 much. I felt that I wasn't aloud to see any part of the field except for the one player that its 
 focusing on. Like the quarterback for example. 
  The problem with the game and you may like this or hate this, but the announcer is only radio and 
 the presentation is nothing like a tv broadcast. Its not even close. At the end of a quarter theres 
 no cut screen, its just like anyother play screen.
  When a flag is thrown you dont know it because you cant see it fly or it doesnt come up on the 
 score screen. 
  The gamplay is Madden NFL 06 is great. Thats the best part. If your all for gamplay and graphics 
 this is the game for you. I love games with good graphics but the most important is good gamplay. 
 
  Dont by this game unless you know what you like in a game. If you don't mind that there is no tv 
 broadcast and just radio broadcast features, then this game is for you. If you're all for great 
 presentation this is not the game for you. because there is none.
  
  RENT IT FIRST IF YOUR NOT SURE!!! 
  I give the game a 8.9 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maguus
Rating: 5.1
Date: Nov 22, 2005 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Madden 2006 for the XBox 360 is a beautiful but incomplete game. 
  
  Pros: 
  Great new graphics. 
  Great New Animations. 
  Great new Play Calling Interface. 
  
  Cons: 
 
  No Minicamp 
  No Madden Challenge 
  No Madden Cards 
  No Create-A-Team 
  No Create-A-Player 
  No Superstar Mode (maybe this is a pro, you decide) 
  No Replay Challenges 
 
  No TV Style Presentation 
  Completely new and unfamiliar control scheme. 
  
  I think from looking at the new Madden for the 360 that this game was rushed and had a ton of content 
 we have come to expect stripped. 
  
  For an extra $10 that this title sells for, we got less content and a bit of a shafting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_best
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 3:17 pm PT
Review:  ooooooooh my! is the first impression when you watch the madden 06 game for 360 BUT what is the 
 first dissapoint for us when we get in to the game .nooooooooooooooo! it would be so perfect if 
 they'd just iclude the all the features n modes of the past madden games an even more , why !!!!!!!!!!!! 
 the game loks so perfect the control response is good too but i've got to reduce points because 
 of it .oh madden you could be a perfect game . i like so much sports games but now i've got to 
 turn my face to perfect dark thats a booooooom
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yamabushi98
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I wont rewrite my Madden 06 (PS2) review here. In fact, Im going to pretend that Madden 06 for 
 the PS2 and Xbox was the best football game ever (it wasnt) . Stating that lets look at Madden 
 360. 
  Did you look at it ? Ok. Now go play your clearly better Current Gen football choice. 
  Mini-camp, 
 challenging calls, defensive playmaker adjustments, fantasy draft, rookie scouting, tournaments, 
 create-a-player, create-a-team, practice mode, superstar mode.
  ALL OF THESE CANT BE YOURS. And if you act now EA will generously add $10 to the price of your 
 game.
  But it does look better, and has really pretty menus. Pretty menus people!! Thats worth $60, isnt 
 it ? and I personally base all my game purchases on graphics alone, gameplay why would I want gameplay 
 when I can look at pretty pictures.
  ps: feel free to cut and paste this review to all other EA sports games, just add there missing 
 features.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentcurry
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Rushed up the steps after a grueling night in the rain and wind. Cracked open the nice green + 
 white xbox package and got everything setup. 
  With Madden 06 already awaiting its new home on the 360 platform I slid the disk in.
  Wow... 
 the graphics are great... cool looking crowd and animations; this is gonna be great! NOT!!!!
  I was... let me say "am" highly dissapointed with EA for this release. I would have rathered them 
 bring it out in the new year if they were gonna leave so much out (I'll let you read the reviews 
 since they cover all the major omissions) . Overall the game is an "ok" experience and will get 
 us ramped up for next years version on this platform, but if you already have an 06 for the regular 
 Xbox, I say keep it and know that you arent missing anything.
  
  I'm just glad I rented mine from gamefly. com! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: untouchablewite
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 22, 2005 1:04 pm PT
Review:  The game is horrible. It does not play like a true Madden game and is actually really weird that 
 a game with amazing graphics can play like such crap. Once again, EA has dissappointed me with 
 yet another sports title this year. DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY!!! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dycam
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 22, 2005 12:49 pm PT
Review:  The "Next Gen" gaming system is here. The months of waiting have finally come to an end,... for 
 some. 
  Being as avid a NFL football fan as I am. The first game into my newly purchased beloved gaming 
 system had to be Madden. The unbelievably crisp picture, the engulfing rush of surround sound, 
 the cinematic introduction, right down to the little woosh that encompasses the room everytime 
 you move through menus had me awe struck. 
  Woosh, woosh, woosh...
  Making sure that all of the settings are just right to optimize my first experience.
  Woosh, 
 woosh, woosh...
  Checking out all of the new cool gaming modes...
  Woosh, woosh...
  Woosh...
  "Wait a minute!" "Where's the training mode! "Where's practice mode!" "Where's the 
 mini-games!"
  "Oh what ever, I guess I'll start my franchise." 
  Only one woosh later and I've started my franchise. 
  I figured I must have missed something. 
 Maybe I started it wrong... Nope!
  AND THAT"S ONE BIG RESOUNDING NOPE. I couldn't help but think that I had received a defaulty product 
 . 
  With the new and improved "Next Gen" Madden 06, there's nothing to be scene of features,... period. 
 Just a long list of hearing yourself say where did this/that go and unbelievable frustration at 
 how you've/I've been cheated out of $60. 
  I've compiled a long list of features you do and don't get with this game.
  DON'Ts:
  FANTASY 
 DRAFT for your franchise 
  MINI GAMES 
  PRACTICE MODE
  A TUTORIAL on this new and improved passing system
  AN INTRO TO THE NEW FEATURES
  SEASON MODE 
 
  PLAYOFFS MODE 
  TOURNAMENT MODE
  NO ROOKIE SCOUTING
  NO MINI GAMES in franchise mode to progress your players before the season.
  NO RADIO TALK in 
 franchise mode
  NO CREATE A PLAYER
  NO CREATE A TEAM
  The list goes on but those are the most prominent in my mind.
  As for the DOs:
  AMAZING GRAPHICS
 
  ...
  ...
  Great game EA and Madden!
  Yea, I'll play it a couple of times for the graphics. But after that it's back Madden 2004, on 
 my computer and real game play, with my fantasy franchise which I've built over many hours, not 
 just a quick flashy arcade game that you put a quarter or in this case $60!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Purpel4life
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks! i mean you can pick plays!!! isnt it amazing!!!!!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! !! 
 ! ! ! ! !  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlrider_27
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 11:54 am PT
Review:  Madden was built from the ground up for the new machine. I expected there to be some features missing 
 from the titlejust because of the time MS spent getting the dev kits out. I know everyone loves 
 the features, i most certainly do, but first and fore most gameplay is the rule with football. 
 It is quircky at times and does leave a lot to look forward to next year, but then again i still 
 really enjoy the game. The ESPN deal kicks in next year also so be prepared for something better. 
 Ea has doen a good job on this title and really took a big step by redeveloping the game engine 
 and oh yea, read your articles because the new physics engine will be availiable on the 07 version. 
 So while this my not be the singlepplayer experiece we are used to Madden aint Madden without trash 
 talkin friends so play on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stafonb
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:48 am PT
Review:  Once again, Madden 06 for Xbox 360 has drop the ball. It makes you wonder what would NFL 2K6 be 
 like if it was released. This game does not live up to the hype. All practice, drill, and any other 
 modes you can think of have all been cut. Bummer! 
  On a positive note, the game does look good and plays differently. There are great annimations 
 that gives a new gen feel to the game play. EA must do better for the "07" series. But if you think 
 about it, they can keep producing crappy football games because they have no competition; thanks 
 to an all exclusive rights to produce NFL titled games for the next 5 years or more. 
  Madden was not what I expected at all. But it is a whole lot better, in terms of game playibility, 
 in comparison to PS2 and Xbox Madden 06 series. Hey, if you're a football fanatic and you need 
 a football game, then Madden 06 is your only option for now. Spend the $60, you won't cry about 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazztrumpet5
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:37 am PT
Review:  Disclaimer: I've only played it for about 4 hours this morning, so I'm no master.... anyways, to 
 my review.
  
  Graphics and player models don't seem as "next-gen" as I thought they'd be. Regardless of whether 
 or not you're playing it on HD or standard (I've played on both now) , the models and animation 
 just don't seem to be that far ahead of Xbox's. Anyone else feel this? I'm not saying that the 
 game looks bad, because it's a nice-looking game. Just nothing of what I thought it would look 
 like. I imagine games graphics will progressively get better, though. 
  
  Controls work just like every other Madden you've played, although these don't feel super-responsive. 
 Hit/truck stick seems to be a bit wonky. I'm also experiencing weird framerate issues in between 
 plays (never during gameplay, though) , both HD and standard displays. I do like how it feels as 
 though a 4 yard gain is something of an accomplishment. To me, the last few Madden games really 
 let you fly downfield and I like the feel that gaining yards is something of a grind. Pass blocking 
 still sort of stinks.
  
  Franchise mode isn't super deep or anything, but we all knew that going into the game. 
  
  
 I haven't messed with camera modes yet, but I don't like the way the "coach cam" or "receiver's 
 cam" stays zoomed out once you pull the triggers. Maybe there's a way to unzoom, but I haven't 
 found it yet. I'd figure it'd be to pull the respective triggers again, but perhaps it isn't possible, 
 or mapped that way. I also haven't figured out whether or not you can reverse cycle through your 
 defensive players. I hate overshooting a guy and then having to go through all the other 10 players.
 
  
  As far as the new announcer goes... I'm going to fiddle with the volume levels some more, but I 
 think he's really quiet/borderline inaudible on the default settings. If he's supposed to be a 
 radio announcer, he wouldn't have very many people tune in each week - I thought he was kind of 
 boring. So, I hate to say it, but the sound design wasn't really impressive to me. Maybe I'll like 
 it better once I turn him up some more - I was really looking forward to this addition (the generic 
 radio announcer) and feel let down a bit so far.
  
  In conclusion, this one really doesn't have any "wow factor" to me. I don't think it looks all 
 that great, has a pretty lame franchise mode, and controls only fairly well. What i'm looking forward 
 to is having some friends over or playing on Live. Maybe that will make it more fun. As of now, 
 I'm kind of in the same boat I was when I didn't buy Madden in 2005 (after buying every year's 
 iteration since the first one on the Genesis) and instead bought ESPN. I just got tired of playing 
 Madden. Now, it's the only one out here, and I don't think it's all that great. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigMo16
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 21, 2005 7:30 am PT
Review:  For those of you that have been fortunate enough to get your hands on an advanced copy of MADDEN 
 06 and find an XBOX 360 in your city that was able to let you play it, you were in for a treat. 
 This new MADDEN is by far the best looking madden to date, compared to this entire list of tltles 
 that were to ship with the launch of the 360. Very few of them were titles built exclusively for 
 the 360. With most of the games having been originally planned for one of the previous consoles 
 such as Call of Duty on the PC or Perfect Dark on the XBOX, it would have been very easy for EA 
 to fallow in those foot steps and put a little polish to their already finished game and pump it 
 on to shelves for a wapping 60 dollars. Now this would have been a move EA usually makes, and probably 
 a smart one as far as making dollars goes. But since their last generation of football titles show 
 little or now growth in the technology department, I think EA thought it wiser to start from the 
 ground up. Now EA's continual inability to improve there game wasnt a problem as long as us football 
 simulation fans could still pick up our copy of ESPN NFL 2kwhatever. But that option wasnt available 
 last year, in fact it wont be available for a while. So there was EA, the sports juggernaut wtih 
 the licence to the NFL its players and its teams, and there was us, the fans. One problem, there 
 werent as many fans of madden as EA had hoped. In fact when EA shipped MADDEN 06 for the current 
 gen consoles they couldnt wait to pick up the piece of the market left vaccant by Take 2 sports, 
 the makere of the ESPN titles. But they didnt, sales were down and this new madden didnt satisfy 
 like Football fans had hoped, party cause it was pretty much the same game as 05 with just a few 
 new features, this has been EA
  's M. O. as of late. Now I say all of that because what EA did for their next gen football game 
 was smart. They decided that since their last ploy at picking up additional fans in the football 
 gaming market didnt work maybe they should put some effort forth this time, and they did. This 
 new madden is great, even though it isnt a large step in the next gen direction, it is the right 
 one. I have heard people complain about how this is gone and that is gone, and you khow what they 
 are right it would have been great to have a better franchise mode, create a player or the ability 
 to challenge plays, BUT EA would most likely not have been able to show the LOYAL football SIMULATION 
 style fans that they have a game for both the arcader and themselves. That is exactly what EA did 
 with this. They showed us what happens when you actually put work into a game insted of just tinkering 
 with last years modle and they showed us that they are committed to taking madden in a new direction. 
 Even if it means pissing off some old fans who are gonna get the game anyway, so they can offer 
 the new fans an olive branch of peace. When you play this game you can see they spent all of thier 
 time and energy making this new MADDEN exactly that... NEW. Its a solid foundation for the future 
 and i think worth picking up. Because while it doesnt compare to the current gen as far as depth 
 in the features department goes, it more than swallows the previous games when it comes to the 
 depth of the actual game on the field. It plays great, looks great, sounds great and smells great. 
 Ok so maybe it doesnt smell great, but it could ( Hint HInt EA) . If i can be real about it though, 
 Im not upset at everything EA left out, nd you shouldnt be either. Im impressed at all they put 
 into it. And believe me ive talked with many a folks who agree that EA took the hint by all the 
 fans of football and decided to stop jerking us around and give us what we want... A game that FINALY 
 feels like football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbuzman89
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2005 7:22 am PT
Review:  I went to Best Buy to get some games and they had Madden on the 360. I started to play and the 
 graphics were amazing. You can do things that you could never do on the past football games. When 
 you get tackled it is actually real. Its real the way you run, pass, catch and you know everything 
 else. This is the most realistic football game I have ever played. At midnight tonight i am getting 
 a 360 and will be playing this game and many others. This is the best Madden, no, best football 
 game that was created so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IChangedMyName
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 5:26 am PT
Review:  Madden, the renown footbal title by the renown tyrant know as E. A. also the only corperation able 
 to create NFL titles. They Just made ESPN Look like a joke! this game, by-far, is almost cried 
 for, when i popped it in, i was like ya know this gon suck, the CG opened it was what i expected 
 but a exhibion game made me think otherwise, if you really wanna see more then just upgraded rosters 
 an char models add raniy weather or even snow. the amazment will make you cry, i turned it off 
 after the other team scored a touchdown, i coudlnt help it, i just stared blankly at my screen, 
 at the victory dance, at the the people getting up, the mudd stains, the water psysics almost everything 
 in this new addition of Madden is well worth having as a 360 1st title if ur looking for footbal 
 frenzy. E. A has made a believer outta me, ima go an eat my ESPN 2K4 b/c i lost a bet on this game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beagle77
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 20, 2005 4:59 am PT
Review:  I have got to say that Madden is going to ruin the NFL for me. I still play 2k5 game even though 
 I brought 2006. So not only is a competiors game from a year ago better than madden but madden 
 for the the systems before xbox 360 is better as well. I guess ea does not want to spend any more 
 development money making the game better. Must not be much money left over after they gave it all 
 to the nfl. So not only is the game ten dollars more but next years version 2007 will include reveloutionary 
 new things like mini-games, instant replay and I here in 2008 they may include formation switches 
 and defesive assignments. Just think in two or three years the game will be almost as medioker 
 as it is now, EA if graphics is all you game has maybe you should just make a dvd of all the highlights 
 from the previous season and let us select with order we want to watch them in. Becasue thats about 
 what we have now except in real life there are punt returns and and relistic commentary , wth is 
 the tony bruno show anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vipejc
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 4, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  This is a need to know basis review of the game in question.
  
  Madden NFL 06: X360 is an unworthy launch title, which absolutely, positively does not justify 
 a 60-dollar price tag.
  
  EA Tiburon should've done one of two things:
  
  1) Priced this game at $29.99 U. S. D.
  2) Kept this game in the development lab until August of 
 2006.
  
  Closing Comments:
  
  Madden NFL 06: X360 is not ready for game-day. This is half of a game at full-price. Rent the game 
 for its groundbreaking aesthetics and wait for 07. EA TIburon must make much better use of their 
 5-year exclusive NFL license. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master-Of-HALO
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Yes I agree EA showed their true colors when they bought out the rights from 2K sports to the nfl 
 license, but please don't judge this year's version. EA is merely dipping their fingers into a 
 completely new world of technology... and look they've done well ---not to mention on the the other 
 hand they've also created nba live, tiger woods golf, and madden all for the launch. If anything 
 we should kind of be thanking them from giving us a taste of next gen sports this year ---even though 
 the game might be a bit overpriced for just a taste. I can't agree with everyone who reviewed this 
 game poorly though, but it is their opinion. I'm basing this review solely on what EA put into 
 this game ---I mean sure they didn't include a few extra modes but they did focus on what made the 
 series so popular - Franchise, gameplay, and online. A bit overpriced but EA did do a good job 
 with the time they had, they focused on the just building a new game and setting a basis for the 
 whole franchise. Next year expect a new twist of modes and some tweaked graphics to answer everyone's 
 beating on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Savages_Havic
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Well I had the opportunity to play this game at a local store. At first I was very impressed with 
 the graphics, everything looked really well. When you get down right to it there just isnt much 
 for u to do in the game. Alot of the things that made madden fun arent there such as, Challenging 
 the call on the field, Minicap, Practice, Online modes. Everything is pretty bland. The franchise 
 mode has been completly downgraded. Basically this game is all flash and no substance. The new 
 tackle animations are alright aswell as the physics, but espn nfl 2k5 football had much better 
 physics then this game does. I definetly would not purchase this game just because there isnt much 
 to do in it, it is worth a rental though. It will be interesting to see what they do to improve 
 the game in the years ahead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcornelia
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Can't really call this a review since I have not played it yet, so this is more of an opinion. 
 I don't care about the missing features like mini camp, owner and superstar mode. I like Madden 
 for the football experience on the field, you know actually playing games. The challenge option 
 is the only issue I have but that won't keep me from getting the game. It seems like the reviews 
 are somewhat diminishing the game because of the lack of features. I think graphics and a more 
 realistic look to a game is reason enough to get it. The reviews already say it has solid game 
 play. One of the biggest reasons we buy next gen systems is to play better looking games. Heck 
 yeah they better play good to, but graphics are the eye candy we pay alot of attention to. If the 
 look a game wasn't such a big deal we would all still be playing Atari 2600 games and not wanting 
 to upgrade. I'm excited about the new Madden and I know I won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielson
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 2:02 pm PT
Review:  after the first couple of reviews and reading and researching i new this wasn't gonna be a full 
 complete game and such little and major things stick out like a sore thumb .graphically its awesome 
 but after you get over the "T&A" and begin to see the flaws in some of the detail that was left 
 out like field goal nets and refs on the field it really well me anyways began to make me think 
 ."okay take these things out plus certain defensive audibles and on the fly adjustments , no play 
 challenging and various other small things i the graphics department that bother ... all for licenses 
 !!! what so get all the rights to nfl and put out a half completed game just to achieve the coveted 
 "launch title" to suck the money out of us die hard madden fans...
  
  then i wake up and realize that were all ducks
  
  anyways its like playing madden from 2 years 
 ago maybe even teh first madden on last gen consoles which isn't really a bad thing but it kills 
 the value of taking things out just to make it purty and launch available
  
  but games as well all know or maybe the few that fail to realise games are a manopoly ..... the 
 game is still good but not as good as it could have been 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinchimocote
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2005 1:35 pm PT
Review:  The 1st thing you'll notice while playing the game will be the graphics. The graphics will blow 
 you away. Once playing it for many hours the graphics will still look awesome but you will start 
 noticing many things missing. Like you cant create your player, not even chanllenge any plays, 
 etc. It makes me believe the game was rush for the release of the Xbox 360. Pretty much the game 
 feels like a carbon copy from the PSP version but with better graphics. Im pretty sure they will 
 get a higher rating for Madden 2007 because they should have enough time to think on how to use 
 the power of the Xbox 360. If you havent played Madden 2006 for the Xbox or PS2 then buy the game 
 but if you have played it then dont buy it. It will just be like playing the same thing with less 
 futures but with a lot better graphics, thats pretty much it. The game is not worh $59.99, Feels 
 more like $49.99. For the previouse person Nishua who left the review about not to purchase the 
 game. How can you give a game a very low rating when you havent even played it? Also Madden 2007 
 has not even come out and your putting the game down already... You must be a Nintendo Freak. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nishua
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 11:55 pm PT
Review:  If your a fanboy then there is no point of you reading this review because you're mind is already 
 lost, but for those who's minds are opena nd ears are listening. DON'T buy Madden 2006, or 2007. 
 By supporting crappy titles by buying them we are allowing companies like EA to get away with making 
 bad games and passing them off as revolutionary. I havent played 2006 for the Xbox 360 as Im sure 
 most of you havent but I can guaranttee its just the same flawed gameplay, glitchy and buggy programming, 
 stupid AI, wannabe NFL football simulation game that 06 for current gens was with a new coat of 
 paint and gloss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeke74
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 21, 2005 1:28 am PT
Review:  I played Madden 06 for an hour and half and have to say that I was disappointed with the product. 
 The graphics and sound are EXCELLENT but thats it. The game just felt RUSHED. Lots of standard 
 features that we have come to know from previous years and the present versions on PS2, Xbox, and 
 Gamecube are missing. Such as NO RED FLAG CHALLENGING CALLS, NO options to change speed bursts 
 affect. Its only a 2 PLAYER game no 4 players and online no MULTIPLAYERS- just 2 players period. 
 On kick offs NO SQUIB KICKS. The game has a "slowed down" feeling to it. The kick offs hang time 
 seems longer.
  
  Poor programming is clear with scoring and first downs. 
  For scoring, I was the home team and when the opponent made a field goal MY stadium score board 
 showed a graphic that had a celebration theme that the field goal was good. ???? Why???? the away 
 team scored NOT me. I'm at home not the other team. 
  It was 4th and inches for the away team and they went for it. They got the first down and my HOME 
 CROWD cheered in celebration for them getting it. What kind of programming crap is this?
  
  EA you might have the rights to the NFL license but stop putting out crap just because we have 
 no other choices. You keep using the same line over and over. "It's in the game". Its VERY CLEAR 
 that Madden 06 for the XBOX360 DEFINITELY doesn't have whats in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvkoolaidmanvx
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Wow when i saw the video for the next gen madden i almost cried right there. It looked amazing. 
 That was the very reason iwanted to get a 360 was because of that video. But now after new and 
 improved videos... its nothing to be pitching tents about. This game is madden 06. NOT Madden 06 
 NEXT GEN... key word there NEXT GEN. It looks like Madden 06 with a bit of a graphic boost..... nothing 
 else. Im kinda disapointed that the game didn't live up to the first video. Now for football lovers 
 ya go and get it... you'll love it .. its madden great games... but considering its next gen im not 
 that inpress with the game and i wouldn; t recommend getting it.. wait for 07 to see good stuff. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: repomanfan
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Well...
  
  I first played this game last night as me and my manger at Gamestop opened up one and played it 
 on the Display we got.
  
  The first thing that I noticed was that visually, it's great.
  
  Not saying that it wont improve, because it most definately will, and the fact that it was 
 on the tv that the company sent us, might possibly have something to do with it.
  
  But anyways, during the gameplay i was bothered by a few things.
  
  1) Lack of Challenge Play 
 Calls - Now, I know that most people are going to say... well who cares about this blah blah blah... well 
 I do.
  
  That is something that is apart of the current state of Pro Football, and with the capability of 
 this machine, I dont see why this was pulled, of all things.
  
  It does'nt take anything away from the gameplay, however, but it does leave you wondering how come 
 they pulled such a vital key of the pro football world out of the game.
  
  2) Offensive Playbook - I am in total disbelief that they changed from the formation srtup, to 
 the NFL Street (So to speak) setup.
  
  You can easily tell what your opponent is going to be doing... either he's doing a run, pass or 
 whatever.
  
  The playbook should be like it always has been, by formations.
  
  This is my main gripe, as I was totally pissed off by this.
  
  3) Controls - The controls seem 
 to me, to be in some sort of delay.
  
  It's impossible to run the ball, because by the time you can see a path, your swarmed by defenders, 
 and you cant meneuver your RB, or whoever it is, to get away from them.
  
  You basically just run into them....
  
  I mean, you can try and do a spin move or whathave 
 you, but in the long run, I'm not too happy about the control while you have the ball.
  
  This game reminded me of a suped up version of NFL Quartrback Club on N64.
  
  The gameplay 
 is somewhat slow, and it feels like your not controlling as much of the game as you once could, 
 but I was only able to play the game fr 3 qtrs, until a huge group of people came in, and we had 
 to turn it off.
  
  However you rate your game is up to you, so before you go and spend the $60+ on this franchised 
 game, you should probably it first.
  
  I'll still probably buy this, but it has sorta disappinted me, as I had very high hopes for this 
 game.
  
  Hopefully, next years will blow everything else away in gameplay, aswell as graphics.
  
  take 
 care !
  
  - Phillip
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zep311
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:52 am PT
Review:  Well now... when I first opened up this great game and popped it into the ole' 360 and started playing 
 it my first response was kinda mixed reactions... I was good at Madden on the original XBox (especially 
 on defense) , and I saw that a hell of a lot had changed, moslty on defense. I was reading the review 
 that said not to judge the game by its video because all it has is good graphics... well sir, my 
 response to that is play the game before you say the only change is really the graphics. If you 
 want a game with only a graphics boost play the new NBA 2K6 that came out. Madden on the other 
 hand is a **** load different from the other one. 
  
  Things seem more real (and no its not just because of the graphics) . Balls in the current gen Maddens 
 never seemed to take a favorable bounce as much as they do in real life, but though its a small 
 thing, the balls seem to bounce the way they would realistically rather than fly into the endzone 
 for a touchback. The animations are a lot better. I'll start with the juke move. In the old one 
 you kinda just jumped to the side more. In this one, the juke actually does a juke that looks real, 
 and on top of that you can do things like squeeze through hole with the juke button too, and with 
 running there is a lot more crazy animations too. Another move thats good is the spin move. It 
 always seemed exaggerated in the old gen ones, but now when you watch the guy spinning and watch 
 his feet, it looks like the way you would do it in real life. On defense, it seemed like you would 
 be able to jump REAL high to swat away a ball even if you pretty much got beat by the reciever. 
 In this game if the reciever burns you, you're gunna have a damn hard time stopping him from cathing 
 it, though it isn't too hard to stop the reciever once he catches it because lots of times recievers 
 slow down a wee bit to catch the ball allowing the defensive backs to catch up and tackle them 
 rather than being burned every time. 
  
  Kicking is good and surprisingly harder than before. Its a bit tricky online if you're not used 
 to it cause theres always that miniscule amount of lag making it harder to get the arrow to stop 
 where you want. The kickers also don't seem to boot it soo far all the time. A guy like Janikowski 
 can just make his kick get to the endzone most of the time.
  
  The computer must have been improved in this game obviously. It actually knows how to play offense 
 and screw with you're defense. With the addition to making defense a bit harder, the computer can 
 make some nice offensive drives. It can also be clutch too. Like if it is having trouble with your 
 defense and can't move the ball well and need to make a last second drive to win, it will make 
 some good (not always cheap) throws to move down the field and maybe make you sweat a bit before 
 the games over.
  
  If you are bad at offense and have trouble beating people, my recomendation is to use the Jaguars... They're 
 not great, but its hard to stop Matt Jones because hes so damn tall and has some nice speed...
 
  
  But anyway enjoy the game cause its good... and disregard that review that that dude said about 
 judging the video because apparently all he was doing was judging it by the video since he describes 
 the game after watchign the newer vids... I've played it, my 3 friends who have the 360 own it, 
 play it, and love it too... You will not be dissappointed. It does take time to get used to though 
 since it is MUCH MORE different than just a graphics boost, but in time once you get good at it, 
 its enjoyable and you will forget about the current gen maddens like i pretty much have... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkidGuy11
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 16, 2005 3:20 pm PT
Review:  While Madden has always been the best professional football game on the market, 06 on the ps2 and 
 xbox were a bit dissapointing. The 360 version is a step up, but not a huge one. While the graphics 
 are without a doubt the best of any football game in history, this is expected with a next-gen 
 console. The animations are also very fine tuned, and great looking. It really gives you the feel 
 of being in the game. Some downsides are the features left out, such as challenging the play, and 
 minicamp, although these are scarce compared to the reality of how fun this game is to play. The 
 players faces are phenomenal, and make me feel like I am Petyon Manning. The new option to decide 
 whether you want to use qb vision is a good change (at least for those who had trouble with it) . 
 Overall, this game is definately worth the $60 out of your wallet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DracoDragKnight
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I diffently believe this is the best football to date. It has beautiful graphics, and just a drop 
 dead gorgous layout. They added over 5,000 new animations and finally got rid of that much over 
 used madden engine. This game was built from the ground up. They diffently added some nice features 
 but they also left some out. If you are just a football fan or you just wanted to play this game, 
 well you are really going to enjoy this game. But, if you are a hardcore madden fan, this is only 
 a small step from the original and you may not be as hyped about it as before. The game is very 
 beautiful but when they take out key features like the challenge review, well that is where some 
 of the realism is lost. They can't really say it is the most realistic football game when it doesn't 
 have very important realistic features. Another thing I noticed is that the defense seems to move 
 robotically, but it is bearly noticible. You would only have a problem if you were very picky. 
 They also took out the very helpful mini-camp, hopefully to return in the next madden. (madden 
 07) I would diffently get this game if you are getting the xbox 360, even with a few features missing, 
 it still looks like an awesome game. I almost forgot to add that the crowd is finally 3D, no more 
 cardboard cutouts! This game will not be the best for long but for right now it is diffently a 
 crowd pleaser. In addition, it can really show off your xbox 360 graphics. So go out and buy this 
 wonderful addition to the madden franchise. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
