-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Major League Baseball 2K6
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/majorleaguebaseball2k6/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Exquisite hitting and pitching interfaces.
 Crisp graphics and a good variety of play animations and cutaways.
 Best-looking crowd in a sports game to date.
 Inside Edge integrates stats into gameplay.
 Deep franchise mode and online leagues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Overall presentation is dull and uninteresting.
 Replays and cutaways are too infrequent.
 Ichiro is an Italian plumber now?.
 No cutaways or broadcast transitions online.
 Bugs and AI problems are annoying at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 14, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 6.3, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 1,339 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Kush Games
Genre: Baseball Sim
Date: Apr 10, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The apathetic presentation and a slew of gameplay bugs make it hard to enjoy Major League Baseball 
 2K6, which is otherwise a deep and feature-rich baseball simulation. 

  As expected, the Xbox 360 version of Major League Baseball 2K6 flaunts nicer visuals and livelier 
 audio than either of the versions of the game that are available for the PlayStation 2 and the 
 older Xbox. It also benefits from a slightly better variety of play animations and cutaways. That's 
 the good news. The bad news is that the jump to the 360 hasn't done much overall to spice up the 
 game's halfhearted presentation. Many player faces are still inaccurate, the same replays and play 
 animations still recur frequently, and, although the animation is more fluid in this version, the 
 players still look a little jittery while they're running. To further complicate matters, the Xbox 
 360 game also suffers from a greater frequency of minor bugs and AI quirks than its so-called "last-generation" 
 counterparts do. None of these rough edges are deal breakers on their own, but, taken together, 
 they conspire to severely drag down what is otherwise a deep and feature-rich baseball sim.  

 
          Although the visuals are crisp, the presentation lacks personality.     

  Without a doubt, the graphics put the high-resolution capabilities of the 360 hardware to good 
 use, at least in the technical sense. The player and stadium models are heavily detailed and everything 
 has a sharp, vibrant look. Scoreboards and signs behind the outfield, which automatically update 
 with line scores and dynamic advertisements, are perfectly legible from behind the plate. Finer 
 details -- such as skin tones, facial features, clothing, dirt, and turf -- look more textured in the 
 Xbox 360 version, as contrasted with the comparatively muted details found in the versions available 
 for the PS2 and the original Xbox. Player faces look disturbingly human, although, for every face 
 that actually matches a real player's, there's another that's completely wrong. On the one hand, 
 Pedro Martinez and Alex Rodriguez look like the guys you see on TV every couple of days. On the 
 other hand, Manny Ramirez doesn't have his knotty dreds and Ichiro Suzuki looks like he's an Italian-American. 

  The crowd in the 360 game is especially impressive. Every last spectator, from the fans behind 
 the plate to those in the upper deck, is a complete 3D model, which is quite the improvement over 
 the cardboard cutouts and low-poly people normally found in the seats in most sports video games. 
 Individual spectators stand up, wave, and fidget in their seats. In certain views, you'll notice 
 pizza and beverage vendors walking the concourses. After a home run, the cutaway viewpoint will 
 show the person who caught the ball celebrating their catch. It's also very cute how spectators 
 fight over foul balls that are hit into the stands.  

  When compared side by side with the PS2 and original Xbox versions, the Xbox 360 version looks 
 smoother in motion and has a wider variety of play animations and cutaways. Players still look 
 a little jittery when they run, but individual plays are silky smooth. On the whole, the variety 
 of different plays is good. Routine throws from the infield to first all look the same, but there 
 are plenty of different animations for double plays, outfield catches, and non-routine plays. It 
 really is like the difference between night and day when you see how many different shoestring 
 catches and athletic grabs happen in this version of the game compared to the others. There are 
 also more instant replays, crowd cutaways, and player-reaction shots to see in the Xbox 360 game. 

          Some player faces are exact, some are downright bogus.     

  That's not to say that replays, cutaways, and reaction shots are a frequent occurrence. They're 
 not. After most plays, the viewpoint simply switches right back to the hitting or pitching view. 
 When a snappy catch or a tide-turning play happens, the odds of the game celebrating it with an 
 instant replay or a camera cutaway are fairly low. Perhaps one out of every three plays gets the 
 broadcast treatment. That's ultimately the biggest problem with Major League Baseball 2K6. While 
 the game flexes the system's technical might, it doesn't do a good job of celebrating all of the 
 subtle nuances that make the game of baseball so much fun to watch at the ballpark or on television. 
 Batter walk-ups and post-strikeout reactions are the exception rather than the norm. Players walk 
 off the field when the inning is over, but they don't walk back to their positions or pass the 
 ball around after an out is made. In terms of visual atmosphere, local sports channels do a better 
 job of making baseball seem exciting than this game does.  

  Thankfully, the audio portion of the presentation fares much better. ESPN's Jon Miller and Joe 
 Morgan, arguably the best commentator team in baseball today, have the in-game play-calling duties. 
 Some of their calls don't convey the proper level of emotional response, but they make up for it 
 by keeping up with the action and having a lot to say. Additional comments and dialogue were recorded 
 specifically for the Xbox 360 version of the game, allowing the pair to offer commentary and insight 
 into offbeat situations and plays that they generally gloss over in the other versions. The crowd 
 and the stadium public address system do a bang-up job of ratcheting up the volume in response 
 to close plays and home-team highlights. Additional atmospheric audio was also recorded for the 
 Xbox 360 game, adding more pep to the already lively stadium environments. There's a satisfying 
 range of miscellaneous baseball-related sound effects, but all of the different musical snippets, 
 crowd comments, umpire calls, and stadium announcements are what ultimately give each ballpark 
 an authentic and exciting auditory atmosphere. It's just too bad that the visuals can't convey 
 the same degree of personality as the audio does.     

  It really is a shame that the overall presentation is so lethargic, because the underlying features 
 and gameplay are actually quite compelling. You wouldn't know it from seeing the same canned animations 
 all the time, but this baseball sim is comprehensive and layered with depth.  

          Features include a comprehensive franchise mode and an online mode that boasts tournaments 
 and leagues.     

  Every feature you could want in a baseball game is in Major League Baseball 2K6. All 30 current 
 MLB stadiums, teams, and rosters are included, along with about a dozen classic and superstar teams. 
 Play mode selection includes single game, season, franchise, GM career, home run derby, playoffs, 
 situation, and managerial showdown choices, as well as a basic World Baseball Classic tournament 
 mode. Due to licensing issues, the WBC mode doesn't feature any non-MLB players or stadiums, although 
 all of the uniforms and team logos are accurate. Aspiring GMs will adore the franchise and GM career 
 modes, which feature actual managers and coaches, two levels of minor leagues, trades, drafts, 
 contract negotiations, and realistic player progressions. The franchise modes in MLB 2K6 don't 
 let you set concession prices or sell advertising, but they do implement player morale and fatigue 
 as day-to-day variables, which you can subsequently manage by shuffling lineups and adjusting how 
 much time off your players get. In the majority of play modes, you can choose to play the game, 
 spectate, or manage from the sidelines. Stats are automatically tracked in more than 100 individual 
 categories and subcategories. Various settings menus let you tweak the difficulty, control configurations, 
 and multiple tuning sliders to your liking.  

  2K6 also has a feature-packed online mode. All of the standard features have been implemented, 
 including roster downloads, single-game play, friends lists, and message boards. Additionally, 
 users can set up and manage their own tournaments and leagues. As many as 16 people can participate 
 in tournaments, while leagues allow for as many as 30 participants. The server handles scheduling 
 and automatically keeps track of standings and a full range of statistics. One feature that 2K6 
 offers that no other console baseball game does is the ability to trade players in league play. 
 As Paris Hilton would say, "that's hot." The online mode is streamlined so that batter walk-ups, 
 instant replays, and other cutaways don't appear when playing against human opponents. This doesn't 
 help the game's bland presentation any, and it can lead to confusion when the sides change between 
 innings. On the upside, games played in the online mode seem to be smooth and lag-free.  

  One of the sweetest and most innovative aspects built into MLB 2K6 is its Inside Edge system. Besides 
 incorporating scouting reports and statistical data into player strengths and CPU behavior, the 
 Inside Edge system will actually make hitting and pitching suggestions to you on a pitch-by-pitch 
 basis during the game. When you're on defense, the game will suggest the most effective pitch and 
 location based upon the hitter's past performance in that particular count. When you're on offense, 
 the game will show you how likely a pitcher is to throw each of his pitches, as well as display 
 the three most likely spots where the next pitch will be located. What makes Inside Edge so captivating 
 is that there's still a margin of error involved, meaning that you still have to factor your own 
 hunches and baseball knowledge into each situation.  

  On the field, you can literally control every aspect of a ball game. Managerial functions let you 
 make substitutions, warm up pitchers, and visit the mound whenever you like. If the umpire makes 
 a close play or a batter gets beaned, sometimes the game will prompt you to argue the call or charge 
 the mound. Doing so, however, may result in your manager or player being ejected. The fielding 
 and baserunning interfaces are mostly identical to those in other games. Leadoffs and stolen-base 
 attempts can be queued up before the pitch, and you can command a player to make a diving catch 
 or slide into a base just by pulling on the right analog stick. As in previous years, MLB 2K6 is 
 the only baseball game that lets you compel runners and fielders to kick in an extra burst of speed 
 by rapidly tapping the relevant buttons. The risk of injury or fatigue is higher when kicking in 
 the afterburners, though.  

          Swing-stick batting lets you control the timing and aim of your swing with the analog sticks. 
     

  There are two hitting interfaces to pick from. The default lets you swing the bat with the right 
 analog stick. You pull back on the stick to take a step and then either let go for a contact swing 
 or push the stick upward for a power swing. This setup is nice because you're not wrenching your 
 thumb unless you want to swing for the fences. If you don't like the swing-stick interface, you 
 can always switch to the classic button-based interface in the setup menu. Both interfaces let 
 you target your swing to specific spots in the strike zone by aiming a circular batter's-eye indicator, 
 which may appear large or small depending on the hitter's plate discipline in real life. You can 
 also push the right bumper button to have the batter hit from the opposite side of the plate. This 
 is a nice option to have if you have a switch-hitter up at the plate, but it's rather bizarre that 
 the development team would allow such an option to be used with devoted righties and lefties. The 
 thought of Ichiro swinging right-handed or Manny swinging left-handed is insane. It's also so insane 
 that Jon and Joe's commentary will actually make fun of you if you have a non-switch-hitter change 
 sides.  

  MLB 2K6 employs its own take on the meter-style pitching that's all the rage in baseball games 
 these days. Pitches are selected and aimed using the buttons and left analog stick. When you press 
 the button to select a pitch, the targeting cursor grows into a large circle that gets bigger the 
 longer you keep the button held. This indicates how much power or break you've built into the pitch. 
 Letting up on the button locks in the effectiveness and causes the circle to quickly collapse into 
 a crosshair. You then have to tap the button one more time to lock in the accuracy. The smaller 
 the circle is, the more accurate the pitch will be. In practice, it's a highly intuitive system 
 that boils the complex art of pitching down to a couple of quick button presses.     

  Another intriguing aspect of the pitching interface is that it's actually possible to specify where 
 the catcher sets up for each pitch. Pulling the right analog stick will position the catcher's 
 glove over any of eight spots around the strike zone. This lets you psych out players by setting 
 up outside for inside pitches and inside for outside pitches. It's also the key to the game's optional 
 payoff-pitch mechanism. In a real baseball game, a pitch made on a two-strike count is called the 
 payoff pitch, because the pitcher's confidence can be shaken or strengthened based on whether the 
 next pitch is a ball, a hit, or a strike. MLB 2K6 simulates this when you choose to position the 
 catcher on a two-strike count. If your pitch lands in the glove without causing the catcher to 
 move, you'll add a couple of points to your pitcher's effectiveness rating. If the catcher has 
 to move to catch the ball, you'll lose a couple of points. Perhaps the implementation is a little 
 bizarre, but the ability to adjust the catcher's positioning is still a welcome addition.  

          The stats-focused Inside Edge system adds an extra layer of depth.     

  Along with 
 being a very hands-on type of sim, Major League Baseball 2K6 also does a relatively good job of 
 portraying what tends to actually happen during a professional baseball game. The CPU plays a smart 
 game, is relatively aggressive on the bases, and makes substitutions when they're appropriate. 
 When you swing too early or too late at pitches, foul balls and weak pop-ups are more likely to 
 result than clean hits. Overall, the ratio of ground balls to liners and fly balls is right on 
 the money. Pitchers get rattled when there are men on base with no outs, or when a fast runner 
 is on first, which causes the pitching cursor to bob and weave, and inexperienced fielders will 
 bobble the ball or make offline throws from time to time.  

  It's not all roses, however, as there are a few gameplay quirks that reveal themselves once you 
 get serious with the game. Hits are somewhat easy to get on the default pro difficulty setting, 
 particularly home runs. This is easily remedied though, by upticking to a higher difficulty setting 
 or reducing the contact sliders in the tuning menu. Every so often, fielders will be slow to react 
 to a liner up the middle or a lazy fly ball, to the point that the game will ignore analog-stick 
 input for a brief moment, causing your infielders to miss hits up the middle and your outfielders 
 to get a late jump on flies. Fielders and base runners also run slower than they ought to, unless 
 you make sure to mash the turbo button during every play. You can alleviate both of these problems 
 to some degree by cranking the tuning sliders for reaction time and speed, but the game will still 
 revert back to its lazy ways on some plays.  

  Oddly, while the nitpicks mentioned above hold true for every version of MLB 2K6, the Xbox 360 
 version also suffers from a number of additional, albeit infrequently occurring, bugs and AI problems 
 not found in other versions of the game. Controller commands are sometimes ignored, or they're 
 initiated without player input. One time, the game might ignore your command to switch to a different 
 fielder, only to switch you to a different fielder another time while you're running down the ball 
 and not pressing any controller buttons. What's more annoying is that fielders and base runners 
 will, on rare occasions, develop a will of their own and run in the direction totally opposite 
 to the one you're indicating with the analog stick and buttons. Very rarely, a fielder will dive 
 for the ball, even though it's nowhere close, without your input. On the other end of the spectrum, 
 fielders will sometimes ignore a ball that has landed right next to them, or repeatedly boot it 
 before picking it up.  

          There are so many bugs and AI problems that you're guaranteed to suffer one or two of them 
 every time you play.     

  All of the above-mentioned gaffes are infrequent, thankfully, but there are so many of them that 
 you're guaranteed to experience one or two in every nine-inning game. It's not so bad when the 
 overall result of one of these bugs is that you gave up an extra hit during the game, but it can 
 be quite maddening when you watch runs scored because of them. Hopefully, 2K Games will release 
 a patch download that fixes these glitches sometime in the future.  

  In the final analysis, Major League Baseball 2K6 for the Xbox 360 is a good baseball sim that's 
 taken down a few pegs by its lackluster presentation and gaggle of embarrassing gameplay bugs. 
 Diehard sim fans may be able to forgive the rough spots and doldrums because the stats-focused 
 gameplay is so sublime and because all of the numerous play modes offer so much to dig into. Everyone 
 else should probably take a pass and hold out for next year's game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (187 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2009 3:39 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Introduction
  
  MLB 2K6 had the unique position of being the first baseball game for the XBOX360 but also it was 
 the only one with the Major League Baseball License. This meant this was the only official game. 
 Real players names, real teams and actual stadium locations. Please keep in mind that I will only 
 compare this baseball game to other baseball and or sports games released prior to this game release. 
 It would not be fair writing the review now after four years of initial release otherwise.
  
  Game play: 7/10
  
  The concept of baseball for me is strategy. Matchups matchups matchups, 
 pitcher versus batter, pitcher versus runners catcher versus runners, left hander batter versus 
 right handed pitcher. I can go on and on. One might think baseball is boring taking a few hours 
 to play in real life. While the game play is pretty much the same in real life its a bit faster 
 in terms of game action. The depth of the game is shown with the various modes. The game play is 
 much more fun at harder difficulty levels where you have to do much of work. The team management 
 does provide some good features for those who just want to manage a big league ball club. Each 
 team has different sets of goals that makes running each organization unique. The multi player 
 options are very basic on and off line. The menus system could also use some work as accessing 
 some features or stats can be a chore.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  While having any game move from the original xbox to the xbox 360 gives any game an instant visual 
 upgrade, I find that there could have been more work done to have smoother images and rendering. 
 The game has trouble with camera angles during foul ball sequences as it display the action. 
 
  
  Sound and Music: 6/10
  
  The game announcers has only a limited amount of lines so after a few games the anecdotes can be 
 quite repetitive and annoying. Surprisingly there wasn't a big selection of songs playing while 
 navigating menus like its other sports counterparts. The game ambiance is decent with a few hecklers 
 in the crowd.
  
  Difficulty: 6/10 (Degree of skill to enjoy the game)
  
  One the easiest of setting the game is rather simple and generate vast amount of runs for players. 
 On harder setting, requires a lot more skill and hand eye coordination for hitting the ball. Pitching 
 on harder setting involves a bit more patience on pitch selection and location. Team management 
 is relatively easy with trades to get players you desire.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  
  If you're a baseball fan there are much better releases now but none for the price as the market 
 is littered with used copies of the game for a very good price. While the replayability is there, 
 as with most sports games there is a certain degree of repetitiveness. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkalsi11
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Good all around fun yet so repitive.......... But it will be better if they improve the annoucements 
 joe morgan and jon miller are great but bad facts in this game. They need to stop sayin he had 
 no homeruns or rbi's last season when they say it to everyone even the best players They realy 
 need to add better graphics and better pics and art this game is realy fun to play because of the 
 greatly up to date farm system and it makes great fun with the trades you can make and make your 
 team an all star team. The Achievments are Kind of hard to get at times but they needed to add 
 more achievments in the next mlb 2k8 game that comes out March 3 
  We all shall wait till the upcoming march 3 for the new and improved baseball game that comes out 
 with a dynamic player named Jose Reyes is on the cover and when the mets will have great players 
 so will the new updated tigers and yankees and redsox and the national league dimond back will 
 be back in the playoff race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ugly_Genius
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  this game has a few flaws to it.
  
  1- in home run derby you have to watch the CPU bat and you cant skip or sim them
  
  2- it has 
 very repetative feilding styles and the ball always goes in the perfect spot so the 3rd or 1st 
 baseman can reach into the crowd for it ( which is cool maybe once every 3 or 5 games not 3 or 
 5 times a game)
  
  3- in dynasty or gm career people like carlos delgado break the homerun record and rbi record for 
 all time
  
  4- also in dynasty or GM career the players drafter become so good that there is aways like20 99 
 overall rated players in the free agency but they all have similar stats
  
  the good things about the game are
  
  1- the swing stick makes you love to hit homers or rbi' 
 s because you feel it so much better
  
  2- diving is fun because you must time it and if you miss it in the outfeild then your giving up 
 a trple maybe!
  
  3- being the baserunner is cool
  
  4- designing a character is also cool 5- dynasty and GM career (despite their flaws) are deep and 
 its fun to break records with guys and get into the hall of fame 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 11, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Major League Baseball 2k6 was one of the games that I bought when I first bought my Xbox 360. Now 
 it had been a long time since I had last played a baseball game, so I was curious to see how the 
 game would play. I've always had a problem with baseball games in the control department. It seemed 
 like I was always throwing the ball to the wrong base and it really irritated me. Luckily I never 
 really had a problem with the controls. That was until I was up to bat, and the swing mechanics 
 threw me off. Once you get used to them however you get a better feel for the swing mechanics than 
 you would if you just pressed the A button to swing the bat.
  
  The graphics are probably the best part of Major League Baseball 2k6. The character models for 
 the most part look almost exactly like the real person, some however look absolutely nothing like 
 the real life player. The sound department is quite iffy as well. Not only are the announcers somewhat 
 annoying, but they are constantly pronouncing players names wrong and after a while it drives you 
 crazy.
  
  Well if you are buying this 2k6 game now, chances are you will not find anyone to play with online. 
 The game however offers a long franchise mode, and playing with a friend is just as fun as it is 
 over Xbox Live. Just be patient with them while they are learning the swing mechanics or you will 
 totally own them in this game. Thats not such a bad thing I guess though. If you are looking for 
 a cheap baseball game then Major League Baseball 2k6 is a game that most certainly should check 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 30, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  After playing through this first generation MLB game for the 360, I actually wanted to take the 
 disc and toss it off my balcony for fear it might infect my other games with it's mediocrity. I 
 can't believe 2K Sports let a game out the door in this condition. The graphics are terrible. They 
 would be terrible on the ORIGINAL Xbox. The player models are hideous and just everything about 
 the lackluster presentation proves that this was a lazy, cash-in, rush-job to try to make money.
 
  
  Thankfully, the gameplay is solid. When I say, solid , that can be taken two ways. First off, it 
 could be a compliment since the game plays a decent game of ball. On the flip side of that coin, 
 the game gives you zero Wow factor in anything it does on the field. The audio is ok, with the 
 great tandem of Jon Miller &amp; Joe Morgan calling the game. They do a good job, but they repeat 
 way too much stuff. I really like the backgroud crowd noise, however. It does it's best to make 
 it feel like you are actually at the ballpark. The music selection here sucks, as usual. I actually 
 like the kind of music it has, but the songs just aren't that good.
  
  MLB 2K6 is a crappy game that rides the fact that it's the only MLB license going. Like some of 
 2K Sports other first-generation offerings, this game is an insult to gamers and should've been 
 improved A LOT more before letting this thing ship. Even if you are going for the easy achievements, 
 don't bother buying this turd. Save your money and go see your favorite team play in real life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wweraw123
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 11, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Worst baseball game ive ever played. plan on serious problems with freezing after having it for 
 a while. online mode is just horrible. major lag online, so dont expect for most players to stay 
 a whole game. theres not even cut scenes during it. its just throw you right nto the action. player 
 ratings are horrible too. some players are overrated, while some are seriously underrated. players 
 that should develop in franchise most likely wont. visuals arent that great. frame rate problems. 
 what else can i say? Im no fan boy, i just side with the game i feel is better, and i know MVP 
 Baseball would do the MLB greater justice than 2k sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_k3
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  I've played lots of baseball games, and I can say that this one is pretty difficult when you first 
 start off. The pitching is the biggest hurdle that people may have when you play this game. The 
 main problem is that it is more intuitive. You need to make precise pitches so the breaking balls 
 will actually break, and if you make any mistakes, you can kiss the ball goodbye. On two player, 
 you intuitively have to know where the ball is. You can't see where the ball is specifically on 
 the screen which is good, but hard at the same time. The batting is also difficult. You have to 
 time your step and swing. This can be difficult because each pitch requires different timing. Overall 
 this game is different from other baseball games and I can say it is more realistic, but if you 
 don't know baseball, don't get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iBoxCarBobi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  One of the worst games I have ever played. Nothing really special about this game. It might be 
 an Xbox 360 game, but there is nothing good about it or anything that feels like next gen. In my 
 opinion the learning curve of this game is huge. The graphics are really poor and the same thing 
 can be said pretty much about anything in the game. While playing the game, I kept on thinking, 
 why did I waist my money renting this game. I should have read the other reviews before getting 
 this game. Hopefully the next game in the series can develop and capitalize on the mistakes from 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  ==========
  IMPRESSIVE: Pitching and hitting is majorly fun // Crowd looks more ========== detailed than any 
 other EA or 2K Sports game yet // Crisp ========== graphics.
  ============
  NEEDS WORK: Poor presentation // Jittery players and AI faults
  ============
  
  If you are 
 looking for a baseball game on the 360, then your pretty much stuck with MLB 2K6, but with the 
 limited (or no) choice, then you should at least try it. As soon as you put it in the tray, you 
 may want to make sure you like baseball, and are sure that you won't be put of the sport thanks 
 to MLB 2K6's disgusting presentation. The menu's are incredibly basic and the HUD's leave nothing 
 to the imagination.
  
  Now that you've made it to the game, you'll find that it's alot more exciting than actually watching 
 baseball, in fact, you might find that it is quite enjoyable. First, as with any sport game, you'll 
 need to figure out how to work each technique, but once you get a hang of it, you'll find pitching 
 and hitting the most enjoyable part of the game. The achievements for the game are minmal and extremely 
 easy, there are only 5, and each can be achieved in little more than 4 - 5 hours, and you'll have 
 a nice 1000G on your plate.
  
  In the end, MLB 2K6 is an enjoyable, but sadly, unfinished baseball game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaach11687
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Well, 2k Sports tried. They tried on making a realing high qaulity next gen baseball 
 game. But they failed. It's not like they fail with the presentation, because the presentation 
 is the one part of the game that distracts you from the horrible gameplay. You hear me talking 
 about how horrid the gameplay is, but listen to me. Turbo boost... This game has turbo boost... i 
 know what your thinking.... Arcade game NO. This is a baseball simulation which tries to stray 
 away from originality. I know i have murdered this game but plaease stick with me. The pitching 
 and hiting in this game are great. Pitching is nearly perfect with precision pitching and friends. 
 There were a few things i did not like about it, like the accurate pitches with the controls.... if 
 that makes any sense to you... The hitting is also decent. It uses the swing stick which was used 
 in the NCAA baseball game from EA. It works well but just not accurate. Graphics: Like i said before 
 the gameplay was garbage but the presentation kept it together. When the game came out, the stadium 
 and fans were probably the best looking. Seeing a fan reach for a foul ball was some eye candy. 
 But, yea the mean ole' but, this game has many, i said many glitches. This just completely takes 
 away from the great presesntation.
  
  Sound: Good sound and great announcing. But the music is displeasable.
  
  Value: The game has 
 so many things to do that you would expect this game to be worth your money. BUT with the bad gameplay 
 and annoying glitches, playing all the different game types is like playing the same game and still 
 being frustated with all the gameplay problems. The mutliplayer has good intentions with the Leagues 
 and Tournys, but still, th gameplay takes away.
  
  Tilt: Since this game was the only next gen baseball game last year, i new i would have to buy 
 it. But i expected the same as what happened with all the EA games. Good gameplay, good graphics, 
 but no modes. Besides the good graphics, my expectations were surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox1397
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  The only reason I got this game was because I am a huge baseball fan. I saw that Gamespot rated 
 it 6.8, but i still got it. I wasn't thinking it would be a good game. But when I started playing 
 it i thought it was good. The hitting an pitching is a little hard, but once you get used to it 
 its easy. The graphics are great, and the play calling is good. John Miller and Joe Morgan make 
 a great team, it's like your watching an ESPN broadcast. I think that this is a must have if you 
 love baseball. i recommend if you love baseball you should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillipo2934
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 25, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible. The batting system stinks. The batters swing so slow. It is hard to hit 
 the ball where you want to. The outfielders make mistakes and move in directions you dont want 
 them. The pitching is harder. Do not get this game it is a waste of money. bad bad bad bad bad 
 bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad 
 bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad 
 bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjdeforrest
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 23, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  It's really hard to write a review for this game. Let me start by saying that I don't currently 
 have a connection to the 360. I also don't own a hard-drive. So, that pretty much puts me out of 
 luck when it comes to the freezing problems that this game has. To me, it's a shame that companies 
 are releasing games in this kind of shape.
  
  From what I played, this is a pretty decent baseball game, although not quite on the calibar of 
 the wonderful MVP Baseball series. I hope that I can give a more updated review in the future if 
 I ever get the problem fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sawthehorns8191
Rating: 2.9
Date: Oct 18, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  if you came from the ea franchise and you have played this game you know what i mean. the controls. 
 i dont want to talk bout them but horrilble. the hitting fatigue is the worst of any baseball game 
 i have ever played. one pitch it will say you have perfect timing and the next pitch you do you 
 time it the same and it will say late or early timing wich pisses me off. and how do they expect 
 you to know how to play. there is not even a freakin tutorial. it has alot of features but it seems 
 like there the same every single year. im not trying to bash 2k but this game is horrible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_zombie
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 12, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  In July of 2005, EA struck a deal with the NFL, NCAA Football, and the AFL with exclusive lis [cesning. 
 2K was out of the football lineup until 2009 but they managed to strike back with an exclusive 
 licesne to the MLB titles. Did it pay off or did it turn out to be a bust like EA's exclusive football 
 titles? Read on and find out.
  
  Graphics:
  They are good but not the OH MY GOD IT'S SO FREAKING REAL good. The players have great models but 
 the animations just doesn't look fluid. You get the feeling that the animations are skipping frames 
 when they run at the top of their speed or when they take practice swings when up on plate. Another 
 problem with the average graphics are the player's faces. A-Rod doesn't look like A-Rod, Ortiz 
 doesn't look like Ortiz and Ichiro Suzuki looks like... Super Mario. There's only one player size 
 built into this game, average body size. Even if you set one player at 5'11 weighing in at 300 
 lbs and they STILL have the average body size. The detail is great and very noticeable as every 
 stadium looks exactly as it should be.
  
  Controls:
  They are great especially the swing stick that will give you feedbacks on whether you swung to 
 early or late. But if you don't want to use the right stick as your batting controls you can always 
 go back to the classic setup which is just a push of a button to swing the bat. Another welcome 
 addition to the game is the payoff pitching. When your pitching you'll be given 5 choices depending 
 on what pitcher has in his arsenal. For example, if you choose the A button, a circle will appear 
 and widen, thats your speed, the wider the circle gets the faster the ball will go. Then your circle 
 will shrink, that sets your control of the ball. The smaller the circle, the more control you get 
 but if it's if the circle is too wide then you'll throw a wild pitch or worse... a meat pitch which 
 could be an easy homer for the opposing batter. But all the other controls still remain the same 
 ever since the baseball titles showed up on the last gen consoles. Just pure and simple controls.
 
  
  Sounds:
  The game sounds very realistic, it plays a major role into the gameplay as it immerses you into 
 the game. The sounds are so perfect that you'll think that your actually in Yankee's Stadium. The 
 crack of the bats sounds like a crack of a bat and the fans will boo and cheer at the RIGHT time.
 
  
  A. I.:
  It's average but not to stellar. It's best to control your fielders manually then letting the A. I. 
 control them for you. Sometimes but most of the time they'll run into each other like the Pittsburgh 
 Pirates trying to catch a flyball. But you will be better off letting the game control your baserunners 
 since you'll be too focused on the pitcher that you'll end up forgetting about the baserunner you 
 have on 2nd base.
  
  Overall:
  Great game, one of the stellar titles but the game has some shortcomings that prevent it from being 
 an excellent title. Buy it if you love baseball but don't buy it if your not much for baseball. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominican_fines
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 30, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Well this game has very good graphics even though I. Matsui looks like an American lol and there's 
 some plays that its impossible to do but here it looks so natural lol but its still a fun game 
 at first its hard to learn how to play i got so mad at first lol but then u start to have fun i 
 will suggest you to start at the rookie difficulty.
  
  But its cool you can start as a GM and you can put the GM as your name also the players tell you 
 what they think, they give you goals, you can go bowling, play mlb 2k6 and do many other activities 
 to keep your players happy,
  
  But like i said later the only bad thing is that some plays are really unreal but its a fun game 
 you should get it if you like baseball... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garcia_jx
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 21, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  When i first bought this game i was expecting a great game like MVP, boy was i wrong. Major league 
 baseball was a complete ripoff $60 bucks for a game full bugs that was not fun at all. After a 
 while i notice how stupid the players move and how the announcers would say things that didn't 
 make sense, at first i was ok with it but after a while i annoyed the heck out of me. The gameplay 
 on this game is very boring, i wish 2k would have never bought the baseball license now we have 
 to put up with crappy games like MLB 2K6. Graphics are alright, except all the players don't look 
 like there real self; also all the player body type look the same. After a few hours of playing 
 the game my eyes started bleeding for some reason, and it only happened with this game. At first 
 i couldn't figure out what was the problem, but then i realize i was allergic to crappy games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppGuy32
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 16, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is underrated, however the graphics are just awful, Albert Pujols looks like a freakin 
 fish, and the sound sucks, the announcers will say the same thing up to 3 times a game. But, The 
 new swing stick style is very cool and unique, online play is fun, and GM mode is VERY fun. The 
 game is worth a buy, but rent it first to make shure u like it. there isnt a whole lot new in the 
 game, besides the swing stick. The game is a nice game of baseball, with a gripping franchise mode, 
 but there are alot of problems. the ai are all a bunch of mumbling retards. a actually have a fav 
 glitch! When you hit a double or triple, if two outfielders go 4 it, and they run into each other, 
 they start to walk around, and then they get pissed at eathother, AND SLAM INTO ONE ANOTHER!! but 
 overall the game is fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameshdhvmore
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  As a diehard fan of the MVP series, I had mixed emotions regarding the 2KSports deal with MLB for 
 exclusivity in baseball gaming. There was an undeniable anticipation for the new features 2KSports 
 would surely introduce in their first venture as the sole provider, but an equal amount of nervousness 
 when you look at previous 2K MLB games. Major League Baseball 2K6 fulfilled both sides of my anticipation.
 
  To say it is a terrible game would be an outright lie, as this installment is filled to the nosebleed 
 section with features you couldn't find in other series. The trading in this game is truly marvelous, 
 dare I say almost perfect. Being able to collect offers from other teams by listing who you'll 
 give up is something we've all waited for, as is having an Interest meter when trading manually 
 (which even includes feedback on why a trade wouldn't work for the other team) . The Player Finder 
 is another lengthy step forward in immersive sports gaming, as you can search for a player by any 
 stat imaginable, from age to abilities and even pitch selections. Team Pulse is another great utility, 
 giving you the chance to look into your players' morale and comments on the team standings and 
 their role within it. Also, the Inside Edge features (which the game prides itself on so strongly) 
 are another sight to behold. There is a depth to it unlike anything you're used to in stat tracking, 
 but without being more properly crafted it almost makes things too easy. On one hand it's exceptionally 
 interesting to have a solid idea of what the next pitch will be and where, but without a pre-pitch 
 peptalk at every step of the count, it's hard to assume a rookie will already know how to handle 
 an at-bat against The Rocket or Pedro Martinez. Also, the provided stats seem to be season-to-season, 
 and I was expecting to know who's hitting .400 during a streak and who's gone 0-for-15 in their 
 last 4 games. (I should also note that some of the stats given to players are downright laughable. 
 BJ Upton's speed is ranked F? Mark Sweeney is an A-ranked power hitter?) Progression is another 
 element that still needs plenty of work, since all players have a Potential stat that rarely lives 
 up to itself and there's practically no influencing a player's development other than hiring a 
 good staff, which you can rarely find without playing through at least 5 seasons. Still, Inside 
 Edge is an impressive and respectable feature that shows the 2KSports people are at least trying.
 
  With all these new features though, how could the game possibly come up short?
  Gameplay.
  As soon as the loading screen disappears you're met with letdowns. Everything in the 360 version 
 looks subpar even to games many years old, starting with the jagged stadiums and all-too-familiar 
 crowds. The crowds still look the same as they ever have, despite any hype you may have read. Yes 
 they do grab at foul balls, but even these animations look like they could have easily been added 
 5 years ago. I for one would rather see at least 50 different outfits and random behavior with 
 no foul ball aggression whatsoever instead of having to watch people in the same 5 outfits wave 
 or clap in the exact pattern. I know you can't make 50,000 people act differently, but must we 
 watch this repetitious crap year in and year out? At least randomize the first 20 rows! Camera 
 angles are another severely lacking aspect of the presentation, seeing that they aren't even close 
 to displaying the awe of a baseball stadium or the excitement of a big play. Once the cameras close 
 in on the players, you realize that most of the game's enjoyment comes from options outside of 
 actually playing a game. After all, most players have a PS1-caliber facial accuracy, and the batting 
 stances appear more like robots trying to mimic their respective counterpart. While fielding, the 
 controls are terribly unresponsive and far too simplistic for the game's ambitious nature. The 
 "Showboat" option is a nice touch, allowing you to insult the hitter's popup with a behind the 
 back catch or something similar. However, the camera angles offer no advice on timing this feature, 
 typically resulting in such bad execution that the arrogant fielder finishes his motion before 
 the ball even lands, causing an error and a bitterness toward ever trying it again. Dives are another 
 example of the game's terrible sense of timing. When a hard grounder is hit and the fielder can 
 dive for it, an icon will appear next to the fielder immediately after the ball is put in play 
 letting you know a dive is available. Sometimes you have to hit the analog stick as soon as you 
 possibly can and just wait for the diving motion; other times you have to actually time it (the 
 way it should be) . Such disregard for smoothing out one of the most important parts of a baseball 
 game is nothing short of infuriating, and is yet another feature of gameplay you'd love to do every 
 time but are fearfully reserved about attempting.
  Physics are another lacking aspect of 2K6's gameplay. Player collisions seem far too half-baked 
 to be enjoyed. Collisions always look the same - head on, then falling back like a drunk. Pros 
 make mistakes, but even in erroneous moments they retain professional composure. The game does 
 not seem to believe this. Even when an outfielder collides into a wall, it's never their shoulder 
 that takes most of the force. It's always head on, then falling back like a drunk. Furthermore 
 on the physics of the game, we were all led to believe that the days of magically sliding through 
 a fielder's legs were over. We were wrong. Try sliding into second and you'll see that 95% of the 
 slides would have knocked down the second baseman if only the runner's legs didn't slide right 
 through the fielder's ankles. Still, there are elements of gameplay that shouldn't go ignored. 
 The Turbo feature is a nice touch as it's actually realistic for once, offering a feel for Ichiro's 
 out-of-the-box explosiveness or Jim Edmonds' ability to chase a deep ball's path. Baseburner Mode 
 is another noteworthy addition to baseball gaming, as you can finally get a feel for the split-second 
 reactions required to steal a base. Watching for the first sign of the pitcher's motion and then 
 sprinting to beat out the throw is surprisingly satisfying, especially when you consider how the 
 game allows you to designate options for the seemingly neglected batter.
  While the good features of gameplay are very good, they are few and too far between, and almost 
 seem a day late and a buck short when measured against the vast amounts of loud imperfections. 
 The overwhelming amounts of new options are enough to keep you playing the game for hours without 
 ever seeing a ballgame, but the compromise seems to be that you have to constantly look on the 
 bright side in order to enjoy 9 innings. Other common features to baseball games are also done 
 in sloppy, careless fashion, such as the Home Run Derby, where you have to wait and watch every 
 CPU participant without being able to skip to your player. The World Baseball Classic is nice, 
 I suppose, but I haven't even considered trying it out yet and I don't imagine you have either. 
 VIP Profiles a good step towards personalizing the game, since you can save and study an amazing 
 amount of stats regarding your own tendencies, but without better gameplay there's no use in applying 
 it.
  I'm satisfied with this game being in my collection, but I certainly don't play it for the action, 
 and I strongly regret spending as much as I did on it. If you're looking for a game where you can 
 focus more on all things behind-the-scenes, this is the game you've been waiting for. If your aim 
 is for fluid, enjoyable baseball, save some money and dig up MVP '05. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 1.6
Date: Aug 27, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  So I went over to my brother's house to play a little baseball. He happened to have his PS2 hooked 
 up and we played a little of MLB The Show. When I left, I was really craving a good baseball game. 
 So I went to Best Buy to check out what was available on 360. Of course, there was only one title 
 (there's too much of that going on right now) so I picked it up. Oh how I wish I had known.... well... here, 
 let's jump to the Game Breakdown:
  
  Graphics: Good... but can you say choppy? Some of the character models look totally artificial. 
 The stadiums look alright, but from the reviews I had read prior to purchase, I was banking on 
 alot more. Just another overhyped game graphically speaking. And that, too, is getting really old. 
 Rain effects in this game are a total joke. They try to do a good job of showing a darkened sky, 
 but since the rain is represented by little white strips that darn near look like static glitches.. and 
 it doesn't show any impact on the ground... it's totally underwhelming. What happened 2k? Sound: 
 Ok.. the pregame talk is boring and this game officially has the buggiest, worst, most absolute 
 abysmal, oh-my-GOD-are-you-kidding-me? off-topic, off-play commentary available on the market today. 
 Tag someone out on their way to third and hear the commentator say, "And they tag him out between 
 first and second.".... um..... what? Can someone please tell me how Lance Berkman and Jeff Bagwell 
 have "no homeruns last season... he had no RBI's last season".... WTF? And apparently every single 
 pitcher's ERA was "absolutely abysmal last season.".... good grief. In a game like this, music doesn't 
 matter.. fan chatter doesn't matter... sound effects don't really matter (there's some good impact 
 sounds when you really connect with the ball.. but that's rarely thanks to the nightmarish controls 
 I'll get to later on) .. but commentary MATTERS. And this commentary absolutely sucks.
  
  Control: 2 words: Wild Pitch. It seems that the experts over at 2k thought it would be just awesome 
 to have your pitcher throw wild now and again. Realistic? Hmm.. not when you give up a single just 
 to wild throw the guy all the way around the bases and in for the run. This was seriously the biggest 
 bug/glitch/crappy idea that killed the entire game for me. Why should I work so hard to make a 
 play when the pitcher is just going to throw wild anyway? Moving the base runners is a constant 
 chore, and half the time they don't listen anyway. If you have a guy on second, and a pitch goes 
 wild, you can bet that halfway to third he is going to turn around and go back for second. You 
 can also bet that the throw from home will beat him there every single time. And you can NOT control 
 your runner. It's absurd. Batting is a headache, as the swing motion in this game is slower than 
 a '57 Chevy running on four flats towing the Titanic through the desert. Seriously, you have to 
 hit the swing button the second the pitcher releases.. and good friggin luck connecting. Every part 
 of it is bad... from having to use the right thumbstick to dive (Brilliant) to attempting to climb 
 the outfield wall (You can't... but the computer is a grand master at it) to pull down a homerun. 
 Bugs galore. Say no more.
  
  Gameplay: Imagine this scenario: top of the first. Andy Pettite on the mound... delivers the first 
 pitch and it goes for a double. Second batter comes to the plate and OMG PETTITE IS NERVOUS!!! 
 SHAKE THE ICON FOR THE PITCH BECAUSE HE'S SOOO NERVOUS!! NEVER BEEN IN THIS SITUATION BEFORE!!......... congrats 
 2k for screwing up even the basics on this one. I somehow doubt that a professional Major League 
 Baseball pitcher is going to "get nervous" to the point where they just lose control over their 
 aim because they gave up a hit. Every single added feature in this game is a joke. Ever play a 
 baseball game that utilized the right thumbstick to swing the bat? I was quick to turn that off 
 and switch back to classic control. The first time I threw a pitch, it didn't go where the icon 
 said it would. That's when I realized it was doing it because the default setting for the icon 
 is "breakpoint".... which means the pitch breaks away from the point you designate. So I switched 
 it back to "pinpoint" and wondered wtf plays the game otherwise. However, it should be noted that 
 the pitches STILL don't go where they are supposed to. The momentum factor in the game is so overdone 
 its scary. Players will run into each other, walls, and sometimes nothing at all. And you can bet, 
 by the time they get up, its either a double or a triple.. or worse. Using this game's name in the 
 same sentence as "fun" is like calling throwing my car 200 yards "easy"... total opposites.
  
  All in all, this game is total garbage. How it even scored so high on Gamespot, I don't know. 
 It seems like 7.0 is pretty much becoming the standard rating for games that suck HARD. I, however, 
 have absolutely no problem handing out appropriate scores. I can't do that on this game though 
 because they won't let me give it a zero. Believe me, I would if not for the alright graphics. 
 Should you rent this game? Here's a hint: I recommend Perfect Dark Zero over this game... heck, 
 I recommend Rumble Roses over this game. And as a purchase? Hahahaha!... oh that's funny. No really, 
 to think that anyone would be dumb enough to buy this joke of a game... knowing its issues? Funny.. simply 
 funny. I'm done with 2k until they actually start TRYING to make good games again. And if this 
 is their best effort, then that might not be for many years to come. Bugs, bugs, and more bugs. 
 This whole game is one very big error on 2k. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordoverallbaby
Rating: 1.1
Date: Aug 24, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  This is probobly the biggest bomb in the whole series, laden with more bombs than an iraqi highway 
 this bugged filled massacre of a baseball game will make you cringe. do not believe the lies that 
 the ebgamestop drones will tell you about how "sweet" this clunker is. instead read other reviews 
 and look at the general gamer consesus. here are just a few issues: rosters that reset in mid season, 
 game crashes, game freezeing, same guy in two different spots on the same roster, clipping, poorly 
 designed stadiums. i cannot believe that this was released in such poor shape. avoid this game 
 and the ebgamestop drones who rated it 9.1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tango2131
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 21, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  After hearing so many people complain about this game I decided not to get it when it came out. 
 But I could only wait so long before I needed a MLB game for my 360. Graphics are great, but I 
 think there is still alot of room for improvement, we have nothing to compare it to on a next gen 
 console as far as baseball is concerned. The controls are the biggest downfall of the game, baserunning 
 mainly. I cannot tell you how many times I've been out because my runner tried to round 1st base 
 rather than run straight through. Sound and commentary are great, nothing spectacular but I'm not 
 expecting much here. But I love baseball and this game definitely delivers it for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentfall
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 11, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  MLB2k6 is a little bit of a let down. The gameplay is decent enough to make the game fun when playing 
 multiplayer, but it seems to lack everywhere else. The overall graphics are decent, but there are 
 flaws in virtually every stadium. For instance, if you're playing in Minute Maid Park (which has 
 a roof) there are actual weather settings. Essentially, you can make it rain inside of a roofed 
 field. The A. I. of the announcers is pitiful and the cheesy lines from the announcers make it painful 
 to play a season.
  
  However, there are some bright sides to the game. The hitting system is very nice compared to previous 
 baseball games. In a lot of baseball series you simply click a button and the ball goes flying 
 through the air. MLB2k6 is a little bit different . . . you have to learn how to step correctly 
 before you begin to crush the ball. Even though, once you figure it out, you're able to crush the 
 ball just like every other game.
  
  Overall, the game isn't too impressive. But, if you're a baseball fan, then it's worth it. But, 
 for the most part, I suggest waiting until the price drops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoreCowbell6924
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K6 is a good solid baseball game, but has plenty of bugs that may lure you away, but really 
 aren't that big of a deal. Its got pretty good graphics, good sound effects, not so good music, 
 and plays pretty good game a baseball.
  
  Graphically MLB 2K6 does pretty well. The crowd looks pretty good. Most of the players look great. 
 Animations are pretty good, though they don't always flow together perfectly. The lighting is great 
 whether your playing in the night, day, or your indoors. The turf and grass in some stadiums look 
 discolored and a little too bright in some cases which is annoying at first and just takes time 
 to get used to. The weather effects are pretty cool, when its foggy or rainy. If it starts raining 
 too hard the umps may call a rain delay, but you may switch off this option. The framerate suffers 
 during some pitching wind ups and really throw off your timing, but this just takes time to get 
 used to.
  
  The sound effects are pretty well done and fit the game well. Crowd noise is well done. Ball to 
 bat contact sounds good. The announcers sound pretty good, but they do say a lot of the same crap 
 over and over again. The music in the game is pretty mediocre, though there is a wide range of 
 styles. You could always put on your own, or turn it off though.
  
  There is a good amount of value to be found in MLB 2K6, with its franchise mode. There are a few 
 other modes like situation and stuff. The online multiplayer is fun and lets you play against friends. 
 The price is a bit steep for the quality of the game, but if your a hardcore baseball fan you probably 
 will enjoy it.
  
  The gameplay is just like any other baseball game really. You have to field which is really easy 
 to learn how to do well, and you have to bat. Batting takes awhile to get used to, because you 
 have to get pitcher's wind ups down so you can time your step and swing. You also have to manage 
 the game by warming up pitchers in the bullpen or calling up a pinch hitter. On certaint calls 
 made by the umpire you may argue it and gain a morale boost for your team or get your manager ejected 
 from the game. When your manager is ejected you don't get to control who pinch hits or subs in 
 for your pitchers which will may hurt your team. There are some AI bugs that cause players to overrun 
 bases and keep running even ewhen you send them back which can be frustrating, but it isn't bad 
 enough to make the game not playable. Franchise mode is bunch of seasons stringed together like 
 you'd expect, and you may trade for players and sgn free agents. There are other things to do throughout 
 the offseason as well like resigning players and such.
  
  The online mode is pretty much just a normal game of virtual baseball except your playing a human 
 opponent and it'll probably be more challenging and unpredictable. The online is pretty much lag 
 free from I've seen of it so far and is a good fun way to get more out of this baseball game.
 
  
  MLB 2K6 is a solid baseball game. It is a fun game to play even with the bugs in the game that 
 you should be able to ignore. Any baseball fan should try this game out and probably enjoy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666_NOTB
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  2K now has the official lisence of Major League Baseball. So on their first try I can basically 
 sum up the game like this: 2K fell flat on their face.
  
  Gameplay: I found the game to be very un-fun. The AI is absolutely horrible, and the controls I 
 found to be very un-friendly. I played MVP Baseball for years and now it's sad to see it gone. 
 If 2K games is going to keep this trend, then you might as well never play a baseball game again... 
 until EA gets rights for it at least.
  
  Graphics: Solid. Nothing too special. The game looks worse than the screenshots before, though.
 
  
  Sound: Average, nothing too special.
  
  Value: If you're a die-hard baseball fan that can do glitches, then go pick this game up, for the 
 rest, wait for a price drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 19, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  This game has glitches all over the place. I was playing this game and several balls were to spots 
 in the field that another player could have made the play. The Left Trigger is supposed to change 
 to the next closest player (by default) but on several occasions, it would not switch over, resulting 
 in a missed oppurtunity to make the out. That was just one the many glitches I found. With this 
 in mind, I brought the game back and switched it out for a new one. NOPE... Same thing.... Same problems!
 
  
  Althought the stadiums are very detailed and are very good looking, The players faces are so off 
 it's funny at times. The swing stick is horrible and doesn't allow for accurate timing..... look 
 bottom line here is that the game is a mess and totally sucks. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lions24
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 17, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Man ill tell you this game is not to good. my gay brother thinks its good but hes too dumb to realize 
 that its sucks with caps. the only good thing in this game is that the people look good no not 
 the crowd the players. the helmets look pretty good and cuts scens are good to so one thing left 
 to say all 2k games are bad. No play The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion best game. so now i have to 
 just write because you need 100 words to complete this thing. Oh School is gay. i dont know but 
 school is good for you so stay in school and dont do drugs peace out like my homie hippies say 
 his name is SO HIGH IN THE SKY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioRPGer
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Gameplay-Another year, another baseball game. The gameplay in MLB 2K6 is good, and the hit stick 
 provides awesome control. There are alot of bugs in this game (sometimes it freezes up on me) but 
 its not terrible. Pretty much same old, same old.
  
  Graphics-Far less than remarkable. The lightings great, but I actually think that MLB 2K5 for the 
 XBOX lokks better. Pretty good character models and close to life faces and fields, but they could 
 have done a better job.
  
  Sound-The sound effects are good. The commentary however is not. Jon Miller and Joe Morgan sounded 
 like zombies, and had no emotion for awesome plays. For example, if someone hits a ball, and an 
 outfielder makes an awesome rob, Jon Miller would say, And he makes the catch, and the inning is 
 over in a bored voice. The soundtrack is average.
  
  Value-Its an average game that supplies an OK baseball experience, good for casual fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCritic9392
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 13, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K5 remains as one of my favorite Baseball sims of all time. Rich with features, great commentary 
 and a nice $20 pricepoint were the games claim to fame. With MLB 2K6 for the Xbox 360, 2K sports 
 sticks to the winning formula, but the final product is filled with bugs, freezes, and an unstable 
 framerate. Either 2K sports got really arrogant after the sucess of 2K5, or they were more focused 
 on taking the MLB liscence from EA, because it's made painfully obvious that with a few more months 
 in development and this game could be truly excellent. Here's the lowdown:
  
  The Good: Great level of depth and good commentary, am immense level of custimization, achievements 
 are easy to earn. 
  
  The Bad: The game is riddled with bugs, glitches, framrate issues and other problems, level of 
 depth gets overwhelming to novices, visuals really aren't 360 quality, sloppy textures, it's $60 
 unlike 2K5, the PS2 Xbox and Gamecube versions aren't $20, it's just really dissapointing. 
  
  Bottom Line: The game is the only MLB sim out for all four major consoles, and it really isn't 
 too good. The online play is solid, but the single player is just bad. The bugs drag it down and 
 just make you think of what could've been. Here's hoping for 2K7..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilitaly28
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 13, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Maybe its me but I love GM mode of this game. Having control, calling morale meetings, trading 
 guys and then playing is awesome. Im hooked! I picked my fav franchise and have been tearing it 
 up. I also liek that you can call pitches with the catchers nice addition. I do wish that if you 
 get hit by a ball you can charge the mound like in MVP and i also wish there was a button you could 
 always puish at anytime to argue as the manager (maybe there is but i havent found it) . I'm not 
 a fan of the swing stick, i like the classic control. BUt having the option is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I think people came in with expectations too high for this game. I came in and I wasn't completely 
 blown away, but this is an excellent baseball game. Probably the best baseball game to be made 
 to this date. I, however, think if MVP would have been able to launch their MVP major league version 
 on the 360 you would have seen a much better game. For now this is what we have. The graphics are 
 better than they get credit for. I like how fans go after foul balls, I like the hit stick (it 
 really annoys me when someone goes back to classic controls online, LEARN THE NEW CONTROLS!!!!!!!!!!) ,. 
 I think they need a better fielding/throwing system. People may complain about base running, but 
 that's because they don't know how to use it right. The one thing that could improve on running 
 is the AI on rounding the bases. Players don't round bases 20 feet towards the next base. The player 
 movements can be generic. With all that being said, it is still a good game and if you like baseball, 
 you will like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanRam13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 9, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2k6 is a good start for 2k in teh next generation of baseball with the execulsive license they 
 have full rights to everything baseball but in this game I sort of wished EA would have gotten 
 the rights *gasp*!
  
  The pitching in MLB is solid and the best I have ever played with in a baseball title its easy 
 to pick up and easy to master so even beginners will be throwing K's after their first game. The 
 batting however I didn't like so much. While it does feel more like I'm swinging a actual baseball 
 bat it jsut felt incomplete and inconsistent. Sometimes I would be crushing homers over the wall 
 the next with teh same swing I would get a ground out? It also felt that the swing was lagging 
 to what I was telling it to do, maybe it was jsut my game but I actually thought I was playing 
 online for a second.
  
  The graphics are good with execellent crowd annimations like when you hit a foul ball they will 
 actully reach and grab for it like in real life. But then some of the stadiums I played in felt 
 dull and out of life like the crowd was there but not there. The A. I of my teammates was below 
 what I was expecting and I found it hard to run the bases when your own player is stuck at second 
 not moving when you tell him to and the other tema ends up with a double play.
  
  Overall I few minor things that 2k can fix hopefully in 2k7 that will make this great next genreation 
 game for hte 360 even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShyter
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jul 7, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  Could 2K Sports do any worse? This game has glitches all over the place. I was playing this game 
 and several balls were to spots in the field that another player could have made the play. The 
 Left Trigger is supposed to change to the next closest player (by default) but on several occasions, 
 it would not switch over, resulting in a missed oppurtunity to make the out. That was just one 
 the many glitches I found. With this in mind, I brought the game back and switched it out for a 
 new one. NOPE... Same thing.... Same problems!
  
  Althought the stadiums are very detailed and are very good looking, The players faces are so off 
 it's funny at times. The swing stick is horrible and doesn't allow for accurate timing..... look 
 bottom line here is that the game is a mess and totally sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbrown86
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K6 is the exclusive baseball game this year except for MLB 06: The show. However it is the 
 only game to come out for the next-gen consoles. The result is a game that is amazing graphically, 
 but has a few glaring flaws. 
  
  Gameplay
  Gameplay is similar to any other baseball game. You can try out the swing stick, which mimics a 
 real batting motion using the left analog stick. If you are like me you go back to the old hit 
 with A and move with the left stick the direction you want to hit it. You also have the batters 
 eye, which if you use can let you see where the next pitch is going to be, depending on whether 
 your eye is on that region. The eye grows and decreases depending on what you do in the box and 
 your current cold/hot streak. Pitching relies on a system in which you hold down the pitch selection 
 for effort, then try to get the cursor just right to put it in the spot. With Payoff Pitching, 
 when you are in a clutch situation or with 2 strikes on a batter you can positon the catcher on 
 the strike zone. If you get it inside the box shown, your pitch you threw becomes more dangerous, 
 while missing causes you to lose effectiveness. 
  
  The batting and pitching interfaces work well, but until you get used to the batting system you 
 will have many pop-ups. 
  
  The Good:
  The Graphics are some of the best i've seen in a game, and being one of the first games that isn't 
 just a port over of the XBox, it does very well. You can see the facial expressions and facial 
 details of all your favorite players well, and for the first time really be able to say "yeah that's 
 him" when looking at a player, as he actually looks like his real-life counterpart.
  
  The stadiums are well detailed, and the fans are all there, everyone moves and there are all the 
 things that make it look like a real crowd.
  
  Inside Edge returns, which gives you a detailed scouting report on the other team if you pay for 
 the report. Batters when pitched against it gives you positions which to put your pitches and what 
 pitch to use. Batting it gives you the pitchers probablity of pitching a certain pitch and 3 zones 
 in which the pitcher might throw the pitch in.
  
  The Bad:
  The fielding can be a little wacky at times, your outfield will sometimes take a indirect route 
 at the ball or sometimes not go for the ball until too late. It's nice to see collisions between 
 players and walls, but sometimes a slight push causes them to fall over immediately.
  
  Baserunning is station to station if you don't fix some tabs on the difficulty section. The outfielders 
 have Howitzer arms, and even for fast guys a double is usually a single. I was able to take a fast 
 groundball toward my RF and throw out the runner heading to first too many times.
  
  Pitchers get fatigued way to fast as well.
  
  Players aren't really rated well, as guys that 
 are currently dominating the league are low rated to the point where they can't be used.
  
  Game modes/Value
  You get everything you would expect from a baseball game here, Franchise, exhibition 
 etc. GM mode puts you in the position of a GM where your job is usually to make the team better 
 and try to make a profit as well. You will have goals such as don't spend X amount of dollars, 
 or this player is making too much money for his abilities, get rid of him. The WBC is here also, 
 but some names are changed due to issues with the unions.
  
  Sound
  Jon Miller and Joe Morgan, ESPN's normal Sunday Night Baseball crew, call all the shots for the 
 game. They do a good job of talking about the action, but don't really have much of the chemistry 
 they have if you were to watch them in a telecast. The sounds of the stadium are all there, and 
 you can hear from the sound of the bat hitting the ball whether you got all of it or not.
  
  Final Thoughts
  This game was a solid game, but had it's flaws. However, if you are looking 
 for a XBox 360 baseball game, it's the only one and if you look past the flaws it's a fun baseball 
 game, but possibly not as good as the one EA might have been able to bring out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silicon_requiem
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Please understand exactly how sympathetic I am to this game, I have spent so much time arguing 
 about what MLB game is better, and I have consistently sided with the 2K line in the past, but 
 what happened? They had a fine (and working) interface that was stable and once you really got 
 the hang of it, the screwups mostly went away. Not so any longer. 
  
  To start, here's ... (in typical order) 
  
  *** THE GOOD STUFF***
  
  1) I do have to admit 
 that the new pitching and batting interfaces were at first annoying, but I gave them a chance and 
 actually prefer them now, they take time to get used to but they are worth a shot, you might just 
 like them. I liked the whole idea of the 'payoff pitch' (the crucial pitch which, if you plan it 
 and make it work then your pitcher imporves in that certain pitch, you miss, he gets worse) is 
 great, so long as its ME who decides, not the INSIDE EDGE person (more on that later) . 
  
  2) I love the new trading interface option, in which you can offer a player and get offers, or 
 seek a player and get offers, all the while changing what you are looking for and providing helpful 
 information. 
  
  3) Managing interface is also a bit better organized, but this is not a huge improvement by any 
 means. 
  
  Next, here's a concise list of the problems that I have found to date (and growing steadily) ...
 
  
  ***THE BAD STUFF***
  
  1) Graphical problems: 2K5 had some problems, like sometimes instead of a screen shot from a camera 
 following the players as they switched innings you would find yourself face to face with a closeup 
 of another player's, or manager's, butt. That pales in comparison with all the graphical glitches 
 you might run into during any given game. Won't go too far into this, mostly little stuff, but 
 it really makes the interface look lackluster when it's always fudging the little things. 
  
  2) Fielding (AHHHHHHH!!!!!) : What the heck happened, they tried to go too far by making the 
 fielders have gravity and therefore mass, velocity, and momentum, so now they just seem sluggish 
 at best. Here'e the thing, we (the players of this game) are not, though it may appear as such, 
 professional baseball players!!! I doubt that many MLB stars do much more than chuckle at these 
 things and have fun playing with themselves (figuratively speaking of course) , but we the players 
 of console MLB do not have perfect insight as to where the ball is going, or for that matter, which 
 fielder we are controlling!!! Baseballs often move very quickly when smacked by a major league 
 hitter, and the reaction is so quick that sometimes you will think (eg.) you are 2B but ACTUALLY 
 you are stuck in RF, but since you for that split second thought you were 2B you have been moving 
 for the past two seconds in the wrong direction, therefore your momentum is going that direction, 
 and by the time you figure this out you are already headed into the RF wall instead of getting 
 to the ball, which lands, thereby giving a hit to the opp team which SHOULD NEVER HAVE HAPPENED. 
 I thought I would get used to all this, as I did overcoming the 2K5 learning curve, but I HAVENT 
 and even moreso it seems to get worse because now I know what I'm doing and it still happens!!! 
 Just believe me, the fielding should never have included momentum, as realistic as it may be, because 
 in the end its a GAME, not real life, GRR!
  
  3) Various weird crap: Lots of strange things fall into this nebulous category, from freezing during 
 various moments of loading, to forgetting your "VIP" settings, to calling a strike a ball or having 
 the announcers say something non applicable (eg. you strike the guy out with an awesome changeup 
 down and away and J. Morgan pops up with the handy info "its the Nolan Ryan special, a high and 
 away fastball! blah blah", problem, that wasn't the *&!# pitch!!!) . It's little things, especially 
 the mis-information, that seems at first dismissable, but the longer you play the more it wears 
 on you, until its like nails on a chalkboard. 
  
  Finally, (you knew it was coming) , 
  
  ***THE UGLY STUFF***
  
  1) The "new" addition: the INSIDE EDGE (tm) :P (BTW, this was not 
 NEW like the designers made it out to be, careful players of 2k5 will notice that this information 
 was largely (without the FORCEFUL SUGGESTIONS) available for FREE in the bottom corners of the 
 screen. They showed, in easy unobtrusive manner, lots of "hot or cold" information about a batter 
 or pitcher, now you get charged for that information and have it crammed down your throat!!!)
 
  Yucko, this sounded really good to start, for a one time low fee (ha) you have access to player's 
 tendancies, in game, woohoo, right? WRONG! It's not just information, and its not even just suggestions 
 as it would like you to think, they are, shall we say, really STRONG suggestions. It works both 
 in pitching and batting, but pitching is more annoying, because it won't just highight a pitch 
 and an area, and then let you decide, it takes your dang ball and drags it were it wants it. In 
 order to pitch anywhere else you have to literarlly drag it away from there to whereever you want 
 to it go. If you are at a stirikeout pitch it doesn't just give you the option of a payoff pitch, 
 it FORCES you into one. If you decide to pitch elsewhere, tooooo bad. The problem is if you don't 
 use the "suggested" pitch in the "suggested" location, it will actually WEAKEN THAT PITCH, PERMANENTLY!!! 
 That really, really, really, really ticked me off.
  
  2) Player information whacko: one of the cool things about 2K5 was the running commentary from 
 which you learned a lot about players, pitches, and other fun info. But 2K6 has a huge problem 
 because it gives wrong information, not only about pitches as noticed before, but also about players. 
 Its as if the programmers just got bored of inputting stats and... well... stopped! A perfect example, 
 the player information on Andruw Jones was correct on his "player card" but yet almost everytime 
 he steps up to the plate Morgan says "....... Andruw had no Homeruns last year, Andruw had no RBI's 
 last year..." uhhhh, wrong?! This is just a prime example but it happens wayyyyy too much, and 
 it will throw you off about that players ability if you arent familiar with them and aren't careful 
 about your pitching to them.
  
  3) Overall lackluster ... everything: Corners were cut, please tell me they were because the editing 
 on this was monstrous... So much in this game does not live up to 2K5's reputation, was it the 
 loss of ESPN? Making too many other huge titles and forgot about your measely MLB game until it 
 was time to market, and then spent all your allotted funds on the millions of dollars of TV spots 
 while shunting the programming team? ! ? ... Something changed, solid gameplay was cashed out in 
 exchange for gimmicky, flashy interface graphics, to no avail. I miss the solid playing style of 
 2K5 and mourn the change in this otherwise great series.
  
  In the end:
  -Gameplay: (6) Mixed emotions, sometimes great, sometimes awful.
  -Graphics: (8) Nice and smooth 
 mostly, but still buggy
  -Sound: (5) Smooth talking commentators, nice as usual, except they don't KNOW WHAT THEY ARE TALKING 
 ABOUT ANYMORE!!! (if I was them I would be mad about being represented like this!)
  -Value: (5) Real expensive and showy, no good ole' ballgame
  -Tilt: (4) This would be a (1) if 
 I wasn't already such a fan of the 2K series, so understand that my love of the game tilts it as 
 high as I would allow it. 
  
  Save yourself a LOT of money, buy 2k5 for way cheap and enjoy the heck out of it, leave this on 
 the shelves and maybe they can get their stuff together for 2k7, if it survives after this lackluster 
 performance. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpgrant91
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 3, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This isn't as bad of a game as people say it is. It's a game that has it's ups and downs, but more 
 ups. It has a deep franchise mode and fun gameplay. The game is flawed, there's no denying it, 
 but it's not like theres a ton of major game changing flaws. It's more like when a batter steps 
 up, say Manny Ramirez, and Harold Reynolds says "last year he hit no home runs and had no RBIs", 
 obviously that's wrong. Even with a number of those minor flaws you need to give it a chance cuz 
 it's definetly worth it, but wait until it's cheaper if you're going to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrescan
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 1, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst baseball game I've ever seen. The gameplay is horrible, it's seems they knew 
 there're going to be the only option in the market so they make this unisipired game. Please MLB 
 should give the opportunity to EA to return to their wonderful MVP Series. 
  
  If you have any doubt you can rent it first and after 30 minutes you'll realize this game was done 
 just for the purpose of filling the blank., Dont waste your money on this, specially for the 360 
 version where you gonna pay 60+ and get the same graphix and gameplay from the older consoles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuttabutta
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this is awful... my younger brother (who only plays sports games basically and is a master 
 at them) rented this game a few days ago and I must request that the MLB exclusivity be revoked 
 from 2k games. Even he is throwing down his controlller. The batting system is trying to give a 
 realistic impression but just sucks in the end. The pitching angle of view is terrible, and again, 
 trying to be too realistic... Don't even get me started on the fielding, which is way too difficult 
 because the runners are too fast and the fielders are too slow. Top it off with horrible glitches, 
 and you've got a pretty much overall terrible game. The graphics, while good, didn't wow me like 
 many 360 games. The commentary is just the same lines over and over... while the game tries to feel 
 more authentic than MVP Baseball, it just has too steep of a learning curve for anyone to just 
 pick up in play. I never thought I'd say this, but give EA back the right to make a good baseball 
 game! At least they don't try to alienate you from the American pasttime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnitGTS
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 25, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  As the title says, there are more bugs in this game then in an ant hill! At times it's kinda funny, 
 the announcers insist that nobody had any home runs or RBI's the past year, they call foul balls 
 fair and then foul, players "talk" to each other with hand gestures but their mouths never open, 
 and much more. Other times it's h*ll, the AI is pretty dumb at times, base runners will only advance 
 one base at a time, and if you try to tell them to advance yourself they usually find a way to 
 mess things up and at least one of them gets tagged out. Overall the game is fun, however it could 
 be much much better!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X3oNR3g1z
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jun 24, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  This game has way too many problems and glitches. I rented this game for gamerscore points and 
 all I earned was pure anger. This game froze every 10 mins on my 360. The controls are horrible, 
 batting seems almost impossible. To add to that the graphics are an eye soar, I felt like I was 
 playing on N64. Bottom line this game is trash. Don't even plan on renting this garbage. z z z z 
 z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z 
 z z z z z z z z z z z z 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyekey
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 23, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  There should be a class action suit against 2K Sports for releasing this flaming piece of garbage 
 to the public. They have a long way to go before I would ever even consider purchasing another 
 one of their baseball games again. I feel like I've just been robbed! I feel a public apology and 
 an immediate recall is in order. 
  
  How can anyone ever enjoy a game that can freeze at any given moment? As a Nationals fan, I was 
 playing against the Yanks. I managed to hit a Grand-Slam in the bottom ot the 8th that would have 
 put me up by 1 run. During the Fireworks.... game freezes!!!!!
  
  Baseball is supposed to be 'America's past-time'. Well, 2K Sports owning monopolistic rights to 
 baseball video games is un-American!
  
  
  
  FYI - The patch didn't help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbleupdrtbag
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 22, 2006 2:34 am PT
Review:  This game is terrible don't bother buying it or renting it, it's crap. I played it and when i got 
 the ball in th outfield i would hit B to throw it to 1st base but the ball would go to 3rd or i 
 would hold down A to throw a strike right down the center and it would go 10 feet to the right 
 and im not kidding my catcher would have to run and get it. but when i aimed right at the batters 
 head it would go straight down the center. Or how about whe i was about 5 feet from the 2nd baseman 
 and threw it to him and some how way over threw it and then my 3rd baseman ran and got it and i 
 was hitting A over and over tto throw home and he just stode there. So i repeat it's a waste of 
 money don't buy this crap worste game i've ever played i would rather have someone put salt in 
 my eyes while jamming needles under my finger nails then play this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jer_OC
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 4:34 am PT
Review:  Ok so it seems baseball "talk" has moved backwards, Not only does the commentating poorly sync-up 
 with the game, it is down right aweul.. it reminds me of good ole "Blank's Blanks' Talking Baseball" 
 we played back in the 1990's ! Not only that but s this a Xbox 360 game??? The graphics are laughable 
 at best for 'next-gen' Just BECAUSE you use more colors doesnt mean its next generation!!!! very 
 poor textures and surfaces, mediocre stadiums, a very bland GM/Franchise System. 
  
  The few cool things about his game are overshadowed buy the poor design and highly flawed gameplay. 
 I was to say the least.. very disappointed playing this game.. at moments it was fun.. sometimes 
 it had its moments of tension.. but that wasn't the game causing all the tension and suspence.. 
 it was because I was playing agaisnt another human player. 
  
  Which leads me to another poor showng in the lobbys and the typical 2k lobby system (It's ALMOST... 
 almost as bad as te EA lobbies) .. I hope you baseball fans just rented this one, cause forking 
 over money for a Xbox360 next-gen game, that has NO right calling itself a Next-Gen OR for that 
 fact an XBOX360 game.. Very poor 2k,, and tsk tsk to M$ for allowing it. Do we need to go back 
 to the "nes gold seal" systems to make sure games are at least worth something they claim to be?
 
  
  The good points o this game.. it has mant colors, it's bright (colors) . the tunes are .. eh so-so 
 (I say that cause using your own tunes will cause conflicts between  
 oh wait.. this is the good part of the review.. The trivia & Fact Sequences are quiet nice... Oh 
 and it has bright colors.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 11, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I do not pay to much attention to baseball, but this game is a terrible excuse for baseball. I 
 mean probably 2 games in to it you'll come to the same realization. The batting system is a tool, 
 I mean probably half the hits that aren't perfect are fouls, or homeruns. Then Online play lags 
 like crazy, it's not just my connection, my freinds have the same problems with it. Then theres 
 the achievements, the only reason to play this game, that half the time don't even register. My 
 freind has scored all of them at least five times and still has only 1 from the game. I have scored 
 all of them myself for sure as I have records to back it up, still nothing. So I say don't even 
 bother with this game, it won't work for gamerscore boosting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  When you think of next gen gaming, you think technological advancement, better graphics, more in 
 depth, and better overall gaming experience. Did 2k not read this memo? I can not believe how much 
 2k missed the boat with this game. It is almost as if they did not know they were making a game 
 for the Xbox 360. Because of this stupid licensing war going on, you have the only licensed baseball 
 game for the 360 and are forced to play this or play nothing. After playing this game, I figured 
 I would have to wait another year for a baseball game. I just love the sport so much, that I could 
 not wait. So I decided to play again and try to love it.. It was actually working. Here I was in 
 the bottom of the 7th winning 4-2, playing the most realistic game I have ever played, and the 
 game froze, and then again, and then again. Is it me or do these game editors not realize there 
 is a glitch? How much time do these people spend on developing the game and they can't see that? 
 It is so annoying. 2k does manage to get somethings right and it is those moments that helps me 
 through it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baker63
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  How can ppl hate this game! I rented the game last night and I love it, it may not be as good as 
 The Show for PS2 but, what are u gonna do its the only baseball game for 360.
  Ya of course the presentation sucked... Thats one of my pet peeves for a game. The graphics where 
 pretty d*mn good.
  I hear numerous problems with freezing but after playing 5 games it didnt freeze once so I guess 
 everything that needed fixed was fixed.
  I love the WBC it was a great feature added to a baseball game. Especially using Roger Clemens 
 against all of those pitiful World teams.
  Defineatly rent this game b4 u buy it, because everyone seems to have a different view of this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clcougars33
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt, the graphics put the high-resolution capabilities of the 360 hardware to good 
 use, at least in the technical sense. The player and stadium models are heavily detailed and everything 
 has a sharp, vibrant look. Scoreboards and signs behind the outfield, which automatically update 
 with line scores and dynamic advertisements, are perfectly legible from behind the plate. The crowd 
 in the 360 game is especially impressive. Every last spectator, from the fans behind the plate 
 to those in the upper deck, is a complete 3D model, which is quite the improvement over the cardboard 
 cutouts and low-poly people normally found in the seats in most sports video games. Individual 
 spectators stand up, wave, and fidget in their seats. In certain views, you'll notice pizza and 
 beverage vendors walking the concourses. After a home run, the cutaway viewpoint will show the 
 person who caught the ball celebrating their catch. It's also very cute how spectators fight over 
 foul balls that are hit into the stands. Thankfully, the audio portion of the presentation fares 
 much better. ESPN's Jon Miller and Joe Morgan, arguably the best commentator team in baseball today, 
 have the in-game play-calling duties. Some of their calls don't convey the proper level of emotional 
 response, but they make up for it by keeping up with the action and having a lot to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 27, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game figuring "Hey, it can't be THAT bad..." but it can. It's horrible. First thing 
 i noticed was the xbox 1 graphics. But i though maybe the gamplay would make it worthwhile. Nope. 
 Pitching is boring, and your guys run unnecessarily slow. Defense is simply not fun. On to batting. 
 My guy stands there, and i go oh yeah, i'm gonna NAIL it! Well the ball gets closer, and i swing 
 the stick and nothing happens. WTF? Try after try i miss. In fact, the only thing i can do at command 
 is bunt. Not fun. Not easy. I changed the settings so i could use the A button to hit but it was 
 even harder and worse. You tap A at the perfect moment and your guy stands there like a buffoon. 
 Then the announcers make fun of you for playing the useless game. A lousy experience in every possible 
 way. They shouldn't have even bothered with releasing this game. It would be so easy to make it 
 fun but this is just terrible. Horrible. Not fun. If you buy this, you should also buy a gun at 
 the same time so you can shoot yourself for your decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbrown3
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 1, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  I was definetly turned off at first with the visuals and the bugs that run rampant throughout this 
 game. But after I gave this game a few tries, got used to the pitching, batting, fielding, and 
 baserunning, it turned out a be a great baseball experience. I was so tempted to trade this one 
 in the day after I got it, I do think a lot of it was the gameplay. The fielding and baserunning 
 take a lot of getting used to, but you'll get there eventually, give yourself 3 or 4 full games, 
 and you'll be good to go. This batting is very easy to get practice with in the home run derby 
 mode, and pitching is fairly easy to learn and you should be pitching like and ace after a game 
 or two. 
  
  The features in this game are great. The GM Career mode is especially deep, and gives you a feeling 
 like you are really in control of of your team. 
  
  I was sucked in by all the amazing screen shots that clogged the internet for months and months. 
 If you are buying this for pure graphical value, don't buy it. I would never reccomend this game 
 to anyone who was not a true baseball fan. You really need a real understanding and appreciation 
 of the game to enjoy this game. That being said it could either be your favorite game, or your 
 least favorite game, rent first, it's at least worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  WHAT I SAY- It is not as bad as it is made out to be. Rather a good game that is hidden behind 
 some graphical issues...
  
  WHAT GAMESPOT SAYS- "The Good: Exquisite hitting and pitching interfaces; crisp graphics and a 
 good variety of play animations and cutaways; best-looking crowd in a sports game to date; inside 
 edge integrates stats into gameplay; deep franchise mode and online leagues. 
  The Bad: Overall presentation is dull and uninteresting; replays and cutaways are too infrequent; 
 ichiro is an italian plumber now?; no cutaways or broadcast transitions online; bugs and ai problems 
 are annoying at times. 
  As expected, the Xbox 360 version of Major League Baseball 2K6 flaunts nicer visuals and livelier 
 audio than either of the versions of the game that are available for the PlayStation 2 and the 
 older Xbox. It also benefits from a slightly better variety of play animations and cutaways. That's 
 the good news. The bad news is that the jump to the 360 hasn't done much overall to spice up the 
 game's halfhearted presentation. Many player faces are still inaccurate, the same replays and play 
 animations still recur frequently, and, although the animation is more fluid in this version, the 
 players still look a little jittery while they're running. To further complicate matters, the Xbox 
 360 game also suffers from a greater frequency of minor bugs and AI quirks than its so-called "last-generation" 
 counterparts do. None of these rough edges are deal breakers on their own, but, taken together, 
 they conspire to severely drag down what is otherwise a deep and feature-rich baseball sim. 
  
  
  Although the visuals are crisp, the presentation lacks personality. 
  Without a doubt, 
 the graphics put the high-resolution capabilities of the 360 hardware to good use, at least in 
 the technical sense. The player and stadium models are heavily detailed and everything has a sharp, 
 vibrant look. Scoreboards and signs behind the outfield, which automatically update with line scores 
 and dynamic advertisements, are perfectly legible from behind the plate. Finer details -- such as 
 skin tones, facial features, clothing, dirt, and turf -- look more textured in the Xbox 360 version, 
 as contrasted with the comparatively muted details found in the versions available for the PS2 
 and the original Xbox. Player faces look disturbingly human, although, for every face that actually 
 matches a real player's, there's another that's completely wrong. On the one hand, Pedro Martinez 
 and Alex Rodriguez look like the guys you see on TV every couple of days. On the other hand, Manny 
 Ramirez doesn't have his knotty dreds and Ichiro Suzuki looks like he's an Italian-American. 
 
  
  The crowd in the 360 game is especially impressive. Every last spectator, from the fans behind 
 the plate to those in the upper deck, is a complete 3D model, which is quite the improvement over 
 the cardboard cutouts and low-poly people normally found in the seats in most sports video games. 
 Individual spectators stand up, wave, and fidget in their seats. In certain views, you'll notice 
 pizza and beverage vendors walking the concourses. After a home run, the cutaway viewpoint will 
 show the person who caught the ball celebrating their catch. It's also very cute how spectators 
 fight over foul balls that are hit into the stands. 
  
  When compared side by side with the PS2 and original Xbox versions, the Xbox 360 version looks 
 smoother in motion and has a wider variety of play animations and cutaways. Players still look 
 a little jittery when they run, but individual plays are silky smooth. On the whole, the variety 
 of different plays is good. Routine throws from the infield to first all look the same, but there 
 are plenty of different animations for double plays, outfield catches, and non-routine plays. It 
 really is like the difference between night and day when you see how many different shoestring 
 catches and athletic grabs happen in this version of the game compared to the others. There are 
 also more instant replays, crowd cutaways, and player-reaction shots to see in the Xbox 360 game. 
 
  
  
  Some player faces are exact, some are downright bogus. 
  That's not to say that replays, cutaways, and reaction shots are a frequent occurrence. They're 
 not. After most plays, the viewpoint simply switches right back to the hitting or pitching view. 
 When a snappy catch or a tide-turning play happens, the odds of the game celebrating it with an 
 instant replay or a camera cutaway are fairly low. Perhaps one out of every three plays gets the 
 broadcast treatment. That's ultimately the biggest problem with Major League Baseball 2K6. While 
 the game flexes the system's technical might, it doesn't do a good job of celebrating all of the 
 subtle nuances that make the game of baseball so much fun to watch at the ballpark or on television. 
 Batter walk-ups and post-strikeout reactions are the exception rather than the norm. Players walk 
 off the field when the inning is over, but they don't walk back to their positions or pass the 
 ball around after an out is made. In terms of visual atmosphere, local sports channels do a better 
 job of making baseball seem exciting than this game does. 
  
  Thankfully, the audio portion of the presentation fares much better. ESPN's Jon Miller and Joe 
 Morgan, arguably the best commentator team in baseball today, have the in-game play-calling duties. 
 Some of their calls don't convey the proper level of emotional response, but they make up for it 
 by keeping up with the action and having a lot to say. Additional comments and dialogue were recorded 
 specifically for the Xbox 360 version of the game, allowing the pair to offer commentary and insight 
 into offbeat situations and plays that they generally gloss over in the other versions. The crowd 
 and the stadium public address system do a bang-up job of ratcheting up the volume in response 
 to close plays and home-team highlights. Additional atmospheric audio was also recorded for the 
 Xbox 360 game, adding more pep to the already lively stadium environments. There's a satisfying 
 range of miscellaneous baseball-related sound effects, but all of the different musical snippets, 
 crowd comments, umpire calls, and stadium announcements are what ultimately give each ballpark 
 an authentic and exciting auditory atmosphere. It's just too bad that the visuals can't convey 
 the same degree of personality as the audio does.."
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillyhox
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 31, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  For being the only MLB game for the 360 I will have to say they did a fairly good job. This game 
 looks very well. The graphics may not be the best but it is a very good baseball game. A very fun 
 game to get together with a friend and go for a series of 3 or 5 games. It will keep things interesting. 
 From what I have noticed on season mode is that it isnt totally lopsided. You could be on fire 
 for a few games in a row and the next game you could do the same thing youve been doing and it 
 wont work for you. That is good because on past games you could totally rule if you kept the same 
 game plan down. So I would have to say that this game is great and deserves better than what some 
 people say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEGOslayer
Rating: 2.4
Date: May 30, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  What can I say. This game sucks. There is only one posotive in this game and that is graphics. 
 The sound sucks. The gameplay sucks. This horrid excuse for a baseball game is worthless. All I 
 can say is .... crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap crap. I can give this crap a horrible score 
 and I will. The only game on every major counsel and it sucks. My PS2 is not very good and I'm 
 not dropping $50 for THE SHOW. For those planning on buying this, don't. I can't even begin to 
 say ALL of its flaws. I said the graphics were good, except when they freeze 24-7. Please don't 
 buy this game. 2K Games will just make more of this crap.
  
  
  
  LEGOslayer out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 27, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  This game got a well bad wrap when it got released. But all the manufactures fault. This game had 
 one of the biggest bugs a game could ever have the day it released. 
  
  MLB 2k6 would freeze up from time to time and would not let me play 2 player with a friend at all. 
 Even though I absolutely loved the season mode and the updated graphics for this year, I was in 
 the same boat as everyone else and had to deal with the game freezing often.
  
  Not only that it took 2k sports a long time to offer a patch for the game and it kinda killed the 
 experience and drove the croud else where. I to was on that band wagon. But the game has its bugs 
 fixed and is playing great. My favorite team the Detroit Tigers won the World Series and I was 
 happy.
  
  I like the way the game sounds on surround sound and the graphics are pretty. The stadium models 
 are kinda a little of from last years for some reason. Online or off I think this game now delivers 
 but thats 2k's own fault. The flame just died.
  
  If you love Baseball and you Love your 360, get your some easy achievements and live it up in your 
 Skybox.
  
  This year 2k sports offer you the Swing Stick option were you may use the right analog stick to 
 swing the bat. Very hard to master, but with lots of practice anyone can do it. 
  
  You get all the features a Baseball game should have, Create-a-player, create-a-team, Francise 
 mode, Season mode, Online, and the Homerun Derby! I love to hit them out of the park, yeah baby!
 
  
  Thanks for reading my review and please chack out my others. Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fig_The_Second
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 27, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  When I played this game for the first time, I had a lot of trouble trying to hit the ball. But 
 after a couple of games I got used to it alot. I even beat the White Sox being the Astros! WHAT 
 NOW WHITE SOX! But the graphics were lacking what I thought it would have and some of the faces 
 for the players are not very friendly. Otherwise, I really like how the games flows along with 
 all of the many things you can do with the game. The Season mode is the best if you like playing 
 like you are on one team and playing through a real season of baseball. That's what makes this 
 game really fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bringinit19
Rating: 2
Date: May 26, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This game has way too many problems and glitches that the patches that 2KSports posted online don't 
 even work for (or at least they didn't for me) . This game made me go from a huge baseball video 
 game fan, to a non-existent one. The customer service didn't help me out either... I wrote them 
 a few times, and the stopped writing me back as soon as they found out the problems were not fixed 
 by the patch. I can't wait for their MLB exclusive rights to die out, or for EA Sports to release 
 their MVP College Baseball game for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherbie1989
Rating: 7
Date: May 24, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  the game is a baseball game lol go figure. Its the same thing over and over pitch the ball he hits 
 it catch it. The game has so many glitches its unbelieveable. Like when the batter comes up it 
 will be like # 21 then change to 17. Then u will steal to third and all of a sudden ur guy runs 
 back to second even though he has like 20 min to get to third then he gets out on second. I bought 
 it got the achievements and brought it back. So if i were u rent it then you like it buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mel_Brennan
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 24, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  The actual gameplay is fairly good... the game continues to offer more... see the developer interview 
 for all the features into which one can delve, as well as the ones that operate behind the scenes...
 
  
  ... For me, where suspension of disbelief takes a hit is in the player faces... not realistic at 
 all in some cases, and it ruins the immersion. Ichiro has been the classic example, but what about 
 my ability to make/change the LF on the Giants to Bonds... can't do it.
  
  Also I still have not been able to get online with this game... it locks up everytime I try. NBA 
 2K6 works fine; this one is an odd one...
  
  Announcing is excellent; has anyone experienced better than Miller and Morgan?
  
  Overall a 
 solid 7.4... 25% of this game could be better/take it over the top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthonykid100
Rating: 8
Date: May 23, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  As this is the first MLB game on the XBOX 360, I am not totally impressed but satisfied. The grahics 
 are a huge change from the old platforms, and the stadiums look very nice, and the crowds are no 
 longer just paper models who stand up and clap, these crowds try to catch foul balls, and even 
 catch home runs, also concession and security personnel walk up and down the steps, making it even 
 more realistic. ONE HUGE PROBLEM that I know everyone has noticed is the player models! This is 
 the reason I'm not totally satisfied, when I play as the Yankees (GO YANKEES!) the only two players 
 I can easily identify at first glance are Derek Jeter, and Alex Rodriguez, with everyone else I 
 need to look at their shirt numbers. Coming back now, I have to give a HUGE A+ on the sound, it 
 is soooooo much better than before. The crowds respond to everything, the commentators Jon Miller 
 and Joe Morgan are great, the stadium announcer sounds great, but the music could be a little better, 
 but their are custom soundtracks to cover for that. Another issue I have is poor frame rate at 
 times, when I know the 360 is capable of handling the situation, and some of the player movements 
 slow down to catch the ball, or just don't seem real. In the end, if you REALLY want to play baseball 
 on your 360, go pick it up. It's not that good to go out and just buy for the fun of it. Go and 
 rent it and see what you think. Hopefully next year this game will blow everyone away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcamn7
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 23, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  The graphics are great and I like the batting interface. The pitching is standard fare. But all 
 of this is overshadowed by a poor AI. Base runners will consistantly advance when they shouldn't 
 and stay on base when they should advance. Hot hit balls to the corner often result in a delayed 
 screen update which means that ordinary grounders turn into singles. And the AI will often give 
 control to your infielder on balls that the outfielders should be the ones taking. I am half-through 
 my first season and the game locks up about every other game, meaning that I have to shut down 
 the XBox 360 and start all over again - and I even have the patch installed. Overall a lousy, buggy 
 effort. I will not buy another game from this company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliezther
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 21, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  I bought this game, expecting to be better than MVP (of course, thats not possible!!) , but if you 
 compare it to the previous mlb 2k6's garbage, this game has improved dramatically, it has a lot 
 of failures and the game-play is not very friendly, but the graphs, the WBC and the sound is something 
 to look and to hear at. It is a shame for the consumers and for the market that only 2k6 has the 
 license to make mlb games, it doesn't motivate creativity or development in sports game, personally, 
 i think the best company for sport games is EA sports. If you want by this game, but you will be 
 doing just fine with the old and excellent MVP 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drgonzo619
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 15, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  I am a loyal EA gamer, and after reading the reviews for MLB2k6, i was reluctant to buy it. However, 
 after i heard of the patch to fix the freezing, i decided to finaly get it; and i was pleasantly 
 surprised.
  
  This game has a lot to offer. I like the pitching interface.
  
  the only negative thing is that there is no Sports ticker. I need the sports ticker, because all 
 the hours i am going to spend on this game, i want to keep up on real scores.
  
  i hope they implement the sports ticker next year.
  
  there are a few bugs, but after learning 
 the new controls, the game is fun and very challenging. the graphics are great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alsephV2
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 14, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok well I'm very disappointed in this game for a few reasons. 
  
  First off this is the first baseball game on the new generation of systems and if this is a trend 
 of things to come I really don't like where it's headed. 
  
  Second I'm disapointed in the graphics I expected more from 2K sports and the fact the game is 
 on 360. My first experience with this game was a game with the Oakland A's and my favorite the 
 New York Yankees. The first batter in the game was Johnny Damon... I saw the graphics of his face 
 and it was just horrible... looks nothing like him. Not only this but later when I went to create 
 a player... I saw the exact face they gave Johnny. 
  
  The gameplay of this game was ok I suppose. I have only ran into one baseball game in my life that 
 was able to balance the pitching and batting aspects making the gameplay great.... this was not 
 the game. 2K6 has an ok pitching system if you know what your doing. Otherwise you end up throwing 
 A LOT of wild pitches. The batting system isn't too bad either but I have seen better. You need 
 to be patient with it because it takes time to get used to it. Also just to let you all know from 
 a baseball player's perspective when you hit under a ball its suppose to pop up not go to the ground.
 
  
  Now I gave the sound a 10 because Joe Morgan is my idol haha plus the in game announcing and stadium 
 noises were done very well. 
  
  This game does give back value with unlockable teams, jerseys and a stadium. Another part of the 
 game that I love and was absent from MLB 06: The Show was the World Baseball Classic. 
  
  Overall this game is not too bad. Supposedly there are A LOT of glitches which I completely despise 
 but I personally have not run into any yet *knocks on wood*. If you REALLY love the 2K series and 
 baseball I would get this game otherwise I would stick with MLB 06: The Show but for this game 
 its your call 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 12, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Now this game is a fairly accurate baeball sim with, you can tell that they put alot of effort 
 into making it feel alot like the real game of baseball. The problem comes when it freezes, now 
 some people have had the game freeze before games ,in the middle, and I am having trouble at the 
 end of innings, the screens just goes blank after an inning for no apparent reason, now this doesn't 
 happen on the xbox and ps2 versions of the game just the 360 version, and thats just unfair, and 
 to top it all of it looks like and sounds like the xbox version as well, there are also a ton of 
 little glitches in the game that really take you out of the experience. If you can get past the 
 problems with the game you can have fun with this game, but it will be hard to do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flattuca
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 12, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Much like the girl with a curl right in the middle of her forehead, when this game is good "it 
 is very very good", and when it is bad it "is awful."
  
  Truthfully the worst part of this game is that it is so infuriatingly fun and good looking in the 
 5 minutes you get to play it before it crashes. Much like Hell having no sway without a thought 
 of Heaven (thank you Neil Gaiman and countless others) this games bug problems wouldn't be nearly 
 as bothersome if the game wasn't so fun when it did work.
  
  On the plus side, the Pitching and Batting controls, although foreign at first, do come rather 
 easily after several games (or attempted games) , and do make for a fun outing. The "glowing bat" 
 for homerun bonus points is a neat addition too, but mostly its the graphics that get a great kick 
 in the pants. Being a Nationals fan, I was a bit disappointed by the half-baked job of RFK done 
 in the 2k5 edition of this game, but that was about the only thing that bothered me. This year, 
 RFK is dead on-right down to the cheesy banner denoting Washington Sports Hall of Fame, and the 
 DC United Soccer Championship banners (Trademark issue anyone?) . The people look great as well, 
 Jon and Joe sound great (especially when the batter steps of the plate during a lull in play) and 
 the between game commentary is at least skip-able. Okay its not that bad, but they are in the unfortunate 
 position of being in the very time in which I wish to skip to get more directly to the game, capice? 
 
  
  Skybox, HR Derby, Stadiums, Uniforms, and a bunch of other features all are pretty much carry overs. 
 The WBC team download is neat, and as a newbie to Xbox Live I can't compare it to last year-but 
 I do like it this year. Still a bit mixed up on how to join leagues, and competitions, but the 
 quick game worked well. 
  
  Mostly, my big problem with this game is the freeze cache problem. This problem is well documented 
 elsewhere, so I won't go into it here, but its a problem. What's worse is I have downloaded the 
 "patch" put out by 2ksports, and its worked with mixed results. It's a bit upsetting, especially 
 in a sports game that is so driven by the season and statistics like baseball, that this game will 
 freeze several innings into a game, thereby stalling the entire process of the season-and a tremendous 
 blow to the games enjoyability. Most of the reason this gets a mediocre, instead of a pretty decent, 
 rating is because I can't play it long enough to get in to it! The game play is good-except when 
 it won't play. 
  
  The biggest lesson of this debacle (or at least the parts of it that are a debacle) is that the 
 exclusive license will allow a group like 2ksports to put out a crap game, and its okay because 
 there is no competition. A little secret I'll let you in on-even though I've preferred the 2k games, 
 if there were an EA alternative this year I would have been on that like Pujols on an slowpitch 
 softball. Lucky MLB and 2k6. But don't think I'll be rushing to the store to buy 2k7, or maybe 
 even 2k8. I may just sit on this one for a while (especially if I can get it to work right all 
 the time) , and certainly not until I can know for sure that a new game will work.
  
  I love baseball, so I did up my tilt on that a bit, but its not like people who don't like baseball 
 are going to buy this game. You have to like the sport on some level in order to buy it, so I don't 
 think it'll affect it that much. All in all, if they get this fixed its a good game, a bit pricey, 
 and something that can hopefully be built on for 2k7 and 2k8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 12, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - The controlls are not responsive , it's hard to pitch and hit the ball , throwing to 
 bases is frusterating . Nothing about it is redeeming and it really isn't fun to play. 
  
  Graphics - Standard graphics , nothing ultra realistic about them , defintly not next gen. There 
 are a couple glitches as well with the graphics . 
  
  Sound - Announcer is what you would expect from a 2k game , 
  
  Value - a little laggy online 
 , hard to find people to play against , also noone online has a headset , and most created matches 
 are made so neither player can talk 
  
  good tilt - as bad as it is , it's the only baseball game on 360 , there are also some pretty accurate 
 re-creations of the stadiums 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kctree
Rating: 8
Date: May 12, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  The biggest problem in baseball games is that the computer tries to generate the stats for you. 
 For instance, if Time Hudson had a 3.50 ERA last year.. the computer will try to keep him in that 
 range. This game still does this, but not so much that it is intrusive. It's fairly hidden, but 
 it's there. That's a negative.
  
  I got the game to get familiar with players again, and to see how far baseball games have come 
 along. I play alot of madden, so I was really looking for the franchise mode to be terrific.
  
  I give the franchise mode a "B". So much is there, but I would like to be able to try to make 
 my favorite players superstars! I want to use some kind of bonus points to train them or something. 
 Maybe there should be some minigames where you can practice situations. Also, it has a "potential" 
 stat that I really don't like. It's a cap on how good a player can develop. I think that you should 
 be able to develop your favorite players as much as possible. It's not realistic, but it gives 
 you that accomplishment feeling when you see a player go from scrub to all star because of special 
 attention and hard work on him. The strength of franchise mode is the scouting reports and hiring 
 of different coaches. The minor league system is pretty average imo.
  
  I have to say that the swing stick brings the gameplay up a bit. It's much better than hitting 
 a button. However, I found that if I just swing with power every time.. the pitcher will not recognize 
 this and will throw a strike every once in a while. ... and the pitches go out of the park way 
 too easy.
  
  You really have to CUSTOMIZE the gameplay. I recommend TURN DOWN POWER a lot. Also, slow down the 
 computer players fielding speed. They'll make some plays that are rediculous. Also turn up baserunner 
 speed. Otherwise you can throw out guys at first from right field... and you can't get a double 
 even when you hit the wall! Also, tagging up is impossible.
  
  Graphics are very average. The modeling is pretty good, but all the players are the same weight. 
 The stadiums look great, but the players and fans look really average.
  
  The sound is great. I love the announcers. It's very impressive how they match the game. They even 
 comment on scounting reports that they're looking at sometimes. The menu music is really bold and 
 different too. Ussualy I won't even notice the music either. The value is there if you don't have 
 a baseball game in your collection. Hour after hour of developing players.
  
  This is the first game that I've had to refer to the instructions manual in forever. Baserunning 
 is kinda tricky. Pitching can be REALLY fun once you know what you're doing.
  
  I must say that I haven't played a baseball game for years, so I'm not up to date on how this compares 
 to the other games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  You know, I'm really getting tired of being disappointed by the sports lineup on the 360. Where 
 is the power? Once again, the graphics are underwhelming, the presentation is exactly the same 
 as last years, and even the music is old. I can't believe they use a theme found in NBA 2K6 as 
 the main menu music. Is is too much to ask for new, original music? And how about the player's 
 faces? Most just look generic. Pathethic for a system that shows what it can do with games like 
 Elder Scrolls: Oblivion pertaining to facial graphics. So, as you can see, I am clearly upset about 
 the graphics and presentation.
  Now, compared to all other baseball games on the current gen systems, this game looks great. But 
 you have to expect more from the Xbox 360. Gameplay, the pitcher/batter interface is awesome. The 
 game has a great balance to it. Also, all the stat info you could want is here. The big gripe with 
 the gameplay is the controlling (or lack thereof) of your fielders. I mean, this is ridiculous. 
 It's horrible! Your players move like bricks, and a lot of times a ball can fall in the outfield 
 or get by you in the infield because you can't move your player properly.
  Again, this is the only baseball game in town, so wer'e stuck with the good and bad. Don't get 
 me wrong. I enjoy the game, and some of it's features as brilliant, especially the pitcher interface. 
 But it's flaws keep this from being anything but a solid game, rather than great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReaperXxxx
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 10, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Graphics sharper and more detailed than other consoles (w/ HDTV) , pitching controls, batting 
 controls, depth of features, smooth online play
  
  Cons: game froze a LOT before the patch (much better since, however) , fielding and baserunning 
 controls are awful and very buggy, many little animation glitches, just a straight-up port of the 
 regular Xbox version with marginally improved graphics overall, in franchise mode you must disable 
 CPU trades and roster management or the lineups will get ridiculous in a hurry (i. e.; i was playing 
 the Red Sox and they had Big Papi leading off and Manny batting 8th! Oh, and they had traded Curt 
 Schilling for Paul Byrd!) 
  
  Impressions: The bottom line is that 2K Sports needs to learn how to develop games for the 360. 
 They also need to learn how to actually test games before releasing them. 
  
  Hitting and pitching controls are phenominal, the graphics are good but not great, the overal presentation 
 is pretty good, and the online mode is tight and fast. That said, there are so many little problems 
 with this game that I'm not even going to try to list them all. The many positive aspects of this 
 game would not make it worth the frustration if you had an alternative, but thanks to the MLB exclusive 
 licensing that 2K Sports has, you don't have another coice on the 360. If you are curious about 
 this game, please rent it first. You may be able to deal with the bugs, or they may wreck it for 
 you. Also, check eBay if you are going to buy it. You can usually get it shipped for around $38 
 rather than the $60 it costs new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer12349
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 7, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has great graphics, it can be the difficulty you want! Have your own settings! Unlock 
 cheats, games, old jerseys, stadiums, and classic teams! There are allot of modes. Like HR Derby, 
 Season, Franchise, and GM career! you can create a player or edit a player. The stadiums look great. 
 Same with the players! It has great game play. It's like it's real! There is different camera views 
 for pitching and batting. You can move the player in the batter's box! For batting you can have 
 the swing stick on or the classic witch is pressing A! I would recommend this to video game players, 
 baseball fans, and sports fans. 
  
  Some of you may hate it because it freezes allot but you can fix it. Buy a memory card and transfer 
 all of your data from your hard drive to the memory card. Then format the hard drive. After that 
 put all the memory from the memory card back to the hard drive. Then play. It should work trust 
 me that's what I did.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greedygoblin45
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 11, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  It was announced last summer that Take-Two had acquired exclusive rights to the 3rd Party MLB Licence. 
 This basically meant that MLB would be the only baseball game for consoles. (Excluding MLB:06 The 
 Show, which is Sony's.) This led to major dissagrements and fights to see if MLB 2K6 could make 
 us forget about MVP. But unfortunatley, this only makes us think of what MVP could have been on 
 Next-Gen consoles.
  
  **GAMEPLAY**
  The Gameplay in 2K6 is decent. They have redone the Pitching and hitting. The brand new hit stick 
 feature adds a little bit to the formula, but it will take a while to get used to. The pitching 
 really isn't that great, and can be real confusing when you first try it. The fielding is almost 
 EXACTLY the same as it was in 2K5. Which is a real bummer, because the fielding last time sucked.
 
  
  **GRAPHICS**
  The Graphics In 2K6 Are alright. Unless you have an HD TV. This will look like nothing more than 
 a simple PS2 game. And you'll keep asking yourself how this is a 360 game.
  
  **Sound**
  Just to say, th sound sucks. The commentary is EXACTLY the same as last year, and definitly lacks 
 flavor. The announcers are from ESPN, but they mostly sound boring and unexciting. Oh and the just 
 to say, THE MUSIC SUCKS!!!! There's just no other way to put it. You especially know it sucks when 
 you have songs called "1234" and "Drip Drip" and that is all that is in the songs. Drip Drip goes 
 drip drip and 1234 goes 1234. This really makes you miss the great soundtracks EA Sports used to 
 put together for MVP.
  **Value**
  Overall, 2K6 does have great value. There are plenty of modes that will keep you busy for a long 
 time. It will take about 2 days to get through all of the game modes. But most of them are features 
 from last year's game. Although it does include a World Baseball Classic Mode. It is pretty good 
 but is not all that great.
  
  **Overall**
  Overall, 2K6 is a almost decent, but overall bland game of baseball. If you're looking for realisim, 
 it's sadly not hear. This is more of an arcade styled game then anything. And like I said before, 
 this game will only make you think of the potential that MVP Baseball could have had on Next-Gen 
 consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mandalore9
Rating: 2.6
Date: May 5, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  So we get one licensed MLB game for the year and this is what gets shovelled onto us? If, like 
 me, you buy a new baseball game every year, do yourself a favor and rent this garbage first. Do 
 the gaming world a favor by not supporting a company that pays for the MLB name up front, then 
 doesn't take the time to refine the game to a playable level.
  As far as the controls go, the pitching is the only bright spot here. The swing stick is (admit 
 it, boys) unintuitive at best, and the fielding is a disaster. There are two very common events 
 that will tempt you to send the controller airborne: 1. A slow roller up the middle is ignored 
 by your pitcher before your shoortstop dives at it two seconds late and lets it dribble to the 
 center fielder's feet, and 2. Your outfielder drifts under a lazy fly ball, you make a small adjustment 
 to his location, and he leaps four feet to his left, allowing the ball to plop onto the grass and 
 roll back to the warning track. Batter arrives standing at third base. Sound like fun? Then by 
 all means pick up a copy of 2k6.
  BTW, my rating doesn't reflect the decent graphics, good sound, and available features; it reflects 
 the fact that the game was released weak and unfinished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I really like this game. The graphics are really pretty good. The players look a little rough but 
 the stadiums and crowds look really cool. The franchise mode has a lot of options and stuff to 
 do. It is actually really challenging to make a good team. The hitting system is really confusing 
 at first but once you get used to it it is really cool. The fielding controls are very simple and 
 basic. I really like the pitching controls they really give you a lot of choice with how you throw 
 the pitch. Some of the animations are really cool like to players running into eachother or climbing 
 the fence to rob a homer. other animations just look awful. The achievments really piss me off 
 there are only 5 or 6 of them and are really stupid. All in all if you have the xbox version id 
 steer clear of this but if you dont and like baseball Id highly reccomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheekSqueaker
Rating: 1
Date: May 3, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  I waited to get this game until I heard that there was a patch for it, not wanting to buy a "broken" 
 game. Got the game, put it in to start a game. Set the settings to my liking, picked my Tigers 
 for my first game and off I go. Unlike the real Tigers ( who are rocking... knocking on wood ) being 
 my first game , I wasn't doing well. The game looks good, maybe should be better for a next-gen 
 game but enjoying it none the less, getting used to the new controls starting the sixth inning. 
 Then Pudge, in mid swing, freezes up !! To get it back running you can't hit start, you can't go 
 to the dashboard, you have to turn it off !! The next few games I got through the 3rd, 5th, and 
 1st innings before it froze up again. The home run derby is the only thing I can play without it 
 freezing. I heard that you can remove the hard drive to get it to work, but get real - i'm not 
 doing that. Paid $60 bucks for a game that doesn't work, and that is after the patch came out - 
 how disappointing !! Now how long do we have to wait for the patch for the patch so I can complete 
 one game? Well I got this game to play to keep me occupied while I get away from Call of Duty 2 
 for a while, now I can't play 2k6 so here I sit hoping that the new maps for Duty come out today. 
 Wait to buy this game until the new patch for the old patch comes out , and wait to hear if this 
 second one works first. Broken... very broken. When and if this ever gets fixed I'll update my 
 review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaguar7676
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 3, 2006 4:11 am PT
Review:  I guess once you obtain license exclusivity, you can pretty much create garbage and people will 
 pay 60 bucks and enjoy the ride. Last year the 2k5 had a few minor bugs, but with the ESPN polish 
 and the 19.99 price, how could you go wrong. Plus EA really wasnt impressing anyone with MVP. This 
 so called next-gen platform game is absoutley not worth the price tag. If you choose to purchase, 
 get on on the ps2 or regular x-box. There is nothing here at all that the 360 does any better. 
 The bugs that were in last year's version are all still in this years!!! Plus the game locks up! 
 Just like EA did with Madden, 2k is doing with baseball... no competition means crappy games! So 
 enjoy having passed ball after passed ball... This is a RENT ONLY game!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgjc24
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is overall worth the money if you are a baseball fan but is not the kind of game that 
 deserves "next-gen" recognition. 2K Sports has stuck to what it knows works with sports games and 
 as a result has brought a solid game that can entertain.
  
  The graphics on this game are not outstanding but do bring about several improvements. The jerseys 
 move with the players, detailed players, and all that you would expect but nothing that has that 
 punch you would expect. The gameplay is basically the same as the baseball games from the past 
 few years with the exception of the innovative "Inside Pitch" feature. Essentially it is a scouting 
 tool that can help the novice player learn the tendancies of players. In the sound department there 
 is nothing to complain about and provides the sound that is expected.
  
  The overall value of this game is good if you really need that baseball game for your 360, but 
 unfortunately it falls short of the title of "next-gen." The lack of inovation and features that 
 the 360 can allow for is what brings the score down. Also problems with freezing and the general 
 unpolished feeling of the game bring the score down.
  
  Note: Recently this game has been reported to freeze and as such 2K Sports released a patch that 
 was suppose to cure the problem. Certain people have had no problems and others have since the 
 patch was released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zonmom2508
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 1, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  I cant believe people had nothing to say about this  
 bad it was. I would say that i prefer ea sports baseball games but when it comes to baseball i 
 have to play it. I don't see what was so bad about this game. I never had any freezing problems 
 which i believe was overplayed. The graphics although not the best weren't to bad when it came 
 to small details like.... The jersey movements from pitches physics were awesome. The stadium graphics 
 were some of the best for a baseball game. I loved the crowd interaction with the game (crowd graphics 
 weren't that bad either) . I like the fans catching foul balls and home runs. The before game fans 
 getting autographs signed. The hitters eye and hit stick weren't appealing at first but it grew 
 on me. the pitching is probably the best in any baseball game i have played. the only thing that 
 i disliked was the base running and outfield control. I don't believe it was as polished as it 
 could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad434
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 30, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  I wanted to like this game, but it is simply too broken. A responsive and smooth controlling game 
 should be the top priority in a sports game, even if you must sacrifice a few frames of realistic 
 motion capture. In MLB 2k6, stiff and unresponsive fielders guarantee at least one bases-clearing 
 error or triple per contest. Which it is depends only upon how the virtual scorer decides to mark 
 it. A seemingly mandatory wrong first step by your fielders, or a glitched slow motion moonwalk, 
 prevents your alleged professional grade talent from reaching what should be a routine out. 
  
  In addition, poor balance can result in outrageous disconnects with reality. The last straw 
 was a 24-17 game that I just wrapped up with a friend. Outs come at such a premium and base hits 
 are so commonplace that you are forced as a pitcher to try to strike every batter out. This only 
 serves to magnify the aforementioned fielding issues and makes a pitcher even less enthused about 
 relying on his team's defense.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostCatalyst
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  I love sports games. Any of them are a good time but I suppose you must really love the genre. 
 This game is just plain broken and I was completely let down. Choppy animations. Slowdown. A lack 
 of first names for some players. Outfielders that feel just sluggish and slow. Just nothing adds 
 up, and even if this game tried to add it probably would round down it most cases.
  
  The gameplay in this is mind boggling. Although you have a slew of sliders to manage to suit your 
 style nothing really ever feels right. The most aggravating problem I had was my pitcher throwing 
 wild at least twice an inning in some instances. My catcher was over there, I aimed the ball there, 
 Roy Halladay is a cy young winner, and oops the ball is on the backstop. Now if you can get a pitch 
 down the plate and the hitter chops one into the outfiield get ready to yell at your fat overweight 
 feeling players. These guys must have had one too many dugout dogs during the off season because 
 man do they ever feel slow. Good lord they are unresponsive and nothing aggravated more than when 
 you miss a routine pop up because your guy can't just strafe to his left a bit to correct, he has 
 to turn his whole frickin body. YAARRRHHH frustration. Batting is ok as I do like the swing stick 
 but i disagree with pushing forward to pop the ball up. Ok pull back and just release to hit level, 
 or push forward to pop the ball up. DAMMIT who in their right minds wants to pop it up. I originally 
 was seemingly addicted to mashing the stick forward like I was playing golf or something, but afterwards 
 didn't even bother as just releasing the stick was capable of knocking a few dingers. Baserunning 
 is just managed terribly as they are sometimes unresponsive as well. This is just downright frustrating 
 and when you are only down by 1 run in the bottom of the ninth and your guy misses his queue that 
 out sucks big time. Just like when you are only up by 1 in the top of the ninth and your pitcher 
 throws 50 000 straight wild pitches.
  
  Graphics are fairly sharp. The facial models leave a little to be desired but in whole the players 
 and stadiums look fairly nice. There are a few times when animations would just cut out which detracts 
 from the experience. At least the jerseys look like real jerseys and they fold and sway with your 
 player's movements most of the time. Where are the first names on the players though? Some players 
 just don't have a first name in the presentation leaving you to be thinking basically just what 
 the hell 2k quit being so damn lazy.
  
  Sound is ok, what do you want from baseball. The crack of the bat, the sound of the ball hitting 
 the glove, and the occasional fan jeer which most of the time is more lame than anything.
  
  Well if you can endure 162 games plus 5-7-7 playoffs I'm pretty sure you got some decent value 
 out of this. But thats if you can endure it, who wants to lose a game based on crappy glitches 
 rather than your own mistakes.
  
  I must admit I like baseball games and since this is the only one I will continue to play through 
 my 10 game season through this rental. But buying this game is ludicrous. I can think of several 
 other thinks that money can be spent towards. Like a sweet faceplate, or 10 mcdonald's dinners. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHILLYSKILLA
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  i bought mlb like a week ago and so far im getting used to the controls. the graphics seem pretty 
 up to date and the sound is phenominal if you have surroundsound. with the 2k sports series rising 
 over EA it seems that this game and along with the rest of the other games fit right in with the 
 sports series. WIth the online ability to check your stats and pretty much anything with leauges 
 to tounrements. I would rate this game a 7.8 even know gamespot and other reviews about this game 
 arent so good what i would do if you dont have the game yet is to rent it first cause im sure if 
 your not into baseball you may not like it but hey you never know
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ch2423
Rating: 1.6
Date: Apr 28, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  If you want to see what others think of the game, check out the message boards at 2K's official 
 site: www.2ksports. com. A patch was released that didn't work and all hell is breaking loose. 
 
  
  My local EB wouldn't let me return this broken game for anything else or get my money back, so 
 I kept returning it. I went through 6 copies until the store was out of stock and they had no choice 
 but to let me pick something else out. I chose MLB 06: The Show for my PS2 (which pains me because 
 I really wanted baseball for my 360) . I'm having fun with The Show so far (it doesn't freeze and 
 the stats are pretty realistic) . 
  
  If you're a huge baseball fan like me, stay far away from MLB 2K6 and pick up a PS2 and MLB 06 
 The Show instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMightyGwin
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 15, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  The hitting and pitching modes more than make up for this games shortcomings. The graphics aren't 
 quite up to next-gen levels yet, but the stadium models are great and the sound effets are awesome. 
 The soundtrack is so-so, but with 360's ability to hook up to your ipod, game soundtracks are becoming 
 obsolete anyway. Inside edge is cool, and this game has the gives the player the ability to control 
 the catcher for the first time. You can call for a pitch anywhere and try to hit the mit. It is 
 awesome. Also, the commentators are awesome; they even say the nbicknames of big players and managers. 
 Tito, and Big Papi are good examples of that. The fielding is horrible and near impossible. A routine 
 groundball ends up being an in-th-park home run almost once a game. Stick to RBI baseball for a 
 better game. Avoid the walls at all cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lrchstiger89
Rating: 1.8
Date: Apr 28, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  The Good: Jon Miller and Joe Morgan are the best announcers in the game, Atleast theres a baseball 
 game this year??
  
  The Bad: graphics look almost identical to xbox and ps2 version, player animations look very unnatural, 
 player models look weird, , freezing bug that makes u have to remove your hard drive.
  
  I'm gonna start out by just sayin this game is awful. last years game sucked too, but atleast they 
 had the ESPN liscense, and if you wanted to play real baseball, u could just put in MVP. This years 
 version doesnt have the ESPN liscense, and it's get this game or theres nothin else. The graphics 
 really suck. The players dont even look right, their shape and jerseys just look messed up, idk 
 how to describe it. And the xbox 360 version has "cloth movement" but you really dont ever see 
 it move, except when your pitching and you have the pitcher camera view on. The graphics look almost 
 the same as the xbox version and if you dont have HDTV then it probably looks exactly the same. 
 The new Busch Staduim is not in the ps2 and xbox versions , and the new busch staduim thats in 
 the 360 version, isnt even really detailed and the sign in the outfield says "Cardinals Staduim" 
 instead of Busch Staduim. Their are also bugs in the game. When I'm batting in an offline game, 
 the game seems to idk what ud call it, move slow or lag, so it makes it hard to bat. There is also 
 a freezing bug in the game, and the only way to stop it, is to remove ur hard drive. 2k sports 
 has the exclusive MLB liscense, so they should try to make thier game better. Obviously the game 
 engine their using sucks, so they should be like EA and totally start over from scratch. Triple 
 play sucked, but they started over and look at how good MVP turned out. Don't buy this game. If 
 you have to play a baseball game this year, ur out of luck , unless u have a ps2, becuz MLB 06: 
 The Show is the only good game this year. Or atleast wait till the price goes down on this one, 
 or rent it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 2.8
Date: Apr 27, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  ok not only am i mad that 2k sports has the exclusive license to MLB or that EA has the exclusive 
 rights to NFL. Isnt that like a monopoly and like sort of illegal.... WTF ... you spend so much 
 money on getting the monopoly the least you can do is makE A GAME THAT WORKS !!!!
  
  THis game does not in any shape or form work. It crashs on you after 10 mins of play. The graphics 
 arent as good as the art in the background and should not be $60 !!!!!!! It doesnt even work.... 
 It looks like a xbox game but features achievements 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justin_Allen
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 26, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This years installment of 2K Sports' MLB series is, at heart, a good all around game. However, 
 the endless amount of bugs and control problems really can be a deal breaker and are in this case. 
 The fielders are hard to control and are fairly unresponsive half of the time. The base running 
 is horribly setup and runners are just slower than they really should be. Everybody on the field 
 screws up once or twice, whether it is not throwing down the tag or waiting just a bit too long 
 to start running.
  
  Now, since Im reviewing the Xbox 360 version of the game, this must be mentioned. The game, initially, 
 doesn't even work. No typo there. It's being called the freezing glitch and is in virtually every 
 copy of the 360 version. It is a bug that doesn't even let you play past the third inning of any 
 offline game. It is, however, fixable with a solution you can find online. Seriously though, what 
 were they thinking? I'm sure gamers would have preferred that they hold back the game a few days 
 so they could actually PLAY IT offline.
  
  Through all this, however, there really is a good game of baseball to be played. And that's the 
 problem; it's only a good game of baseball. There is nothing to really push it over the top from 
 other baseball games, even previous installments of the same series. It lacks the overall smoothness 
 in presentation to go alongside the great game of baseball to be played.
  
  This year to MLB 2K6 come two welcomed new features. The new hit stick is mind-bogglingly great. 
 After about ten games of getting used to it you'll feel right at home with the new style (and even 
 if you don't there is the option to switch it to Classic style) . The simplicity of the stick is 
 really amazing because in the end it's all about your timing that will determine a groundout from 
 a big fly. Next up on the new features list is the  pitching meter. 
 As in every year you'll gear up your pitch for speed and then accuracy but this year does it better. 
 As the circle around your pitch gets bigger the pitch will gain speed. After hitting the max speed 
 it will fly back down and, if you can nail it as small as possible it will be as accurate as possible. 
 It really does make hitting and pitching fun.
  
  And on that note, we head to the fielding and base running controls. Now, Im about to give you 
 a detailed paragraph on the two, but seriously, you really only need three words. Bloody freaking 
 horrible. Whether you're running the base pads of after the ball the controls are unresponsive 
 and a total mess. If you literally touch the controls the wrong way from a split second before 
 going after a ground ball you'll be headed the opposite way. Not to mention the slowest fielders 
 in history who occasionally, for no reason over and under throw. When running the base pads the 
 left trigger increases your lead and sends the runner while the right decreases it and sends him 
 back. Easy enough right? Wrong. This is where the unresponsive controls can cost you runs and this 
 is where they're at their worst. Seriously though, I still can't figure out why the runners are 
 so slow. You'll never steal a base above Rookie difficulty without slamming the button as fast 
 as possible.
  
  The graphics are fairly well done overall. Unfortunately, on a next generation system theyre mediocre 
 at best. While the crowds and stadiums are well-detailed, the players themselves just dont look 
 that great. Not to mention many players look absolutely nothing like their true selves. Someone 
 like Derek Jeter looks just like he should where as a lesser-known Jeff Francoeur looks nothing 
 like himself. The player models just dont look that great and occasionally while performing an 
 action theyll totally wig out and look fairly jaggy.
  
  Thankfully the great announcing of Joe Morgan and Jon Miller do a lot to make this a great sounding 
 game. It really is a new feeling to us baseball fans to hear something interesting from our game 
 announcers. The occasional mess up is to be expected but overall they do make a great fit for the 
 game. HOWEVER (and there always seems to be one with this game) the menu soundtrack is absolutely 
 awful. The occasional good song is mixed in with unbearable songs that not only dont fit the game 
 but dont fit anything in my eyes. Its almost as if someone decided to punch a cat to have it 
 scream and sell it as a record. 
  
  Overall the games best feature is the flawless online play. Everything about it, including the 
 leagues, tournaments, lobbies and quick matches are all perfect and add a lot to the value of the 
 game. This year is the first that lets you pull off full, 32 team and 162 game seasons in the same 
 league. While Ive yet to complete mine I have to say it makes for a lot of fun to find who the 
 best players are and get better just so you can take them when you reach them in your schedule. 
 The tournaments arent much to talk about but are fun for a quick fix. In the end where its at 
 are the ranked matches. The online games have absolutely no hitches whatsoever (from my experience) 
 and feel exactly like playing a tough (or easy) computer, but for online credit. Ive had fun just 
 meeting some quality guys on Live to chat with, only running in to a few pricks.
  
  Overall MLB 2K6 is a good game of core baseball and thats it. Through all of its hitches it manages 
 to be a fun game overall to play by yourself, with a friend or online. Thats what it really boils 
 down to. So if youre looking for a lot of value in a baseball game and have online it may just 
 be the purchase for you. It wouldnt hurt, however, to rent or borrow it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acezero04
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 25, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  The game is very much like any other baseball game that i have played in the past. I did however 
 enjoy the new features that where add for game play. The game looks good but has one miner defect. 
 If you have a hard drive good luck trying to play it, it seems to freeze on anyone who spent the 
 extra 100 bucks on the hard drive. Once i found this out i did some investigating online and off... 
 i found various ways to fix this problem but none of the worked for me. Since it had something 
 to do with the hard drive and the memory or "cash" or however you spell it. Since i work in a video 
 game store i decided to find a solution to the problem... the only thing that worked for me was 
 that i spent 30 dollars on an xbox 360 memory card. That did the trick! finally i could play the 
 game that i spent $60 on and i only had to spend another $30 to play it. wooot......... to say 
 the least the game is good... so i do not blame the game by placing a bad review about how much 
 it sucks, cuz it dosen't. Once you can actually play the game you will find it has much to offer 
 in game play from a good hitting sim to precision pitching. The hitting takes a few mins to get 
 used to but when you do you can bomb it out of the park every time. And you can always go back 
 the classic of pressing the "a" button. All in all looking past some slight fielding defects and 
 the problems with this game i give it a good 7.4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayne70
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  I bought the game and have not had a problem with the game yet. The graphics are great the game 
 play is awesome, but there are some glitches such as running, and line drives. I guess if you had 
 a problem with it freezing I would have rated the game poorly but my game gave me no problem and 
 therefore I loved the game. I think the next time they release a game make sure there are no problem 
 with it. You learn from your mistakes and 2k usually does so look for a better game next year, 
 but I love this game and I can't stop playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 24, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Before I get into the bugs and crap, I'll start my introduction of this baseball game from 2Kgames, 
 having played 2k5 and MVP, it's safe to say I know what I'm talking about.
  
  First off, lots of people complain about the graphics, well first off, the graphics are NOTHING 
 like the exaggerated screenshots similar to NBA 2k6, MLB 2k6 DOES NOT look like that, but I wouldn't 
 say it's far off, the graphics is still crisp, shadow and lightning looks great, but if it was 
 indeed, looked like the screenshot it would've been a 10 in the graphics department but instead 
 it's a 8.
  
  Now to the gameplay, the pitching and batting have been change (and upgraded) from 2k5, the pitching 
 is great, first button to set the position and your 2nd tap controls power, which is excellent 
 when you need that extra little effort to get out a bases loaded with 2 outs situations. The batting 
 is the best I've seen, you simply uses the analog stick, push it down for the step and push it 
 up for the swing, timing is everything here, and the step is affected greatly by the pitcher's 
 delivery time, so be more careful when you face guys that take 1 second or more to deliver their 
 pitch, which makes you feel like the MLB, because adjusting to different pitcher is hard.
  
  The Inside Edge in franchise mode is really great, and shows how deep this game is. You get 
 players/pitchers tendencies and batters with an Inside Edge Reports will lead to the catcher telling 
 you where to pitch, which is awesome.
  
  All good so far, along with the excellent duo of Miller and Morgan, the echo of stadiums, the game 
 shines the most in the sound department.
  
  Here comes the bad stuff, you ready? How about not being able to finish a game? Sooner or later, 
 people with HDD will freeze during game, I froze after innings I hit a homer, other people froze 
 during the 7th innings, not the kind of quality you would expect from a $60 dollar game. Luckily, 
 2kgames can work on a patch and upload it to xbox live soon, or else they would've been the worst 
 baseball game ever and would've recieve a 0 score from me.
  
  Still you can try from renting it or buying it, but don't say I didn't warn you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raycerxtreme
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 24, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  While MLB 2K6 isn't super innovative or perhaps not up to par graphically with other 360 titles, 
 it is definitely the most beautiful looking baseball game to date and really gives that "you're 
 watching a real game on TV" feel. Sure the announcers suck (like in real life ;) ) but the overall 
 feel of the game is solid. I like how the pitchers and batters stances and little nuances and mirrored 
 in the game, how the weather really effects game play, the little aspects are over all done well.
 
  
  As for the glitches that "plague" the game. in over 40 games I have played, it only had one freeze, 
 and that was after I had it paused for over 20 minutes due to a phone call. Other than that it 
 has played smoothly. The graphic are smooth as well.
  
  The game has many options and stats that will keep you interested in it for a long time if you're 
 a baseball fan. The sky box lacks a bit in terms of cool unlock-ables, but it's not really an important 
 part of any sports Sim IMO, and is just fluff anyway. 
  
  Overall, MLB 2K6 is fun to play and watch, which is all a game really needs if it is to be enjoyable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raretical
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 24, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  Man, this game is really good.. what i like about the game is that you actually have to think and 
 use the right anolog stick to hit the baseball.. no more pushing a button.. very awesome!!.. the staduims 
 look more realistic and the players look awesome and more life like.. the fans however still look 
 like a bunch of stiffs.. what I liked all so is that when a foul ball was hit into the stands the 
 fans will actually catch the ball and react to the game.. the annocuer is more life like, you can 
 hear the umpire call out strikes and balls.. (huh-ha I said balls..) .. overall there was some improvments.. espically 
 the one where your manager can come out and argue the calls.. how awesome is that.. there could have 
 been some beter tweaks but overall a good game... a awesome game if you are a baseball fan and don't 
 like how your team is  get this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xJellyBirdx
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 30, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  This game is by no means a bad game, but many people, including myself, felt this game should have 
 been much better based on the hype. The most controversial problem is the freezing issue (if you 
 do not know about this, go to the forums) . They fixed this, however, by clearing the cache by putting 
 in 3 games and loading them before playing MLB and it works perfectly, its just frustrating. Supposedly, 
 they are working on a patch to fix this annoying problem. The game has a good franchise mode, a 
 step up from the previous years for both MVP and MLB and MLB also addapted MVP's manager mode to 
 speed up the process of playing 9 inning games. There are many brand new baseball features that 
 go make the game fun and realistic, including the swing stick and the pay off pitch.
  
  Swing Stick: This is pretty cool as when you pull it back, your batter takes his step and when 
 you release it (contact) or push it forwards (power) , you batter takes his cut at at the ball. 
 If this is not for you, you can always use the classic controls and use A for contact and B for 
 power.
  
  Pay Off Pitch: This is really neat as well. You can use this if you either have 2 strikes on a 
 batter of if you have a scouting report on the batter. If you have 2 strikes, you can make you 
 catcher give you a terget and if you hit it you pitch stat for that pitch goes up, but if you miss 
 it goes down. If you have the scouting report for the batter, your catcher will give you the pitch 
 and the target (if you miss here or hit your target it doesnt matter) . When you get 2 strikes again, 
 you have your zone to increase your stat for the pitch.
  
  Gameplay: Great pitching, Great batting, terrible fielding. This game could possibly be a 9+ if 
 it wasnt for the fielding. When they throw the ball, about 1/2 the time they start throwing the 
 ball the wrong way and then the ball comes out of the side of their arm. Another thing is sometimes 
 when turning a double-play, the man on second doesnt even try to catch the ball and he has it go 
 right through his chest. Also with the fielding it is tough to know who you are controlling and 
 this gets problematic because if you take one step in the wrong direction, the ball can get by 
 you outfielders and get to the wall (ex: think you have he 2nd baseman and you dont and you run 
 your outfielder in the wrong direction) . On the other hand, the batting controls are great fun 
 with the swing stick and pitch is excellent with the exception of the stamina going down too quickly. 
 I could continue but I think you get the point.
  
  Graphics: Oh man... Early Xbox quality, and no exageration. The players dont even look like the 
 living thing and not one think makes this appear like a 360 game (the screen shots are decieving) . 
 Enough said.
  
  Sound: Annoncers are really getting creative as they have many, many sayings, more than Ive heard 
 before. Also, there is good chatter from the fans the the crack of the bat is nice as well.
  
  Value: Only baseball game available for the 360 because EA sold the rights of MVP to 2k sports 
 for the rights of NFL 2k. 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Im a huge sports fan so I can see around the shaky fielding and freezing and get 
 to a game that can really be enjoyable.
  
  Recommmendation: Rent it first unless you love baseball and ports in general. If you had MVp last 
 year, dont expect to see the same thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skihawks
Rating: 4.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  Where to start. The world of sports video games is turning and for EA haters, for the worst. EA 
 is quickly lining up to regain its position as the leader of innovation of video games. Although 
 NBA Live and Madden both fell short in their next-gen debuts, EA created the framework (specifically 
 with graphics) to create some of the best sports games to grace a console.
  
  And with all the flack the EA has taken in regards to the next-gen releases, 2K seems to be slipping 
 by with current gen games with minor, if any, graphical upgrades. The same can be said for 2K6. 
 If I am going to drop an extra $10-$20 on a game, I want it to be worth it.
  
  The best baseball game released this year is MLB 06 The Show on the PS2. 2K6 is a distant second. 
 The gameplay and glitches are enough to send this one to the DL.
  
  I have bullet-pointed the positives and negatives:
  
  POSITIVES
  --Graphical extras with 
 working scoreboards complete with current lineups.
  --Animations
  --Presentation is excellent
  
  NEGATIVES
  --Animations take forever, especially when fielding. 
 Too many infiend hits.
  --Player models are terrible. 
  --The jerseys may have cloth physics but they hardly look anything like what the pros wear.
  
 --Inability to throw the ball, when fielding, with effort. Every throw looks like the ball has 
 been lobbed.
  --Hate the hit stick swing mechanic. 
  --Controls are not user friendly and sluggish.
  --Everything is pretty much the same thing as 
 current gen. Next-gen this is not.
  
  If you really want a baseball game this year, this isn't it. Sluggish controls, shaky visuals and 
 frutrating gameplay make this a not-so-great option for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTomlinson21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  This year for the Xbox 360, there is only one baseball game, MLB 2K6. MVP had to settle and make 
 a college baseball game this year, but they didn't bring it to the next-generation system, the 
 Xbox 360. I love baseball, and I could not just go a year without a baseball game. So I made my 
 decision and bought it. This was my first 2K Sports baseball game since there 2002, game. There 
 are a lot of positives in this game, as well as some severe negatives. 
  
  Let's start off with the game's graphics. You will find this game's visuals unbelievably nice. 
 Just like NBA 2K6 they are very well-done and the colors are very vibrant. On to that, they have 
 the added realism, by making their clothing actually move as they walk. Sometimes you actually 
 think that you are watching a real game! The fans are not the regular 2D, card board boxes we are 
 use to. They are 3D and have great reactions, like a mind of their own. When a foul ball is hit 
 to them, the fans will fight over the ball, and when one gets it, the crowd goes wild. It's really 
 fun to watch all of their reactions. These are the best "fans" ever, in a game. The stadiums are 
 very realistic and look almost exactly right. In an evening game you'll notice the sun in the corner 
 of the screen and goes down as the game advances. These are some of the best graphics I have ever 
 seen. I would expect 2K sports to keep improving their visuals as the years go on, it's going to 
 be great to see!
  
  The sound is deffenetly another high-point in this game. Joe Morgan and Jon Miller do really good 
 commentating in this game. All of the fans noises are great to listen too, and sometimes are really 
 funny. Unfourtantley, there are some bugs with the sound, mainly in the commentating area. Sometimes 
 they will talk about a player's stats from the previous season. Sometimes there stats are completely 
 inaccurate. They might talk about Andruw Jones, who hit over 50 homeruns last year, and says that 
 he had 0 home runs. I run in to this problem quite frequently. It would be nice if this problem 
 would be addressed and fixed, but I don't see it happening. This should have been easy to point 
 out when testing the game and could have easily been solved, before the release of MLB 2K6.
  
  The game play is where you will find a lot of bugs. First I will start off with the positives. 
 The batting and pitching is good for the most part. They even let you choose to use "Classic Batting 
 Mode" if you choose to. If not they have a new swinging system where you use the analog stick and 
 have more control over your swing. It takes some time to master, but is very satisfying when you 
 get it down. Besides the positives the negatives in the game play section, is what pulls the game 
 down. You will notice a lot of frame rate issues when playing. It will be running smooth, then 
 all of sudden start running all choppy. Also there are a lot of technical issues with fielding. 
 You will push "A" to throw home and it will throw to 2nd base or something like that. Then later 
 it'll just randomly throw home. I have heard a lot of other people running into this exact problem. 
 The biggest problem out of them all, is the freezing issue. It has been happening to almost everyone 
 and really bring down the game. It will freeze at anytime. It is really annoying especially when 
 you are having a really good game. Luckily 2K Sports is releasing a patch very soon. The fact that 
 they released the game with this problem is what upsets me and makes me very angry at 2K Sports 
 even though they are going to fix it.
  
  This has some nice features such as "GM Mode" which is like, General Manager Mode. You play all 
 the games if you want, or you can manage them. On the outside of the game you are trying to make 
 the best team and accomplish goals. The biggest feature is "The Edge" which is like an insider 
 on a certain player. You can find out all you need to be successful against them and take advantage 
 of their weaknesses. But you have points in order to purchase an "insider" on a player. So you 
 can't just do it to everyone. This is one of the best features ever implemented into a game and 
 helps make up for some of the technical issues. Unfourtanley it's just not enough.
  
  If you are dying for a baseball game for the Xbox 360 then you should give the game a shot. If 
 you don't like baseball all too much then rent it, because it looks like 2K Sports just didn't 
 put all the effort in to this game that they could have. If they would have not let so many technical 
 issues slip into MLB 2K6, then it may have been the best baseball game ever, but that's not the 
 case. So a decent baseball game with some major technical issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlr2
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 22, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  You cannot sit down and play this game once or twice and know how good or bad it is. IF you put 
 some time into it, you will see it is truly a great game. The things that people are complaining 
 about will vanish once you learn how to play the game. (Except any freezing issues which I have 
 not experienced) Yes, base-running is confusing at times but IF you practice it is doable and somewhat 
 fun. Pitching and Batting are GREAT from the start. Fielding is decent. Graphics are mixed. Stadiums/Fans 
 are great. Players are good but faces are really bland. Overall a great game if you practice. Just 
 like in real life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrShmoove1
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 21, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game with high hopes of having my next gen baseball game! Alas that was not the case. 
 While the graphics are nice and a lot of the camera views are cool (the camera running along the 
 sidline with your runner on the way to first) , why is it that your pitcher, no matter what race 
 he is, looks oriental when you are doing your pickoff view to 1st? The crowd animations and not 
 seeing ever 3rd person in the crowd look the same are cool too. Sound is good. Like the possiblity 
 of the scouting but was never able to use it.
  
  Why do you ask? 
  
  I'll tell you.
  
  I played 2 exhibition games to get a feel for the game before starting my franchise. Once I 
 felt comfortable with the game I started up my franchise. I picked the D-back. Made a couple of 
 roster adjustments and went to my first game. Played a few innings and it FROZE ON THE THIRD OUT. 
 No biggie. Games sometimes freeze. Restarted the game, did same roster adjustments and started 
 again. Again it FROZE ON THE THIRD OUT. It happens at different times, sometimes 2nd inning, 3rd, 
 4th, you never know. But it ALWAYS freezes after a 3rd out. 
  
  I tried 8 games and every single time it froze after a 3rd out sometime during the ballgame. So 
 I decided to try season instead of franchise. Same problem. I even deleted my saves from my hard 
 drive and started fresh but got the same results. I had enough. Took the game back to the store 
 and did an exchange. Got home ready to play some ball again. Guess what happened..... FROZE AFTER 
 A 3RD OUT. 
  
  What good is a baseball game nowadays that you cant play 1 SINGLE GAME in franchise or season mode. 
 I'm glad I still held onto my copy of MVP baseball 2005 lol. I'll just keep playing that until 
 a REAL baseball game is made.
  
  Oh yeah, one more thing I almost forgot. WHY IS THERE NO THROW TO THE CUTOFF MAN!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpetrolino
Rating: 2.1
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  WE WANT A REFUND?! The gameplay, animations and graphics on this game are not worth $65!!! As a 
 long time supporter of 2K, I find this game to be a total embarassment! Freezing issues mar what 
 is basically the same game (looks wise) as 2K5. Sure the game boasts all kinds of new features, 
 etc. but when you can't play a game cause it freezes all the time ... what good are all these new 
 features?
  
  Patch? Who cares about a patch so the game won't freeze up? 2K should be refunding people's money 
 or dropping the price of this game to $30 after the debacle it caused! 
  
  Not too long ago, 2K asked their consumers to submit a wish list of what they wanted in a baseball 
 game. I re-read the thread right after I bought 2K6. Apparently no one from 2K ever read the thread.
 
  
  This game really has none of what we asked for. Even worse, it was sold with fatal glitches for 
 the majority of us. I never thought I would see the day when I returned my copy of a baseball. 
 Been playing baseball games for 16 years and, in fact, 2K6 is the first I ever returned for a refund.
 
  
  Clearly it's all about the money for 2K. I got MY $65 back and I'm not coming back next year. I'm 
 digging out my old Acclaim All Star Baseball game and dusting off my N64. It's too bad that Acclaim 
 went out of business cause' those fellas knew how to make a baseball game.
  
  2K needs to clean house and start fresh. In the meantime, hold on to your hard earned dollars and 
 follow the credo of Chicago Cubs fans ... "Wait til' next year ..."
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jervo
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  My 360 library is not comprehensive, but it is top-quality - until yesterday, I'd yet to have a 
 sub-par experience with it. Sure, some (if not most) of the 360 library isn't really "next-gen" 
 beyond some noticeable graphical improvements but the games I've played for it have been great 
 and for the most part I've had a great time with it. Which is why I was so sad to finally play 
 something that sucked.
  
  It's not the 360's fault that MLB2K6 sucks, though - it's the developers. The game is clearly not 
 ready for prime-time. Where to begin:
  
  -- The ugliest graphics I've ever seen on the 360. I only have a 27" standard television, but everything 
 else I've played has managed to look amazing. MLB, on the other hand, looks downright terrible 
 - it looks arguably worse than 2K5 for the Xbox1. The animations are stiff and jerky, the depth-of-focus 
 trick is overused (and yet somehow not even used correctly) , the stadiums don't really look that 
 great compared to games past... I will admit to being a graphics whore but I don't necessarily 
 need amazing graphics to appreciate a baseball game; however, the graphics here just plain SUCK 
 and it ruined the experience.
  
  -- The console-freezing bug. Totally unacceptable. It finally happened to me after 3 or 4 games, 
 by which point I already knew I was going to trade it in - it wasn't the last straw, but more like 
 the final nail in the coffin.
  
  -- 5 achievements? 5? Most of which could conceivably be done in one game against the Royals? Considering 
 that each game starts with 4 mini-contests... there is no rational explanation. Part of what makes 
 baseball so appealing to the non-athelically inclined is all the number-crunching and statistical 
 analysis that goes on for pretty much every pitch. Baseball, more than any other sport, lives and 
 dies by its numbers. 5 achievements, then, is an insult. It's almost as if some intern was given 
 10 seconds to come up with some achievement ideas, and then the napkin that list was written on 
 was misplaced, and then everyone forgot about it, and then the game was about to come out, and 
 a janitor found the napkin in the trash and said "do you guys need this", and the SVP of Marketing 
 said "YES we've been looking for that" and then just threw it in there. Here's the thing - I am 
 an achievement whore, too, and this looks like the easiest way to score 1000 points out of everything 
 in the 360 library, but I'd rather set myself on fire than try to muck my way through this game.
 
  
  -- Speaking of muck - the game just feels as if it were slodging through it. The new pitching interface 
 doesn't really do anything for me, the new hitting interface feels totally awkward, the outfielders 
 are either drunk or retarded which generally turns a single into a stand-up triple... and what's 
 really insulting is that I'm good at this game. At least, I was in the previous entries; for whatever 
 reason I was completely hopeless at controlling this game. Here's the thing - controls for a sports 
 game need to be (a) intuitive and (b) easy to control. And if it's a long-running franchise, a 
 bit of (c) familiarity goes a long way. 
  
  -- If you're going to overhaul your controls just to say you overhauled them, you're stupid and 
 your game sucks. 
  
  ++ The ONLY positive thing I can say about this game is that the announcing team of Jon Miller 
 and Joe Morgan are as fantastic as ever. I hate Joe Morgan in real life, but it's part of the Jon 
 Miller package, and Jon Miller is one of the best baseball announcers in the history of broadcasting. 
 Now that EA has scooped up the ESPN license, I wonder if they'll ever return to the 2KSports booth...
 
  
  In sum, MLB2K6 for the 360 is a rushed, sloppy half-hearted port with a terrible graphical "upgrade". 
 I hate EA as much as anybody, but when 2KSports beat them at their own game by seizing the "exclusive" 
 rights to the MLB franchise, I was both excited and a bit nervous, as I wasn't sure how 2KSports 
 would react to being the only major player in the console game. Would they be complacent? Would 
 they innovate? As it turns out, it appears that they overslept. I'll give them a mulligan on this 
 one, but they will feel my wrath if 2K7 is even half as crappy as 2K6.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neiltinson
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 20, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  First off you start with these announcers while the ame is loading you are like ok, thats cool. 
 Then you enter the game, you don't know whats going on, the 3rd baseman moves his arm to throw 
 and 2 seconds later the ball releases. Nothing special about the graphics, except the moving jerseys. 
 And especially for those of you who are used to MVP baseball, this is a MAJOR, MAJOR downgrade, 
 after 10 minutes of playing you will be fed up. Not worth your time or money. In addition aside 
 from the cool jerseys, the faces except Derek Jeter (Cover Man) are awful, i can draw better than 
 that and trust me, i can't draw to well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechosenone827
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 20, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I recently rented Major League Baseball 2K6 for the Xbox 360. I was really looking forward to the 
 release of this game, but with the price of 360 games I feel I need to try them out before I buy. 
 I was really hyped up about baseball on the Xbox 360, but I feel a little let down, especially 
 while having the game freeze on me. I was able to play some complete games, but then all of a sudden 
 the game would freeze and I know it is not my Xbox 360 because it plays all other games for hours 
 with absolutely no problems at all. Lets move on the huge graphical letdown. On the box and on 
 the commercials the game looks incredible, but when you actually play it, it looks like it is a 
 very slightly upgraded version of the original Xbox version and that is because I used all the 
 different camera angles. The fans do look decent and interact with the game by catching foul balls 
 which is pretty cool. Almost all the player faces look the same with very creepy looking eyes. 
 The sound is good, with decent commentary and good crowd sounds. This game has one of the mellowest 
 soundtracks I have heard in a baseball game, I normally like hearing rock music and maybe a little 
 hip hop every once in a while, but I really don't like slow songs in my games, especially this 
 one. I like that they included commentator Jeanie Zelasko from Fox Sports to do a little commentary 
 while in the loading screens, but I wonder why they did not include the whole Fox Sports presentation 
 in the game, it would help since they lost the ESPN license. The game play is not very good at 
 all. 2K sports decided to include the swing stick into this game like they included the shot stick 
 in NBA 2K6, only it worked great in NBA 2K6 and is horrible here in MLB 2K6. The good news is that 
 in the options you can change the control scheme for hitting and pitching. I like the new pitching 
 system but if you like the old one, it is there too. Fielding and base running feel very awkward 
 and just does not work very well in the game. The game has a season mode and manager options, but 
 with the game freezing very often it is kind of hard to try those modes out. 
  Overall stay away from MLB 2K6, I can't believe that 2K Sports would release a game with the freezing 
 problem and have still not released a patch for it. I also can't believe the graphics and game 
 play are this bad. If you have to try this game, rent it, otherwise play MLB 2K5 or play MVP on 
 your original Xbox or PS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alock
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 19, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a weird game to get a hold on. On the one hand this game can be enjoyed. On the other it 
 can be hated. It just seems like it's going to be a couple of years before this game is as good 
 as it wants to be. The game is fun but frustrating at times. Baserunning and fielding really suck. 
 The new sprint button is a good idea but not well implemented. The players move like they weigh 
 500 lbs. and it takes forever to change direction. Pitching is fun and I don't know what to think 
 of the hitting. The new hit stick is kind of hard to get used to. It seems like a good idea, but 
 it just doesn't feel all the way right, yet. Franchise is fun and as a whole this game is enjoyable 
 for the baseball fan out there. Pros and cons but since this is the only baseball game coming out 
 you're kind of stuck with it. Which can be a good thing or a bad thing. Rent before you buy. Also 
 the whole freeze situation sucks. Hope 2K Sports fixes this problem soon so I don't have to keep 
 loading games before I play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richiedbond
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This isn't bad for the first try at a 360 baseball game. I am going to start with the positive's. 
 First the graphics are good, not great but good. Second I do like the they have changed the pitching 
 and the batting, it is definitely tougher. And third the way the catcher can tell you what might 
 work best is awesome. Now for the bad, first the actual way that the fielding is handled really 
 sucks, you think you are going to dive with the shortstop but at that exact second the AI switches 
 who you are and the outfielder is diving, hello inside the park home run. Second the catcher thing 
 is cool, but he is wrong a lot, I recommend not using it. And last but not least, the base running, 
 all I have to say is come on can it get any more confusing. If you want my recommendation I say: 
 if you love baseball game set it but if you are only an average fan leave it on the shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cschrieber
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  For the first time in a very long time, I feel a game was under-rated by GameSpot's reviewer. I 
 almost never disagree, but this time, I really do.
  
  Important Note -- I am not having any lockups thus far (after about 25-30 hours of play) .
  
  
 It seems that the GS review puts a lot of weight on the presentation of the game. I expected something 
 pretty ugly, and that wasn't the case. I recall a comment about not enough replays. I say pishaw! 
 I want to play the game. I don't need a full 3 hour experience to enjoy myself. 
  
  First, the Bad (or, the not great)
  A few animations are overused (I personally don't care much 
 about this)
  Quick Menu interface (for pinch hitting, subbing, etc.) can react a little slow sometimes. If you're 
 late with it, you may have to wait one pitch before swapping a batter out.
  Ability to switch sides of plate for any batter seems silly -- especially since the announcers chastize 
 you for doing it!
  The manual (and by manual, I mean the 4 sheets of paper stapled together) is, as usual with an 
 EA game, HIGHLY lacking.
  Faces don't look all that real-to-life (I'm in it for the gameplay, though, so I don't mind this 
 either) . Take a look at Tony LaRussa if you get the chance!
  Once again, there's no way to Double Switch at the top of an inning after you pinch bat. So, if 
 your pinch hitter is a left fielder, you can't designate him left fielder and put your pitcher 
 in the Left Fielder's batting slot. At least, not once the next half inning has started. I have 
 not tried this during the offensive portion of the inning. (This is the single BIGGEST flaw in 
 the game, in my humble opinion.)
  A little too easy to hit the ball (although, I have dynamic ability turned on.. it may adjust over 
 time)
  Baserunners can be a little complex to control. (But nothing out of the ordinary)
  Signing Free Agents -- I see no point to being able to alter what the recommended offer is -- it 
 almost never accepts a smaller value.
  
  But, here's the good:
  Commentary is pretty decent. Morgan is a little repetitive on some things during pitching, but 
 it isn't horrible. I went a good 20 hours before consciously thinking "I've heard this before" 
 with regards to play-by-play.
  Players generally move fluidly.
  AI plays a reasonable game of baseball, with regards to subbing, pinch hitting.
  Lots of Stats 
 and charts to look through.
  New pitching model is enjoyable. May be a little too easy to get K's with stronger pitchers, but 
 weaker ones have trouble getting them. I can't see any pitcher being used for more than 100 pitches.
 
  Inside Edge (or whatever it's called) is an interesting spin on the scouting report. 
  
  
  In general, it's a solid game. It plays well. If you want to be wowed by 20 different replays 
 of the same play, etc., you may be disappointed. But, if you just want to play baseball, enjoy 
 a franchise mode or GM Career, and aren't as concerned about the "flash," you'll probably enjoy 
 it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reya10276
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  Disappointed? You bet I am after spending $59.00 + Tax for something that I could have played on 
 my regular old X-Box. I dont understand why IGN and others alike gave the game a good review!
 
  
  Graphics  They are lame, the game looks like an X-Box title, it seems like they ported the X-Box 
 version onto the 360 and added some touch ups such as the dust when players run and other little 
 things but the graphics are not close as to what they advertised on the 2ksports website, maybe 
 at a close up view.
  
  Sound  It is solid and especially if you have a surround sound system (5.1) , although I think 
 they could have expanded the commentary.
  
  Game play  It is pretty good although at times it seems like there is some slow down, maybe this 
 could be my copy of the game. The menus are built to perfection and they are very clean.
  
  Overall  If you are a baseball fan this is a pretty good game if you sold your Xbox and got a 
 360 I say get, but if your not a baseball fan wait for a true Next-Gen baseball game.
  
  Oh and IGN get better people to do your reviews.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike1010
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 18, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  unbelievable, that antbody would put out such a flaw riddled game , please let ea make another MVP 
 baseball, way better than this garbage,, dont get me wrong ,this game could have been solid with 
 a good game presentation, because it has some nice game modes, franchise is pretty good,, but just 
 plain ruined by the game play and  bring back MVP series,,, that 
 game was so much better to watch than this one , it just baffles me why trhey didnt take the time 
 to really put out a great all around game,, i like the depth of the franchise and Gm modes , but 
 thats about it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkinparkfan22
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This game in short is great. The hitting and pitching interfaces are amazing. Insider edge is great 
 and everything else really falls into place. Hitting at first can get frustrating but after you 
 get used to it, it's a piece of cake. Pitching is easy. The graphics aren't bad what so ever, they 
 are a step-up from the xbox that's for sure. At times the fielders can lag a little bit when going 
 for a ball and cause you to miss it, but it's really no big deal because it doesn't happen very 
 often. I haven't had any problems with the game freezing or really encountered any other bugs the 
 game has. In short, at least go out and rent the game and see for your self that it's not as bad 
 as everybody says and I know because I have played all of the 2k baseball games and all of the 
 MVP baseball games. This game is straight up baseball at it's best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbonetrav18
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a bad start for baseball on the 360. The graphics are a step up from xbox, but yet they 
 are dissapointing. The Inside Edge is a awesome feature in this game the pitching interface is 
 great. I did not like the hitting interface. I liked the hitting interface they used to have 2 
 buttons, and you moved the cursor. The fact that the game wants you to control the sprint on baserunning 
 and fielding was not that appealing. All out every play is how it should be. They fielding and 
 throwing wasn't the best. This game has an overall awsome broadcast style presentation. The sound 
 is amazing. They tried to do too much with this game. Hopefully, next years game is simple and 
 fun where I can jump right in and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gormechi
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 17, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Next Gen graphics? Where, I see graphics that were outdated 4 years ago. This is a slap in the 
 face, you pay 60 bucks for garbage. At least it could have been garbage with a pretty package on 
 it.
  From the controls to the sad presentation this game will make you want to quite in about 1 inning. 
 And don't think if you liked last yrs MLB you will like this one. The game is boring, faces and 
 body types are nothing like they're real life counterpart, presentation stinks, and the graphics 
 are not next gen. I have HD too, so that's not the reason, just plain bad, please save your money 
 and skip baseball this yr! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettmduncan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 17, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Omg...... ok.... dont get me wrong people - I am... and always will be a die-hard fan of the EA MVP 
 series. Even the attempt at College baseball.... well.... was an attempt. At least EA put something 
 out to tide us over until they take over the universe (buy out every professional sports license) 
 and make games how they shood be. (IE; ESPN integration, etc etc) Anyways.... off my high horse. 
 This game well, is probably the only baseball game that will show up on the 360 this year, but 
 it sure looks purdy ma! Yes..... the small stuff is, small, but like the series itself, it put up 
 a good challange to the empire of EA for the past couple of years, and passed with colors. Take 
 advantage of it now 2k Sports...... your out on top for once with an MLB game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkeese13
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  The players look great the stadiums are so life like the hitting and pitching interface are just 
 to good to be true. It is definately the best game I have ever played. and by the way no freezing 
 problems. The fans jumping for balls that were hit into the stands is a great touch. Anyone who 
 has been to Petco Park will not believe how much the stadium in the game looks like it does in 
 real life I also really like the inside edge that is really cool and helps out a lot in tough situations. 
 This game is definately one for baseball fans since there is no other choice and a must rent for 
 all other gamers. Even though it is 60 bucks baseball is a long season so it will last you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmoothPenguin
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad game. It's certainly could be better, but there is always next year. My friends and I 
 played all weekend, it was a blast. All of the games were so close. Online play is amazing as well. 
 Over the summer I am going to join some leagues and play in some tournaments as well. 2K Sports 
 really tricked out the online play. The bugs in the game will be ok for a lil while longer, we 
 got quite a few laughs from the boneheaded plays they caused, hopefully it will get fixed soon 
 though. Considering this is the only baseball game out for 360, if you're a true baseball fan, 
 go out and get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxfan6978
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  The good: Great gameplay, Joe Morgan and Jon Miller's announcing is always relevant, crowd graphics 
 are the best of any sports game i have seen so far. Inside Edge has players playing just like their 
 real-life selves.
  
  The bad: While some player models are highly accurate others are just plain ridiculous. For example 
 Manny Ramirez doesn't look any thing like himself, and David Ortiz is about 1/2 as big as he is 
 in real life. Many small, yet irratating bugs and flaws in the graphics and gameplay. 
  
  I would suggest renting this game before you throw away 60 dollars on it. The graphics are better 
 than on the original X-Box, but overall this version is not all that much better than the X-Box 
 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howard23
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  I have read a lot of the reviews, and no one has said this, so I am going to. These exclusivity 
 agreements are messing up my gaming experience. First it was Madden 06 which was a shell of the 
 game it should have been. Why? No competition! Now we have MLB 2K6. This game could have been and 
 should have been great, but it's not. Why? No competition!! Don't get me wrong, there are some 
 really good features in this game. The Inside Edge ,the VIP profiles, and swing stick are great. 
 But, what's up with the poor player renditions, random wild pitches, sketchy fielding. It seems 
 to me like equal time wasn't spent on all aspects of the game. Bring back the competition!! My 
 two favorite sports games are suffering terribly. Back to G. R. A. W. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grkmafia69
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  i'm loving the game so far.... i'm a huge mvp baseball fan and i have bEENsupporting mvp since the 
 first time it hit sotres... i played mlb 2k6 on the ps2 and the xbox and i couldn't stand it so 
 i rented mlb 06 the show... and i hated that too... i can't live without a baseball game this year 
 so i bought it for the xbox 360 and hooked it up to my hd tv.... WAT A DIFFERENCE.... ok fine there 
 are some cheesy moments with the fielding but u get used to it and the franchise mode is amazing.... next 
 year THIS GAME IS GOING TO BE AWESOME AND THE YEAR AFTER THAT WE WILL BE RETURNING TO PLAYING MVP 
 BASEBALL 2007!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Balanoar
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This is my first 2k baseball purchase as im usually a strictly EA guy. Also its been about 4 years 
 since my last baseball game purchase. I was hesitant at first to buy the game, but i am very happy 
 with my decision. I havent had any freeze problems some others have reported ( yes i own a premium 
 360 with hd) . Batting and pitching mechanics are spot on as are sounds, graphics, and announcing. 
 My biggest gripe would be base-running as its very counter intuitive. Player models are hit and 
 miss, some players dont look anything like their real life counterparts and others are very close. 
 There are some minor glitches here and there that can be annoying but otherwise its a very fun 
 solid baseball game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hilldd
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 16, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is as about bad as it gets.. I wont even play it if they gave it to me.. Don't waste 
 your time or hard earned money on this game.. To even play the game you have to disable your hard 
 drive.. I would rather give my money to charity that to waste it on this Loser.. Don't even rent 
 it.. Just wait for the next game, it has to be better than this, to come out and buy it.. I think 
 that I would buy Big mother trucker for the 360, rather than play MLB 06.. Not to mention you can 
 buy alot better coaster for your coffee table, than the ones that 2k Sports sells.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 16, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I hate to say I am pretty dissssssapointed with the way 2k6 BASEBALL looks. I was hoping for NBA 
 2K6 visuals and I get uptempo PS2 graphics. The game is alright, but does not justify a $59.99 
 plus tax cost. The game has very few gamer points that I am dissssssapointed about also. I was 
 hoping for more things to earn to compare to other... due to the lack of NEXT GERATION visuals. 
 The fields look nice and the stadiums look pretty close to the real things... but it still looks 
 like a cartoon. We are supposed to be in the NEXT GENERATION of video games for realism and commentary... but 
 we are still in XBOX 1 gaming. OWELL... I guess I have to spend more money then I was planning on 
 to get REALLY GOOD GAMES!!! If EA would have been fair with all this license crap... Then people 
 would not have to buy CRAPPY MADDEN XBOX 360 and EA could work on the MVP series....2K could be 
 making the really nice football games... and people could have a better choice of what they want 
 to buy. 2K will come along with the baseball... they just need time to perfect it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaBy_69
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Since im a really big baseball game fan it was really hard for me not to enjoy this game. I just 
 love the new swing stick (once you get used to it its really fun to use!) The gameplay is really 
 fun, but there are a few glitches that occur sometimes. The graphics are really great, especially 
 the jerseys, lighting effects, and even the crowds! (You can actually see people in the crowd catch 
 the baseball off a foul or homerun!) What really bothers me (almost made me throw up!) was that 
 unlike MVP 2005, most of the players faces look nothing close to the real life thing, it was disgusting! 
 What is this?!!! Manny Ramirez with a small build and shaved hair? WTF?! The sound is really good, 
 the announcers are great, the music is alright, but the sound of the crowds and the crack of bats 
 are very realistic. All in all, MLB 2K6 will be really fun for those hardcore baseball game fans, 
 but this game could be much better if it didn't suffer from some glitches and bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  The MLB 2K games are and will be the only third-party MLB baseball game for awhile. And honestly, 
 I'm perfectly O. K. with that. While I fondly remember (MLB) MVP, This game is loads of fun and 
 pretty realistic.
  
  Gameplay is a very mixed bag. I'll start with the excellent pitching system. You aim the pitch, 
 then you hold the corresponding pitch button down while a circle expands. This circle represents 
 the effectiveness of the pitch (more effective pitches take more pitcher stamina) . You then release 
 the button as the circle shrinks. Tap the button again when the circle is tight around the ball 
 for the most accuracy. It's cool and realistic how on breaking ball, the cursor determines where 
 the ball breaks, not where it ends up, so if you aim a slider on the inside corner of the strike 
 zone, it will break towards the batter and jam him or maybe even hit him.
  
  Now there's batting. With the left stick, you aim an invisible circle at where you think the pitch 
 will be. The size of this circle is determined by the batters plate discipline. If you guess right, 
 or if the pitchers makes a bad pitch, another cursor will show the location of the ball. To swing, 
 pull back on the right stick to "step" and release for a contact swing or push forward for a power 
 swing. You can also push the stick sorta sideways to pull or push the ball. To bunt, simply push 
 the right stick forwards. Unfortunately, bunting is pretty hard, contrary to the rest of the game. 
 It may take a while to get used to the delicate timing of the swing stick.
  
  Gone are the days of gently hitting the analog stick and having your player sprint away and dropping 
 the ball, but fielding in 2K6 brings in a whole new slew of problems. Now, players have too much 
 weight and making small adjustments is hard once again. Diving is unresponsive, you'll get stuck 
 in slow animations, and making wall catches is incredibly easy. It tells you when and all you do 
 is hit up on the right analog stick and the guy will jump higher than he ever will in his life 
 and he'll catch it EVERY time. I'd like to add that the bases were loaded and it was an easy ball 
 to the pitcher and he jerked and a run scored.
  
  Baserunning is troublesome, but to a different degree. You actually button mash to make a guy sprint. 
 At first it may sound crazy but I like it. It's exciting and trying to beat out hits is edge-of-your-seat 
 fun. However, when there's multiple guys on base, things get ugly. Only one guy can sprint at a 
 time, and they aren't smart enough to figure out that they should have ran home.
  
  Speaking of ugly, the visuals aren't very good. The cloth physics aren't the problem, it's the 
 puffy uniforms. Animations are funky, and the game looks a little too much like a beefed upped 
 Xbox game than a full fledged 360 title. Even on HD there are way too many jaggies for comfort. 
 The details are often hidden, like the dirt, uniform, and grass detail. There are good things, 
 such as the dirt on the uniforms and dirt clouds, but nothing to show off to your rabid Sony fanboy 
 friend (why are they your friend anyway? Fanboys stink, especially Sony ones.) . It is cool to see 
 concession guys and fans going for foul balls. Contrary to IGN/GS (I don't remember which) , only 
 the first deck of fans are 3D. Then it's back to the same ol' paper dudes.
  
  Miller and Morgan do an awesome job, just like the rest of the sound. 
  
  There are a bunch 
 of game modes including franchise, GM career, and World Baseball classic to keep you hooked for 
 a long time with this game. Online is solid as well.
  
  So if you're a die-hard hardball fan, go ahead and pick this up. If you don't like baseball there 
 isn't much to suck you in. The bad rep for this game I think is all because MVP is gone and 2K 
 lost the ESPN license. It's better than 2K5, but isn't really next-gen. Will it blow you away with 
 it's next-gen baseball? No. Will it entertain you for hours on end with its (mostly) solid gameplay 
 and richness of features? Yes.
  
  P. S. I'm very lucky not to have had any freezing problems, like others have had happen to them 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ij2band
Rating: 3.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  With all of the capabilities of the 360, the guys at 2K sports managed to dumb this thing down 
 to look more like a cartoon sporting event than a next gen game. I'm a huge Boston fan, and I can 
 tell you they got absolutely nothing right for my team. The big name players, Manny, Papi... don't 
 even resemble their real selves. The pitching interface is a farce... it's not intuitive at all, 
 it takes more 'effort' than should be involved with something you're going to do 100+ times a game.
 
  
  The 'swing stick' is worthless... I tried it for a game, went right back to the classic way of swinging. 
 Why is it that when something isn't broken it still needs to be fixed? There are some common denominators 
 in ALL baseball games, across all platforms, they're there for a reason, and we, the people who 
 are willing to play 162 games to actually go for a season kind of like it that way.
  
  The players themselves react sluggishly to controls, and misplay balls... Coco Crisp FELL DOWN on 
 a routine play to Center! Just randomly fell. I can understand injuries, I can understand little 
 things, I can even understand errors, but to just randomly FALL DOWN? Do players just go from standing 
 to falling? Not normally no... that is until 2k6 got a hold of them... now they look cartoonish, 
 can't run for a routine pop up... I'm afraid at what might happen later in the season, I really 
 am.
  
  Besides the cartoon like player graphics, shoddy interface, and sluggish player response... it seems 
 like no effort whatsoever went into the Ballparks.
  
  If I were forced at GUNPOINT to say anything positive about this game, I would have to say that 
 they put alot of detail into the fans, and even into the hot dog guy... so I know where the priorities 
 of the programmers were when the threw this one together in about half an hour.
  
  I go to Fenway 20 times a year... I know that park. I've been going there since I was about 6 ( 
 I'm 33 now... so it's been awhile ) . What they put on the screen and call Fenway... nope, not the 
 park. When they show the areas behind the park ( like people walking to their seats, a nice idea 
 ) ... they got everything inside the park wrong... they ACTUALLY HAD A YANKEE JERSEY in a case in 
 FENWAY! Someone actually had to go out of their way to do that!
  Maybe it was someone's sick sense of humor, but in my opinion, so is this game... if you like baseball 
 games, take a moment and hope that the good people at Microsoft make the MVP series compatible 
 with the 360... because 2k6 is not worth your time, effort, or hard earned money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nachoking2k2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  This is one of the first games where I kept reading the forum before it came out. Yeah there's 
 issues with it freezing and other things, and I agree they made a bad decision in pushing this 
 product so fast. Possibly they did it because they knew they could bring out patches to fix it? 
 They just didn't plan on the freeze glitch. But enough with that, I have a good copy and I'll explain 
 my opinion. All I've heard about is the utterly bad fielding, the graphics not looking like the 
 screenshots. Well the fielding thing is a little annoying, but not that bad, and it's something 
 that can be looked past, not to mention it doesn't happen that often. Wow I give up a base hit, 
 I'll probably be able to get adapted to it so I can make a play on it. I haven't had any issues 
 where the analog control just doesn't work. The presentation is still better than anything EA has 
 ever put out. I like how they recap with home runs or big plays when someone comes up to bat. The 
 commentary is so fluent. I created a player and it doesn't hesitate at all to say the name, and 
 they just don't say generic things. It is like watching baseball on ESPN. The inside edge and the 
 ability to scout players is probably the most intuitive option or mode in a sports game that I've 
 ever seen. The crowd is nice, it's at the level of PS1 after 15 years. LAWLERS!!! Franchise mode 
 is deep, well pretty much what you expect out of one. The gameplay is smooth, the animations are 
 better, and the graphics do look polished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hwoodal6
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 16, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  I am not sure where to start even on this one. I guess first off I will say that the game locking 
 up in the 7th inning every time is horrid, how can 2K sports let something like this happen especially 
 for the price we pay for a next-gen game.
  
  Oh did I say next-gen, well the graphics certainly don't say that at all. I expected character 
 models that looked a lot like their real life counterparts, but instead most are not even in the 
 general area.
  
  I think the gameplay is terrible. Pitching is horrible, batting isn't any better, the fielding 
 plays and looks like something that could have been made maybe 7 years ago. Baserunning is even 
 worse yet, it seems that no matter who I have at the plate if I hit a ball into the outfield and 
 it gets past the fielder and rolls to the wall my baserunner will still get thrown out at 2nd base 
 because every outfielder in the game seems to possess a Vladimir Guerrero type cannon.
  
  The only bright spot is the announcing of Joe Morgan and Jim Miller. They do a real good job with 
 that. Other then that the music selection is bad also.
  
  It is just sad that 2K sports has exclusive rights to baseball this year because EA's MVP baseball 
 last year was perhaps the best baseball game ever made, while this years MLB 2K6 ranks up their 
 with the worst. I would rather be playing Tecmo Baseball for the Nintendo.
  
  I want my money back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcager32
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  i just bought this game and i am a big baseball fan. people say that the game freezes but i played 
 about twenty games already and it only froze once. the franchise mode is great. u could start out 
 with a crapy team like the devil rays and make trade and make the devil rays a winning team. i admit 
 that all the players dont look like them. I like the swing stick it takes a while to get used to 
 but once u get a hang of it its really fun. I also like how u could scout teams and player . its 
 only its first year. and look at ea sports mlb games they didnt look like the real peole. i think 
 this is a solid game and if you are a sports fan then i would buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzureLivesOn
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  The war between 2K Games and EA has been long going, and it hasn't been until this past year that 
 we've felt the pinch. Despite EA managing to grab several sports licenses out there (Rugby, NASCAR, 
 PGA Golf, Professional Boxing) , it was their acquisition of the third-party rights to the NFL license 
 that left many an ESPN fan with a swift kick to the junk. Adding to that the "salt in the wound" 
 15 year contract signed with ESPN, it's not surprising 2K Games would counter with scarfing up 
 the exclusive rights to Major League Baseball. I mean after all, if EA can squash the NFL game 
 that outsold their Madden NFL in 2004, 2K can surely strike out the critical favorite MVP Baseball.
 
  
  The problem is the war has left only one side with scars: us, the consumer. Madden NFL '06, the 
 first exclusive NFL game, was critically panned as being "old hat" and left a sour taste to wonder 
 what if 2K never lost the franchise. Fast forward to now, where MLB 2K6, the first exclusive third-party 
 MLB game (can't forget 'The Show') has arrived. Yet within a matter of a few games, that sour taste 
 returned again and left the question pondering of just what if EA never lost the franchise. Well, 
 we sorta know what MVP '06 would've felt like, seen in the form of MVP NCAA. And with all the new 
 features NCAA brought to the table (noteably the ESPN Everywhere feature, a monument of genius 
 in sports games) , it kinda makes this hardened baseball fan get a little teary eyed knowing that 
 instead we're left with... this.
  
  I've played the game for PS2 and Xbox 360, and the graphical differences are, well, very expected. 
 The 360 version shows off some of the best stadiums and detail, a true sign of things to come in 
 the world of sports. But if you put dog crap in a gold-foil wrapped box, it's still going to smell 
 like a box full of s**t. And sadly, MLB 2K6 had it all. From terrible collision detection issues 
 to a lackluster presentation, it felt like playing something from the past. The newer features, 
 like using Inside Edge to scout your opposition, is innovative and adds alot more depth to a baseball 
 game (if that was possible, my roommates and I are still using the Career Mode from MVP '05) . But 
 given a shallow game to do it in, it just makes it hard to continue. And I can't say I've experienced 
 this "game killing glitch" all of 50 people are ranting about somewhere out there, but I also A: 
 Don't play my Xbox 360 on HD (S-Video works fine for me) and B: Couldn't get past 12 hours of the 
 game long enough to experience any glitches.
  
  It would be a longtime dream of mine to see this exclusivity junk end and the return of the sports 
 games we'd truely want to play. But if I had to wait 80+ years to see the Red Sox win the series, 
 I doubt there's much hope in seeing MVP make a triumphant return. MLB 2K6 just isn't worth it for 
 me, and despite having competition from the well-made "MLB '06: The Show" fails to actually try 
 and be anything more than good graphics wasted on a shallow engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelersDJM
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  When I 1st popped in this game I was disgusted. The first thing I noticed was the goofy looking 
 bubble on the jerseys. I want to know who was the artist that came up with these player models? 
 Let me tell you there not that good. Most people are comparing this game to last years MVP. One 
 thing that had me baffled was my pitcher would throw a wild pitch when there we're runners on base. 
 It was driving me crazy. Until a kind gentlemen on the discussion board explained that you had 
 to push the pitch button twice. Once to start the circle then once to stop it. I was only pressing 
 the pitch button once. That was a huge plus in MLB 2K.'s favor and stupidity on my part.
  
  The 1st thing you have to do is set the difficulty to Legend and make adjustments from there. I 
 tweaked every catagorey 15 points to my favor. That defiantely made games very competitive and 
 more enjoyable. The commentary is the best I've ever heard in any sports game. The crowd is also 
 better than I've ever seen. The hit stick grew on me and I know love it. I also like the pitcher 
 hitter interface.
  
  Last years MVP was probably the best baseball game ever made. MLB 2K6 at first glance doesn't compare 
 and is very dissapointing, but once you completely learn the game, make the proper difficulty adjustment, 
 it will grow on you, and fullfill a true fans need for a baseball sim.
  
  Improvements that I think will make all the difference.
  1. Hire a new artist, and overhaul the 
 player models. 
  Make the players different sizes in accordance to there 
  real life counterparts.
  2. Change the overall presentation.
  3. Use EA's ball physics and 
 player animations (especially fielding)
  4. Use EA's overall speed of the game (throws, baserunning)
  
  I miss MVP and can't imagine 
 how sweet it would of been on the 360, but MLB2K6 will do for the time being. How long does 2K6 
 have the rights to the MLB??? If only it was reversed and 2K had the NFL and EA had the MLB life 
 would be great in the gaming war..........
  
  I'm back, and have a bit to ad after playing MLB2K6 even more. I am having more fun playing this 
 game than I ever did on MVP. I now beleive that this is the better game. If they overhaul the grafix 
 this game will be unbeleivable. For those of you that think they hate this game you have to give 
 it a chance. Once you get used to the controls and the feel of the game, if your a true baseball 
 game you will love this game. If the Legend setting is to tough for you, try All-Star settings 
 just the way they are. Thats what I went to and I'm having unbelievable competitive games. My Pirates 
 are 1-6 and have lost some close ones, but my Angels are 4-3. The Yanks beat up on me the 1st 2 
 games 10-5 and 8-4, but we battled back and stole one 6-5 in a great game. Cordero picked up a 
 hard earned save. Juan Rivera hit a 3 run blast in the 8th to tie it, who was subbing for an injured 
 Guerrero who is out for 5 days. This game is awsome. Give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clockworkboy00
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 15, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  Those of us who enjoyed the EA series of Baseball games breathed a heavy sigh when it was announced 
 that 2K Sports had aquired the exclusive 3rd party licensing rights to Major League Baseball games. 
 As we had feared, the next few years will be long for video game baseball fans. 2K Sports' exclusive 
 deal gives the company free reign to create whatever half-finished, bug-filled, embarassing excuse 
 for a game that they see fit.
  
  MLB 2K6 had the potential to be an enjoyable game. But "The Freeze" issue, poor presentation, choppy 
 frame rate, and unresponsive fielding make MLB 2K6 for the XBOX 360 a chore, rather than a cool 
 way to kill some free time.
  
  Graphically, the game disappoints. It's not that the graphics are terrible on their own... just 
 that 2K6 grossly misrepresented the quality of the games graphics with some early "screenshots" 
 realeased online and on the back of the game. Due to the fact that these images are the same online 
 that are featured on the game case, leads me to believe that the time they spent developing those 
 4 or 5 images could've been better spent in Quality Control and tightening up the gameplay.
  
  As far as "The Next Generation of Baseball" goes... um... not so much. The graphics are improved 
 slightly over the XBOX version... and there are some additional animations included in the 360 
 copy... but apart from that, the game is just a simple port of the current-gen version.
  
  Better luck next time, 2K. 
  
  Here's to hoping that EA reaquires it's rights... or at the very 
 least... that Microsoft uses it's right as a first party developer to make a game thats worth playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjholla82
Rating: 3.9
Date: Apr 15, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  I might be partial to the MVP baseball series, i thought MVP baseball 2005 was one of the best 
 baseball games ive ever played along side earlier world series baseball. So i was disappointed 
 that 2K sports recieved the exclusive license of major league baseball. Playing MLB 2K6 leaves 
 me even more disappointed. For the for time ever i am playing a sports game that came out a year 
 ago for this year. I pop in MLB 2K6 the presentation seems kinda bland, not really to much to the 
 menus, although there is alot of things to go through, alot of depth with features, the only thing 
 it does well. I start looking at the rosters, and there are many things that are totally wrong. 
 Im from cleveland so i look at the indians roster. Ok i know im a big fan of the indians i think 
 they are gonna have a heck of a year, they won 93 games last year and should have made the playoffs, 
 and i expect them to do that if not better this year. So overall a team that won 93 games, have 
 young team that can only get better, ranked 21st. Are u kidding me? 21st, we had like the 4th or 
 5th best record in the american league, and were 21st rated overall? Absolutey uncalled for. Also 
 in a trade that sent coco crisp to the red sox, in return we got andy marte, and mota. Marte seems 
 to be on our AAA team, but somehow mota is still on the sox? how does that make any sense? I play 
 my first game in jacob's field. When did they put in aqua outfield walls? Last time i went to a 
 game they were green as can be, and MLB makes tham aqua? These details of a baseball gameyou can 
 just not screw up!!! Playing the game i thought i was playing an xbox game, there is absolutey 
 nothing next-gen about this game, it looks horrible. Those are the things EA does not miss, and 
 is why i only play their games all year round. I want to say i might give next year's game a try 
 and i hope they make a way better game than this year. I have no opinion really, i don't know if 
 u want to play MVP 2005 two years after it came out, it takes long enough to make sure the rosters 
 are correct. So overall very disappointed, and pissed off, i love baseball, and its in the wrong 
 hands for however many years they have the exclusive license. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E2ESQUARE
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 14, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  A little bit like the game you always knew you never wanted. Horribly drab with bugs, the first 
 MLB game to go next gen is outclassed by its last gen counterparts. Sadly the trend for moving 
 up a generation for sports games is to fluke them but disguise it with some pretty graphics. Madden 
 pulled this off, NBA 2K6, NBA Live and now MLB 2006 couldn't pull it off. The game has horrible 
 mechanics and plays like hell. A simple graphical boost from the superior xbox version could have 
 done wonders too keep this game out of the gutter, but it just doesn't do it. Maybe the devs were 
 lazy, but for whatever reason this game is just bad. It has very little graphical intrigue and 
 most of the promises of realistic grass, stains and dirt were broken. The players have some faces 
 that are both very well detailed and freakishly ugly. Its like the best and worst there have ever 
 been here. The main point is that modes, graphics and value have been stripped down to the floor 
 here to make a cheap product that EA can market and sell a quick million of so they can simply 
 redraw the graphics and add in modes the older games already have for next year. Its a slopy mess 
 stuck wiht catching, throwing and fielding bugs that occur every game if not several times a game, 
 and you cant help but feel like somewhere EA is laughing because they know they just ripped about 
 a million people off with this crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aiduder
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited to get 2K6 and to see the stunning next-gen HD graphics on a baseball game. I 
 went out to the store, picked up a copy, and then made my friends hang out with me while I tried 
 it out... WOW, what a crappy game!!! I have only experienced the freezing issue twice, which was 
 annoying, but beyond that the game is just not very good. The graphics are week, the controls are 
 sloppy and the AI does whatever the heck it wants to do at times. I have had a number of situations 
 where my AI controlled runners have just taken off and gotten tagged out, or just hung out on the 
 base rather than advancing. The new dynamic fielder physics that allow fielders to run into each 
 other and the walls and fall accordingly was a nice touch, in theory, but I have had it happen 
 so many times I have lost track... it even happened when my fielders were not next to one another. 
 Basically I have found this game to be a big disappointment, especially considering you have to 
 drop $60 to get it. What it all boils down to is that if Microsoft issued a backwards compatibility 
 update that included last year's MVP, I would totally ditch this game and play MVP exclusively... I 
 miss MVP!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  WOW is all i can say. I came in thinking, im gonna hate this game. I had gone from crazy anticpation 
 to on the fence beacuse of the reviews and bad talk. Im a back to back year owner of mvp baseball 
 and was very dissapointed that it wasnt coming to the 360, but... MLB 2K6 is better! 
  
  It's the best baseball game ive ever played, and in the top 5 all time sports games. In MLB 2K6 
 there are a lot of little things that are great, like when your strike out a batter in 3 pitches 
 itll show each pitch, sometimes itll time how long it takes you to get to the next base, the next 
 time a batter comes up after a big play on there last at bat like a homerun, they will show a flashback, 
 at the end of each inning theyre will be a top play that is shown, wallclimbes and dives arent 
 as complicated as mvp's was, theres just one button, press the right analog stick, for all dives 
 and jumps. 
  
  The hitting system is great fun and the pitching is good but could use some work, the graphics 
 are great at some times and ok at others, for example when your pitching your pitcher will look 
 fantastic while the batter your pitching to you looks look poo. My only complaints is it takes 
 along time to get used to, and the computer is an amazing feilder, no errors and alot of dives. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BBallMan87
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  I am a genuine baseball fan, and I love playing baseball games during the season. I have bought 
 MVP every year since it came out, and I was really disappointed to hear that 2k bought the rights 
 to making baseball games, but I was ready to make the transisition and play MLB 2k6 just because 
 I wanted a baseball game. Before spending the 60 bucks I rented it first and I am glad that I did. 
 The gameplay is pathetic, the only cool part of the gameplay is the hitting, but even that could 
 use some work. Baserunning is horrid, the special pitching rating boosts allows someone like Matt 
 Morris, a finesse pitcher that throws in the high 80's low 90's, throw 100 mph, the animations 
 of the fielding allow way too many infield hits, the soundtrack is weak and the music is garbage, 
 and turbo doesn't belong in baseball. I read another review on here talking about how MVP fans 
 will be complaining about how it will be too hard to hit homeruns with the new swing system when 
 quite contrarily I found it too easy with the swing stick. In my second game ever playing I won 
 18 to 1 on the default difficulty level with my 6, 7, and 8 hitters combining for 5 homeruns, not 
 to mention I was playing in PetCo park, possibly the best pitcher's park in the bigs. Oh yeah, 
 and I wasn't playing with the Yankess I was the Giants, so Lance Niekro, Pedro Feliz, and Mike 
 Matheny all homered, Feliz and Niekro twice. Anyways, I want to warn all of you MVP fans that if 
 you think this game will satisfy you for a new baseball game, just keep hoping that MVP 05 continues 
 making roster updates because this game doesn't hold a candle to MVP, and all of you 2k6 fans I 
 bet you could buy MVP 05 for like 10 bucks now, and I honestly think you would be better off because 
 I feel bad that you guys have gotten used to mediocre baseball games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullnbones1164
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  The game is definitly fun and worth playing ecspecially for the baseball fans and the sports fans 
 alike. The graffix are good but could of been better during the cut scenes. Some of the controls 
 feel wonky , like diving for the ball and the enormous amount of pass balls on what you think was 
 a perfect pitch. But that doesn't make the game any less fun to play. The only downside of the 
 game is the freezing. I have 4 losses online all due to frozen screens. But i have noticed it plays 
 a little better with the system verticaly. Now go get you some playa... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miron9
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  this game is simply amazing..... until you hit the second inning and it freezes. the game play 
 is completely life like, i had mvp 05 and it was fun but it felt more like an arcade type of baseball. 
 mlb 2k6 does everything right in making this game a really good realistic simulation baseball experience 
 but doesnt let you play a full game. the swing stick is tough to get used to but adds the difficulties 
 associated with real life batting, i play ball competitively and just about made the little league 
 world series, so i know wat im talkin about. the pitchin view makes it look like your watchin a 
 game and the commentating is outstandin, i have never heard commentating like this. all in all 
 it is a great game that doesnt let you enjoy it as it wont let you play through a full game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johida2k5
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  I admit it's a little frustrating at first with so many control options, but after a while it's 
 fun and challenging. The gameplay is good and the graphics are ok. I thought the graphics would 
 be better for a next gen game but they are good enough. What really has my attention is how much 
 you have to focus while you're up at bat - just like the real thing. You have to focus on your 
 timing step as well as timing the swing. Also you can try and guess where the pitch is going and 
 use the left stick to try to locate the pitch.
  
  Pitching - I think were the ball will break is a good thing. You see a lot of movement on some 
 pitches. Holding down the button for faster speeds or not holding down for slower speeds can throw 
 batters off on their timing.
  
  For those frustrated when first playing the game just hold on and learn it first and it will become 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogman666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Its an ok game theres room for improvement but is still fun to play but dont be fooled by the pics 
 you see on this site because you dont ever get to see those textures evan in replay if you still 
 play the xbox or ps2 you may want to compare to which is best for you because graphicly they are 
 pretty close I've seen the show on ps2 did not play it but it looked good havent seen anything 
 on the normal xbox yet so really its up to you to spend 40 or 60 dollars so buy any and cook some 
 hotdogs and play ball 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GravyFlow
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  This game seems rather unaccessible at the start with some confusing controls and features. If 
 you play this game for around of the hour you can understand it. But it is pretty much the anti-pickup 
 and play game. Decent online and a very fun frannchise can make this a worthy game if you decide 
 to put your time into it. You probably shouldn't rent this one, because it takes a while to get 
 used to. A few other gaffes: Some players overall ratings are way too high (Russ Ortiz, 86 overall? 
 Yeah right) , Some animations are pretty crummy, and the default itching view is tough to use. Just 
 play for a while and you will get it. This is a worthy game of any baseball fan. Not a good transition 
 from MVP 05 if you played that game avidly, like most baseball fans did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: po22sick
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by stating that I thoroughly enjoyed EA's MVP last year. It had me stuck to a 
 TV set for months. We all expect the "perfect game" when it comes to next-gen and especially 2K 
 Sports. The truth is, that we are extremely demanding... and rightfully so as we pay heafty prices 
 for these games nowadays.
  
  Having said that, MLB 2K6 is still an extremely entertaining, fun, deep, challenging and well presented 
 baseball game. It has all the fundamentals necessary for 2K6 to build an amazing game once the 
 360 baseball initiation/growing pains phase is over before their next installment.
  
  The graphics, sound, presentation, Inside Edge and gameplay (folks, you have to get used to it 
 - don't give up on it - I found myself enjoying it more than MVP after just a few games) really 
 inmerses you into the world of baseball like no other game. The GM and Franchise modes have everything 
 you would ever be willing to spend time off the field for in a game.
  
  All in all, it is a step forward, more enjoyable than any of last years games on any console and 
 will still have me deeply in trance when playing it. I hope this helps those who are on the fence 
 about the game: get used to it, spend some time with it before judging. Also, I couldn't post this 
 review without mentioning what a shame it is to have the game's overall reader score pulled down 
 by biased, childish, subjective and extremely annoying reviewers... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattman688
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  First impression of the game:
  Graphics are decent, really excited to play the game. Popped it open, played a game was decently 
 satisfied. I would of rated it 8.5
  After the first game review:
  Now that I am trying to play another game it freezes in every game attempt, sometimes in the 1st 
 inning and sometimes in the 8th innning. And everywhere inbetween. This game is really frustrating. 
 I had really awesome stats going on for my players then the game freezes losing all stats!!!! This 
 game is a joke, i hope they create a patch or give me my money back!!!! 
  
  ---RIP --- MVP Baseball 
::::::

::::::
UserName: espme
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  First of all, i owned both 2k and ea's games last year, and while mvp was fun, the hitting in MLB 
 was far better. I can't believe how simple and unskilled the hitting was in mvp for so many of these 
 losers to try to ruin 2k's rep by writing all these negative reviews. The fact of the matter is 
 that this year the hitting is even harder, so watch all the crybabies come out of the woodwork because 
 they can't hit 80 home runs a year. 
  I also would like to note the vastly underated VIP system that 2k sports employ, allowing you to 
 play against your friends even when their nagging wives make them go home. This alone should make 
 the wittle ea funboys forget about their fantasies of spendind a magical weekend with their dreamboy 
 john madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpella44
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  After having played a handful of exhibition games to get a feel for the game & a strong sense of 
 how to play, one word sticks out "mediocrity". This game is not bad, but very dissapointing.
  
  The graphics look just like any current generation console baseball game, there is little improvement 
 that I can see. This is what really got to me, the fact that they delayed the release to late April 
 and still could not put out a product that is even a step in the right direction towards "better 
 graphics". ironic, when that is the 1st feature listed on the cover box.
  
  The gameplay is okay, it just takes some getting used to, so you may want to play a few games and 
 learn the controls before you judge this game.
  
  The commentary is nice, a roster update is available (although after saving it and loading it, 
 I could never get it to show up when I would check the rosters...) 
  
  Anywho, this game is w/o question average, but, if you are a MLB fan, you don't really have too 
 much of a choice this season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: round2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  is it worth 60 bux? Not really, alot of things to fix up in this game. Graphics are pretty nice, 
 gameplay a lil slooooow, must improve the baserunning and batting. Need to put in a tuturiol in 
 the game, i've been playing MLB games for years but i cannot figure out how to swing RIGHT. I must 
 say, ya'll should play it though, its really fun to play. Small details like wall climbing catches, 
 runners smashing the catcher, Managers arguing over bad calls etc. It is a good game, but not the 
 best. That is my review, i must play it now again, because im bored. Good bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  Well, let me first setart off saying that the game could have been better, but this by no means 
 means that is a bad game. Some people are kind of blowing it out of proportion.
  
  Some have said that this does not look like an Xbox 360 game, I would have to disagree. The stadiums 
 look great. The players also are pretty cool to look at. When I say the players, I mean there body 
 structure. You can tell who is who by the way their body structure looks. This is cool I think. 
 However, you will notice that when you look at there faces, this is where the game falls flat on 
 its face. You wont notice anyone just by looking at there faces. But if you loook at there body 
 figure, you will be amazed at how close it is to the real people. Except overweight people, they 
 make them look skinny in this game for some reason, but I guess that is good for them, lol. But 
 overall, body structures are very impressive. 
  
  Also, collisions and the shirts rippling in the wind are very cool. Great physics engine.
  
 
  The base running, and fielding with your outfielders does take some getting use to. So does the 
 swing stick, but it is all pretty fun once you get used to it. I understand why people dont like 
 how the baserunning is in this game, but I dont think it is that bvad. It isa the same as ijn 2k5, 
 they could have changed it, but o well. As for the player movements feeling kind of sluggish, I 
 also dont think it is that bad. it is just different. Once you are used to i, you get pretty good 
 at it. It is a trial and error game. 
  
  The mind games that you play between and pitcher and a batter matupos are very cool. Very strategic 
 baseball game. It is a lkot like 2k5, which I am glad that they did not change at all. I love that 
 kind of game style. 
  
  The modes and features on this game are plentiful. I like the online leagues, those are very creative. 
 You can trade players on those, a very nice touch in my opinion. 
  
  
  
  This being your only MLB baseball choice, unbtil Midway's game, whiich I doubt will be any good, 
 it would be a solid pickup. If you are an xtreme major leaugue baseball fan, and you need a MLB 
 game, do not be afraid to give this one a shot. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDL54876
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I am an MVP fan, and of course i was crushed when they stopped making MVP baseball, but I easily 
 got used to MLB: The Show which was just as good, fun, and enjoyable. First up, I figured that 
 the graphics had to be better than MLB: The Show for PS2 (which had nice graphics) , well, I was 
 wrong. The graphics totally lack in detail, everything is too shiny and geometric and 3D, and the 
 image of the players looks distorted. The graphics of the players dont look real at all, as i said, 
 they are all very shiny and glossy looking, and the body shapes look too circular and geometric. 
 Even the fields look unrealistic. The camera angles are terrible, they never seem to zoom in at 
 the right time in the outfield, and when the ball is hit to the infield they zoom in too much, 
 and at times all you can see is your player in which you are controlling. 
  Those are just the graphics though, the game-play isn't a joy to use either. Fielding is sluggish 
 and slow, and the throw animations are terrible. I dont really like pitching either, unlike MLB: 
 The Show and MVP Baseball instead of the pitch meter they have a new animation for pitches which 
 is terrible. The batting is ok, it takes a little bit to get used to, but it's nothing special. 
 
  Overall, it seems the only good thing about the game is the commentating which is ok. The game 
 hasnt froze yet, which seems to be a problem with some people, but then again, I only played 2 
 games. I couldnt stand playing it anymore. I dont have anything against the game, but it is very 
 disappointing that this is what they call next-gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ez054098
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I love my 360. I really do, but these types of games will kill it! The animations are ugly, the 
 graphics are ugly and the frame rate sucks. How can you put out a game like NBA 2K6 and then turn 
 around and poop this onto the 360?? I really hate this exclusivity stuff we have with sports games. 
 I would like to see what EA could have come up with. Does this game seem dark and muddy to anyone 
 else? When I see the players through the ball, I can't even say they throw like girls. It is much, 
 much worse. It is like they skip a couple of frames of animation and all of a sudden the ball is 
 in the air. I agree with matthewleggee, I will continue to play my MLB 06 for the PSP and sell 
 this turd back! I say for next year pull 2K7 pants down and shoot it in the ass with a Barry Bonds 
 Balco cocktail! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I've played MLB 06 and MLB 2k6, but out of the two I definetly like this one better. They do however 
 need to get a new coverman instead of kissing Jeter's ass.
  The presentation is pretty good. The announcers remember stuff, and it's almost like they have new 
 stuff to say all the time.
  The graphics are insanely good just like Barry Bonds on roids. I couldn't help myself. The catcher 
 actually moves to get the ball, and the players have countless movements except in the cutscenes. There 
 are still some bugs in the graphics like when you hit a foul ball, but they don't bring the game 
 down any.
  The gameplay, can be hard at first if you don't mess with the settings. I personally can't pitch 
 with the pitcher camera on. The swinger stick seems too dangerous, so I didn't even risk trying 
 that.
  The soundtrack is surprisingly good considering that the 2k series has always been known for using 
 no name artist.
  While there's no career mode like in The Show, this game still brings the heat. If you're to pick 
 a baseball game this season, I'd say go with this one. In the end, it all comes down to your preference. Rent 
 them both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewleggee
Rating: 3.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Alot of great ideas but an even more amount of just bad baseball, even though its the only baseball 
 game that is on the 360 this year mlb 2k6 seems to completely fall short of whatever it was they 
 were attempting to do . Within the game lies so much pontential but the glitchy fielding the uncomfortable 
 batting and the horrible gameplay are just a few of the things that makes this game just plain 
 not fun. I don't know about you but id rather dig up mvp05 or even mlb2k5 then play this garbage. 
 Thanks 2k sports But ill go ruin my eyes by looking at my small psp screen playing the show if 
 i want a baseball game with an updated roster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redog156
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is in short, disappointing. There are some good things about it
  like the new pirthing interface and camera angle, Some of the pick-off interfaces are cool too. 
 In addition to this the hitting is passable with the new swing stick and the commentary is fantastic. 
 Unfortunately the bad outweigh the good here due to extremley unintuitive base running and slow 
 unresponsive fielding which leads to an overall frustrating experience.
  The base running could have been easily remedied if the default control would automatically be 
 given to the lead baserunner, instead you control the guy going to first initially and have to 
 then switch to the runner you want. Simple thing like this ruin this game and they are ever-present 
 throughout. It almost seems like no one played the game before they released it. The fielding is 
 bad all the way around its unresponsive and just lacks that smooth.. polished feeling that anyone 
 whose played MVP or MLB '06 baseball are used to. The graphics while OK are far from on par for 
 a next-gen title and could have easily been on XBOX. In fact the higher resolution of HDTV's only 
 make the graphical shortcommings stand out more.
  The animations are bad too. The throws look unnatural and make the game look unrealistic along 
 with the shotty fielding animations create a overall bad experience. The developers also failed 
 to pay attention to detail as some right handed hitter hit left , the wrong faces are matched to 
 players and some of the pitchers are missing pitchers, for example Chien-ming Wang has no sinker 
 ball. Im the end 2K and Kush got the fielding and baserunning wrong and thats half the game, couple 
 that with bad graphics and you have'nt got much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhrnw
Rating: 4.6
Date: Apr 13, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't wait till this game came out. I was marking my calendar and everything, but now that 
 I have it I am shocked. I can't believe that they would put out such a mediocre game on 360. Especially 
 when it's the only baseball game available. Maybe 2k should have kept the old deadline of the 24th 
 and fix this game. The graphics suck. I have a HDTV and you can see where they tried to make it 
 look good, but overall it is crap. The players don't really look anything like in real life. MVP 
 Baseball is so much better then this game it's a joke. Last years MVP for Xbox has better graphics. 
 Why couldn't MVP have gotten the license? All 2k Sports did was run it into the ground. I will 
 never buy another 2k sports game. I'd say that this game is worth renting, but keep your 63 bucks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loogs
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 17, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I dont really know how things like this happen. You have an oppurtunity do do something great and 
 you dont come through. Dont get me wrong this game is not terrible, i guess im just dissapointed. First 
 thing you should know is that im a huge baseball fan so the little things that ill talk about may 
 drive me crazy but for the average person it may not bother them.
  
  The graphocs yes are good. They are sharp and clean. The problem is that none of the players lokk 
 real. I shouldnt say none, a couple do look like the real players but not nearly enough. How is it 
 that 2k sports does not utilize the power of the XBOX 360 to its fullest here. THe bodys of the 
 players are way off. Example (David Ortiz) he looks like hes 187 pounds. Whats up with that? The batting 
 stances are terrible. They dont look realistic. How do you mess that up? The pitching animation is 
 way too slow and the ball does not travel to the plate fast enough. The swing animation is stupid. All 
 batters that make contact..... you know what how about this there is a saying thats very well know 
 that goes like this."keep your eye on the ball". When these guys swing it looks like theyre going 
 to twist right into the ground. Very bad. Now onto the worst part, the throwing animation will drive 
 anyone that can see crazy. The problem is the realease point. They set the release point too late 
 so it looks like the guy is pushing the ball not throwing it. How the hell do these guys sit around 
 while they are making this game and say, yeah that looks right. Heres another example. The secondbaseman 
 fields the ball and is staring straight at home plate. The throw goes to first base, he motions like 
 hes throwing the ball to home, but its going to first so the ball makes a wicked left turn across 
 his body and goes to first. Terrible, thats something that should only happen to game produced by 
 a crappy company not a big name company like 2k sports. They didnt pay attention. The only thing 
 i can think of is that these guys are not true baseball fans. Theyre just making games. Thats not 
 fair to us. They need to get advice from people like us the real fans that are going to point out 
 the little things that are wrong. Yes you can make a perfect game if you try hard enough. Any way 
 im sure i left out some stuff but if you play the game youll find things you dont like yourself.
 
  
  Now, not everything is bad. How about the fact that this is the first game ever to announce the 
 full name of your created player. I created myself, both my first and last name were on their name 
 list, and when i came up to bat the pa announcer said my fuul name. The game commentators called 
 me by my last name which happens in real games so i was cool with that. The batting is cool to do 
 with the swing stick but it takes time to get used to. The pitching is cool too. Next year if they 
 fix the animation problems this could be the best pitching interface ever. The inside edge almost 
 makes this game worth the price alone. Ive always said that the catcher in a video game should be 
 calling the game. The announcers are good. Just a little slow and sometimes repetetive. The stadiums 
 look sick. The grass doesnt look real though because the hd quality makes it look shiny. The online 
 stuff and vip profile dont do anything for me. But one of the coolest things in the game is the 
 custom music. You can set walkup music for any player, any song from your ipod or wherever can be 
 used solo homers 2 run homers strike outs end if inning anything can be customizes, now thats awesome.
 
  
  I guess the bottomline on this game is make your own decision. dont go into this game with high 
 hopes only realize that next year has a lot of potential.
  
  by the way i had alot of spelling errors but i didnt feel like changing them
  
  MISTAKE......... i 
 thought stadium beats would allow you to create your own music like football by 2k sports did, but 
 you cant so i made a mistake about that. i also didnt realize there was a slider to adjust the perceived 
 speed of the ball, it makes a big difference. also if you dont have any other system besides a 360 
 and youre a die hard baseball fan you have to play this game this season, you have no other choice 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRBottom
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  2K Sports announces exclusive third party rights to the MLB and MLBPA licenses, a sort of counter 
 to EA and the NFL deal. Baseball gamers anticipate the first, and only, baseball game on the 360. 
 MLB 2K6 is released, and it's superb.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  This is the best baseball game I've played to date. The sliders are what makes it so playable. 
 I felt the outfielders had too strong of an arm, so I lowered their slider, problem solved.
  
  I love the camera angle for pitching, and the pitching interface is great. Batting takes a 
 while to get used to, and in fact, I just don't like the new step and swing method they went with, 
 so I just went back to classic, which is perfect.
  
  You'll find the usual 2K game modes, Quick Game, Season, Franchise, HR Derby, and GM Career. Not 
 must has changed in these modes as far as I can tell, except the nifty trade finder, which allows 
 you to set a criterea, and then it finds players based on what you want, and offers you trades.
 
  
  What makes up for the lack of ESPN is Inside Edge. Inside Edge is quite possibly the most innovative 
 addition 2K made. Without going into extreme detail, you purchase scouting reports on players and 
 during a game, your Catcher will give you pitches to throw and where to throw them, and while batting, 
 the HUD will show you all sorts of information on what the pitcher usually throws, where he throws 
 it, and how often he does it.
  
  Another nifty addition is rain delays and rainouts. I've already had a game pushed into a doubleheader 
 due to rain, and another delayed to later in the night.
  
  Graphics - 9
  It isn't the best looking 360 game, GRAW outdoes it. However, it looks great. The animations and 
 collision detection (physics) are very well done and the best seen in a baseball game to date. 
 Overall, these graphics are above average to what I expected. The player models are very well done, 
 with dirt appearing on the uniforms when a player slides, etc.
  
  Sound - 8
  After hearing all the great ESPN music last year, it's tough to match. The sound here isn't the 
 greatest, but the commentators are still good, and the crowd reacts accurately.
  
  Value - 10
  Tons of game modes including the new World Baseball Classic for those interested, 
 I really haven't gone into it. Online play is what you expect, fun baseball with a few poor sports. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tooterbutt66
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2k6 for the 360 is great the graphics ar a few levels up from the xbox version and the game 
 play is a little better.
  The gameplay is great, the pitching and batting are supperb while the fielding is a little sluggish, 
 you may change a few settings to make it more comftable. 
  The presentation is pretty good but not as good as last year, but still good.
  The online is 
 a little boring since there arent any cutaways or replays.
  The game last year was probably more fun to play online, while this year is fun to play offline.
 
  The graphics do hikup here and there but, you should be good if you not in need of a picture perfect 
 baseball game.
  
  The final is to buy this game, dont expect to want to play much online, but the offline is suprizingley 
 fun. all the little features do give the game in my book a tie to last years game, for the best 
 baseball game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrayb17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  this is an awesome game... so much better then MVP...
  And yes i have all the MVP's, but this is just amazing...
  takes a bit to get use to, but its 
 an awesome game...
  
  i only have one problem with the entire game, everytime i make it to about the second inning in 
 any game i play, it freezes, so i only get to play 2 innings which is quite funny, because it doesnt 
 freeze anywhere else in the game but the second inning...
  
  other then its amazing...
  the best part is probably the inside edge...
  its really helpful for those 2 innings that i get 
 to play, haha...
  but i can see it as being an awesome addition to liven the game up to make it realistic... although 
 its already realistic enough... now if they can make the players look real, like photorealistic... 
 lol, but yea thats not til xbox 1080, or whatever it is going to be...
  
  lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toliver01eb
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is great f what your heard, The same folks who bought madden every year when all it has 
 is upgraded rosters are the one complaining but yet you bought that BS . For the folks who think 
 the game is suffering on graphics get a new tv, It's the year 2006 get a HDTV. Sure it's not perfect 
 but what sport game is??? infact what game is??? I love the game and the folks who don't support 
 it your only hurting yourself. Do the math No sales + no 2k = EA Forever. I could see if the game 
 was really bad then hell yeah keep that 62.99 but come on be realistic the game is good. For the 
 folks suffering from the freezing, sit tight the problem will be fixed soon. You all bought Oblivion 
 even thought it had issues. Anyone who is thinking about getting it don't wait any longer it does 
 not deserve anything less than a 9. If you bought fight night even though it's missing most of 
 the great boxers than you can deal with any flaws you may run into with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigjames11
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Coming out of the box I had high hopes for what this could have been and what it still might be. 
 Unfortunately I, like many others, have found that unless you want to continue to play home run 
 derby's all day long, the game is almost useless. After getting through one full game, my freezing 
 issue started. That being said, from what I've seen of it so far I really liked. I hope they get 
 it fixed because this game looks to have a lot of potential. The graphics and sound are very solid 
 and lifelike, but like I said, I can't see them for more than a few innings. If your a gambler, 
 I would say to definitly try this game, however don't be surprised if it freezes up on you too. 
 Come on 2kGames!! Pull through with a fix! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is very well done. I am impressed. The hitting with the thumbstick seems very natural 
 and was easy to pick up and understand. Graphics are very good in HDTV, watching the time of day 
 go by really added to the atmosphere of the game.
  
  My only gripe is that it doesn't have a batters cage option so you just practice hitting. I have 
 not had any problem at all with freeze ups, none at all. Anybody that does has system problems.
 
  
  This is not a gripe but I can' t imagine the value of going online with this type of game since 
 you know people quit before you ever finish it. So I won't be using it in that way.
  
  Haven't tried absolutely everything yet but have no regrets buying this.
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwest213
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  There are a lot of flaws for this years installment of MLB 2K6. BUT ! This game is very addictive, 
 that is if you are a hardcore baseball fan. 
  
  Learning Curve: This game took me about an hour to figure out. There are no videos or tutorials 
 to help you learn the new pure swing mechanism or the pitching. Relatively all sports games have 
 tutorials for there new features that they input into the game, not this one. Once you get the 
 hang of the game thats where the real problem starts to unravel. 
  
  Graphics: They almost did a good job , key wordALMOST ". I see where they were going with the 
 game , they jus forgot to get there. The game seem as if they rushed it out without taking into 
 consideration that they had 1.) delay of shipping out the game on time and 2.) the most important 
 thing of all .. they have all the licenses for baseball games, which means they shouldnt have any 
 pressure with competition , because there is none. For what it is, MLB 2k6 is a pretty good looking 
 game. The fans can use a little bit more of a touch up but so far it'll do. A lot of the graphics 
 on this so-called nex gen game isn't really that much different then current gen titles and most 
 of the time you won't really notice that you're playing 360. The stadiums look pretty polished 
 but not really. The frame rate is still pretty choppy. The player models are somewhat realistic 
 but they could use a little bit more polishing but it still looks pretty good.
  
  Sounds: The audio in this game is pretty realistic and it stands out as one of the best audios 
 i've heard in a sports game. What stands out the most is the commentary for this game. They do 
 an awesome job of bringing you the game as if it was live on TV with complete statistics of players 
 its almost like you're watchin a game on ESPN. GOOD JOB !
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is pretty simple, that is if you turn off a lot of the new features that 
 they put into the game. Batting is easy , all you're doing is pulling the right analog back an 
 releasing it. Pitching is a lot like MVP, not the interface but the mechanics of it. You're looking 
 at the batter from the pitchers point of view. To throw the ball you must press which ever pitch 
 you're trying to throw , hold down the button which corresponds with the pitch and you will see 
 a yellow sphere around the ball. Now what you want to do is hold it down untill it vibrates , let 
 go an press that same button again and try to time it so when the yellow sphere starts to close 
 AND if you timed it right , it'll close and stop right in the middle. If not the you got a wild 
 pitch and a fraustrated pitcher.
  
  Well thats my report .. i gotta get back to playing MBL 2k6 ... SO BOTTOM LINE .. IF YOU'RE A BASEBALL 
 FAN .. AN YOU'VE BEEN JONESIN FOR A DECENT BASEBALL GAME GO OUT AN GET IT. AN FOR THOSE WHO HAVE 
 NO IDEA WHAT THEY ARE TALKING ABOUT .. PLEASE DONT HURT YOURSELF AND OTHERS MY THINKGING OUT LOUD... 
 PLEASE AND THANK YOU 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peanut51594
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Mechanics take a bit to get used to, but are great when put into play. The new features and total 
 bat control are great. But like I said expect a little time getting used to the game mechanics.
 
  
  I'm not to sure what's up with the freezing issue others seem to be having, but I'ved played the 
 game in 4 session through 13 games on my season and haven't had any problems. 
  
  I'll admit the graphics could be polished up a little more along with some of the animations, all 
 in all though I'm very happy with it. It's fun great gameplay, and when it boils down to it thats 
 all that should matter. Just wish my outfielders would stop running into each other lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebas0
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Mlb 2k6 is a pretty good game with well its just good. Out of the mlb 2k series this has to be 
 the best. I dont like the other peeps say it sucks but it doesn't thats there opinion and i respect 
 because all of us are different but back on topic mlb 2k6has the great features from before and 
 the morale system of today which gives this game a better sense of feeling and realism. Mlb 2k6 
 got me back into baseball and now i cant stop playing. this game has terrific gameplay , more extras, 
 some nice sound and an awesome franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rzayas
Rating: 4.2
Date: Apr 12, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Here we go, year one of the exclusive license deal between MLB and 2K Sports. The first thing you 
 will notice is that the graphics are bad, not next-gen at all. If you look at the back of the game 
 case you will see that 2K Games included some spectacular looking pre-rendered pictures of MLB 
 players, my friends, the game does not look like that at all... not even in HD (720p) . Well now 
 that we are past the fraudulent misrepresentation that are the "in-game" case pictures, let's talk 
 about the fact that the game freezes. Not every now and then, but if you own a Hard Drive, it freezes 
 a lot... don't believe me? Go ahead visit the game forums, your choice, Gamespot or 2K Games. You 
 will find that 80% of the posts are from owners of either Premium systems or Core systems with 
 hard drives, all of them asking the same question, "what do I need to do to get past the second 
 inning?" More sadly I just learned that NHL 2K6 (a launch title) have the same problem, and was 
 never fixed by 2K games. How about gameplay, sound, etc? Well, so far it seems to be at least "serviceable", 
 hard to tell since is quite hard to get past the second inning. Do not read this as a review but 
 as a warning. One thing is to sell a bad game, another is to sell a bad broken game. There are 
 better ways to burn $60. I leave you with one last question. Do I get achievement points for getting 
 past the second inning? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crossefire00
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  MLB 2K6 is nowhere near as good as I thought it was going to be. Apparently, 2K sports has taken 
 a page out of EA's playbook and are now more about hype than quality. The animations in this game 
 are aweful. Fielders appear to be waving at the ball instead of reaching naturally for it. The 
 throws look poor at best. Throwing back across your body is so poorly animated that we laugh every 
 time it happens in a game. While the swing stick addition is nice as well as the new pitcher interface, 
 they do little to make up for the glaring issues with the game. I have attempted to create and 
 play a season 3 times so far. Each time the game froze during the first half inning of the first 
 game of the season forcing me to reboot my XBOX 360. No, I don't have any heat issues and other 
 games are working fine. (accept for NHL 2K6 of course) The graphics, as everyone else has already 
 stated, are beyond sub-par. This game feels rushed and there is no excuse for that given that they 
 are the only third party manufacturer using the MLB license this year. C'mon 2K Sports, get your 
 act together or lose the loyal fans that have supported you since the Dreamcast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lipsander
Rating: 2.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  This is only my opinion, so take it at that. I spent my $60 with an open mind. Soon after booting 
 up the disc, I felt robbed. The graphics are lacking for an Xbox 360 game, with jaggies, I think 
 that's what they are called, all over the place when playing. Which has to do with the frame rate. 
 Also, the players do not look anything like themselves, which Nba 2K6 they did. The screens that 
 would pop up after strikeouts and homeruns and such looked a bit blurry. Like when you have a picture 
 that is too pixelated, that was also bad. With my 50" Sony 3 Lcd Hdtv, I expect a great picture 
 game from the Xbox 360. Didn't happen. So I thought, if the graphics are bad, I can live with it 
 if the game play is good. Ehhhhh, wrong again. The game play is horrible. I do not like the hit 
 stick, where you have to pull back the right thumbstick and release to hit a pitch. I know you 
 can change that, but still, its not a good feature. The players seem to pause a split second before 
 they want to move for you in the playing field, not good. And here's the straw that broke the camels 
 back. When I tried to get online and play someone, it would say logging in to server or something 
 close to that. Then it would say that it didn't find a VIP profile and needs to create one, no 
 problem. I would then click the "OK" buttone and that would cause my Xbox 360 to freeze. I did 
 it over and over and over. I thought, is my 360 overheating? I put a few other games, jumped online 
 and played over 10 minutes on each. Today, this game goes on Ebay. I'm not telling you what to 
 do, so make a good to decision on whether to buy this or not. Like I said, I went into this with 
 an open mind and got burnt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master-Of-HALO
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  I got through on to the operator and they said to take off the hard drive and play one full game 
 under the play now option. After that they told me to put my hard drive back on my 360 with the 
 system still on, once the hard drive is snapped back in the system shoud restart and now it should 
 fix the freezing problem. It is not the disk folks so dont return it. If the method i provided 
 does not work then call the number on the manual. The game is actually pretty fun, needs some works 
 on the player animation department. Also for some reason the folds in the clothing make some of 
 the players look like they have bear bellies :D. I will miss mvp baseball though because I feel 
 it was one game that EA really did rather well on, just as ill miss the 2k series in football. 
 Oh wat curveballs life throws at ya huh? 
  
  Its baseball at its best though. Buy it if you love baseball thats all i gotta say, but if you 
 dont you might better wait and rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  First off, I would like to say, I don't know how anybody could rate this under a 7. I can see putting 
 it under a 9 and even an 8, but under 7? That's ridiculous. Sure the game has its problems but 
 it's a fun, solid game.
  
  Graphics: I will say I was hoping for a bit more polish after seeing those amazing screen shots. 
 Well, the game looks good but it's not the screen shot quality that they were showing before the 
 games release. I do love the blur effects however and it really focuses you in on the player or 
 players (the best is when it shows the batter on deck and the blur effect is all around him, very 
 nice touch) . The players faces could be a bit better and there are little blips here and there 
 around their bodies (white lines and stuff like that) but that doesn't detract too much. The crowd 
 is decent enough and I love watching them go for foul balls. That is such a cool thing! The other 
 guys that don't get it actually get mad and react. It's something that more games need to do (add 
 crowd actions) . I mean, you even get to see people walking in the isles and you can also see vendors! 
 That's spiffy! The stadiums are nice as well and overall graphics are nice.
  
  Gameplay: My one gripe about the gameplay is that certain motions seem last gen. For example; when 
 you dive, somtimes it doesn't do it right away and then your player does this laggy dive. It might 
 just be me not having the handle on the button scheme yet but it seems to happen quite a bit. Other 
 than that, the gameplay is very tight! The new swing stick is awesome! I couldn't ask for a cooler 
 way to hit! Also, the pitching is awesome! It really makes you take a look at what you are doing 
 and make sure you are selecting the right pitches. Everything is done very nicely except for the 
 few animations that look last gen but that's not enough to detract much.
  
  Audio: The audio is perfect! When I ripped a line drive with Tejada I heard a fan yell something 
 like, Great hit Tejada! when my next batter was coming to the plate. It's little things like those 
 that put a game over the top audio wise. The Commentaters are awesome! I think they are the best 
 I have heard in a sports game period! I love listening to those two in real life as well so it's 
 a nice treat to have them in the game.
  
  Overall: Solid game. It does have its flaws (what game doesn't?) but is still a very good baseball 
 game. I feel like it's one of the best for sure that I have played. If you don't have a regular 
 xbox (and that MLB 2K6 version) I would definitely pick this up. It's worth it.
  
  Edit: This game turned into something I despised! Too many bugs to make this game fun to play. 
 I actually started hating it more and more as time went on... Pure junk! MLB 2K7 is sick though. 
 Get that one for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdizzleosizzle
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  the game freezes every time i try to play. you will not be able to get past the 3rd inning. so 
 have fun wasting 60 bucks. don't listen to anyone on here who tells you this is a good game, they 
 are **** by far the worst game ever released for the 360. all i really can say is DO NOT BUY THIS 
 GAME. go out and buy MLB the show if you want a baseball game for this year. don't waste your money 
 on this piece of crap. because no matter what anyone else tells you thats what this game is, a 
 big smelly piece of dog crap which i could have done a better job on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mculberson1973
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  I sure do hate it when companies get exclusive rights, because they do get lazy. And this is certainly 
 the case with MLB 2K6 for the 360. But despite this fact, it isn't a bad game, and once you get 
 the hang of it the game isn't that bad.
  
  Animations are weak, and some of the things the players do in the game are downright stupid, but 
 it doesn't happen enough to take away from the total game experience. In the long run, the ending 
 scores and stats end up realistic so I guess that's all that really matters.
  
  The stadiums look nice, but not what I expected with the 360's capabilities. Some of the players 
 look great, but for the most part they look like last year's versions (in the face that is) .
  
  There are plenty of modes to make any baseball fan happy, and the game sims pretty well.
 
  
  I think most people were hoping to be wowed with the 360 version and that just hasn't happened. 
 It's not a bad game though, and if you love baseball you'll learn to love it. I just wish it wasn't 
 such a love hate relationship.
  
  If you don't love baseball, or don't have patience, or expect every game to be perfect, then don't 
 even bother with this game. But if you love baseball and are willing to look past all the fault 
 of this game, I would defintely recommend giving it a try.
  
  If my review was as simple as a thumbs up or a thumbs down, I would have to give it a thumbs down 
 just because there's too much wrong, and there were too many things missed for it to be a highly 
 recommened game. But it's not bad. Hopefully they'll get it right with the next version.
  
  I know one thing for sure, I'm never trusting early screenshots of a game again. Can we say, false 
 advertising? At some point, this practice has to stop, and developers should stop releasing screenshots 
 of what they'd like the game to look like, as opposed to what it actually does look like. Anyway, 
 that's just a side note.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPuerta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  I have played just about every MLB for every system in the past and I was looking forward to MLB 
 2k6 for the 360 and I was not disapointed in the least. Now the game is not perfect but iots not 
 as bad as some of the reviews that I have read. Graphics are crisp and clear, not everything can 
 be perfect. One review stated that the Tigers stadium is based on 2 years ago, in my opinion who 
 cares!!!!. I have also read that people don't like the new swing method, It is hard to learn but 
 after practice, you will learn how to use it. I used the home run derby to get used to swinging 
 with the stick and after about 45 miniutes I got the hang of it. Now when I got into a game I still 
 had problems but instead of crying, I kept on practicing. In my opinion when something new comes 
 out and if someone can't get into a game and hit home run after home run then they seem to give 
 it a bad review. Over all I enjoy the game and I find the new addition fresh and challenging. Graphics 
 may be a little below par when it comes to some games for the 360 but I am not that hung up on 
 graphics to take away the fun of a game. If you are a fan of baseball I would recomend this game, 
 just keep in mind that it may take a little practice and paitence you get used to the batting mode. 
 BTW I thought that losing the ESPN package would effect the game but the same announcers are there 
 and I can honestly say ESPN who? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 3, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I like to start off right off the back and say, that I hate excusive rights to a sport games! 
 EA started this nonsense and now 2K Sports is now in on it. It hurt the sport gaming industry, 
 and it hurt us gamers! Its just bad business.
  Now with that said, to the game. 2K Sports had to know they needed to hit a home run with this 
 game. They took, what I thought was the better baseball game last year by EA and shelved it, so 
 they had better come out firing.
  First of the Presentation, unlike the Xbox and Playstation game is amazing! The voiceovers are 
 all well done, and timely, there are a lot of them also. Seem to have the whole Baseball Tonight 
 crew in it. There is a lot of cool overlays, and graphics, there is a lot to see. The replays are 
 well done, and seamless.
  The Graphics in the game are very well done, but not revolutionary. The faces, of the Superstars 
 look well done, but the rest are very generic and plan. The animations are also very well done, 
 but at times seem to face the wrong way, and do odd moves. A ball hit to the shortstop, then he 
 tosses it to first, I swear it looks like he is facing the pitcher not the first baseman. There 
 are a lot of little thing like, you can see the breath of players on a cold day. The Outfielders 
 bouncing off the wall if he hits it too hard and I love the mannerisms of the players as they ready 
 themselves. There are tons of things to love here.
  The sound, again, are very well done, The Baseball Tonight crew does a great job of following the 
 game. The fans, music and stadium announcer are all there, and are well done.
  The most important part of a baseball game is the pitcher/batter interface. If this isnt done 
 right, the rest is just a wash. 2K6 Sports knock this out of the ball park! There is a somewhat 
 large learning curve here (no help from the very poor manual) , but after a while you will get a 
 hang of it. The pitching is by far the hardest part to get adjusted to. In default mode, you have 
 to use your target to show the break of the ball, not the location of the pitch, and that can 
 be a real chore, especially if you dont know baseball very well. Its more realistic but it takes 
 a lot of time to get use to it. You can change that in the options though. Batting comes in 2 favors; 
 in default you use your swing stick which is basically your right joystick to swing at the ball. 
 You need to pull back to start your swing and lift your leg, and let go to swing away. In theory 
 it sound cool, but again it takes time to get use to the timing. The other way to bat is the old 
 fashion jam at the button at the right time mode. Not very realistic but my easier to use.
  There are tons of other options in the game; it has franchise mode, season mode, and GM mode. There 
 is also a very cool World Championship mode in the game, be because Im a American, I probably 
 wouldnt be that good at it {sigh} . The only other thing I want to mention is that awful menu music 
 in the game. Normally I dont care, and just turn it off, but this is so bad, that I just had to 
 mention it here. 
  Awesome game, and even if its not, its the only one for the 360!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renagade_Relish
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  I don't know why a lot of people don't like this game considering how good a lot of things are. 
 The new pitching is really cool. if you scout somebody with inside edge (also cool) the catcher 
 will tell you what type of pitch to throw and where to throw it based on the hitters tendencies. 
 also if you scout a pitcher it tells you how likely one type of pitch could be throw and 3 spots 
 of where it might go, so you could move the analog stick there and if your right it will be hit 
 better, or you will know its a ball. The animations are not as bad as people are saying. the only 
 animation i personally think is pretty bad is one of the throwing animations when they jerk their 
 head to the side really fast. it just looks fake. the other animations are good though. much better 
 than the xbox (played it at friends) . The commentary by Joe Morgan and Jon Miller sounds really 
 nice and it almost sounds real. The music in the game is not very good unless you like screaming 
 and hippie music. and the things the crowd screams are really cheesy but what ever. The graphics 
 are really good in this. i dont why why people are putting them down. The lighting is truly amazing 
 in this game. the further you go into the game the sun begins to set and the shadows on the field 
 move. and its not like you don't see it it all happens during the game not in between innings. 
 And the fields look really good too. They look like the real thing. i live in NY and the Shea stadium 
 looks just like the real things right down to the littlest detail. Also the player cloth movement 
 is pretty cool, and like some people are saying it doesnt look like they have a gut sometimes it 
 looks like it would normally look on a real person. and speaking of guts i think David Ortiz and 
 Bartolo Colon went on trim spa over the off season cause man did they lose some weight. Yes that 
 is a problem everyone looks the same weight. But the faces are not as bad as people say. some people 
 you would be able to pick out who they were just by looking at their face others not so much. Oh 
 yea the new hitting stick. Basically you just pull back on the right analog stick before the pitcher 
 pitches the ball and then push up for a power swing or just let go for contact. It takes getting 
 used to but it is fun and realistic after a while. The difficulty of this game is pretty easy even 
 on legend so you will want to adjust your sliders to your liking but thats where the problem comes 
 in. unless you have a memory card you need to either format your hard drive (erases all your saved 
 games) or just take it out and use a memory card for this game because if you dont the game will 
 freeze. If you plan on playing online just get a memory card and transfer your account onto it. 
 trust me. So overall this game is pretty damn good. There is only a few stupid bugs but the greatness 
 of the game helps you to not even notice them. If you only have a passing interest in baseball 
 rent it if you like baseball get it and if you really like baseball its a no brainier just get 
 it already. and if you dont like it right away just keep playing it cause you will. and the just 
 right difficulty is because you can adjust the sliders. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xanybox
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  Alright folks, give it up... MVP is dead so we have to live with what we have. EA did make a good 
 game in the past, but MLB 2k6 is not bad in its own right. The graphics are so-so for a next gen 
 system in comparison to games like Oblivion and GRAW, but they are still decent when compared to 
 NBA 2k6. The stadiums look awesome and the players aren't bad, just not consistant. Sometimes they 
 and their motion look good, othertimes mediocre.
  The sound is above average and the announcers definately add to the game. The thing people have 
 to understand is that this is a hugely customizable game. There are many different sliders to adjust 
 difficulty and responsiveness. All you have to do is take the time to experiment. You can choose 
 between a "pure baseball" and "arcade" experience with just one slider. The new hitting method 
 with the right-stick is difficult, but there's the option to go to classic one-button hitting. 
 I really like the "batter's eye" feature. It's somewhat realistic, that if you have an idea where 
 the pitcher might throw, you highlight the area with the left-stick, the pitch location is revealed, 
 and you get a hitting boost. If you know a lot about baseball, this helps a lot with hitting. Pitching 
 is intuitive and there are three methods to choose from plus you can decide whether or not you 
 want to pitch to a spot or a break-point.
  The game modes are deep (GM, season, franchise, online) and there a not a ton but many cool unlockables. 
 I really like the World Baseball Classic Mode as it is something totally new and it's really cool 
 seeing all the MLB players split up playing for their individual countries. The neatest thing so 
 far is the "inside edge" scouting system. It allows you to learn more about each batter and pitcher 
 before you face them and has a huge effect on gameplay by making it easier to decide pitch locations. 
 The worst thing about this game is the instruction manual. It's incomplete, really doesn't tell 
 you how to bat or pitch clearly, and doesn't explain how to adjust the settings well. You can figure 
 all of this out for yourself, but it does take some time.
  This is a "baseball sim", not an arcade masher. It takes patience and skill, just like real baseball. 
 The learning curve is a little steep, so you might want to play on rookie before moving it up to 
 pro setting to get a feel for the controls. Take time to delve into the game before making a judgement, 
 because the customizable settings of this game allow any style player to find what they're looking 
 for. Rent it first, but if you're a fan of the baseball this is a great, but not supurb, game for 
 your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trukretlaw
Rating: 3.2
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  This was one of the two most anticipated games for the 360 for me ... Oblivion totally came through 
 and is awesome, but MLB 2k6 is at the opposite end of the spectrum! I was incredibly disappointed 
 at how poor the game is. Right off the bat there were problems: the manual is terrible as it gives 
 no information about any of the game modes. The rosters are terrible ... they have some made up 
 players on the 25 man MLB rosters, not to mention the minor leagues. The ratings for players are 
 way off as well and I don't know who the hell did the ratings, but they are pretty poorly researched. 
 Some of the teams prospects are even put in the free agent pool when you enter Franchise or GM 
 modes, and you're forced to sign them to your roster when they should have been there in the first 
 place! The graphics are mediocre at best and the stadiums are out of date. Comerica Park (where 
 the Detroit Tigers play) is modeled from the way it was two years ago. As far as gameplay, I personally 
 like to manage the games and then break in and bat as either a specific existing player or as a 
 player I create. This seems reasonably fun, but when you do this and go back to the manage mode 
 it totally screws up the statistics! When you look at the box score at the end of the game, players 
 on your team end up with additional at bats and hits for some reason. They had this same problem 
 last year! It's terrible this is my only option for baseball this year! Maybe there are some other 
 aspects that people like (possibly "Live" play) , but for single player its a MAJOR letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newfg311
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  No matter what anyone has to say about the graphics, if you are a true baseball fan you will have 
 fun playing the game, and will love the new feature, Inside Edge. Its the little things in this 
 game that make it good. The franchise mode is much better just based on the scouting reports. The 
 graphics are slightly better than last years, but lets face it, when you are creating graphics 
 for players on the ball field with a zoomed out view, there isn't much you can do. Just look at 
 Madden or NHL 2K6 (which was horrible) . The catcher animation is a nice touch because it adds some 
 realism to the game. Its much harder to steal bases and there aren't as many passed balls (at least 
 through three games played) . Catchers throw better from home to second which is nice because last 
 year they just rainbowed the ball to the second baseman and never got anyone out. Don't listen 
 to all these reviewers who give the game a 1.0, 2.3, or anything below a 7. They obviously ONLY 
 care about graphics and aren't true baseball fans, and obviously haven't watched some of the cutscenes 
 or animations other than the gameplay, because those are greatly improved. The swing system takes 
 some getting used to, but after about 3 games you really can get it down to a science. Overall, 
 the game is good and fun to play, so don't base your review soley on those put out there by non-baseball 
 fans. At least rent the game before jumping to judgement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelNuttz
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  I've heard a lot of people complaining about the "swing stick" feature for hitting. I like this 
 addition to the game, it makes me feel a little more involved as a gamer when hitting. Batting 
 seems to be a little easy once you get the hang of it, not having to track the ball with your left 
 thumb stick kind of cheapens it. 
  
  There are a lot of different things they've added in that I personally haven't seen before, like 
 choosing where to aim the ball when you attempt a pick off move. I like the depth of the game, 
 the presentation is ok, the menus are someone cumbersome. The sound is good, although I hate it 
 when the announcers say that it's a "home run!" before the ball has reached the outfield. I played 
 on-line for a couple of games, and it seems to be smooth and lag free and was an enjoyable time. 
 
  
  Overall this is a solid baseball game, it has it's problems, but it's fun and that's what we play 
 games for anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebiddybop
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 12, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  noone has actually gone in depth with their opinions and I hope this will help those who are willing 
 to try to like a NEW baseball game.
  
  for starters I have never played a 2k baseball game, but I have played a 2k basketball and football 
 game. I prefer 2k's basketball and I thought there football games were really in depth and great. 
 I also liked madden and based on the fact that alot of my friends have had madden grudges for years 
 I wasnt going to break that grudge. So I bought both Madden's and ESPN NFL2k5. - I find it sad 
 that I have to go out of my way to mention this bull just to prove i'm not a fanboy. I see alot 
 of fanboys raping this game and not giving it the chance it deserves.
  Is it a perfect game? - No.
  Is it a horrible game? - No.
  
  GAMEPLAY : 
  Gameplay took 
 ALOT of getting use to for me. It's a huge change for me never playing a 2k baseball game and it's 
 a huge change since its the first 2k baseball game to have these new pitching and batting features. 
 
  
  BATTING - the batting is great once you get the hang of it. Sure theres a learning curve but the 
 game rewards you for it. 
  -1. You have to read the pitcher and get use to when he releases the ball to judge when to pull 
 back your bat.
  -2. You have to guess the pitch. You have to know if it's going to be a fast ball or a changup 
 etc. So you also have to guess when you to swing the bat.
  -3. You have to guess where the pitch is going to be. 
  Just these 3 features are enough to change 
 the way you bat in next gen baseball. It runs really smooth once you get a good stroke going. You 
 also have to know who can hit the long ball and who can't. So with a power hitter you would want 
 to swing through your swings and with a lead off hitter you may want to just stick the hits for 
 grounders and line drives. 
  
  PITCHING - okay i'll admit I don't have this perfected yet but I have a pretty good idea what i'm 
 doing. This game rewards you for knowing your team and players and especially when it comes to 
 pitching.
  -1. you have to choose your pitch and depending on how long you hold the button then the pitch 
 will have that great of an effect, but hold it too long and you may end up throwing it over your 
 catcher. (kinda like the pitching bar in MVP) except this bar is like an invisible bar that you 
 have to guess. (it's different for each pitcher, this is where the game rewards long time players.) 
 If you play the game long enough then you would have your pitchers down.
  -2. It doesnt show you where your pitch will be but instead when it will start to break. This also 
 rewards long time players who know their pitchers and pitches. 
  -3. you can get your catche involved. you can now move your catcher to better position himself 
 for your pitches. At times your catcher will recommend a pitch in certain situations and you can 
 use this to make a big play.
  
  FIELDING - there have been ALOT of gribes about this but all it is is repetition. If you get use 
 to how your players move then it should be no problem. YES it's different and will take some getting 
 use to. Some players seem sluggish and at times too sluggish but so is your opponents fielders 
 so it's balanced. 
  Once you learn the animations then you should have no problem knowing when to turbo or dive. 
 
  What I do love is that theres player collisions in the outfield which is just fun. This really 
 brings depth to the gameplay in franchise mode because one bad collision could cause an injury, 
 but no worries. There is a button to "wave off" your teammates. All you have to do is push "X" 
 and your teammate will stop going for the ball and allow you to do your business. 
  
  BASERUNNING - you now have to tab A to get the most out of your baserunners. So I guess this doesnt 
 make this a lazyboy game that you can play at 4 in the morning. You actually have to be up and 
 ready to hustle. 
  Just be sure you don't push the "advance runner" button too many times because the game will register 
 it every time you push the button. ... so if you push it twice from the batters box then you will 
 round 2nd. 
  I do like the lil right joystick slide feature which also has a slight learning curve. based on 
 how you move your joystick then your runner will slide accordingly but the only thing you have 
 to get use to are the animations ... some take longer then others so you have to judge when you 
 should slide.
  
  ----------------------------------
  
  GRAPHICS :
  If I had to name this games weakest point then this would be it. Yes they look better then current 
 gen games but that doesnt say much. the movable cloth is a nice touch but it makes the players 
 look chubby. The cloth folds right over the players belly, giving them the appearance that they 
 have a gut. 
  Not all players look like their real life counter part but on the other hand some do. 
  The jerseys 
 do pick up dirt and grass stains really nice though, and it stays on the player through out the 
 game. 
  The crowd looks pretty much like a nba 2k6 crowd. 
  Overall the graphics leave more to be wanted, I have a feeling that if they improve this alone 
 that some people may give this game a chance.
  
  ----------------------------------
  
  SOUND : 
  commentary is great. The commentators crack jokes at each other all game and laugh 
 like a classic (haha i'm on tv and f*cked up) kinda 'CHUCKLE". its' great. they keep you up to 
 date with stats and info/background through out the entire game and during franchise mode this 
 really brings this game to life. 
  All of your regular sounds that you would expect are in here, ... bat cracking, crowd, sliding 
 in dirt, and a fast pitch hitting the catchers mit. - it's all here and sounds great. 
  
  -----------------------------------
  
  VALUE :
  with this being the ONLY mlb game out for 
 the 360, it doesnt give the buyer much of a choice but to either buy this or play old xbox compatible 
 versions. 
  Multiplayer is a great experience with friends and it is xbox live enabled as well. All your statistics 
 are tracked online and players could see your tendacies (just as in nba 2k6) . If a player scouts 
 you well enough then they may have an edge on you that you wouldnt expect. - be warned though, 
 there are alot of cry babys out there. I just think baseball is a personal sport that people take 
 to seriously online. but if you manage to find a good oponent then you should be having fun out 
 strategizing them.
  
  OVERALL - I think mlb 2k6 was slightly rushed but it's still a solid game regardless. It may not 
 be for EVERYONE but if you find yourself hating it after a game then just give it more time or 
 play against a friend. I was in this position and learned to love the game alot more from playing 
 a friend and transfering our MVP baseball grudge to this game. Now all slates are clean and I'm 
 having fun learning new tricks in a new game to own him. 
  
  PLAY THIS GAME WITH AN OPEN MIND
  
  Joe
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: buffbilly
Rating: 2.3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I have played almost every baseball game for the past console generation. 
 Let me also say that every one of those games was better than 2k6 Baseball.
  The most outstanding shortcoming of this game is the graphics. They honestly look like something 
 that you can see on your PS2. There is no addition to detail at all. The colors are basic, and 
 they blur out the seating to cover up for the lack of detail in the stands. Balls come out of players 
 hands at weird looking angles. Players catch balls in the most unrealistic of ways. In general, 
 the game looks like garbage. Garbage that you are paying 20$ more for.
  The actual gameplay might not be that bad if it were not for the controls, which are the worst 
 I have ever saw on a baseball game. 
  The hitting game consists of pulling the right analog back and then forward at the correct time. 
 It just feels unnecessary when MVP had a great hitting system, and 2K5's was pretty close. 
  Pitching is a joke also. On 2K5 you could switch to a MVP style meter, which is maybe the best 
 system ever devised. Well, that is gone. You can only choose the Zone style from last year, or 
 the new style which is slightly better, and actually somewhat okay.
  Fielding is okay, most likely because fielding is hard to screw up.
  Thankfully, there are a 
 couple options that you can choose from for the controls. For hitting, you can choose Classic mode 
 which just consists of hitting the A button at the right time. It just feels like a shame to play 
 with a control scheme that was obsolete 5 years ago, but it still feels better than Sega's new 
 system. 
  I haven't played a season yet so I won't comment on that, however, I have doubts that the stats 
 will be perfect. In the first season game I played Jose Castillo won player of the game for hitting 
 a grand slam. On the Player of the Game screen it read:
  Player of the Game: Jose Castillo 2006 stats: avg .250, hrs 0, rbis 0.
  I really feel for people 
 interested in this game, especially diehard baseball fans, this game does not deserve over a few 
 day rental if that. It's hard for a real fan to not play a baseball game, but there isn't that 
 much fun to be had here either, so it's a tough call. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROLLTIDE06
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 12, 2006 12:12 am PT
Review:  In a sense, MLB 2K6 for the 360 can be compared to Orlando Cabrera or Milton Bradley. Two guys 
 that have good potential, but also two guys that have never reached their full potential. MLB 2K6 
 has the potential, but it falls short. There's no reason for the game to fall short either. Developing 
 the game on a world class next -generation gaming system warrants a plethora of options. This game 
 is going to outrage avid MVP fans because it simply does not step up to the level of the MVP series, 
 in terms of gameplay. Last time I checked, video games are meant to be interactive.
  
  First off, I'll start with the positives. The Franchise Mode is extremely addictive and immersive 
 thanks in large part to the Insider's Edge scouting and Player Morale system. Insider's Edge is 
 something that should have been used in previous years. It's an absolutely wonderful feature that 
 provides an unnerving sense of realism and detail. In Franchise Mode, you can adjust the % of playing 
 time you want some of your players to have. Now obviously, you'll want a guy like Albert Pujols 
 in there for about 97-98% of the time. However, this is a nice feature for platooning players (if 
 you simulate) and being able to rest your catcher regularly and ensuring the backup that he will 
 in fact get some playing time. The player morale system is pretty much dead on. Although, I'm not 
 quite sure how a guy can be on a hot streak without logging a single AB or even playing a game. 
 Restructuring contracts, scheduling team meetings, adjusting your lineup, allotting % of playing 
 time, and many other factors play into a player's overall happiness on the team. If you don't keep 
 your guy happy, his attributes will suffer. This makes for a realistic effect on your hitter because 
 it WILL affect his play. There is enough depth in Fantasy Mode to keep you glued to your seat for 
 several hours. You can literally go about 2 hours without even playing a single game due to the 
 fact that there are so many things to do (if you choose to study scouting reports) . One negative 
 about Franchise Mode is the exclusion of the farm system. You have 10 minor league players at your 
 disposal, but how can you effectively develop future talent with 10 minor leaguers? This is a significant 
 downfall to not include the A, AA and AAA ballclubs in such a realistic simulation of a franchise. 
 Franchises are built on developing their young talent in the minors. Ten players is NOT ENOUGH. 
 You end up with guys like Julio Franco and Rickie Weeks (in fantasy drafts) in the minors. Those 
 are guys who are not minor leaguers. For future MLB games, please include all A-AAA ballclubs. 
 They are important. 
  
  The graphics are pretty much the same as the other 360 2K games. They are very polished and the 
 cloth physics rock. As do the grass and dirt stains. The player models are considerably better 
 on 360 than XBOX. Although, MVP still holds the edge over 2K in player models. The stadiums feel 
 real and the excellent crowd chatter create a very real baseball atmosphere (with the exception 
 of the freaking organ guy) . I think the organ guy plays a bit too much at times. The real time 
 lighting effects are gorgeous and stunning at times. 2K6 does a very nice job of creating the sense 
 of a very real baseball atmosphere.
  
  One of the coolest features on MLB 2K6 is the VIP system. Your Virtual Identity Profile tracks 
 everything you can think of (and some things you wouldn't) . You can scout your opponent in tremendous 
 detail. Want to know what pitches your opponent sticks to when behind in the count? Scout his VIP. 
 Does your opponent chase pitches out of the zone low and away or high and tight? All of this information 
 can be scouted in the VIP. I noticed on my profile that I stick to keeping pitches low in the zone 
 and rarely throw anything high or anything over the middle of the plate. Of course, this is common 
 sense to not leave pitches high or over the plate - but the mere fact that you can KNOW this about 
 your opponent is mind-numbing. Enough said.
  
  Perhaps one of MLB 2K6's biggest downfalls is its gameplay. It is entirely TOO easy to hit a HR. 
 Currently, 63% of my run production comes from homeruns. It's not like I'm using the power swing 
 either. I use a level contact swing 96% of the time. Thanks to the VIP system, I can give you numbers 
 like that. I've already hit 9 HRs through 2 games in Franchise Mode and 3 of them came in my 1st 
 game. While I do realize that the actual MLB season has started off quite the same way, it's a 
 bit ridiculous to have so many homeruns when you don't even use the power swing. My friend (who 
 is also in the franchise with me) played his first game today and hit 7 homeruns. It was first 
 time to ever play a 2K baseball game and he thrashed the computer 13-1. Pro difficulty setting 
 for those who are wondering. I realize that is not the hardest, but Pro can provide some degree 
 of difficulty in MLB games. I'm referring to MVP here. MVP Baseball OWNS hitting in baseball game. 
 As a matter of fact, MVP owns 2K in gameplay right now. The fielding is choppy and does not feel 
 fluid at all. There are times when the fielding animations are slick, but it honestly feels like 
 a mix between 2K and All Star Baseball. Maybe some of you know what I'm talking about. This is 
 not a good thing. Seriously, thinking about All Star Baseball for the PS2 or XBOX scares the **** 
 out of me. Some animations actually prevent you from charging grounders and then the throwing motion 
 is so slow that even a slow baserunner can beat out a routine grounder to short. There is one animation 
 where your fielder actuall throws the ball without transferring it from his glove to his hand ... 
 Explain that please. 2K6 certainly falls short in the fielding department, except for the collisions. 
 That is a nice feature and one that should be included into all baseball games. Oh wait, that's 
 right ... there's only one baseball game. The baserunning ... I need to start a new paragraph for 
 this.
  
  The baserunning is awful. Even the most skilled players will have trouble mastering this confusing 
 and poorly crafted baserunning system. Baseburner mode IS an innovative feature, as is the "hustle 
 baserunning" - but they both fall short and come off as annoying. It's fairly easy to swipe a bag 
 with a speedster guy like Juan Pierre or Ryan Freel, especially in Baseburner mode. You pretty 
 much know how much of a lead you can get on a pitcher as they will only throw over when you get 
 to a certain lead. Some pitchers (i. e. Greg Maddux or Jason Schmidt) having a hiccup in their stretch 
 that cause them to have an extremely slow delivery. They almost seem to come set twice before throwing 
 to the plate and you could nearly swipe two bases in that amount of time. Although, Maddux seemed 
 to go into his animation of delivering the ball to the plate, he did turnaround and fire the ball 
 to second when I was within sliding distance of the bag. Also, another problem with baserunning. 
 If a guy attempts a steal (from 1st to 2nd) and you walk the batter simultaneously ... you apparently 
 are rewarded a stolen base in the box score. Lance Berkman took off for 2nd base and I missed my 
 spot for ball four and was able to throw the ball down to 2nd anyway. The throw beat him by several 
 steps and I applied the tag on him, but the umpire of course called him safe because of the walk. 
 Alright? Everything's cool. That's how it's supposed to be. Now, what's not supposed to happen 
 is Berkman getting credit for a SB. Well, that's exactly what happened. One more baserunning glitch. 
 Michael Young is on 2nd. The pitcher throws the ball to the backstop and I gun for 3rd base. I 
 make it easily but Young decides to take off from 3rd once the Third Baseman has the ball in his 
 hands. He's called out. I didn't press the button for Young to advance from 3rd to Home...
  
  Here are a couple of more AI hiccups. Why does a pitcher chase after a foul ball that is clearly 
 in the upper deck? Why do the pitcher AND the catcher go after a passed ball behind home plate? 
 Pitchers tend to leave way too many pitches fat. I get the feeling the OFs want to run through 
 the wall after a long ball. I've also seen my baserunner keep running (ie Forrest Gump) into the 
 OF after being thrown out at first for the final out. Those are all I've seen so far, but I haven't 
 played much. They are things that should not be happening. The AI is not very intelligent with 
 some of their picks in the draft on Franchise Mode. Todd Helton as the 1st pick over AROD, Pujols, 
 or Santana? Ronnie Belliard and Adrian Beltre still available in the 20th round? Some of the ratings 
 are also questionable. Jeff Francouer's arm strength and range should definitely be higher. Chris 
 Capuano (an 18 game winner last season for the Brewers) has a stamina rating of 40!!!! How does 
 Luis Castillo acquire a 90 rating for power against lefties? Rickie Weeks speed is a D- ?? Let's 
 be serious. That's all I will list. On a lighter note, Richie Sexson started catcher for the opposing 
 team (in my fantasy draft franchise) ... kind of strange.
  
  Overall, this game can be fun if you can overlook its shortcomings. The franchise mode is definitely 
 immersive. But you can't help but think about how good this game could have been. Perhaps next 
 year, we can expect a breakout season and turn all of that wasted potential into good use.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ufostomper
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 11, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  I think 2K sports should have a lawsuit against them for even making a game like this, the graphics 
 arent too bad, but the gameplay is just horrendous, def do not buy this game dont even rent it, 
 the pitching is average, the hitting is terrible, the feilding is horrible, and the baserunning 
 is just plain bad!!! save your money buy mvp ncaa baseball 2006 for the regular xbox and just play 
 that instead i got ripped off big time in buying this game, but oh wait 2k did put a free pack 
 of 3 baseball cards in the case so yea i suppose that makes up for the horrible game!!! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tnerb248
Rating: 2.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I'm mad this is the baseball game I have to play. Did they even test this? I had MVP 2005 for gamecube, 
 and it looked like 300 times better than this. Hell, Mike Piazza's strike zone looked better than 
 this. The players (for the most part) look nothing like their real life counterparts. Anytime ANYTHING 
 happens, it glitches or does something wierd. Baserunning is so counterintuitive it's amazing someone 
 designed it like this. The pitching mechanics are ok, as is the batting, when it isn't slowing 
 down so the players clothes can jiggle and move around awkwardly. When your outfielder fields a 
 line drive, he makes a throw in the direction he is running, but don't worry, the ball still magically 
 travels to where it needs to go. This game has it's heart in the right place, but it has a really, 
 really frustrating way to show it. I don't know how they charged $60 bucks for this. I can only 
 hope there will be a some sort of free patch for this crapfest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tom159
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  First off.... id like to know how you can enjoy a game if it frezzes before the first inning is 
 over.... u dont even get the chance to learn the game,,,, the frame rate isnt good and the graphics 
 could def be better.... the only postive thing i can say about this game is the sound... it could 
 be better tho... if 2k6 come up with a update to fix the frezzing then this game wouldnt be so bad,, but 
 def not a game that is worth 60 dollars... i thing mvp will be much better and it is in other past 
 series... iam just happy i wasted 11 dollars renting this game and not 60 dollars like most people.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  A failure in 9 of 10 areas. The current playstation top game (MLB 06 the show) Puts this game to 
 shame. The only positive experience of this game is when its turned off or when it freezes like 
 many, if not all the copies out there do on a constant basis. If only the japanese game (Pro Spirits 
 3) was released here..
  
  On a positive note, credit where its due, Inside Edge is brilliant. 
  
  On a personal note, 
 I really hope they completely redo the game next year because there's notthin that can be done 
 to this one to bring it back from the grave. Its dead and burried. My advice, Listen to the people 
 and look at what MVP and The show did right. The formula for success is out there, you just gotta 
 use common sence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rotell27
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I am completely dissapointed with this game. The graphics are absolutely awful for a 360 game. 
 The faces are off and generic, the players stances and bodies are all similar, and the cloth physics 
 look very bizarre and awkward. It is amazing to see a game have great graphics on the 360 like 
 Fight Night and then see this garbage. Visually, not much better than the current gen version and 
 honestly those graphics were not good at all. As far as gameplay, it's alright but in my opinion 
 that can't overcome the lack of presentation in this game. All in all, I would say that it is not 
 worth 60 dollars and I just wish that there was another option this year because I can't see myself 
 ever playing this game on a consistent basis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbauer318
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Finally, baseball for the xbox 360. After spending an evening searching for a copy, I found one 
 and sat down with it for a while.
  
  When I turned the game on, I thought the theme music sounded like something you would hear the 
 Saturday Night Live band playing. After downloading the latest roster "update" and tweaking them 
 because they are pretty bad, I was able to get started. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is hit or miss. Some aspects of the game are great, while others seem to be lacking. 
 Pitching and hitting are the strong points of the game. Both areas seem to be very well and you 
 can tell they thought about it quite a bit. The pitching interface is unique and also includes 
 the catcher as well as the scouting report system. IMO, Batting is great. It may take a while to 
 understand how to use the swing stick and when to pull back and let go, but once you "get it", 
 it works well. However, if it's just not your thing, you can turn it off in your VIP profile. 
 
  
  Fielding is just OK. It's easy to use and that's pretty much it. The physics can be a bit bizarre 
 and arcade like. Also, when the outfielders actually get going, they seem to a bit too fast and 
 they prance around too much. When running for a catch, for example, my outfielders appeared to 
 a sidewise jumping jack on the air as if they were trying out for the Olympic games. I know Baseball 
 isn't going to participating in the game next time, but I'm sure there are better ways to get in 
 there. Regardless, fielding needs to be cleaned up next time around.
  
  Base running is pretty much the same as 2k5. If you liked it then, you'll like it now. If you hated 
 it then, you'll still hate it.
  
  The AI is pretty poor. When a ball is hit, many times a fielder across the diamond will be selected. 
 For example, a ball was hit down the third base line caused my short stop to become active. Why? 
 Who knows. Also, sometimes CPU players appear as if they have no idea what they are doing and don't 
 even know where they are. I hit a ball to the pitcher and it bounced off him and rolled down the 
 mound toward the catcher. He decided that he didn't feel like getting so he just let the second 
 baseball run and get the ball a foot from his leg. 
  
  Graphics
  
  For a next-gen game, the graphics are pretty bad. Stadiums are great. They really look good. However, 
 models are bad and their faces are laughable. 
  
  Sound
  
  With commentary by Jon Miller and Joe Morgan, sound is great. Everything about the sound seemed 
 ok to me. 
  
  Value
  
  $59? No way. $39? Maybe. This game is just ok. If you're a hardcore fan that understands baseball, 
 you won't like this game. If you're an arcade fan, you may enjoy it a bit. Most hardcore fans won't 
 be able to look at the horrible throwing animations and the full-speed short arm throws while doing 
 a 360 in the air. If that doesn't bother you, then you'll be ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspro73
Rating: 3.2
Date: Apr 11, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This game brought to mind a few questions. The first of which was, "I wonder when 2K Games exclusive 
 license over MLB properties expire?" The second of which was, "Which baseball game was worse than 
 this: World Series 2K1 for the Dreamcast or Triple Play 2000 for the PS2?" The third of which was, 
 "When was the last time I blew $63 that fast, and what was her name anyhow?"
  
  The pitching and batting controls are neither precise nor satisfying. The fielders move at normal 
 speed until they get close to the ball and then they slow down, presumably so they can go into 
 their canned fielding animations. 
  
  Up close the players look like creepy resuscitation dummies and, like the environment, are prone 
 to weird graphical glitches. My starting pitcher's uniform flickered like a strobe light for an 
 entire inning. The stadium also went from sharp to blurred focus several times.
  
  The commentary and sound is very good, but occasionally choppy.
  
  This game is *the* argument 
 against restricting competition and by far the worst game I have paid full-price for since... well, 
 I can't remember. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtfulnick
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 11, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  When i first played an online game which was i admit stupid considering it was the first time i 
 played MLB 2k6, i got crushed 8 to 0 and i was considering trading it back in.. 
  
  After i gave the swing stick a chance it really is better then i thought, its a tough game to pick 
 up and automattically be good at you have to put hours into it to become a solid player. After 
 i got blown out two games in a row my next game i won 5 to 4 believe or not in a pitchers duel. 
 Sometimes the AI gets seriously retarded like on a run down from 3rd to 2nd base A-Rod threw back 
 to 2nd and no one was covering second base which lead to a inside the park homerun. 
  
  Franchise mode for some reason has better graphics, commentary, and pretty much better gameplay 
 becuase it doesnt feel rushed like online play.
  
  Overall since it is the only MLB game on 360 i was a little dissapointed at first but this does 
 grow on you and is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradjust45
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  this game has amazing visuals and great gameplay. i also love how derek jeter really looks real 
 when he is playing shortstop. i heard that mlb scouts help made this game and they really did a 
 good job. 
  the reason y i gave this a 9.3 is because sometimes the game glitches. for example, when u r playing 
 and u hit a foul ball it sometimes says homerun. this has only happened a couple times and i doubt 
 it will happen again. 
  great game easy to get achivements . 
  love playing it great for kids and adults of all ages. get this game now u deserve it best 2k6 
 game yet for tne 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2006 4:26 am PT
Review:  If you are a die-hard MVP or MLB gamer......
  
  You might have alot of issues with MLB2k6 for the Xbox360.
  If your willing to be flexible and 
 learn the 2k way of playing baseball than you should buy this game for the Xbox360. If not than 
 don't bother.
  
  The graphics is much to be desired in 2k's next generation Major League Baseball game. Derek Jeter 
 doesn't even look like Derek Jeter. The player's bodies are not symmetrically aligned with their 
 real life counterparts. To be honest they look a little chunky. The face visuals could have used 
 some more work. Actual a complete face makeover would work well here.
  
  Gameplay is not the greatest and it will take time for you to figure out all the buttons and the 
 trigger finger *sigh*. Especially when you want the outfielder to throw a line drive to the catcher, get 
 the runner out and it looks like a slow pitch softball throw at best, instead. The outfielder's seem 
 a bit slower in their reaction time when fielding balls. Might be that extra weight they seem to 
 have put on in this game.
  The infielders play is pretty decent, quick and precise throws.
  
  Pitching is quite easy with the "newpitching meter.
  But watch out with your sliders they 
 can run a bit wild.
  Pick-offs are easy in this version.
  
  Batting: The batting the analog way with the stick will give you fits. I advise you take some "batting 
 practice" with the HomeRun Derby part of the game first before you try your hand at franchise. But 
 2k was nice enough to give us the choice of using the buttons to control your swings. Nothing like 
 doing things the old fashion way to make you say "It will be okay."
  
  This next generation baseball game could have used an extended Spring Training but like I said 
 before if your flexible and love playing video game baseball than you will have fun with this version. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmotley18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! This is by far the best baseball game to date. This is only for the hardcore 
 baseball fans. If you like arcade syle baseball this is not for you. The new pitching system is 
 great. You have to have good timing. The new batting interface is great also. It may take a few 
 games to get used to it but once you do you may not want to bat another way. I think this is the 
 best baseball game out there. Go get it now. YOu will not be disappointed. THis blows MVP out of 
 the water. Again go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iiredshgfbf3
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 11, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  This game is horrible. 60 dollers for this, a next gen game. The graphics are not next gen, The 
 stadiums look horrible, The fields look horrible, The players look like current gen other than 
 the cloth movement. No players look like themselves they just look really dumb. If this is next 
 gen then we are in for some pretty sad baseball games. Just a horrible job by 2k. The gameplay 
 is alright but nothing to be excited about. Inside edge is the only thing I really like about the 
 game but is inside edge worth 60 dollers. What a horrible game. People rent this game first I am 
 telling you guys to save your 60 bucks and go rent it for 7 bucks. I was dumb for even dishing 
 out the 60 bucks but whatever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luvmygiants
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  A great looking game. The stadiums are graphically phenomenal, which adds tremendously to the game 
 playing atmosphere. I haven't had a chance to dive in fully to the career/franchise mode yet, but 
 from what I've seen so far, it is much more in-depth and certainly looks to be more engaging than 
 in the past. I've played three games so far. The INSIDE EDGE brings a whole new dimension to the 
 game - it adds much more strategy to the game. I've never been just a "button masher". I really 
 enjoy the more strategic and planning side of a video game. And this game puts you into the middle 
 of the pitcher/battle game. The pitcher and batter AI seems smarter as well than previous versions. 
 You throw the pitch to the batters weak spot too many times and the AI batter seems to adjust.
 
  This is a great 1st XBOX 360 version basbeall game. I am sure MLB 2K6 will finally address the 
 physics of the baseball swing and the throwing motion with next years version. It looks a little 
 better than last years, but the swing and throwing motion still looks awkard. 2KSPORTS have already 
 said that the physics will be one of their top priorities to adjust for next year.
  
  Because of INSIDE EDGE, and a deeper franchise/career mode.. and much better graphics, I won't be 
 bored with this game anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F619U
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 10, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game it seemed alot like 2k5 (good thing) . The more I play the more I notice 
 how great the jerseys look. They look a liitle like NBA 2k6. They look pretty good and pick up 
 dirt very nicely. The gameplay is very good also. It takes a liitle bit to get used to but once 
 you get the hang of it, it is very smooth. The buttons are very good. I really think they hit the 
 nail on the spot with the buttons. I am not sure If I like the new pitching more or what they had 
 last year but since the game gives you a choice of what you want to use it is all good. I can see 
 some people giving this game lower ratings but as a fan of baseball and the 2k series I love it. 
 This game is a must buy for any fans of baseball. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
