-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Major League Baseball 2K9
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/majorleaguebaseball2k9/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Smooth multiplayer support.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lots of little control problems add up to a huge amount of frustration.
 Hit results can seem canned.
 Crammed with bugs.
 Homeruns are much too prevalent.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  6, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 6.4, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 363 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Genre: Baseball Sim
Date: Mar 3, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
MLB 2K9 is a deeply flawed funhouse-mirror distortion of baseball. 

  Scientists have long pondered the existence of other universes where the physics are totally different 
 than they are here. In these strange dimensions, up would be down, fast would be slow, and Major 
 League Baseball 2K9 would be a realistic depiction of the national pastime game. In our own mundane 
 reality, however, 2K Sports' latest look at the grand old American game skews baseball so much 
 that you seem to be viewing the diamond action through a funhouse mirror. All of these distortions 
 become more glaring the more time you spend with the game, resulting in a deeply frustrating experience 
 that never feels like the real thing.  

           Hit the ball and touch 'em all. A lot.      

  Most features are identical to what 
 they were in MLB 2K8, so you still have the options for single games, franchise play, playoffs, 
 and the home-run derby, as well as multiplayer matches, tournaments, and seasons against buddies 
 on the couch or over the Internet. Living rosters have been added, so you can enable this feature 
 and see your rosters mirror those of the real Majors this summer. If the Twins and Jays pull off 
 a trade in the real world, it happens in your franchise league, too. The interface has been refurbished 
 with the addition of nested menus similar to those on display in NHL 2K9. Everything is a lot easier 
 to find here, however, with all of your GM and manager duties split up into separate lists. Some 
 items aren't where you might expect them to be, but after you spend about five minutes figuring 
 your way around, you can navigate the interface with a gamepad almost as smoothly as if you were 
 using a mouse.  

  Hitting, pitching, and fielding are carried over largely intact from last year, although everything 
 has been made a little easier. As with most sports games these days, the default controls make 
 just about everything reliant on the right analog stick. Hitting is a straightforward pull back 
 to get set and a shove forward to swing, with the extra option of pushing the left stick around 
 to pull the ball, slap it the other way, keep it on the ground, or get it into the air. Pitching 
 works in a similar fashion, although it is a bit more involved in that you have to move the right 
 stick to sort of mimic the motion of the ball. So for a fastball, you just pull back to fill up 
 a yellow circle and then push forward to release the ball, while change-ups are handled by making 
 the same movements in reverse, and breaking pitches are thrown by twisting the stick in a circular 
 motion. To field balls, you guide players around with the left stick and then throw to the base 
 of your choice by pushing the right stick in the appropriate direction. You hold the stick to fill 
 up a meter and determine how hard your throw will be. Overall, the controls are intuitive and simple 
 to dive right into, but they don't have a good feel and can be extremely imprecise.  

           Dust clouds didn't look this unrealistic even in old Road Runner cartoons.      

  
 Hitting is too easy on all difficulty levels. Games often wind up being slugfests where the teams 
 combine to clock something in the neighborhood of 30 hits. You don't have to be a good twitch gamer, 
 either, because it's a snap to time your swings right and get big-time wood on the ball even if 
 you're going up against a fireballer like Jonathan Papelbon. The left stick makes it easy to call 
 your shot and place the ball wherever you would like, as long as you don't try to do something 
 physically impossible like pull a hard outside pitch. Hit results tend to feel canned. While there 
 are a good variety of flies, fouls, and grounders to cycle through, it seems like you're getting 
 roughly the same results. A single to left is a single to left, in other words. You need to play 
 a couple of dozen games to generate even a handful of "Huh, I've never seen that before" moments. 
 And top sluggers get on absurd hot streaks. We hit multiple home runs with players many times, 
 including a spectacular four straight in one match with A-Rod and three in a row in a game with 
 teammate Nick Swisher. Expect these homer explosions to happen consistently. It's so predictable 
 that if you send a ball over the fence in the first or second inning, you can pretty much bank 
 on being able to hit a couple more with the same player before the end of the game.     

  Stepping onto the rubber has its issues as well. Throwing a circle change, a four-seam fastball, 
 a slider, a curveball, or whatever else is handled with a simple right-stick twirl that's easy 
 to pull off moments after starting your very first game. This makes the game accessible, but also 
 a bit dull in that there is no challenge to pitching. It's not any harder to throw even the most 
 arm-aching breaking balls after pitchers get tired in the later stages of games. An equally irritating 
 problem is presented by catchers. They work with you and call pitch types and locations, but they're 
 dumb and have a limited imagination, to say the least. Catchers call for fastballs a good two-thirds 
 of the time, even if you've got a starter on the mound with highly rated breaking pitches. The 
 result? You get shelled. Thankfully, you can wave off the big lunks wearing the tools of ignorance. 
 But doing so takes so much time that you're better off throwing whatever you feel like at wherever 
 the catcher is holding his glove and risking the odd passed ball.  

           Yes, there are a few faces that only mothers could love in the real Major Leagues. But 
 some of the characters in MLB 2K9 would fit in at a burn ward.      

  Fielding is the biggest irritation in MLB 2K9. Controls are amazingly touchy. The throwing meter 
 is so sensitive that you can easily accidentally go into the red and throw the ball away. If the 
 catcher drops a third strike, for example, and you have to throw down to first to record the out, 
 a light touch is needed to avoid chucking the ball down the line into right field. Moving fielders 
 can also be an adventure, especially in the outfield. Just touching the left stick at about the 
 same time that a fly ball arrives seems to cause the ball to be dropped. Also, infielders and outfielders 
 seem to have been switched up by the developers. Infielders never appear to be in a rush to get 
 rid of the ball. Second basemen double-pump for no reason, and shortstops take an eternity to get 
 the ball out of their gloves. The result is a lot of infield singles and a ton of botched double-plays. 
 Conversely, outfielders scoop up every routine ground ball hit for a single and gun it back in 
 like their lives depend on it. Fielding even has the power to irritate you when you're not doing 
 it. Watching the computer-controlled fielders at work is like being poked with a sharp stick. Opposing 
 infielders can somehow throw lasers from their knees from behind third to nail speedy runners at 
 first, while their regular tosses are often rainbow-arc lobs that travel faster than is physically 
 possible.  

  Slipshod quality control can also be found elsewhere. Animations stutter on a regular basis, mostly 
 between plays after outs have been recorded. Online play with the PlayStation 3 is laggy to the 
 point of being unplayable at times. Xbox 360 multiplayer is considerably better, although there 
 is a slight response delay when hitting that forces you to swing much earlier than you do in solo 
 games. Both the visual quality and the audio are second rate. Players tend to look like Madame 
 Tussaud refugees who've spent too much time in a tanning salon, and runners kick up globby clouds 
 that look more like brown lens flare than infield dust. Both the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions of the 
 game have specific visual quirks, as well. The former has a strange softness that gives everything 
 an indistinct, Vaseline-on-the-lens appearance, while the latter is loaded with jaggies in the 
 stadium architecture.  

  Play-by-play commentary from newcomers Gary Thorne and Steve Phillips is loaded with absurdities 
 like telling a pitcher throwing a one-hitter that he needs to buckle down to keep things from getting 
 out of control. They also make the same weather observation during every single game -- that it's 
 getting a little colder. Music is a truly bizarre kitchen-sink mix of tunes. One moment you're 
 listening to Europe's "The Final Countdown," and the next some Latin hip-hop number, and then you're 
 on to Judas Priest bashing through "You've Got Another Thing Coming." We would love to meet the 
 guy who came up with this soundtrack.  

           Generic scowling relief pitcher or Shaggy a couple of decades after leaving the Mystery 
 Machine?      

  Stats appear to be unreliable. We hit seven home runs with A-Rod in the first four games of a season, 
 yet the stats credited him with only three. Cutting down the Yankee star's home-run totals probably 
 wouldn't be a bad idea given his recent confessions of steroid abuse, but there are better ways 
 to go about it.  

  Either MLB 2K9 shipped in a half-finished state or the developers have never seen a baseball, much 
 less thrown one around. You can see that the foundations have been laid for what could be a creditable 
 baseball game, but design screw-ups render playing it an exercise in frustration that grows more 
 bothersome every time you hit the diamond. Like Chicago Cubs fans say at the end of every September: 
 "Wait till next year." Maybe 2K Sports will get it right with MLB 2K10.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (38 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: phillyeagles123
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 12:43 pm PT
Review:  To be completely honest, I have never really liked the 2K series for baseball. Ever since they 
 took it from ESPN, it seems like something is wrong with the game. MLB 2K9 is no exception. I made 
 the mistake of renting MLB 2K8 last year and regretted every minute of it. This time, I made the 
 wise choice and downloaded the demo of it. When I first started playing I thought, okay, the stadium 
 looks nice. Then I saw the players. The face-mapping was atrocious. Most players looked like bums 
 off the street. I see Ryan Howard and he looks like a guy they just picked up from the side of 
 the building and got him to map his face. Just awful. Now, I never got that hit stick thing down, 
 so I was obviously bad at hitting. Then I got to pitching. The meter thing isn't so bad, it is 
 just when the other team hits it. Your team cannot make the simplest of plays without botching 
 it. So by the end of the first inning your team is probably losing. That was the case for me so 
 I was like "forget it" and I deleted the demo off my hard drive. It is sad how 2K thinks that they 
 can make a crappy baseball game for the 360 just because they have no competition on this platform. 
 If MLB The Show were on the 360, 2K would be going out of business. This is exactly why I just 
 settle for MLB The Show for PS2 every year. It may be mediocre graphics, but at least the gameplay 
 is right and fair. If you are a baseball fan and have a PS2, PS3, or PSP, get MLB The Show. If 
 you don't, then you're out of luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4ya
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 6:09 pm PT
Review:  MLB2k9 is everything but good, the game is way too easy, the controls are terrible, the stats are 
 bugged to death along with almost everything. First I'll start with the gameplay, the game is FULL 
 of bugs and flaws, I haven't noticed anything with the hittest other than the fact it is way too 
 easy even on Hall of Fame difficulty, but the pitching is bogus, it is also very easy and when 
 the catcher calls the pitches is way too unrealistic (66% of the time he'll tell you to throw a 
 fastball even if your fastball sucks, then you give up a HR) . The graphics are the same as last 
 years, some of the players and ball parks don't look like they are supposed to be. One thing I 
 forgot is the stats, MLB2k9 does not have 2008 stats when you go into the rosters, they have 2007 (For 
 example, Twins 1B Justin Morneau had 23 HRs in 08, the stats on MLB2k9 says 31 which he got in 
 2007) . The attributes are also unrealistic, even the most feared hitters in the game have attributes 
 that are minorly to majorly underrated (Jim Thome for example, has Cs for power, Justin Morneau 
 has C+ and everyone knows both men have way more power than that) . The soundtrack is probably the 
 only thing I like about the game, the commentary is horrible and they may say the complete opposite 
 of what happened (A pitcher is throwing a no-hitter, commentator says the pitcher really needs to 
 stay out of the middle of the strike zone or he really needs to settle down and hit his spots) . 
 As a big baseball fan, 2k9 is probably the worst baseball game I have played in my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: towely62
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2009 4:42 am PT
Review:  i see alot of post about ppl saying this game is terrible and that they rather die then play one 
 more minute of it. Really? or are u guys sukups thats ok if u are but give the game a chance there 
 alot of good things and alot of bad things. first the good things personally i loved the pitching 
 and batting in this game it takes awhile to get use to but overall pretty fun mocap pretty good 
 too, very nice graphics amazing detail in uniforms even better when u check replays. now the bad 
 when creating your own player u cant edit his stands or pitching form u mean to tell me u have 
 hundreds of different styles and i cant choose my own that was a bit disappointing, the frachise 
 could have been better and small glitchs here and there maybe once in every 50 games u play, and 
 create a team was no good not that many options to choose from. its not horrible but not great 
 like i said it ok just above passing in my book. it could have been horrible if they didnt let 
 u make a team or the gameplay wasnt good enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tisfree
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2009 7:02 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2k9 for the Xbox 360 is the kind of game you can force yourself to like, and then love. The 
 games glitches are beyond frustrating, but you can learn to deal with them and how the game wants 
 you to perform certain maneuvers. Fly balls will go through your outfielders body unless you get 
 a hold of how the game wants your player positioned underneath the ball. I haven't found a way 
 to fully eliminate the first-basemen stepping off the bag error that happens way too much, but 
 I can generally deal with it. 
  
  The game is not bad by any means. The graphics are pretty good. The commentating is well done. 
 The batting mechanics are addictive and the game has more staying power than previous versions. 
 That's what I don't get about the gamespot ranking, unless they simply just don't agree with me 
 at all. I hated last years, enjoyed 2k7, but love this one way beyond 2k7. You'll have to try it, 
 I'm not easily deterred by glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorgesagastume8
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2009 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Look, this isn't the greatest baseball simulation ever made. Everyone that has played it has complaints 
 with it. Most people are complaining because the game is unrealistic and it's too easy to hit the 
 ball. Most of those complaints are fairly easy to fix, though. 
  
  MLB2K9 provides a "difficulty slider" system that allows you to make the game more realistic. There 
 are plenty of downloadable sliders that have been improved to make this a more realistic simulation. 
 If you own an xbox360 and can't play MLB 09 The Show get MLB2K9 and download realistic sliders. 
 All of a sudden most of the problems with MLB2K9 are gone.
  
  Anyway, it's not as bad as people are making it out to be. 
  
  I mostly just play these games 
 for the online experience and opportunity to face off against human opponents. The nice thing about 
 this is that the "custom difficulty sliders" can be applied for online games as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobmitchell
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 25, 2009 9:46 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the worst ported games for the PC ever created. I have a 1.0 because a 0.0 
 is NOT a choice. The Keyboard mapping for this game is totally useless. Everything has a "B1-B7" 
 key mapped for help... and with keyboard only... there are no equivalents. One can throw to 1st, 
 3rd and home from the field... but to throw to second base is not mapped. Pitching model is junk... since 
 you can't figure out how to throw certain pitches (again the B1-B5 gamepad map) . I have a game 
 pad... and I prefer to use keyboard controls... if you are like me... you wasted your money and time. 
 If you send 2K an email asking for help... DON'T expect a reply... after 14 days... figured that they 
 ignored me or threw my email away. This game is creating TONS of frustration and anger... and 2K 
 doesn't carre. Too bad for the customer. This kind of ignorance was seemingly acceptable 10 years 
 ago. Right now... if you have $20 to blow... send it to AIG... you'll get the same satisfaction 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 8:00 am PT
Review:  This is my first review in a while, so I may be rusty on this one. But here goes. I rented MLB2K9 
 with the hopes that it may be a good baseball game to play. I generally do not play alot of these 
 type games due to the unfairness of easy strikeouts or superman cpu fielders. But, from the moment 
 that I booted up this game it was decided that this game was rushed.
  
  One of the first things that you find out about is the music. One minute there is judas priest playing (who 
 is still boss) to a no-name band that really stinks. Why do this to us all? Maybe they put the 2k 
 beats option on there. At least the commentary is ok. It does a pretty good job at making the game 
 feel like you are watching it on tv, put it can get annoying when you have accumulated enough play 
 time to hear the same things over and over again.
  
  But the biggest and most unacceptable aspect of this game are all of the graphic bugs. Many times 
 I noticed on a pitching change the coach getting stuck walking through the dugout or floating across 
 the field with only half of his body showing. A torso floating, are we playing a baseball game or 
 horror game? And if you look at the players, espically in the outfield you will notice a blurry effect 
 around the entire players body. What is this? Even the scoreboard they pop up between innings does 
 this.
  
  Another bad flaw is in the fielding. Control issues plague this game to the point of you having 
 3-5 errors every game. Can't run and catch alot of the time or miscues with throwing and even the 
 unreliability of making a player move right destroy the fielding. Although the cpu can do many wonderous 
 things as ususal. But even on that you can still manage a great deal of hits every game, hitting 
 homers with utility infielders and other no-name players.
  
  MLB2K9 does have it's good points, the living roster is a good idea if you are a mlb fan. Also the 
 presentation is good too. All of the hiccups and poor gameplay controls make this feel like a half-hearted 
 attempt to make a game. MLB 09 the show destroys this game on nearly every level. So if you are looking 
 for a good baseball game this year stay away from this broken game and get mlb09 the show and get 
 a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ugly_Genius
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 22, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  im rushing this reveiw because it sucked so bad. i honestly cannot find one good thing aboiut the 
 gamel. ignore the spelling errors please. save your money. or, if you have 40 or more bucks to blow, 
 get a hooker. creating characters is balls, feilding batting, franchise mode, HR derby and others 
 are balls. pitching is okay. get the 2k6 version and you will probably have more fun than this 
 one. im not joking. if you could c my face, you would say "that is the face of a serious man" and 
 who th F**K is the guy on the cover. HALLADAY SHOULD BE ON THE COVER. (bias) i live in toronto. 
 go jays. they are underatred in this game, boston is overated. but what can you do, the orioles 
 are also overated. the commentary sucks more than the hooker you'll spend your 40 dollars on. wow 
 that was 783 charcters. gimme a break. peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silent0661
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I am a big baseball fan, and i love and still play mvp 05 for computer, very modified, i have mlb 
 2k7 and enjoy it for what its worth, i now own mlb 2k9, i liked the fact that 2k put the time to 
 change the style and presentation of the game, it gives the game more of a real game feel. I know 
 there are a lot of glitches in this game DUH, 2k sports has been buggy sense 2k5, and I am frustrated 
 with their slow process of fixing this series however people get on here like they work for the 
 gaming industries and OMG can't believe that this game is not real or authentic or whatever. it 
 is a baseball game, with beautiful graphics and a decent game play. the announcing is spot on and 
 the pitching and batting is very good. the game loses its self in fielding and cut scenes which 
 are very buggy sometimes. I have this on 360 and i enjoy playing it. so anyone wondering if they 
 should buy this game, i say do whatever it is you want to do. Remember its your money and as long 
 as you are having fun who cares. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ztorin
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 8:10 am PT
Review:  Basically I agree with everything in the GS review of this game. There's just way too many glitchy 
 things going on. There are two that the GS review misses, at least with my copy of the game.
  
  During the pre-at-bat animation, the stats they display are so far off it's ridiculous. Example: 
 David Ortiz will make his way to the plate, and the stat-graphic shown will literally say "Was 
 3rd in the league for SAVES last season." David Ortiz is also a CLOSER? I've seen this on a number 
 of occasions, with all sorts of different players, showing stats that don't even apply to their 
 position.
  
  Then I've noticed something else over the last few games I've played. When bringing in a relief 
 pitcher from the 'pen, the entire pitching control-graphic disappears. So when Varitek sets up 
 low and away, you have NO clue what he's calling for a pitch, and no way to view your pitch selection.
 
  
  Very disappointed with the game, and glad I only dropped a few bucks at BB for the rental. Which 
 sucks, because there is no other viable, realistic/sim baseball option for 360.
  
  -ztorin- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miklifton
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 10:36 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K9. its broken. First off, let me say this. How do you release a game like this without testing 
 it for bugs? I doubt they even checked, because after my first game I was wonderingwhy? How? Did 
 they not see that when they were checking for bugs? Why would you release this game when it has 
 so many problems that are not easy to catch? And the problems kept on coming. It was something 
 new every other game. 
  
  Game play: MLB 2k9 would have been an okay game, if it wasn't for all the bugs. Playing defense 
 is the worst of them. The outfielders run in slow motion most of the time, so it's a pain to get 
 to the ball. Sometimes when a ball is hit to the wall, the AI will run into the wall and continue 
 to run into it which will result in an easy inside the park homerun. It happens about every 3 games 
 or so. Also, when fly balls are hit to you, the outfielder will just run right through the ball, 
 not even any attempt to catch it. As for infielders, they seem to be in no hurry to get rid of 
 the ball. They like to lob the ball as slow as possible at times which is really frustrating when 
 you know it's an easy out. In some plays, when you throw to first, the first baseman likes to take 
 his foot off the bag, which will result in an unnecessary hit. That happens a couple of times a 
 game at least. All I have to say is why? I'm sure problems like that should be easy to catch and 
 fix. Pitching is simple this year. But it seems hard to get a strike out unless you mess with the 
 sliders. I don't know, maybe it just me. Homeruns are very easy to get, regardless of the difficulty. 
 It's like the homerun derby out there! Each difficulty setting seems easy, so you will want to 
 mess with the sliders again. All of this should have been done before this game was released. The 
 Create a player doesn't seem as good as it was. You can't even choose a batting stance. At least 
 I couldn't! And it seems hard to get the player to look anything like you. And whats with Albert 
 Pujols being the 216 MVP? I didn't know they played baseball back in that time. Anyways, let's 
 move on. Base running is simple this year. Just the RB and your good to go. Animations are smooth 
 and the player models are pretty good. Oh yah, another bad thing. Whats with the weak dust cloud 
 effect? Wow. 
  
  Sound: The new play by play announcers are okay. It's nice to hear new voices. But you will get 
 tired of them fast. After playing just one game, you pretty much heard everything they have to 
 say. It gets old fast and you will get tired of hearing the same things every game. And it's like 
 the music was just randomly picked. You have a little bit of everything. Most of them don't even 
 fit with baseball.
  
  Graphics: They are not as good as they were last year, but it's much smoother. And again, whats 
 with the weak dust clouds? Really? It's nice to see the fans struggle to catch a ball when it's 
 hit out. 
  
  Overall: This game is just full of bugs. It's really hard to enjoy playing when they constantly 
 pop up on you. It was rare where I actually enjoyed the game. But that's just me. I don't even 
 know if baseball fans want to play this game. It was a big letdown. The PS3 won this one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynasty3patriot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K9 dose suffer from some issues but, all in all, it is a great game. The gameplay in 2K9 has 
 been much improved. Pitching is now a much smoother two step process. You are now able to make 
 more accurate pitches without the risk of throwing a meat ball. Hitting has also been refined this 
 year. Using the hit stick feels more fluent than it ever has before. There is now an option to 
 choose the direction of your hit with the left stick, this adds more excitement to hitting. Although 
 sometimes fielding feels unresponsive, it is able to hold up through the course of a game. The 
 throwing meter adds more of a challenge to the game, that most people will like. Gameplay is much 
 better than it ever has been in MLB 2K9.
  
  The graphics look great in ths game. Stadiums look amiazing, and the grass and dirt look as they 
 should. Player models and animations also have improved in this years game. Most of the games all 
 stars look like themselves in the game, while other lower tier players have generic faces. Colision 
 detection is mostly non existant during the game. Players on the feild will run through other players, 
 umpires, and even the outfield wall from time to time. If you can over look the issues, you will 
 be able to find a great looking game.
  
  All of the game modes in 2K9 really haven't changed from other installments in the series. You 
 have your basic quickplay, franchise, playoffs, and homerun durby. All of these modes are still 
 great, even though little has been done to improve them. Franchise mode is similar to the one found 
 in NBA 2K9. All of the options you wolud expect to have are in there including MLB. com. Overall, 
 it is alot of fun to manage your own team. Even though not alot of new modes were added to 2K9, 
 all of them are still fun. 
  
  One of the biggest things that 2K needed to get rid of was the brodcast team of John Miller and 
 Joe Morgan. Both of them are great broadcasters, but they were getting really old to listen to. 
 Most of there commentary was recycled from prievious games. Gary Thorne and Steve Phillips bring 
 a fresh new voice to the series. Both of them bring a revolutionary way of calling the game. It 
 will sound like you are listening to an actual game. The soundtrack in this game is a nice mix 
 of songs. All of them fit into the game. MLB 2K9 has improved in the sound department. 
  
  Overall MLB 2K9 is really the first basesball game on the XBOX 360 that can compare to Sony's MLB 
 The Show franchise. Even though bugs might hinder the gameplay at some moments, MLB 2K9 is really 
 fun to play. Any fan ranging frome die hard to casual will realy enjoy this game. If you own a 
 XBOX 360 there is no reason why you should overlook MLB 2K9.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ridethepiggy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 11:08 am PT
Review:  Overall: 6.5
  Baseball. Green fresh-cut grass, clear blue sky, the smell of clean dirt, and smokin' hot dogs. 
 This is what defines baseball. 2KSports' MLB 2K9 encompasses all of these (except the hot dogs. 
 I don't think that feature is available) but not much more. Aside from the basic extra inning additions 
 to a baseball title, being Home-Run Derby and Practice mode, there isn't anything exciting going 
 on in the game. This holds back what could have been a solid hit and instead leaves us with a dibbler 
 to second base. I doubt we'll be outrunning the throw to first on this one.
  
  Presentation: 8
  The most prominent feature of MLB 2K9; the presentation is genuine. While playing 
 on an HDTV, you'll feel as if you're really inside the ballpark rooting on your favorite team. 
 The grass looks fantastic; you can almost see the individual blades. Stadiums are well-defined 
 and as accurate as possible. Even the crowd is believable, which in sports games is usually a significant 
 flaw. As you blast (or watch your pitcher give up) your first homerun you'll quickly notice how 
 the fans predict where the ball will land and a small group of them will attempt to catch it. Small, 
 yes, but it gives you a more realistic feel every time you send one yard. The only graphical issue 
 I've been bothered by is the menu system. Taken from any other 2K9 title (NBA, NHL, etc) it's generic 
 and rehashed for this title. Given, that means you'll already know how to navigate them without 
 peril this also translates into the same issues I ran into when playing NBA2K9. They're quick but 
 boring and ugly.
  
  Baseball is one of the quietest sports games out there. Announcers in previous baseball games tend 
 to be boring and cannot give the exciting commentary you'd receive in a NFL title. There are lots 
 of down times when you're treated to a dead silence especially when you're on the mound. From time 
 to time, Gary Thorne and Steve Miller (our new broadcast team) will chime in with statistics and 
 little known facts about a player or team. Although the broadcast team is boring, the sounds from 
 the crowd and on the field keep you alive and ready to go. There are signature stadium chants, 
 such as the Tomahawk Chop at Turner Field in Atlanta, that bring that realistic experience to life 
 yet again. The crack of the bat when hitting a homerun maybe a little over-done but when I hear 
 it I'm already yelling and jumping out of my Lazyboy!
  
  Gameplay: 5
  Few changes were introduced this time around for 2K9. Since last year's integration of the stick 
 system for fielding, battling, and pitching worked out very well, 2KSports decided to keep it around 
 and just tweak it to better suit this year's title. Mainly, simplifications of the gesture system 
 for pitching and base running controls are both a very welcome change. If you're new to the gesture 
 system the basic idea is similar to that of Skate's board controls or stick movements in games 
 like NBA Live 09. The motion you create will determine the pitch according to the current pitcher's 
 repertoire. Fielding is much more real, players pick up (or fumble) grounders according to the 
 ball position, outfielders have to call each other off otherwise there could be collisions, the 
 throw meter is improved and 2K added the ability for a "quick throw", which has the probability 
 for more errors but is necessary when timing is essential (see: double plays) and now you can pump 
 fake or hold throws when needed. But enough about defense, we're all excited for changes to the 
 offense! The batting mechanics themselves are the same but the distribution of hits, improved bunting, 
 and the implementation of "influence batting" (which allows you to control whether you are trying 
 for a fly ball or grounder using the left stick during a swing) take a good batting system and 
 make it great.
  
  Replayability: 6
  Franchise mode is the defining characteristic of the single-player experience. Solid all-around, 
 it covers everything that we've seen in previous 2K titles. Trades, free agents, a clean calendar 
 system and inclusion of AAA, AA, and A-league baseball are all there. There aren't fancy frills 
 or extras to play with but this is baseball through-and-through. Some may find it boring in time 
 but I've found the greatest experience in franchise mode is taking my American League team of choice 
 against a friend's National League team in hopes to meet up in the World Series and face-off in 
 a seven game series to the death!
  
  Other attractions are Home Run Derby, Living Rosters, player cards and the all-powerful Xbox Live. 
 Home Run Derby has two modes, one of which is good. First, you're introduced in the usual single-elimination, 
 fight to the finish HRD mode. Then there's Best of the Best mode which sounds great but the execution 
 was piss-poor. The idea is to become the best of 20 MLB superstars in the HRD and to do this you'll 
 face each one in a face-to-face matchup to see who can hit the most homeruns. You'll do this twenty 
 times. It's tiring and not worth anything aside from the achievement. Living Rosters is a feature 
 that has been passed-through all 2KSports titles now and it may be one of the best things we could 
 have added to sports games. While connected online the game will recognize player movement in real 
 life and update the rosters via updates within a few days! This keeps the teams fresh and up-to-date 
 without the hassle of trading and moving the players around yourself. Players cards are the same 
 as we've seen before, you acquire them through feats as you play through franchise, season or exhibition 
 play until you eventually gather enough cards to create-a-team of superstars (for achievements) . 
 Now, Xbox Live is where replayability is factored in the greatest. The ability to play in online 
 leagues or challenge other players to single games can always bring back any baseball fans to this 
 game over and over.
  
  Story: N/A
  Unless you're crazy enough to create your own story timeline for your created player there isn't 
 much of a story here!
  
  Multiplayer: 7
  Head to head exhibition games and Xbox Live deliver a great multiplayer environment but my true 
 passion is playing in multiplayer franchise mode. As with any sports games, there is no greater 
 glory than defeated the other team unless that other team happens to be a friend who always tells 
 you that the Cubs will win the World Series this year. Taking down the opposition with the opportunity 
 to rub it in for days after will always leave a smile on your face.
  
  
  (Contents of this review are my work also hosted on http://dirtytruth. wordpress. com - Real Reviews 
 by Real Gamers) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jp4202006
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 3:52 pm PT
Review:  With the latest appearance of MLB 09: The Show, Gamespot has been increasingly biased towards an 
 anti-360, pro-PS3 agenda. Let's point out a few things...
  
  In MLB 2K9, developer 2K Sports has taken a much more different approach from last year, making 
 many positive (albeit a few negative) changes.
  
  The first and most noticeable is the pitching mechanics. While the controls are dumbed down to 
 using the Right stick in 2 general directions, it does make pitching much more smoother and much 
 less frustrating. Gamespot reviewer Brett Todd tries to point out that the catcher frames his glove 
 where he wants you to pitch, which is usually in a dumb location. What Todd doesn't mention is 
 that changing the catcher's location is a sinch, and even still, this is hardly an issue.
  
  Hitting is also much less strenuous this time around. Rather than the step-and-drive controls 
 from last year, you only need to hold the Right stick back, then shove it forward to hit. You can 
 also direct where you want the ball to be hit. (In the air, on the ground, left/right and so on.) 
 This does simplify the game, but not to a fault.
  
  Gamers usually complain about the hitters being too powerful in MLB 2K9. Of course, they can always 
 work with the sliders to even out this issue. Is this more evidence of Americans being extremely 
 lazy? Might be better not to think about it.
  
  Fielding is worlds better in this years game, though it is still far from perfect. Infielders being 
 a tad lazy can be frustrating, but the 1st Basemen this year actually stretch out for the ball 
 every single time to catch fast runners. Double plays are a breeze, and are very realistic. Runners 
 WILL take out the fielder relaying the ball to first, and the fielders WILL gun the ball to both 
 bags. Outfielding is less of an issue, as they do what they should. They will get under the ball, 
 and fire it back to the diamond with authority.
  
  Running is improved this year as well. Instead of the ridiculous stealing controls from last year, 
 you simply lead with L and then hold L to get ready to steal. When you want to head to second, 
 you let go. Easy, right?
  
  All in all, 2K9 is under-appreciated and underrated. A 4.5? Really Gamespot? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camsk8er91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 5:46 pm PT
Review:  With the latest appearance of MLB 09: The Show, Gamespot has been increasingly biased towards an 
 anti-360, pro-PS3 agenda. Let's point out a few things...
  
  In MLB 2K9, developer 2K Sports has taken a much more different approach from last year, making 
 many positive (albeit a few negative) changes. 
  
  The first and most noticeable is the pitching mechanics. While the controls are dumbed down to 
 using the Right stick in 2 general directions, it does make pitching much more smoother and much 
 less frustrating. Gamespot reviewer Brett Todd tries to point out that the catcher frames his glove 
 where he wants you to pitch, which is usually in a dumb location. What Todd doesn't mention is 
 that changing the catcher's location is a sinch, and even still, this is hardly an issue.
  
  Hitting is also much less strenuous this time around. Rather than the step-and-drive controls 
 from last year, you only need to hold the Right stick back, then shove it forward to hit. You can 
 also direct where you want the ball to be hit. (In the air, on the ground, left/right and so on.) 
 This does simplify the game, but not to a fault. 
  
  Gamers usually complain about the hitters being too powerful in MLB 2K9. Of course, they can always 
 work with the sliders to even out this issue. Is this more evidence of Americans being extremely 
 lazy? Might be better not to think about it.
  
  Fielding is worlds better in this years game, though it is still far from perfect. Infielders being 
 a tad lazy can be frustrating, but the 1st Basemen this year actually stretch out for the ball 
 every single time to catch fast runners. Double plays are a breeze, and are very realistic. Runners 
 WILL take out the fielder relaying the ball to first, and the fielders WILL gun the ball to both 
 bags. Outfielding is less of an issue, as they do what they should. They will get under the ball, 
 and fire it back to the diamond with authority. 
  
  Running is improved this year as well. Instead of the ridiculous stealing controls from last year, 
 you simply lead with L and then hold L to get ready to steal. When you want to head to second, 
 you let go. Easy, right? 
  
  All in all, 2K9 is under-appreciated and underrated. A 4.5? Really Gamespot?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonedef66
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 1:24 pm PT
Review:  
  If it's one I hate when it comes to critic reviews of games, is that often times a game is only 
 measured in comparison to its competition. I owned both MLB 2k8 and MLB The Show last year, and 
 although yes, MLB The and Sony has nailed the look and features needed to make it the top dog in 
 baseball gaming, it always left me feeling like I was playing a sim and going through a grind.... a 
 162 game grind.
  
  MLB 2k9 is not 2k8. It's been rebuilt from the ground up and in some ways it's a good thing, but 
 it shows in other ways that it's flawed. Some examples are, players on the field can walk right 
 through each other and sometimes disappear. The AI can frustrating and inconsistent, but all these 
 things are likely to be addressed in a patch that has been announced to be released by opening 
 day.
  
  With that being said, these things aren't really noticeable to the casual gamer. In my opinion 
 2k8 should never have been released and I've actually read online there is a class action lawsuit 
 against the developers for even releasing such a piece of garbage deeming it "unplayable" which 
 was very much deserved. But in NO WAY, is MLB 2k9 worse than 2k8. 
  
  Playability: 8.00
  This game has come a long way from 2k8 and I find it not only to be a fun game, but also highly 
 addictive. Now that Visual Concepts has nailed the analog pitching, batting, and partially fielding, 
 it feels like you're playing a game of baseball as opposed to pushing buttons for a simulated result. 
 Fielding has some issues if you raise the difficulty, but nothing that can't be fixed with some 
 sliders. I give props to the 2k team for making this part of the game accessible for anyone picking 
 up a controller. However,. there are frustrating times when either the 1st basemen pulls his foot 
 off the bag on an easy out, or the fielder completely misses the ball on a routine fly creating 
 a triple of inside park homerun. With a little practice in fielding in the practice mode, it becomes 
 easier. 
  
  Sound: 9
  A: The presentation and commentary in 2k9 is 2nd to none, with the new additions of Gary Thorne 
 and Steve Phillips and they really make you feel like you're watching a baseball game. The commentary 
 is much more accurate than John Miller and Joe Morgan (who offered decent commentary) and they 
 seem to have something to say at the right times offering opinions and analysis. Although after 
 a couple games, it seemed like Steve Philips wouldn't shut up and had something to say on every 
 pitch, but that's just me. I play mostly sports games, and the commentary is the best I've heard 
 in a sports game yet.
  
  B: Not a great soundtrack here and it was on the edge of making my "worst game sountracks" list, 
 but after I turned off a handful of them and starting hearing some of the more modern ones, it 
 became decent.
  
  Graphics: 7.5
  I've read reviews where they claim the graphics look great (XPlay on G4) , and I've read reviews 
 that said the graphics are horrible (Gamespot) . Overall I think the game has been scaled back from 
 previous titles because it was causing a lot of frame-rate issues, but I think 2k did a pretty 
 good job of what they had to work with. If you think about their decision to make this game run 
 at 60 frames per second, you can put 2 and 2 together and clearly see they had to take a step back 
 graphics wise to make this possible. Gone are the player jerseys flapping awkwardly in the wind, 
 but 2k replaced one awkward idea with another by creating some cheesy dust clouds. (What were they 
 thinking?)
  
  Entertainment: 8
  This game is just plain fun. The new additions are a nice touch, with MLB Headlines, Top 3 Plays, 
 Player Specific Replays, and the Rosters Live that tracks every player move major or minor. Also 
 you can upload user created Sliders, user created Replays, and you can save and upload your own 
 with a replay editor similar to the one in NBA 2k9. I think all these new additions get overlooked 
 because they are a carry-over from NBA 2k9, but are they are all still nice additions. The stats 
 are deep with something called saber metrics that track everything that a baseball stat geek would 
 want to know on a player. 
  
  Replay Value: 8
  If you're a gamer who likes to play multiple 162 game seasons in Franchise, then you may want to 
 be prepared to play some frustrating games and see some bugs which would lower your own replay 
 value. This game isn't perfect, but nowhere close to the garbage 2k put out last year with 2k8. 
 Like I mentioned before, 2k9 already has a 2nd Patch that is in the works set to release by opening 
 day. So if you're a casual baseball fan who wants to play a fun and entertaining baseball game, 
 MLB 2k9 can deliver with addictive analog controls, lifelike commentary, and a decent franchise 
 mode. Just don't settle for The Show because it got better reviews, and don't ignore 2k9 because 
 of horrible reviews such as Gamespots, I play different games for different reasons that satisfy 
 my own personal experience. You should do the same.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zack8
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 11, 2009 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Well all I can say is that MLB 2K9 is a big disappointment in the world of baseball. Ever since 
 2K9 bought the MLB series the games have been nothing but disappointing. The main problems I have 
 is that the game is completely unrealistic. I played 13 games on all-star difficulty and never 
 lost or won by less than 5. Also in those 13 games I had 18 home run's with David Ortiz and also 
 35 runs batted in. That is ridiculous. If i finished the entire season like that I could almost 
 hit 200 Home Runs. When will that ever happen in baseball? Never. I also think there are a lot 
 of glitches. I have also had the problem of the left fielder disappearing in the monster and not 
 coming back out while the runner ended up at third. Also the glitch when sometimes the fielders 
 won't put their hands up to catch the ball until after the ball goes by them. Ever since 2k9 took 
 over making mlb baseball it has been nothing but a joke. Still to date I have to say that the greatest 
 baseball game I have ever played was MVP Baseball 2005! And I hope that in the near future MVP 
 baseball will return so I can enjoy a good baseball game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGreen15LA
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Major League Baseball 2K9 has the potential to be an instant classic. But with so many glaring 
 flaws and bugs, it makes this game nearly unplayable. Just playing one exhibition game can cause 
 enough frustration to cover the span of an entire season. Some frustration brought on by a game 
 is merited... this however is just rediculous. 
  
  Pitching and fielding are hands down my biggest issue against the game. I can't even count how 
 many times I've had a fielder stand directly underneath a simple fly ball, perfectly placed within 
 the yellow target, and watch the ball hit the ground as if the fielder wasn't even there. Throwing 
 to a fielder also seems broken. Maybe it's just me, but an outfielder throwing a rocket just to 
 simply get a ball back in on an easy base hit when there is no need makes no sense. Yet on the 
 flip side, when one wants to turn a double play, the infielder tosses a slow pitch softball lob. 
 Yes, baseball is a game of timing, but this is just not right.
  
  Pitching-wise, it takes some getting used to. I personally am not a big fan of using the analog 
 stick to determine what my pitch will be and where it will go as even a minor movement off kilter 
 could lead to a disaster. But baseball is a game of precision and in actuality, if a curveball 
 is off by even a mere inch, it could wind up in the seats. Getting to the point, I used the classic 
 mode, but if feels sloppy. And I enjoyed the payoff pitch from 2K8. Maybe it is in 2K9 but I've 
 yet to see it. 
  
  Batting, at first, feels too easy. And from other reviews that I've seen, it isn't uncommon to 
 hit an ungodly amount of homeruns. Maybe this is a referrence to the steroid era, but come on... 
 Thankfully, this can be countered by adjusting the game's difficulty sliders. However, the Home 
 Run Derby is quite fun and feels alot more substantial than in games past.
  
  A minor issue... well, big issue to me... is the fact that you can't edit a player's stance or 
 pitches. What the heck!? In almost every baseball game for the better part of a decade allows that. 
 Why not here? And don't get me wrong, most players have their proper stances and body types. In 
 fact, the player models are one of the game's bright points. But the option to tweak a player's 
 appearance should be there.
  
  All in all, unless this game recieves a serious patch, youd be better off hanging onto MLB 2K8. 
 While this game looks better, so many glaring flaws detract from what could've been amazing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jweb24
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2009 3:13 pm PT
Review:  First off I admit it isn't as good as MLB 09: The Show , but it isn't awful. I've experienced very 
 few bugs. Catching was a problem at first but when I got under a fly ball the fielder kinda went 
 into place automatically to catch the ball. ( as long as i didn't move the controller too much) 
 The first baseman stayed on base as long as I didn't overthrow the ball or, again, hold the controller 
 too much one way or the other. Hitting and pitching wasn't a problem for me as it was for others. 
 You can get good games from 2k9 just ADJUST SETTINGS TO YOUR LIKING. The game graphics are great 
 , living roster feature is good and the commentating is just some of the stuff you'd hear watching 
 a baseball game on TV. The game modes are good, but not as good as MLB 09 The Show. The bugs in 
 the game for me were few and far between and didn't have an effect on the outcome of the games 
 I've played. The AI is smarter than last year and overall gameplay is up to you. I admit adjusting 
 sliders can be annoying but for this game you might want to adjust the sliders to your liking. 
 
  A few bugs aside, adjusting gameplay can do wonders. for 2K9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piercetruth34
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2009 8:55 am PT
Review:  This game is not terrible. People slamming this game are crazy. It's a fun game. 2k though has 
 been releasing their games in unfinished ways and this game is no different. The AI needs an overhaul 
 and needs to be tightened up a bit. The game doesnt appear finished. But it does some things quite 
 well. The core gameplay is fun. The presentation is bordering on excellent. The player models could 
 use some work. It has quite a few nice features that were taken over from nba 2k9. Get yourself 
 some sliders and its a decent game and could be really good if they iron out a lot of issues next 
 year. It's not the show and not as good but it does some things in its own right that i think make 
 it a fun game. I personally think this game is on par with the show 08 and if it was released last 
 year it would be getting 9's. It just needs some ironing nad bells and whistles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalsePlacebo
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2009 9:14 am PT
Review:  First off gamespots score of a 4.5 is way WAY off for this game. While I read there review I haven't 
 ran into as many glitches as they say there are. Granted when I first booted up the game I downloaded 
 an update for it so maybe they played an older version? Anyways the glitches I have happened upon...
 
  -The first base glitch, VERY annoying and seems to happen about 2-3 times a game, fortunately 
 the AI isn't immune to it as I first thought.
  -Outfielder booting, I run into this maybe once every 2 or 3 games when my outfielder just drops 
 a ball, kicks a ground ball, or just plain misplays where it will land (despite the marker looking 
 like i'm in the right place) . Granted most of the time this happens its thanks to Ryan Raburn who 
 I presume has a below average fielder rating. 
  -2nd base pickoff, I haven't heard anyone else comment on this but I seem to be able to pick a 
 runner off at 2nd base like 80% of the time.. weird.
  Those glitches not withstanding, if you take the time to adjust your sliders (which is true for 
 ANY sports game) there is some fun to be had, personally I toned down the hitting (this was after 
 losing to the white sox 17-14 in a game with 53 combined hits, I play as the tigers btw) and since 
 then the game is a bit more realistic. I'm still trying to find the ideal settings for what I feel 
 is a great balance and i'll post the settings if I find them. 
  My bottom line is this, if you've got a PS3 then don't even consider 2K9 as the show is a far superior 
 product, if like me you've only got a 360 (my friend has the ps3) and need your yearly baseball 
 fix then spend some time tailoring the settings to what you feel is more realistic if you want 
 the sim feel, or leave them alone if you want more of the arcade style, and hope for another update 
 to fix the glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewhawk
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 8:44 am PT
Review:  I am so very mad right now. I was really hoping for a great baseball game for the Xbox 360 this 
 year. I was hoping that 2K sports would improve on everything that was wrong in past iterations 
 of this series. Instead, however, they made just about everything worse. 
  Let's look at the good first.. um not much to think of here. The franchise and options are all there 
 and the players models look great. The pitcher batter interface in ok. They got rid of the ugly 
 cloth physics. 
  Now the bad. Grass textures are very sloppy. Besides animations being as choppy as Lake Michigan, 
 the game is almost unplayable in the fielding aspect. In one game alone, a routine ground ball 
 hit to my shortstop was thrown to first base only to not have my first baseman's foot off the bag.. this 
 happened 4 times in one game.. unacceptable. My outfielders would miss easy catches because they 
 could not position themselves due to the terrible controls. It almost seems they made the baserunners 
 run to fast for a realistic baseball experience. Runners routinely beat out easy groundballs to 
 first base. 
  This game actually made me buy a PS3 because I love playing baseball games and the Show 09 kills 
 this game in every aspect. I hope maybe Microsoft will internally develop a baseball game again 
 sometime soon to get a little more competition in this sector. Sadly, 360 owners are out of luck 
 with this poor offering from 2k sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BallOBaseSimmer
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 4:20 am PT
Review:  Back when the loss of the MLB licence meant the premature end of EA Sports' MVP series, 2K tried 
 to be the great new hope of video game baseball. But in the time since they have only delivered 
 eye candy and very little in the way of realism or innovative game play.
  
  Last year's 08 volume had a bewildering pitching interface that was unwieldy to say the least. 
 Now in 09 the old bugs are new again in that they turn this into an arcade game with little respect 
 for fans of old school simulation before the stat juiced days of 3D game AI. 
  
  On the 360, 2K dresses up 09 to please the eye but it won't put out a believable game of ball to 
 match its visuals. And the PC version may be worse since spec requirements are too high for a console 
 port. Cheaper PC prices are often a giveaway to bargain bin quality.
  
  Newer games that don't live up to hype remind me why I kept all my old titles before gaming monopolies 
 limited consumer choice. In a bad economy, what's new isn't always what's best these days. Want 
 better video game baseball? Dust off your old game gear instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffwilkes
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 9, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  
  the graphics are where they need to be. 
  
  the live roster update is very cool, especially this time of year. later in the year it wont matter, 
 so thats a wash.
  
  
  THE BAD
  
  WAAAAAAAAY too many errors. im averaging 2 per game. (the most occuring one is the 1st baseman 
 is pulled off the bag 2 times a game.)
  
  bugs galore... too many to list.
  
  it wont let you view the opp. line up (batting order) during the game... e. g. to see which slot 
 is batting. to see whom ur facing... you have to throw a pitch. watch the review to see the guy's 
 number. then go to the box score... and right click (on 360) the guys name to bring up his "player 
 card" and search for the number there... thats insane... 
  
  i didnt buy 08... and now i wish i didnt buy 09... im very disapointed in this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjl259
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 11:30 pm PT
Review:  First off, the GS reviewer did a piss-poor job of reviewing this game - rating it as a measly 4.5; 
 this game deserves much more credit and respect, as it is much, much better than mlb 2k8.
  
  Also - To the people complaining about the outfielders missing the ball: DONT MOVE THE STICK 
 RIGHT BEFORE THE BALL LANDS!!! You dont need to "center" the outfielder over the landing circle 
 - just get near it and let the game do its own thing based on the fielder's rating
  
  Heres the quick low-down:
  
  -------Pitching -------
  The PLus side
  - The improved stick 
 controls have been mastered as far as I'm concerned - thats right 2k8 patrons, no more meatballs!
 
  - AI is better at making contact, meaning realistic K and hit totals at the end of games.
  - The pitcher animations, styles, and mannerisms are everything mlb 2k7, and 2k8 wish they were 
 (Tim Lincecum is a Baller!) .
  - Realistic pitch ratings and pitcher-specific "specialty" pitches are all present! 
  
  THe 
 DownsiDE
  - Its friggin hard to throw a no-hitter; Ive tried diligently for about 14 games now and have gotten 
 close, but they've frequently been broken up by a impossible hit by the opposing pitcher or low-rated 
 player off the bench - very frustrating
  - Sometimes its too hard to strike people out with the best pitchers in the game when it shouldn't 
 be difficult.
  
  -----Hitting ------
  The UpSIDe
  - NO MORE EVER FREQUENT WALL CLIMB ROBBERIES! 
  - The hits and sound effects are very gratifying 
 as the controller vibrates when you square up a ball real good
  -Decent hitting controls
  
  THe DoWnSide
  - EVEn MORE HOME RUNS BY THE USER THAN THE PREVIOUS YEARS!
  - Hits are too 
 numerous - but the difficulty sliders do help alot
  - There is a little bit of lag online when batting - though not as bad as 2k8
  
  ------Fielding --------
 
  The UPSide
  - Perfect throwing meters!
  - Good animations and diving plays
  - Very very rare wall-climb catches is a big plus
  
  The DOwnSide
  - Mentally challenged 
 first-basemen (stepping off the bag on routine throws)
  - Mentally challenged outfielders (in terms of catching ability)
  
  ------OVERALL ---------
 
  - The "living roster" feature is AWESOME! the roster automatically updates/syncs with the real 
 mlb rosters frequently (meaning 4+ times a week, keeping your rosters and player stats up-to-date) 
 THis feature will also help replayablilty
  - The new menus are nice, neat, and simple.
  - Home Run derby presentation is much better as its just like a tv broadcast of it.
  - More "real" 
 rookies and minor leaguers
  - The graphics and player/stadium models are very good - subtle differences and enhances lighting 
 makes this better than 2k8, but not quite as good as 2k7.
  - horrible and slightly comical nintendo 64-esque dust "puffs" kick up as runners pass over the 
 dirt - which is ridiculous and mind-boggling 2k sports production crew okayed this silly detail
 
  - The "trading card" feature is back - an awesome feature i enjoyed from mlb 2k8
  
  That said, MLB 2k9 is a good baseball game I'd rate as a B-, as there are irritating bugs here 
 and there, but not even close to the degree that 2k8 had. For example, moving a fielder, even slightly, 
 right before the ball falls will almost always lead to them dropping it, and simple infield throws 
 from third to first will often result in infield singles as the first baseman makes no attempt 
 to get back on the bag if he steps off.
  
  In fact, the only aspect of the gameplay that is more difficult this year is fielding - due to 
 the bugs - and the AI is better at hitting for contact, resulting in numerous base hits, creating 
 more action and realism.
  In previous installments of this game, it was almost rare for the computer to get more than 6 hits 
 a game, where as now, sometimes I've experienced the computer getting as many as 14 hits off me 
 and I've yet to throw a no-hitter after numerous valiant attempts. 
  
  All in all, MLB 2k9 is a solid, good-looking baseball game worth a rent at the very least. The 
 "living-roster" is the coolest sports sim innovative feature which will help keep redundancy to 
 a minimum and replayability to the max. Perhaps mlb 2k10 will be the perfection year for 2k to 
 nail this game, finally! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lawman9485
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 6:27 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K9 is a hard one for me to review. because on one hand I really do like 2K9 and on the other 
 hand is does some things that make me scratch my head sometimes. I've always been a buyer of both 
 games and I do like both 2K9 and MLB: The Show 09 again for different reasons. I'll keep this to 
 a minimum review by just concentrating on some of pros and cons that I've encountered so far.
 
  
  PROS: 
  Batting is better i think this year in some ways (this is one feature I have listed as Pro and 
 Con)
  
  Pitching is more forgiving. no more meaballs
  
  The sliders. Again I can't say how this changes the overall experience of the game when you find 
 the right sliders the game becomes so much better.
  
  Cons:
  Batting is better this year especially with tweaking of sliders (but I don't like the bat maybe 
 it has to grow on me)
  
  Pickoffs I think are too easy... right now. Ex: Jimmy Rollins has been picked off all three times 
 he's tried to take 2nd base and thats on breaking balls that he's running on.
  
  A. I. Batters are way too aggressive... Way to aggressive to swing. I took Cole Hamels into the 
 9th with only 38 pitches thrown and Brett Myers into the 9th with 42 pitches thrown. They swing 
 at everything. But having said that... find some good sliders online and it does somewhat reduce 
 that especially if you pitch to the corners, off the plate... etc.
  
  
  Overall I do like my experience so far with 2K9... i think it can definitely improve but so could 
 a lot of games. I think the graphics are overall better this year. The player faces still look 
 somewhat off i think but i think the stadiums are better along with the crowd animations. The commentating 
 is good but repetitive but I dont have too much of a problem with that since most commentating 
 in games is repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiisawesome
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I completely disagree with the extremely harsh score of 4.5 that Gamespot gave this game. It is 
 not anywhere near as bad as they say it is. The stadiums are gorgeous, the commentary is great, 
 but the game play on the other hand is where this game hurts the most. The hitting is pretty much 
 the exact same as 2k8 but the step makes no difference. The only complaint is you have WAY too 
 much influence over where the ball ends up. I played an entire game where all my hits were either 
 pop ups to the outfield or home runs. I have no complaints for pitching other than sometimes the 
 ball goes nowhere where you want it even though you hit the spot perfectly. Fielding on the other 
 hand is simply awful. The outfielders don't even attempt to run over 30%, shortstops don't even 
 go for the ball, and first basemen just walk away from the base. If 2K can send an update to fix 
 these bugs, I would give this game at least a 9. Menus are fine, franchise mode is pretty much 
 the same, and all the standard modes are in there. This game is great minus the bugs that just 
 make this game ok, not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 6:56 am PT
Review:  Once again, 2K has given us a sub-par game. From the surface, this game looks, and seems amazing, 
 but once you dive into it....... you see it's true colors.
  
  Players running through outfield walls, fielders missing balls hit right to them, the firstbaseman 
 getting pulled off the bag OVER AND OVER AND OVER, not to mention the hundreds of home runs you 
 will end up with at the end of a season, all lead to missing out on a great experience.
  
  Sure, you can change, not fix, some of these problems with slider settings, but at the end of the 
 day, this is strike three for 2K Baseball. Buggy play, L A G G Y online, if a broken game is what 
 you are looking for, pick this up!
  
  PROS:
  
  Nice graphics
  Stadiums look great
  Announcers are dead on 90% of the time
  Living rosters are AWESOME!
  Decent soundtrack
  
 
  
  CONS:
  
  Watered down franchise mode
  Plenty of BUGS
  Poor online game play
  Have to spend to much time with sliders to get close to a good game set up
  Bugs
  Glitches
 
  Bugs
  More Bugs...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivymen2000
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 7, 2009 5:22 am PT
Review:  This game is by far one of the worst next generation sports titles ever. Its almost like the 2k 
 development team did not do anything over the past year or so. On the default difficulty you can 
 own the computer and just about everyone in the lineup can hit a home run no matter where its pitched. 
 And on the highest difficulty the computer doesn't ever take a pitch. Instead they swing at basically 
 every single pitch in the strike zone and murder the ball. But the problem of the computer not 
 taking pitches exist on every level and is very hard to fix even when you adjust the sliders. I've 
 mad it through 4 or 5 innings while not throwing more than 3 to 4 pitches per inning. There are 
 also an insane amount of errors on the cpu's part as well as the human player. The only other mode 
 that i have dabbled with is home run derby. Home run derby is so easy I had to try to get out to 
 end my turn. Just a very unrealistic game and I would suggest not buying this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redsox89524
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 6, 2009 10:08 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2k9 is the same thing that everyone has come to expect from 2k lately, broken crap. 2k9 has 
 the potential to be a great baseball sim, but it is marred by bugs that keep it from being anything 
 more than a last resort for xbox 360 owners. there are so many bugs that keep this game from being 
 great, like the outfielders dropping routine fly balls, first basemen coming off the bag for no 
 reason, or fielders not throwing the ball when you want them to. home runs seem to fly out like 
 crazy no matter what difficulty your on and when the computer hits a fly ball to the outfield your 
 fielders rarely catch the ball unless its hit right at them because they slow down after the first 
 two steps they take. While this game will definitely be enjoyable with some patches, its amazing 
 2k shipped a game that is so broken. Yet another year of disappointment from a game that had the 
 potential to be a great installment in the 2k franchise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valpojim
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:15 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K9 could be a great game if not for a few flaws. The good the pitching and batting interfaces 
 are excellent. For the most part the graphics are very good. The basic game play is fun and addictive 
 and true to baseball. The bad several "broken" elements hurt this game pick-offs are WAY too 
 easy, the first baseman routinely gets pulled off the base for no real reason, fielding hot grounders 
 requires too much precision, base running is hard to control. First of all, let me say use the 
 sliders to customize the game to your liking, that's why they're there  don't be lazy, take the 
 time to adjust and re-adjust them until the game plays the way you like it. I like a game that 
 yields close to realistic stats. Now as for addressing the issues... It's probably safe to say 
 that the problems I've mentioned won't get fixed until MLB 2K10 so here's what I did to try to 
 remedy the flaws Pick-offs: cranked the AI base running and stealing WAY down to 15% each and 
 upped the steal success slightly to compensate. Also, since I am playing a season with just one 
 team I edited the pick-off attribute for each of my pitchers to under 25%. So far so good. First 
 baseman getting pulled of bag, for infield grounders I throw to base with the buttons (B for first) 
 rather than the right stick. This has greatly reduced the amount of times the first baseman gets 
 pulled off the base, but it does still happen on occasion. Maybe tapping the B button again will 
 cause him to step on the base, but I can't confirm that yet. The fielding requires too much precision. 
 Nothing for this other than trying to be really careful to center my fielder in front of the ball, 
 otherwise a hot grounder will stream by to the outfield and a hard bouncer will roll past my outfielder 
 all the way to the wall. This one is requiring practice, but it's not too bad. It would be nice 
 if the fielders would reach for the grounders like they do for fly balls. For base running rather 
 than using the triggers to direct my selected runner, I use the right stick and point to the base 
 I want him to go to. This seems to work much better. After these adjustments the game is a lot 
 of fun, but of course, it would be much better if these issues were addressed and corrected by 
 the fine folks at 2K Sports. All in all I will give this game an 8.0 and because I like the pitching 
 and batting and the updated rosters and the game play is very addicting once I addressed the flaws. 
 I will begrudgingly put my MLB 2K7 away and stick with year's edition 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevans
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2009 2:56 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K9
  
  2K Sports offered up a surefire winner with NBA2K9 last year. NHL2K9 skated on thinner ice than 
 a March Break pickup league. Now comes the all important "swing" vote with Major League Baseball 
 2K9. Remember way back when 2K secured the exclusive 3rd party rights to the MLB after loosing 
 the NFL? Well here we are 5 years later, in what is supposed to be the prime of current generation 
 technology. Fair or foul? Here's what you can expect from 2K's signature game of diamond ball this 
 season.
  
  Gameplay.
  Last year was a complete write-off. The botched pitching mechanic was too cumbersome, and the hit 
 stick was still in its awkward infancy. The result was an almost unplayable game. Fixing these 
 fundamental problems was key to avoiding another disaster. 2K Sports has gone back in-house to 
 develop this year's ballgame with mixed results. For the most part 2K9 plays very well. You'll 
 be pleased to know that the pitching is much improved and is actually fun. A combination of the 
 left analogue stick to target your pitch and the right analogue stick to execute a particular type 
 is somewhat challenging at first. Lucky the game guides you through how to flick your right stick 
 to deliver those devastating curves and overpowering heaters. Making a good pitch means combining 
 the proper motion on the right stick in conjunction with the power meter that fills during your 
 windup. It doesn't take too long to get this mechanic down and it does add something above and 
 beyond your typical button press (which is still available in the menu options) .
  Hitting also uses the right analogue stick to swing the bat, but with far less intuition and "skill". 
 A basic down up motion on the right stick produces anything from an infield dribbler to an upper 
 deck homer. Success with hitting depends on anticipating the pitch and timing your contact accordingly. 
 The hitter's eye is back in this game but does add much to the experience. MLB2K9 feels like an 
 offensive-minded game out of the box. I say that because the game does offer a nice library of 
 sliders to adjust gameplay. In fact the inclusion of such AI adjusters is a strong selling point 
 for a game that has some issues at default.
  Bat on ball physics are lacking. There really seems to be no apparent rhyme or reason as to what 
 constitutes a homerun, a fly out or a ground ball. A few times I swung at a pitch very low the 
 strike zone only to fly out. Upon watching the slow motion replay and zooming in on the bat at 
 the point of contact confirmed that I did swing overtop of the pitch (by a lot) . I'm certainly 
 no scientist, but basic rules of the universe would dictate a grounder, but instead magically produced 
 a sky-high pop up to the pitcher. The result is a batting system that feels very arbitrary.
  MLB2K9's biggest flaws have to do with inconsistent fielding and player behavior. Lets begin with 
 the infield. The biggest issue I had with infielding is the throwing meter which powers up the 
 longer you hold the intended base button (or stick direction) down. Anything shy of a split second 
 tap results in a laser beam across the diamond. It would have been nice to have more variation. 
 The act of scooping a ground ball and transitioning into a throw feels somewhat unresponsive. Players 
 will lock into animations (which is fine) but stutter to transition into another one - creating 
 some very ugly and unrealisticly slow throws. The first baseman misses tagging the base far too 
 often on routine relays. Infielders are often confused on whether or not to go after balls hit 
 clearly in their direction. A number of times my SS and 2B stood and watched a playable roller 
 scurry past by without flinching.
  The outfield suffers from this same confusion from time to time where it feels like there is a 
 4th invisible player calling them off. Luckily this does not happen all too often. What does happen 
 on far too many fly balls into the gap or down the line is a strange pre-calculation to the outfielder's 
 running speed. If a ball is not hit directly at an outfielder you'll see him move at just enough 
 speed so that his catch remains outstretched. This "just in time" catching animation system could 
 be for dramatic effect, but ultimately it does not capture how fielders would perform in real life. 
 The slo-motion run needs to be patched so that more often than not the player will get to the ball 
 and be in a better position to make an appropriate catch. Outfielders only seem to know how to 
 cannon the ball back to the infield - even in situations that require the softest of touches. Making 
 a routine fly ball catch with the bases empty still produce what looks like an attempt to throw 
 someone out trying to tag up. All in all you will find a handful of situations in which your players 
 will not react as they would in real life, and for those who demand a true sports simulation, will 
 find that is enough to take you out of the experience. The sluggish defense is hard to get past. 
 Gameplay = 6.5/10.
  
  Graphics.
  First lets go over what is good about MLB2K9's visuals. The stadiums are very well designed and 
 executed. While there are a few small examples of architectural inaccuracy, overall their scale 
 and attention to detail remains very high. The "personality" of each stadium, for lack of a better 
 word, is present and accounted for. Little details like the statues of legendary Tigers on the 
 left field porch at Comerica Park, to the transforming dome above the Rogers Center, 2K has done 
 an admiral job making you feel like you're right there. However, some of the textures could use 
 some more work. Everything appears to have been given a somewhat smooth and glossy look to it. 
 The lighting is pretty good. You'll be blinded by the glow of the outfield lamps during night games.
 
  The crowd is very much improved over previous installments of the series. They don't quite live 
 up to the more photorealistic rendering given to NBA2K9, but still add enough variety and visual 
 fidelity to what it happening in the game to make you feel like someone is watching.
  One area that requires a lot of attention for future editions of the series is player models  
 specifically their faces. A handful of superstar have been given the attention they deserve, and 
 most players will be at least somewhat recognizable, but there are still a majority of heads that 
 are frightening to look at. Warped jaws, sullen eyes and zombie-like facial animations are prevalent. 
 These are very notable on close-ups but not really an issue from general gameplay cameras.
  What are worse are the horrible animation transitions. This was touched upon in the gameplay portion 
 of this review because this jerky transitioning from one pre-rendered motion to another affects 
 the responsiveness of the controls, as well as hurt the eyes. There are a lot of great animations. 
 2K has done a lot of work with motion capture and the result is pretty astounding as to the variety 
 of animations in the game. They just haven't been stitched together very well. The "seams" as it 
 were are those awkward stutters, popups and sudden speed changes that take place on any given play. 
 You'll see players standing around, and then suddenly start to run for a few paces only to stop, 
 slowdown and run again. Batters will waggle the bat and the pop into their final swinging position. 
 They just look very confused and unnatural. You'll also notice players standing near a base who 
 inadvertently "skate" into the position he is supposed to be. It's a shame because the animations 
 themselves are quite good. 2K needs to spend a lot more time ironing out how they are used and 
 fit together.
  There are also some considerable collision detection issues. If you let the camera run on after 
 a play you'll often see your baserunner returning to the dugout walking through sideline coaches 
 and other players like he was Slimer from Ghostbusters. Other times you'll notice the resting arms 
 of coaches sinking through the padding on the dugout fence. Dust trails from players running the 
 basepaths are obtrusive and overdone. The clouds of dirt are generically produced with an out of 
 place blur filter that's really more of an eyesore than anything. The pitching curser is also much 
 too large and loud to fit into a true baseball sim. The overwhelming power meter should be greatly 
 reduced next season. It was a great idea to add in these presentation elements (which I'll get 
 to later) , but without the polish it almost ends up negating the effort. Graphics = 7/10.
  
  Sound.
  2K Sports has always done a great job with their audio and this year's baseball offering 
 is no different. A new commentary crew of play-by-play man Gary Thorn and color guy Steve Phillips 
 replaces Jon Miller and Joe Morgan. The result is a fresh batch of commentary with an equally high 
 level of authenticity. They have a nice variety of play calls that are accurate most of the time. 
 You will still hear the odd gaffe once in a while. On a routine double play that was perfectly 
 executed, Gary Thorn remarked "The second basement takes the ball to the bag himself and decides 
 to hold on to it. They wont get the double play". All while both base runners were out and walking 
 back to the dugout. Still their enthusiasm and delivery make them one of this game's best features.
 
  The crowd on the other had needs some more emotion and reaction to what is going on. Overall the 
 stadium sounds far too quiet  especially on sellouts. Yes the fans cheer on a hit and will boo 
 a high profile opponent when he steps to the plate, but not with enough volume and longevity. Some 
 stadiums have better fans than others, and this should be the case in the game as well. Yankee/Redsox 
 games need to sound like the heated rivalry that it is.
  The sound effects are good but not great. The echo of the ball making contact on a swing is virtually 
 the same no matter what kind of hit is occurring. The stadium music is fairly generic but fitting 
 to baseball. You'll hear the customary organ as a backdrop through most of your games. Nothing 
 really stands out and each stadium could benefit from greater personalization and variety. Sound 
 = 7/10.
  
  Presentation.
  If there is one big plus to MLB2K9 it is the "Real World Atmosphere" that gives the game a nice 
 broadcast style look. Most of the game's camera angles are well framed. The only glaring omission 
 to this is the fielding cam during gameplay that is a bit too far zoomed out. It is possible to 
 tailor the gameplay cams to have either a behind the batter or pitcher view, as well as the ability 
 to tweak the zoom and altitude for each. I really like that. The post play cameras are excellent 
 and dynamic. Watching replays from cinematic cameras with "clever" edits is a real shot in the 
 arm visually. Stat overlays and modern broadcast flare like the team hitting distribution and pitcher 
 tendency illustrations are fantastic. The commentary is progressive as well, meaning you'll hear 
 the announce team talking about the momentum and big plays that have lead up to that point in the 
 game. A nice touch. Lighting and time of day are very well done also.
  On the downside, the menu system from NBA2K9 has been ported over into MLB. This is a very confusing 
 and hard to navigate tool that needs to be modified in the future. The addition of more dynamic 
 weather effects that progress during a game would also help with the real world atmosphere.
  Post game highlights and player of the game clips are great additions that round out the broadcast 
 experience. Accompanying analysis and out of town highlights would take this a step further. Hopefully 
 2K Sports will continue to polish this very fine effort in presentation. Presentation = 8.5/10.
 
  
  Overall.
  There is a lot of value in MLB2K9 if you can get past some of the fundamental gameplay problems. 
 Living Rosters have found their way to the franchise  giving gamers weekly updates to trades, 
 injuries and performance support if you have an online connection. The Inside Edge is a good feature 
 that allows teams to purchase scouting reports of their opponents to aid them in the pitching/batting 
 battle. If you want to find out Manny's weakness at the plate (if there is one) - you can! The 
 Online Season mode allows you and up to 29 of your friends to participate in league play and/or 
 playoff tournament style. The baseball card collecting and trading feature is a bit of a tag on, 
 but is fun nonetheless as you can wager your cards in games against other players.
  You can clearly see the good intentions from 2K Sports to put together a solid baseball title. 
 Ever since Sony arrived on the scene with their console exclusive MLB The Show series, it has been 
 hard not to compare the 2 games. MLB2K9 does well in some respects, but does not hold up well in 
 others. The fielding, AI and animation glitches are enough to keep this game from being great. 
 Perhaps future patches will address some of these frustrating problems. Casual fans of baseball 
 will enjoy 2K9. But for those hardcore sim fans, playing your 162 game season will be about 161 
 games too long. Final rating = 7.2/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I've learned over the past several years not to always trust game reviews. While most of the time, 
 if every critic is saying a game is bad, then usually the game is bad. But every now and then, 
 a game like this one comes along and gets hammered by the critics, yet I find it to be a great 
 game.
  All I can tell you is I had been buying the yearly 2k baseball game every year since it's inception. 
 That is, until I finally got fed up with how broken the gameplay was and did not buy last year's 
 game. I always found the game to be nothing but a home run derby, with computer contolled players 
 making ridiculous catches and a framerate that was never steady. Not to mention a commentary that 
 was very oridinary and dull. I didn't plan on buying 2k9 either, until I downloaded the demo.
 
  Here's how I see it: Graphically, this game is amazing. From afar, this game looks like a real 
 baseball broadcast. Only 2k's NBA 2k9 can claim the same thing. As far as presentation, I believe 
 this game has the greatest presentation of any sports video game of all time!! It's so authentic 
 that your tv fades to black after every half inning, as if the game is going to a commerical break. 
 The commentary team is the best I've ever heard, smooth as silk. The menus are absolutely perfect. 
 Stats are shown all over the place. The ballparks are gorgeous. ON and ON and ON...
  Now for the gameplay... the home run derby is gone! While you can still jack plenty of homeruns, 
 it doesn't completely dominate the game. For the first time, I am having realistic games on the 
 all star level. The framerate is smooth. Stealing bases finally makes sense, and fielding is fairly 
 easy.
  Now, this game is not perfect. As the critics have said, there are some bugs with hit detection, 
 players getting caught in awkward animations, and occasionlly you will miss a ball you should have 
 been able to get to. However, these bugs are minor, not major the way the reviews have stated. 
 
  Now, I am well aware that a lot of people won't agree with my review. But if you read this and 
 agree about the problems this franchise has had in the past, then you will be happy to know a lot 
 has been fixed. 2k9 is a better game, bar none. If fact, I think it's an instant classic.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Walker34
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2009 5:56 am PT
Review:  At first look a lot of people aren't going to like this game, but find yourself some sliders and 
 learn the game. It's a good game. This game is getting slammed, when I think a lot of people just 
 had a kneejerk reaction here. This game has quite a bit of fun and depth to it. I've played sports 
 games for years and years and I think most people want instant gratification. This game takes some 
 adjusting and some strategy. Is it perfect? No it's not. There are still framerate issues and glitchy 
 things but overall its a very good game. 2k did a nice job integrating mlb. com, inside edge and 
 several other nice features. The gameplay is a lot of fun once you get the hang of it. Certain 
 things still need to be adjusted and ironed out. SOme of the player models are poor. Fielders reactions 
 are either too fast or slow sometimes but I'm enjoying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RD1109
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 11:56 am PT
Review:  MLB 2K9 is the newest baseball game, made by developers who don't know what they are doing when 
 it comes to baseball. I find this ironic, because they managed to make one of the best basketball 
 games I've ever played. But, that's beside the point. 
  
  MLB 2K9 has a TON of glitches, bugs, and just plain stupid mistakes. Some of the worst ones are 
 when you field the ball (if your player decides to actually go down for the ball) and he'll make 
 a perfect throw, yet the first baseman isn't standing on first base. He's standing in front of 
 it, while the baserunner goes right by him. What baseball game have you ever played where you have 
 to throw it to first, gain control of the first baseman, then run to the base to get him out? Well, 
 that's definitely the case in 2K9. Knowing 2K Sports' track record, they probably won't patch it. 
 Another problem related to the user-controlled player is when you will stand in the circle where 
 the fly ball is going to land, and the player gets in a ready stance to catch it, then he'll suddenly 
 just let the ball hit him in the face and bounce across the field, turning an out into a triple 
 or an inside - the - park - home - run. Only a stubborn person would say that these bugs are manageable, 
 because they just plain suck. Another big problem I have with the game is the amount of errors 
 and homers. About every couple of innings, the players will go to field the ground ball, and they 
 will misplay it. I guess 2K was trying to add realism, but who has 5 errors at the end of a game? 
 Whatever. The other thing, the home runs, come in bunches. The first game I played, I played with 
 the Brewers. I pitched a perfect game with Gallardo (yeah right) , and I hit a total of 14 home 
 runs, five of which came from Ryan Braun. No way would this ever happen. EVER. As you may have 
 seen, I said I pitched a perfect game with Gallardo, that just reminded me of how easy it is to 
 pitch! The list goes on and on. Gamespot says that the online runs smooth? Is that why you have 
 to swing about two seconds before the pitch crosses the plate in order to make contact? It's bull***t. 
 The only positive things I can even say are that the new menus (like those seen in NBA 2K9) are 
 great, and the living rosters are very accurate. If you have an Xbox 360, and you're a baseball 
 fan, you're SOL. But, you do have hope. If you own a PS3, I heard that MLB '09 The Show is really 
 good, but if you have an Xbox 360 (like me) , then you're screwed when it comes to baseball. (Then 
 again, you have all the games that really matter, lol) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy112382
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2009 8:36 pm PT
Review:  It had been a long time since I had gone out and bought a baseball game for a console, I usually 
 stick with football and basketball, but since I love sports in general, I thought I owed it to 
 myself to add to my sporting collection.
  
  Obviously, my choices were limited having a 360, which is one reason I am tired of reading reviews 
 on here comparing it to The Show, which looks awesome and I bet it is a very good game, but if 
 you went and bought MLB 2k9 today and write a review in under a day of having the game and do nothing 
 but compare it to The Show then A) there is no way you played both games in such a short time B) 
 If you have played both games, did you really go buy both games?!? Why??? and C) If you love The 
 Show so much, why would you get MLB 2k9 when you obviously have your mind made up?
  
  Typically, I prefer to have a game a while before reviewing it, but with the two reviews already 
 posted (a 2 and a 5) it seemed someone needed to post one who was neutral coming in. Seeing how 
 I had not owned any previous versions of either The Show or previous 2k baseball games on the 360, 
 I think I fit that description.
  
  Since it is already lengthy and I haven't played it ALL that much, I will give a quick run down.
 
  
  I played the demo with no intention on getting a baseball game, more like I was bored...... and 
 I was hooked. I played the demo about 5 times, with 5 completely different results to the game, 
 some high scoring games, some very low scoring, close games, that impressed me. I saw some places 
 claiming the AI hit anything close to the strike zone, but I have struck out Ryan Howard and pitched 
 around the corners, but also got nailed for a homer when I mis-pitched and left it over the middle 
 more than I would like, sounds like real baseball to me! These are pros, you leave it towards the 
 middle, they hit you and hit you hard.
  
  The sounds are awesome, announcing is some of the best I have heard in any sports game. Graphics 
 are solid, a few glitches, like a slight drop in frame rate here and there, mainly when hitting 
 foul balls, occassionally on a high pop fly, I think this is because they have so much going on 
 in the stands and on the field, would be nice if it didnt do that, but it is brief and does not 
 alter the actualy gameplay experience - at least not on my x-box 360! Biggest glitch is when they 
 show the manager and there is some clipping issues, but I personally don't let a brief cut away 
 from the main action alter my whole perception of the game. There is room for improvement, though.
 
  
  I personally like the hitting and pitching, I have had my struggled and my 'hitting spree' moments, 
 I would say balanced.... not too east but not insanely hard, either. It was made for everyone to 
 be able to enjoy, not just someone who spends 10-15 hours a day with their system! Plus, from what 
 I read, people complained about last years being hard now they complain about it being easy?!? 
 Can't have it both ways!
  
  I mainly stick with franchise modes in my games, so I can not review multiplayer, so I will leave 
 that untouched.
  
  Overall, it is a fun game and I am happy I bought it. Would The Show be better? Well, doesn't matter 
 since I don't have a PS3 and this isn't a 'please compare and contrast to every other baseball 
 game' section, this is a 'review this game' section. I say pick it up if you love baseball or sports 
 in general (like I do) and you'll have plenty of fun, with some style! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomer3221
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 3, 2009 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is just a dissapointment. That will sum it up. They made the Hit stick and analog pitching 
 far to easy and simplified this year. These 2 parts are deffinatly not simulaiton but more arcade. 
 
  
  The baserunning is a joke when you seen that yellow stick figure on the bottom right of your screen. 
 
  
  Fielding is acceptional but due to The Show's fiedling it does not compare
  
  The graphics are nice 
  
  The commentary to me is the huge improvement I am so tired to that 
 same old commentary that was heard years before but I am afaraid that I will have the same feeling 
 next year and the year after about this years commentary.
  
  The animations are down right terrible. Nothing is realistic, they move like robots.
  
  This 
 game was supposed to be a huge turn around for 2K, well at least that is what they promised. Overall 
 I give it a 2 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rludeman44
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 10:41 am PT
Review:  The game looks, and for the most part, runs good. The multiplayer however, is terrible. If ur lucky 
 enough to connect and get to play like I have twice out of about 30 tries it's a descent game except 
 for slow motion 3 or 5 second intervels every few minutes. I have tested my connection and checked 
 it and I have a 100 percent connection (all 5 bars) . So don't try to use that line on me 2K. It's 
 a shame that every game 2K makes for the last few years is terrible when it comes to online play. 
 NBA, NHL and now MLB to complete the hat trick. 2K really needs to fix the problem w/ an update 
 or something. This is probably why MLB the show destroys MLB every year and this year will be no 
 different. Once again, I have not played offline yet. If you're not an online gamer read a different 
 review. The multiplayer portion of the game is absolutely horrible. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
