-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Major League Baseball 2K7
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/majorleaguebaseball2k7/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Outstanding presentation.
 Most of the player models are fantastic.
 Jon Miller and Joe Morgan do a great job calling the action.
 New franchise interface works well.
 Gameplay shows a lot of improvement.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some frustrating quirks and glitches during gameplay and in franchise mode.
 Frame rate isn't great on the 360, and it's flat-out bad on the PS3.
 Lag makes online play a bore.
 Tough to determine pitch speed and location while still having enough time to swing.
 Enough with putting Yankees on the cover already.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.9, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,832 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Kush Games
Genre: Baseball Sim
Date: Feb 26, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A handful of quirks keep it from being great, but MLB 2K7 is an improvement over MLB 2K6 in nearly 
 every way, and it's a very solid baseball game. 

  2K Sports' MLB 2K6 left a lot to be desired when it made its first appearance on the Xbox 360 last 
 April. The game didn't take advantage of the system's power, and there were numerous bugs and problems 
 that plagued the gameplay. With another year of development behind it, the series is back for another 
 season on the Xbox 360 and making its first appearance on the PlayStation 3, too. The feature set 
 hasn't changed much, but the presentation is outstanding and has been vastly improved. The gameplay 
 has also been tightened up, and while there are some noticeable quirks, it's a solid game of baseball. 
 The PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions are mostly identical, though the PS3 version includes tilt-control 
 support and a nasty frame rate. All in all, MLB 2K7 is a nice improvement over MLB 2K6 and well 
 worth a look for any baseball fan.  

          Player close-ups look amazing.     

  There isn't a whole lot of new content or gameplay modes, but there's still plenty to do in 2K7 -- and 
 everything is easier to use this year thanks to an improved interface. You can play a quick game, 
 season, franchise, GM career, manager challenge, and even five different types of home run derby. 
 In the franchise mode, you can now set ticket prices, and doing so is much more user friendly thanks 
 to a nifty drop-down menu that runs across the top of the screen, as well as a new layout that 
 displays a large amount of pertinent information in an easy-to-view manner. You can also negotiate 
 contracts, call up players from the minors, sign free agents, keep tabs on your players' moods, 
 make trades, and more. Making trades is a snap thanks to the trade finder, which lets you pick 
 the player you want and then find out what that team wants in return. You can also find out how 
 much interest there is for one of your players without going through the cumbersome process of 
 trial and error.  

  Overall, franchise mode is good, but there are a number of quirks that will frustrate those looking 
 for a true simulation. The current roster download cuts player salaries to 10 percent of what they're 
 supposed to be, so rather than A-Rod scraping by on his $25-million-a-year salary, he's practically 
 homeless and makes just $2 million. Unless you turn trades completely off, the CPU will make some 
 questionable trades, sometimes trading for players you don't need and other times trading your 
 best players for little in return. There also seems to be an issue with the game setting up odd 
 lineups based on whether there's a left- or right-handed pitcher. Players will end up in odd spots 
 in the order and will sometimes play out of position, too. Finally, injured players will sometimes 
 not return to the team, seemingly content to hang out in Triple-A rather than the bigs.  

  2K Sports games typically have a full-featured online component, and MLB 2K7 is no different. You 
 can play a quick ranked or unranked match, join or create tournaments, and even participate in 
 and set up your own leagues with up to 30 teams, complete with trades. The one catch is that the 
 game doesn't play all that well online. It's tough enough to figure out if a pitch is going to 
 be a ball or a strike offline and then decide to swing or not swing, but lag makes it almost impossible 
 online. And even if a ball is a strike, trying to time your swing is difficult -- again, thanks to 
 lag and people who like to use pitchers that are adept at changing speeds, like Orlando Hernandez. 
 It's also difficult to find anyone who doesn't want to play anything less than nine innings, which 
 stinks if you're not looking to spend 45 minutes or more playing a laggy game of baseball.  

  On the field, 2K7 plays like a cleaned-up version of last year's game. The pitching interface, 
 which requires you to press a button to determine pitch speed and break, and then another button 
 for accuracy, is mostly the same as it was before. It's not as intuitive as EA's right analog stick 
 mechanic from MVP 07, but it works fine. Your catcher will call a pitch and set up their gloves 
 where they want it, but you're free to shake them off if you'd like. For the most part the catchers 
 call a good game, but they call for a few too many pitches outside the strike zone and occasionally 
 ask for a ball that's right in the hitter's wheelhouse. Even pitchers with high stamina ratings 
 and low pitch counts have a difficult time getting past the seventh and eighth innings. Granted, 
 pitchers these days rarely pitch complete games, but it still happens occasionally, and it would 
 be nice to see here.  

          The swing mechanics work fine, but it's really difficult to judge pitches.     

  When 
 it's your turn to bat you can use the classic timing-based method or pull down and release (or 
 push up for extra power) the right analog stick. The PS3 version also lets you uses the Sixaxis 
 tilt controls to push the controller forward to swing. This works OK, but you don't feel as though 
 you're really swinging and it doesn't add much to the game. Whether it's the fact that pitches 
 come in faster, the camera is zoomed in closer, the difference in timing one player's swing to 
 the next, or a combination of the three, it's extremely difficult to judge whether or not a pitch 
 is going to be a ball or a strike and still properly time your swing. This means you'll probably 
 end up swinging at a lot of bad pitches. The game's pretty forgiving on the easiest difficulty 
 setting, but on the harder levels you'll have a hard time getting by swinging at everything that 
 comes your way. If you do happen to make contact, there's a pretty good chance the ball's leaving 
 the park, because there are a lot of home runs in 2K7. Some games end up feeling more like home 
 run derby than a baseball game, but at least the game's balanced and lets you hit as many taters 
 as the CPU.  

  Baserunning has been improved this year, and while it's still a tad complicated, it works well 
 once you get the hang of it. Small displays pop up on the side of the screen that correspond to 
 the base's location and an icon appears over each player. All it takes to move them is a press 
 of a shoulder (or trigger) and a face button. One small issue is that when you're playing against 
 another person online the game shows what base your runner is headed to well before they've made 
 the turn, which tells your opponent which base they need to throw to.     

  Like pitching and hitting, fielding is much like it was last year, with the biggest changes being 
 that players can actually catch and throw the ball like major leaguers. Well, almost like major 
 leaguers. Infield flies are more of an adventure than they should be, because everyone runs toward 
 the ball but nobody really wants to catch it. It can be tough to see ground balls sometimes, and 
 even harder to run toward a base and step on it thanks to players that will step everywhere  but 
  on the bag. Playing the outfield is easier this year and the players are fast enough to get to 
 balls they should be able to get to, but unless you line them up perfectly, players will still 
 struggle to make routine catches, often lunging at the last second to make the grab. They're also 
 prone to overrunning balls and running face-first into walls. This occasional ineptitude doesn't 
 seem to affect their CPU counterparts, however, as even the worst outfielders routinely dive for 
 flares and climb walls to bring back home runs like they're Jim Edmonds. Speaking of Jim Edmonds, 
 he's almost superpowered in the outfield and catches nearly any ball that doesn't leave Earth's 
 atmosphere.  

          You'll still have some mishaps, but fielding is much-improved.     

  As soon as you 
 start your first game and make it through the stadium introduction (which is in need of an update) , 
 you'll notice the game's improved presentation. Thanks in no small part to more cinematic camera 
 angles, more camera angles in general, and drastically improved player likenesses, it really feels 
 as though you're watching a real game in high definition. Cameras will zoom in on players as they 
 step into the box, and the level of detail is amazing. What's even more amazing is that the camera 
 will zoom in closer still, revealing even more detail in players' faces. There are plenty of different 
 body types, which means David Eckstein looks pretty scrawny and C. C. Sabathia looks, well, like 
 he ate David Eckstein. It's a true testament to how excellent the players look that they can stand 
 up to such close scrutiny. Pujols, Ichiro, Jeter, Ortiz -- they all look fantastic up close. Players 
 don't just look like their real-life counterparts, they move like them, too. Dontrelle Willis has 
 his distinctive pitching motion; Ichiro's practically two steps toward first base by the time he 
 finishes his swing; and Griffey's swing is as smooth as ever. There are plenty of great-looking 
 fielding animations, even if the transition from one to the next is sometimes poor. You'll even 
 notice plenty of amazing little touches as you play more. Pitchers will wear their warm-up jackets 
 when on the base paths, ball boys will chase foul balls, and bullpen pitchers will react to what's 
 going on in the game.  

  The ballparks are very accurate and nicely detailed, though there are some low-quality textures 
 here and there. There's still plenty to enjoy: the way the sun creeps across the grass; the ivy 
 at Wrigley; the starry sky when you hit a homer in a night game in Houston; and the way the green 
 monster looms over left field in Fenway. The fully polygonal crowds don't look great in close-ups, 
 particularly in the intro sequence, but they look pretty good from most angles.  

  As good as the graphics and presentation are, there's still room for improvement. Even though you 
 can turn off most of the superfluous animations and replays, the game's pace of play is slow. Sure, 
 you can tap through and skip the remaining stuff, but some sort of fast-play option would have 
 been great. Some of the camera angles during replays are pretty poor and don't show the action 
 very well. The blur effect is overused and quite often looks as if someone rubbed Vaseline over 
 the camera. There are plenty of little nagging issues such as clipping here and there, some odd 
 tears and artifacts from time to time, player jerseys that flap back and forth like they're caught 
 in a hurricane, and the game really could have used some antialiasing. On the Xbox 360 the frame 
 rate isn't great, but outside of some occasional stuttering it's adequate. Unfortunately, the same 
 can't be said for the PlayStation 3. It looks mostly identical to the 360 version, but the frame 
 rate is downright poor. The frame rate is most problematic in the field, where it chokes and stutters 
 enough to make fielding difficult. It even gets a little choppy when there's nothing going on other 
 than the batter waving his bat back and forth before the pitch.  

  Thanks to the announcing duo of Jon Miller and Joe Morgan, MLB 2K7 sounds outstanding. Jon and 
 Joe have worked together for quite some time on television, and their comfortable rapport with 
 one another comes across here. Their commentary sounds very natural, and it's timely and accurate, 
 too. The sheer amount of dialogue the pair recorded for the game is impressive; they'll tell stories, 
 analyze plays, toss out some trivia questions, and even have in-depth commentary for rare events, 
 such as no-hitters. Jeanne Zelasko and Steve Physioc provide a TV-style pregame introduction for 
 each game, and though their commentary is sometimes a bit long-winded, they dispense a surprising 
 amount of team-specific information. The crowds and stadium noises sound just fine; you'll hear 
 individual fans yelling, and like in so many other 2K Sports games, there's a pretty realistic-sounding 
 PA announcer as well.  

          Camera angles like this one really add to the game's presentation.     

  MLB 2K7 is 
 a good game that shows a lot of improvement over its predecessor. The presentation is excellent 
 and really stands out when compared to the PlayStation 2 and Xbox versions of the game. The gameplay 
 is enjoyable, though there's still plenty of room for improvement. Even the 33 achievements in 
 the Xbox 360 version are better than the five from last year, rewarding you for hitting and pitching 
 prowess, online success, and for reaching secret objectives such as hitting for the cycle. If you're 
 trying to decide between the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions of the game, the PS3's tilt-control 
 swing mechanic isn't enough to make up for a frame rate that often makes the game difficult to 
 play. The 360 version is the way to go thanks to a better -- but not great -- frame rate.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (201 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Leeman911
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Its fun and it has good graphics which for early last year is good and it has all the teams and 
 fields. It has solid announceing and cool controls that let you be the runner but the batting is 
 tough but you get the hang of it. For picthing could have been better but its too easy to trough 
 a wild picth. For achivements there okay but I only have 8 of 33 but I have only had this game for 
 6 weeks. If you like baseball you will love this good game. o o o o o o o o oo o o o oo o oo o o 
 o ooo oo ooo oo ooo ooo oo ooo oo oo oo ooo oooo oooo oo ooo oo ooo oo o oo ooo oo oo oo oo ooo 
 oo oo oo ooo oo o ooo oo oo oo oooo ooo ooo oo o ooo oo oo oo ooo oo oo ooo oo oo ooo ooo oo oo 
 oo o oo o ooo oo ooo ooo oo o oo oo oo oo oo oo o oo oo ooo oo oo ooo oo ooo oooo ooo ooo oo oooo 
 ooo oooo oo ooo oo ooo ooo oo oooo ooo oo ooo ooo ooo ooo ooo ooo ooo ooo ooo ooo oo oo oo oo oo 
 oooo ooo ooo ooo ooo oooo oo ooo . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pittfan666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that the graphics in MLB 2K7 are supurb. Visually you will be pleased 
 to notice players' jerseys sway in the background, camera angles show off the games graphics by 
 panning to ground based camera angles, and the ballparks looks realistic compared to their real 
 counterparts. 
  
  Sound is also excellent. You can hear crowds heckle and cheer for their favoritre player from the 
 stands, and the announcers provide excellent play-by-play. 
  
  Franchise, season, exhibition, and managering modes are available for you to choose where you want 
 to start. Beware however, season mode seems to have saving errors, so expect your season to get 
 mysteriously erased or messed up if you plan to start there. Your best bet is to start off with 
 your favorite team and go into the franchise mode. In addition, there is an online mode where you 
 can play against friends or strangers. 
  
  Hitting is fairly simple, you can use the right thumbstick to swing or you can change it so that 
 you hit with the push of a button. Pitching uses buttons to determine what type of throw you want 
 to accomplish, and you hold down the A button to increase the speed or velocity of the pitch. When 
 you field a pitch, the four buttons on the top of the controller stand for a separate base. 
  
  Unfortunately, when you play against a computer controlled team, it seems to always perform 
 ridiculous catches at the walls and on the field, to rob you of homeruns and base hits. No matter 
 how hard you crush a ball over the fence, the outfields always seem to catch it when climbing the 
 wall. The cpu fielding problem seems to be the only main problem that the game faces. 
  
  Overall MLB 2K7 is a great experience and simulator, which provides a solid game of baseball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertostudmuff
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  It is fun but can get old doing the same thing over and over again. When you first get the game 
 it may seem hard but after 5 or 6 games it becomes easy and you score 10 runs a game which makes 
 the game repetetive. The franchise mode is pretty fun but the inside edge reports seem to do more 
 harm than good. This game can be really boring if your not a sports fan but if you are the graphics 
 are great and make the game fun. So I guess all in all the game is fun but can get old real  
 I needed more charecters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamdoornob
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  The makers of MLB 2K7 said themselves that they just didn't have enough time to make this game. 
 They released this game while there was a lot left to do. Its the sharpest looking game so far, 
 but most serious baseball gamers will be disapointed to see how shallow the gamep-play is. To many 
 homeruns, to many unbelievable catches, and fielding is pretty chunky, as well (There are also 
 a handful of frustrating glitches) . Its not realistic enough to be a good baseball sim and to boring 
 to fall under the arcade category. I'd stick with MVP 2005 or MLB: The Show series if you want 
 the updated  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanksfanman319
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K7 is deffinetly the best in the series. The graphics were a big improvement from last year 
 and so is the gameplay. I remember when I first saw the player appearences in this game and I just 
 thought to myself "wow". They look so real and it was a huge advancement from last years game. 
 Also, the gameplay was much better and much more enjoyable. There are still a few quirks that made 
 this game unrealistic at times, for example, you could rob homeruns way to easily and it happened 
 quite alot in the game. Also, the broadcasters, Joe Morgan and Jon Miller did not work well with 
 me. I think they need to get a new crew to announce the games. So, aside from a few minor glitches, 
 sub-par commentary, and some lag online, this is a deffinetly a must-buy for any true baseball 
 fan. I give it an 8/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmyre
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  the designers of the game have come along way from the early days. With that having been said, 
 the glitches in the game can drive you mad, it seems that for every one home run i hit the computer 
 will rob's 3 and some of the stadiums are not correct, you would think that since the cardinals 
 were the deffending the championship they would get there stadium right. But in the big picture 
 the stadium's are not that big of a issue for me. The game play is great and it gives me hope that 
 this title will grow to be superb. The online play is had to be the worst aspect of the game. I 
 have read some previews for next years game and they have addressed most of the issues that keep 
 this game from being a all time classic. So all we can do is sit back and see what next year will 
 bring&gt; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmorpg_lover
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  This game was better than i had expected. It had solid graphics along with good player models. 
 Even though this game really is just Major League Baseball 2K6 with an updated roster, it's worth 
 the money. If you haven't bought it yet, no problem, it'll now only cost you between $30-$40. The 
 only thing that I don't understand is why the Arizona Diamond Backs have such a low ranking. I 
 think it is 28 overall. If you buy this game you will not be disappointed. I've had my friends 
 ask me whether to buy The BIGS or Major League Baseball 2K7. Well me personally, I would pick Major 
 League Baseball 2K7. It depends on what kind of a gamer are you. If you love classic baseball then 
 you will love MLB 2K7. Any gamers who remember and liked Midway's Slugfest will love The BIGS. 
 So it's your decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: something1257
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  MLB 2K7 is a fun game. Do get my wrong the graphics and the personilzations are amazing. Like how 
 they get there batting stances how there real batting stance is. And the pitchers wind up in the 
 game is the exact same in real life. But there is one thing that I think is stupid. Its the out 
 feilding. It's so amazing its stupid. They can catch mostly anything. Doesn't matter what it is. 
 Like if its a homer but close don't even coun't on it. Your are out. Thats what i like about Fenway 
 Park and Wrigley Feild becae fenway has the green moster and Wrigley has the fence. but I still 
 bought it and i like it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wladimir619
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K7 is a solid game. Even though the gameplay is a little bit hard in the sence that you'll 
 be getting groundouts and flyouts alot, and screaming at your TV stuff like That Will Never Happen 
 In Real Life!!! It still a very fun game. The swing stick is good in the sence of who you hitting 
 with, if your hitting with Barry Bonds you'll probably be doing power hits with him all day trying 
 to get homers. But for the less good at hitting you can do a drive swing to try and get a quick 
 base hit. If the swing stick is too complicated for you (AKA LAZY) you can always go old school 
 arcade and just swing with A. The franchise is also a very good. You can scout your upcoming opponents 
 players to see where they hit the balls most and least giving you a upper hand on them. In conclusion 
 MLB 2K7 is a good sequel to MLB 2K6, If you a fan of baseball games or just baseball overall give 
 this game a chance. If this is your first time playing a baseball game, put the game down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikemoney21
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  best baseball sim ever (^_^) 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 9 9 99 9 9 9 9 99 99 9 9 9 99 9 9 9 9 99 9 9 9 9 99 9 gf ggnv fjgnfj 
 j ijfb jf f fj jig gij jigjig gjfjifj j j ji j j j j j j imbnbhtr jnbgjbn jbjtrnbh nbrtbnit ifjbn 
 j nm j j j jj j j j j j j98 8 8 88 8 8 8 8 88 8 8 8 88 8 8 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleanslate1982
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay (4/10) - The vast arsenal of controls you have is fantastic. The complexity of those controls 
 is not. To put it simply, the game wll start off giving you random help pop-ups during a game to 
 explain how to play. They are usually 5-10 pages longs. Hitting is very realistic, which makes 
 it very frustrating to hit. Although, I hate the use of the R-Analog for this. You pull back to 
 step into your swing, and let got for contact or move directly up for a power swing. Power swings 
 are extremely hard to time, and sometimes you can click into a bunt or move the stick and accidently 
 hit the pause button. Like I said, it gets frustrating. Fielding is an absolute nightmare. The 
 wrong players move toward the ball when hit. Routine grounders will routinely miss your gold glovers 
 glove.
  Pitching, you need to purchase Inside Edge reports, or you will never know what the strike zone 
 is. Especially since the catcher usually lines up outside of the strikezone. I don't like the way 
 they did the pitching at all. It's a weird double-click system that's extremely hard to get down, 
 and it's hard on the thumbs. Graphics (9/10) - They are almost perfect. Players just seem to move 
 a little too slow in their animation. That's the only fault I have with the graphics.
  
  Sound (7/10) - I swear I've heard the 2K Trax on this game on previous EA sports games. They are 
 also very old songs. Sounds you'll hear in a real ballgame are fairly accurate, could use some 
 improvement. The broadcasters are pretty decent as well. Value (5/10) - Depending on how much you 
 love baseball and online multiplayer, the value score could vary. Franchise mode seems very empty 
 to me, especially since I know I can edit all my players to be superstars during the season. Free 
 Agency, Contracts, and Drafting mean nothing when you can completely edit a player. I think the 
 difficulty, and the lack of a serious franchise mode seriously hurt the replay value of this game. 
 It only gets a 5 because a few people out there will love this game strictly for it being a really 
 fantastic simulation of baseball (to a fault IMO, there's a reason why hitting a MLB pitch is the 
 hardest thing to do) ; and those people will find other's, with their same love for this game, online 
 and play them for hours on hours. Those will be few.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (3/10) - For me, the game's difficulty really did me in. It's so hard to hit the 
 ball, so I striked out a lot. The computer, rarely ever striked out. The fielding was terrible, 
 my player would constantly drop routine pop-ups and grounders. The guy closest, would usually just 
 stare at the ball as it rolled past them. The guy running towards the ball is usually the farthest 
 from it. It was just miserable. If the game wasn't so hard, it would have been great. It will turn 
 a lot of people off, except for the one's who have the gift of being professional video game baseball 
 players. I'm not one; and if your not you could find yourself cursing way too often at this game. 
 Like I said, this game is almost too real to a fault.
  
  Overall (5.6/10) - It's worth a rental, because the game isn't that terrible. It's just really 
 hard, and if you have no patience you might never play it again after a few tries. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chawy24
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is just 1 word..... DISAPPOINTING! The graphics are SOOOOOOO beautiful, but the gameplay 
 is just not there. It is very unrealistic but it isn't Arcade-ish, so what is it? When you see 
 the graphics your in awe, then once you play a few games it just becomes very bland. I say rent 
 it first, then decide. If your a huge fan of Arcade style baseball games than this is definiutely 
 not the game for you. Usually 2K sports games are successful like NBA 2K games or the NFL games 
 but their baseball games have never been good. Do yourself a favor to save some money and RENT 
 FIRST! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wysl
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Mine does. In fact, I cannot even play 3 innings of Exhibition nor Season games without having 
 the game hang on me. The screen would just freeze and no amounts of button pressing would re-animate 
 the game. The Home Run Derby plays fine, but I have not tried out other game modes yet. I have 
 trolled Xbox Live for Updates and I have even downloaded the latest player rosters, as if that 
 would have helped. My game is original and so is my Xbox 360 - totally unmodified. I hail from 
 Asia and I play the Asian version with Matsui on the front cover (instead of A-Rod) . I can only 
 rate this game based on what little I have managed to play. I hope this is just a minor glitch 
 or defective game disc. I can only say the graphics are great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insert_Clip
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  I like baseball, and of course every year or two I'm sure to pick up the next installment of one 
 baseball game or another. Well one of the only options for XBOX360 was MLB 2k7, which left me biting 
 my lip because I was dropping $55 dollars on a game, never having played any of the previous installments, 
 and knowing I had no other choice for baseball simulation on the 360. So more or less, I was nervous.
 
  
  My first impression is this game looks gorgeous, and it certainly does. The players look down right 
 real, especially when they come up to the plate and the game zooms way way in on their faces and 
 you can see every detail on them, all the way down to the stubble on their faces. The parks are 
 also extremely well modeled and looked very accurate to the real world ball parks they are imitating. 
 During my first game I don't believe I got more then one or two hits the whole game, which brings 
 up an important point in this game. Even on Pro difficulty, which is the second difficulty from 
 the easiest, this game can be pretty tough when your at bat. The swing scheme (if you wish to keep 
 it on... you can revert to an old school tap A when you want to hit the ball) involves one to pull 
 back on the stick, hesitate, then either let go of the stick to hit a contact hit, or push forward 
 to swing for the fences. Needless to say this definitely takes practice, which is why I selected 
 the maximum learning curve time for this game. Not to mention the time it takes to get used to 
 the players movements/timing with diving/jumping catches.
  
  After you get good enough where your actually scoring a few runs, this game plays an extraordinary 
 good game of baseball. The presentation is straight out of a TV announcement, with the pitcher's 
 camera angle being that you see on TV and replays and statistics being thrown out to you periodically 
 as if you were watching the game. The animations are all superb, and the ball physics as well as 
 the player movements are well done and don't feel too slow or too rushed. There are a lot of neat 
 little features in the game to spice up the gameplay, such as the Baseburner mode which is more 
 or less a mini game within the actual game for stealing bases. Also, picking off stealers takes 
 more then just hitting a button, as you have to time and place your throw (quickly of course) as 
 accurate as you can or your throw will be too wild and he will be safe. It's things like that that 
 make a difference though.
  
  The pitching is very well done, and uses a two button press system, one which dictates how hard 
 you are going to throw it and the second is how accurate. The harder you throw, the harder it is 
 to be accurate. Perhaps it might be a little too easy, as I have thrown a perfect game, and average 
 about 7 or 8 strikeouts a game (with various pitchers) . But if you don't like any aspect of the 
 game, there are a slew of variables that you can change in the options. I was impressed, especially 
 since sports games might give you just a handful of sliders for the difficulty. This one gives 
 you pages and pages of sliders to tweak the game to exactly to how you see fit, although I personally 
 think the game plays fine without any tweaking.
  
  All the teams and rosters are there, and updates to the rosters can be downloaded off of Xbox live 
 for free via game updates. There are season and franchise modes, online gameplay, and homerun derby 
 in the game, so it's not always just a straight up game of baseball if you don't want it to be. 
 Other then the batting being difficult to pick up, there are a few quirks with fielding, and it 
 seems like outfielders pick off too too many homeruns by jumping the fence (something that is rare 
 in real life) . Also sometimes outfielders catch some balls by contorting their arm in a rather 
 uncomfortable looking way, but that is just an aesthetic thing more then a gameplay issue.
  
  Overall it's a solid baseball game that plays great, looks even better, and is the next best 
 thing to going out there to play some ball for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meizzner
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  the game is fun when u find good sliders which is key to good game play. The graphics are amazing 
 with almost everything in this game. but gameplay could be worked on because it is a little shaky. 
 for another source check the ign forums for Major league baseball. the presentation is amazing 
 but the game is to easy when you don't have sliders which u can find on any boards. so thats why 
 i rate this game a 8 becasue everything is great but game play is a little shaky but i like it. 
 But now i have to get one hundred words so thats why im writing this right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petshopboy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  MLB 2K7 has a lot of things going for it and against it. The game has a really intuitive ptiching 
 interface that I think works pretty well. The base-running is also pretty simple, and after getting 
 used to it, you'll be stealing bases in no time. Fielding has pretty simple controls, but sometimes 
 it is hard to direct your fielder to a base. I don't know how many times I've got an easy grounder 
 at 1st base and found it hard to make my fielder's feet find the bag. The batting controls are 
 good, I prefer classic where you just press the 'A' button to swing and can aim your swing a bit. 
 There is also a swing stick, which is prolly the better of the too if you can get your timing down.
 
  
  The graphics are top-notch, and most of the players really look like their counterparts. The sound 
 is good too. The soundtrack has some decent songs, but the real highlight is Jon Miller and Joe 
 Morgan at the call for each game. They really do have a ton of dialogue recorded for the game.
 
  
  The gameplay is where things can get a little salty. There are way too many homers in the game 
 on the default settings. Homers are robbed far too often by the AI and amazing web gems can be 
 found left and right. Above the pro difficulty, the ai will smash almost anything you throw over 
 the plate, so it becomes hard to pitch without using some sliders. This is one of the first games 
 I've experienced where things actually get less realistic as you turn the difficulty up.
  
  This game does have a good amount of game modes to choose from to make up for some of its downfalls. 
 Almost everything is fully customizable too, which helps.
  
  If you're looking for an uber-realistic sim, you may want to wait until next year, but if you're 
 looking for a good baseball game and can look past a few problems, MLB 2K7 is the game for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mags81
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  The best thing about the game is its graphics cause when u slide to a base you can see the dirt 
 fly up into the air. The game is a bit of a challenge but it is at the spot where its challenging 
 but not too hard that it makes it so that the game isn't fun anymore. Also what is really neat 
 about the game is each player has his own unique swim and actions after their swing if the miss 
 the ball. The one part that i wish that they would have included is the ability to make your own 
 team. You can make your own players and put them on existing teams but not one your own made teams, 
 I really enjoye the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Full_Blown
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  Well it's not like there's other baseball sims to choose from on the 360, so if you do like baseball 
 sims, this is your game. MLB 2K7 displays good use of the 360's graphical prowess, but not much 
 more than that. The gameplay is pretty good and the commentary and presentation are both satisfying 
 (Joe Morgan contributes nicely) , but the coolest feature might be the dashboard. When playing in 
 franchise or season mode, the home page where you would choose schedule or view stats or anything 
 else is like a hub for everything that's currently going on in the league. News and stats scroll 
 across the screen, and there is a ticker at the bottom of the page, similar to what you would see 
 on SportsCenter. Sadly, the coolest feature of MLB 2K7 doesn't take place during the actual gameplay... 
 in my opinion anyway. That being said, 2K7 is an improvement over last years effort. Anyone looking 
 for baseball simulation fun should check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kookabua3I
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 23, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Overall it is a very good game the gameplay is great and much improved from last year, the graphics 
 are amazing, and the franchise mode doesnt bore as easily as most. Those are the pluses, now the 
 minuses. There are some very stupid things like if you get anywhere near the wall you guy runs 
 into it and you cant do anything for a while, and if you are throwng to a base and it isnt a force 
 play he takes forever to throw it. Determining a pitch is almost impossible you really have to 
 just sit on one pitch and wait for it, and the fan interaction should be better, when a ball is 
 hit into the stands the fans dont move at all, and you can hit a ball just over the wall and it 
 will say 550 feet which is dumb, and alot of games are dropped and there is a lag onlin sometimes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fartster2
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  This baseball game is the best ive ever played. The hit stick is so awesome and is a billion times 
 better than the classic control. It is better because you dont hit home runs every time your up 
 to bat and you can pull the ball and you can hit the ball the opposite direction. I say that people 
 that use the classic control are noobs and doesnt like to try something new. There is one bad thing 
 about this game, it is too easy to rob home runs and the computer does it to me all the time. The 
 slide stick makes it easier to be safe. The signiture style actualy makes me feel like im playing 
 real baseball and the animations when you hit home runs with a person that has their own signature 
 style is realistic. When you create a player you can do alot of stuff to the person you are creating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themilkman418
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 21, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  MLB 2K7 is a graphically nicer version of MLB 2K6, besides for the rosters being updated their 
 isn't much different with it. The game has a lot of different features which you can pick from 
 including Season, Franchise, Manager Mode. A long with some not so great mini games.
  
  Season is exactly what you would expect you play a season as the team of your choice, you pick 
 who's in and who is out. You play baseball in season, what a person that chooses season would expect.
 
  
  For people like me that like to do Franchise MLB 2K7 is a bit of a dissapointment with EA MLB games 
 franchise was very immersive. You could alter the prices of food, concessions have give away days 
 and do many other things. In MLB 2K7 the only thing money wise you can control is the price of 
 tickets.
  
  Of course you can bring people from AAA up and put other people down. Negoitate trades, everything 
 you would expect from a baseball sim. But nothing more.
  
  Gameplay is pretty simple, 2K sports is still trying to sell the hitstick but I prefer just pressing 
 the A button which is an option to do in the game. IThe diving and wall climbing are very straight 
 forward they tell you when you have an option to dive or wall climb and you decide if you want 
 to take the risk. Their is no self judgement calls when it comes down to diving which on one hand 
 can save you some errors but on the other takes the excitment away from making a webgem play.
 
  
  If players bump into each other they fall down but this is not seen while turning a double play. 
 In Major league baseball 05 (by EA) you the runner had a chance of knocking the SS or 2nd basemen 
 turning the double play off his feet by a slide. This is not in MLB 2K7 as a player will slide 
 right through another player. Sometimes the player pretends to jump but it's not done very well.
 
  
  Pitching is immersive, the longer you hold down the pitch button the more powerful your pitch becomes 
 but the harder it is to hit the spot you are aiming for.
  
  Hitting is a little to easy, homeruns are never shy in a game.
  
  Difficulty is way to varied, 
 it is either very easy or very hard, foruntaley they have a manual difficulty thing to do but that 
 can get complicated.
  
  Graphically MLB 2K7 is very good. The player models match the players and everything is polished 
 from 2K6
  
  Sound: The announcers (Joe Brown and someone else) are very good and make you feel like you're 
 in a real ball game. Value: If you like baseball sims and want to add onto your collection this 
 is a solid (and only) game.
  
  Reviewers tilt: Fair 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggywiz
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This game was terrible, if this is the best we got for the 360 then we are in trouble. This game 
 is slow, the animations slow down play to make it so boring, every little thing has an animation 
 and its so damn slow. The hit stick is the dumbest thing I have ever seen for a baseball game, 
 I have never seen a baseball game that USES no other button to bat but just one stick. it sucks 
 and the system doesnt feel real. Terrible terrible baseball game. i returned it 2 days after I 
 got it. Stick with the Bigs for now, or wait for the Show 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 16, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  finally we have life after mvp baseball 05. mlb 2k7 takes everything we saw in 2k6 and with the 
 power of the 360 have improved it by 3x!. the graphics are darn right beautiful, the players look 
 excatly like thier supposed too, stances, hitting tendecies, pitches, all thier. the gameplay is 
 alot better this time as well and the clunkyness is now slightly noticable. however i wished the 
 would fix the camera somehow cause it will make u cause alot of errors as well as add some more 
 features in create a character. but overall the gameplay and presentation are top notch. the soundtrack 
 still isnt the greatest but its a hell of alot better then 2k6's. overall 2k7 is a huge leap forward 
 and with addicticing gameplay ull be playing this one well until 2k8 hits stores. so pick it up 
 and try it u wont be dissapointed LETS GO METS (51-40) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryankaza
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 11, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  This game has everything to be awesome, but you can hit way too many homers. I moved the user power 
 to ZERO (0) and still hit way too many. Most hits are either fly ball outs or home runs. The game 
 is amazingly realistic graphically, and I still rate the game very high. I just wish there were 
 more line drives, ground outs and such. PROS: Graphics, Announcers are pretty good. Gameplay is 
 solid and fielding is great. Baserunning is good, stealing is difficult. Season and Franchise/GM 
 modes are awesome and you can pretty much do everything possible like a real franchise.
  
  CONS: Too many Home Runs. No take-out slide at 2nd base to break up double plays. Too many homers 
 robbed by climbing the wall. Fly Balls or bust. Can't say too much bad about this one. XBOX Live 
 could do a better job updating rosters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blckflcn7
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  After last year, I was really looking forward to this year. (Mainly because I sold my last year 
 game after a couple weeks) . I wanted to play baseball, plain and simple. After waiting nearly a 
 year, I like what I got. The Gameplay is not the best, and you will definitely question the moves 
 your players make at times, but it is acceptable. You will see many diving catches, way too many 
 robbed homeruns, and way to many homeruns period. You will be challenged to find yourself a realistic 
 slider package, because the default sliders are horrible. Once you get past the Pro difficulty, 
 you will be hard pressed to get more the a couple stirkeouts a game, no matter what batter your 
 facing with your all-star pitcher. I usually have 13+ hits a game and the computer has usually 
 10+. It is fun when you get used to it. Baserunning can be difficult at times, but its usually 
 good. Graphics are amazing, the announcers do a good job broadcasting, though they can get repetitive 
 if you play enough, but every game does that.
  
  If you like baseball then you will like this game. When you can adjust the sliders right this game 
 is a blast. But, no matter what you do, you will rarely hit a deep home run, as most of them will 
 be just over the fence. Good luck and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-of-ruckus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Every March the idea of baseball comes to my mind and I get excited. The video games are a blast 
 and its a fun sport to watch. This being said I was excited about a new 360 baseball game. I was 
 not impressed with the 2006 version from 2K and favored the MLB: The show. This year I was impressed. 
 This game had a variety of cool features, good gameplay and great graphics. I have always been 
 a huge fan of the fantasy draft your own team and this game fulfills that. The only thing I would 
 fix is the sudden drop of player ratings. You have a few players who are rated 90-100 but then 
 it seems like after those 20 or so players you have a lack of talent. Other than that this game 
 is very enjoyable and will keep any baseball fan busy until next seasons installment. I am still 
 waiting for that epic next gen sports game, and who knows what next year could bring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holleejim
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 24, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  I agree totally with Mastertx1059. This game looks awsome and the play by play is pretty good but 
 the gameplay... I've played baseball all of my life, including college baseball at Indiana State 
 University, and this game is arcade at best. Homeruns come rediculously too often as well as outfielders 
 scaling the walls and making spectacular catches every other play. The hitting feels totally off. 
 You really don't have any time at all to decide if a pitch will be a strike or a ball. I know... you 
 only have about a tenth of a second to decide if a ball is a strike or not in real life but in 
 a video game it is much different. I feel like hitting in this game is the luck of the draw. When 
 you hit a homerun or get a base hit it does'nt seem as though you had anything to do with it. Trust 
 me when I tell you, the better game for a true baseball fan who wants realistic game play in a 
 video game is MLB 06' or 07'. Looks are'nt everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry, I thought I was buying a baseball sim. Instead, it seems I bought a home run derby sim. 
 Jesus Christ, this is ridiculous! I mean, it doesn't even matter who you are. Even the contact 
 hitters go long! What's funny is I really like MLB 2k6, but that game got hammered for it's gameplay. 
 With this game, all critcs say it's better than last year's game , but I disagree.
  Graphically, yes, this game is incredible. Probably the best graphics for a sports game on the 
 360. But it doesn't matter when all you can do is watch the ball leave the yard. This is a devastating 
 blow for me, because I loved last years game and really looked forward to this one, not to mention 
 the great graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyro2005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best baseball games i have ever played! it has amazing graphics and really 
 good gameplay. the one thing that i don't like about it is the amount of bugs and glitches there 
 are. there are also to many robbed home runs which makes the game very easy if you are a good fielder. The 
 franchise mode is more in-depth but has many glitches and freezes... sometimes the modes are to 
 easy or to hard in franchise or gm mode. I recommend that you rent this game before you buy it if 
 you are not a big baseball fan... but if you are just go out and buy it right this very moment! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snax13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  Major League Baseball 2k7 is probably thee best in the series, but like in every game there are 
 some flaws.
  
  First off, the gameplay in MLB 2k7 is awesome. Though, the controls are a little hard to get the 
 hang of, but once you get it, you'll be winning back-to-back World Series. The pitching is a little 
 confusing when you first play it, so read the tutorials. The fielding is easy, so it's not a big 
 deal. The graphics in the game is AMAZING. Best graphics I've seen in awhile. Even the crowd is 
 three dimensional. I think that's all to say about the graphics.
  
  The sound is great but not the best. The commentary is a little boring after you heard it about 
 50 times, but I guess that is with all sports games, they never seem to record a lot of commentary. 
 The 'loading' commentary is horrible. They say the same thing over and over again. Also, commentary 
 never seem to keep up with the year. Playing a franchise or GM Career mode they go back to 2006, 
 so after you get into it, like year 2012, they still say things about what the players did back 
 in 2006. A little annoying, but I ignore the commentary half the time.
  
  The modes, like franchise and GM Career, are fun but get boring after awhile, but they are better 
 than any sports game out there right now. It's an improvement from back games. Good step in the 
 right direction.
  
  The only flaw in the game really is the commentary, but like I said, every sports game never has 
 enough commentary.
  
  All and all this is a game worth buying, easy achievements and good fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SK24II
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  The overall is probably the best baseball game out there, but there are some big flaws in the game. 
 I must not have the same game as everyone else because I barely get home runs when I play. I ALWAYS 
 GET ROBBED BY THE COMPUTER. I get robbed at least 3 times a game of a home run. All the AI does 
 is climb the wall and it's an automatic home run rob. Who in the heck has heard of wall climb being 
 an out everytime in a baseball game. I say at least 7-8 times out of 10 a wall climb results in 
 a home run because they can't get it. I plays in the outfield are also unbelieveable on a consistent 
 basis. Most hits usually result in a fly out or groundout. Other than that the game is pretty o. k. 
 I suggest you get it but just not at full price by it used or on sale. No more than 50 bucks (even 
 that's kinda too much) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hgporto
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  2k games tosses a real gem! Major League Baseball 2k7 is a great, addictive game that can make 
 you forget the greatest titles of baseball of the past. With a good set of sliders, the game becomes 
 very realistic, making you wanting more! Graphics are awesome. The ballparks, the crowd, the players, 
 the movement. Some faces are very alike. Pitching, fielding and batting are simple factors that 
 you can learn in a game or two. The only reason I can't give it a 10 is that some AI decisions 
 sometimes seems ridiculous and stupid, but every game has it. But in general, awesome game that 
 could be compared with MVP Baseball 2005 from EA, best baseball game so far, till MLB 2k7 hit the 
 stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoSox09
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  The 2K baseball series returns with MLB 2K7 a baseball sim game for the xbox 360 and other consoles. 
 This is pretty much the same as lasts years version MLB 2K6. Nothing has really changed, but that 
 doesn't mean that this isn't a good game it would have been nice for some different modes though.
 
  
  All Teams from the MLB are in the game including some unlockable teams. Ther is a lot of Jerseys 
 to unlock. Many of the all star players are in the game inlcuding A-rod, David ortiz, MVP Justin 
 Morneau, and AL Batting Champ Joe Mauer. Some players like Barry bonds aren't in the game? and 
 I dont know why. Yeah and I want to know why isn't Dice - K in the game? The graphics for the game 
 are kinda choppy and sometimes you'll expirence bad framerates but the graphic are pretty nice 
 overall.
  
  The Commentary has always been great in the 2K baseball series and once again Jon Miller and Joe 
 Morgan return in the commentary. Overall this is a good baseball game that any baseball fan should 
 maybe pick up or rent.
  
  Swing Stick is back and is still good but takes some time to get used to. Pitching is still there 
 and the base running camera is good. Overall the gameplay is really good.
  
  Pros: Commentary, gameplay, graphics are ok. Manager mode is fun
  
  Cons: nothings really changed, 
 Bad Frame rate, Needs more modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lcbdeke
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  On pro and higher difficulty settings, its impossible to strike the computer batters out without 
 throwing balls everything time. And when you throw balls you loose stamina a lot faster. And if 
 i do that my pitchers only pitch say like 3 innings before they injure themselves. I really hate 
 how the computer robs homers a lot. And some homers don't go far. Most of my home runs are like 
 5 feet from the wall and are easily catchable by the outfielder. Its really annoying but whatever. 
 The franchise is really good. The soundtrack gets pretty boring after awhile. The commentary gets 
 really annoying after like 2 games. If you hit a lot of homers in one game the commentator says 
 the same thing over and over. Other than that the game is awesome and a must buy for baseball fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sc_kid42
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 11, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Don't listen to the pro reviews...
  This game was great. From the second I started playing, I was hooked.
  
  First of all, the 
 graphics are amazing. The Wow Factor of them is basically unmeasurable; sometimes I think the graphics 
 look even better than real life. Everything from the look on the players' faces depending on the 
 situation, to how they move, to how their uniform blows in the wind and wrinkles... it's all amazing.
 
  
  Next comes sound. Jon Miller and Joe Morgan do an excellent job, with the exception of a few flat-out 
 wrong announcements. I do believe I've heard in my GM mode, The Braves are coming into this game 
 with a .500 record; they're going to need to step it up. This would be a fine announcement, if 
 it weren't for the fact that I am currently undefeated. Otherwise, however, everyone and everything 
 sounds real, and you can definitely hear the fans get pumped up in a close game.
  
  Now for the part everyone's been waiting for: The gameplay. I have one word: Stunning. The realism 
 put into this game just awes me. Pitching is fun; seeing a batter whiff the ball when Carlos Zambrano 
 delivers a curve with just the right timed break or watching John Smoltz deliver a mean slider 
 just off the plate never gets old.
  
  Batting is also great, and with the swing stick, you really feel that sense of timing that is baseball. 
 And when you see that ball go flying out of the park in a close 2 - 3 game... it feels just right.
 
  
  I can't believe I'm saying this, but even the fielding is fun. The players' ratings really make 
 an impact. This means that you can't just run home on any sac fly like you could in other baseball 
 games such as MVP Baseball. If someone hits a medium pop fly to the likes of Vladimir Guerrero 
 or Andruw Jones, a smart baserunner will stay put.
  
  The only reason it was docked a point was because it wasn't for everyone. Most huge fans of the 
 likes of Slugfest Loaded won't really love this game as much as the lovers of realistic baseball. 
 Though, if you are a fan of baseball, no matter what road you like to take with it, I definitely 
 recommend picking up a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDL54876
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 9, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  the more I play this game the more i find errors with the AI. I've been playing on All-Star difficulty 
 (2nd hardest) for a while now and the computer is almost flawless. Strikeouts come very seldom, 
 and the computers defense is always there. I cant tell you how often I am robbed of home runs. 
 Basically, every game u'll see a ridiculous play-of-the-year type wall climb to pick off your bomb. 
 One time Grady Sizemore made full-extension wall climbs 3 times in one game, robbing me of a would 
 be homers in real life. This is incredibly annoying and makes the great game frustrating and difficult. 
 This is one thing that they need to fix. Grady SIzemore is understandable for 1, maybe even 2. 
 But 3 is insane, and half the time ur being robbed by mediocre fielders. The other thing is the 
 bridge between difficulty pro, and all-star, is very different. Pro, which is the second hardest 
 difficulty is very easy, and ur most likely to score 10+ runs a game with at least 4 homers. All-star 
 I score around 5, but loose much more often. Unless your homer is a shot, it will be robbed, so 
 I get around 1-2 homers a game at most. The final thing is pitching is very difficult on All-Star, 
 and despite how many runs my offense produces, my pitching always gives up. This too is frustrating 
 because often the computer makes 7th, 8th inning comebacks from down by 4 and i loose. So, as I 
 said there are AI flaws, theres more in the gameplay. But, overall this is so much better than 
 06, and great graphics help. solid gameplay despite these few flaws, and a good franchise mode. 
 Learning curve is easy if you've played MVP baseball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bz2985
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  MLB Baseball 2k7 is a very good baseball game. The graphics in the game are flawless and the authentic 
 pitching styles and batting stances give the game a realistic feel. The pitching in the game is 
 good but at times too easy. As for batting, it is good as well, if mastered, the swing stick is 
 an excellent addition although it takes time to learn. The games only flaws are its fielding. The 
 amount of robbed homeruns by the computer made me punch a hole in my wall, and a routine ground 
 ball to second once ruined my no-hitter because of a stupid glitch. However besides the fielding 
 issues the game excels in almost every other aspect and is an excellent baseball simulation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuzzaneer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Awkward camera angles and controls, but overall it is a fantastic baseball simulation 
 that gives you total control.
  
  Graphics - Umpires are a fun addition, but look like they are dancing the jitterbug when the ball 
 is in play. Player's faces in HD are great, still not as good as All Star Baseball 2005. Presentation 
 is so realistic, television-style broadcast makes the game more fun.
  
  Sound - Announcers are wonderful. Best in any sports game I have ever heard. Joe Morgan can be 
 too repetitive. Crowd is realistic and cheers at appropriate moments.
  
  Value - I have thoroughly enjoyed the game and with a franchise mode you will get years of play 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hahaleo1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good considering the amazing graphic, the great soundtracks, good gameplay, and 
 deep career/gm mode. But just a couple of weaknesses ruined the game's value. First, the fielding 
 in this game is extremely unrealistic when i watch Barry Bonds robbing my homeruns and Kenny Lofton 
 making a thousand diving catches, or having the opposing team's rookie center fielder catches a 
 deep hit without him even looking at the ball. Second, there are glitches here and there, like 
 in gm mode, u cant find a reliever after u signed him off free agency in the middle of the season, 
 or having Andy Pettitte type of player being unsigned for the entire year. But overall, the game 
 is worth buying and worth playing, its the best baseball game in the 2k series, and hopefully it 
 will get better next year... i miss MVP Baseball... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: listerfiend21
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 16, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This game was proboably one of the most hardest games to learn how to play from, but as soon as 
 u knw how to hit the ball u should be able to get a hang of it soon. this game has some of the 
 best pitching styles than any other game. The style at which the catcher gives you a location and 
 u need ur knowledge of the pitchers spin in his pitches so you can strike the batter out. the graphics 
 are great, and the conversations going on in the back are somewhat entertaining but nonetheless 
 annoying. career mode is same as anyother game nothing special really. To sum this all up, great 
 game, take an hour to learn, enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkendo
Rating: 5.6
Date: May 24, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is like that episode of Seinfeld when he dates a girl, and that girl is either ugly or 
 hot depending on the lighting of the room. There are times when I just DROOL all over this game. 
 Then there are times where i wish there was a 30 day return policy at a certian store. Its fun 
 to hit 5 Home Runs an inning. Its not fun to give up 5 home runs a game when you JUST miss the 
 spot. it is easier to hit a homerun than it is to hit a single or even a double. Here is a stat 
 for you just to let you know what i am talking about.
  My current franchise.
  HR LEADERS
  D. Ortiz - 30
  Ramirez- 23
  LUGO!!! - 20
  Drew - 15
  Lowell 15
  
  Online is just as 
 annoying. There are no GAMES!!! its all a homerun derby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwedishMob
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 21, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The thing I hate most about sports games are their inabiliity to truly simulate the sport they 
 are trying to imitate. Too often when playing sports games, I'll play a season and look at my stats 
 and cringe at my team ERA that is hovering around 2.05. Likewise, I can't stand it when my best 
 power hitter is batting .525 with 14 home runs and the guy in second place is my mediocre second 
 baseman with 10.
  
  You'll get much of the same with 2K Sports' MLB 2K7. Sure, the game looks great, sounds great, 
 and the players look, for the most part, exactly like their real-life counterparts, but so much 
 of the game feels so contrived. Personally, I've always loved the MVP series better. It seemed 
 you could really feel the timing of the batter's swing, and feel the pressure of the pitcher when 
 there are bases loaded and you have a one-run lead. But in 2K7, when I hit a home run, rarely do 
 I feel like I really nailed it. Conversely, when I feel like I really get a hold of one, too often, 
 the centerfielder runs up the wall, sticks his glove up, and nabs my almost easily-earned homerun. 
 The power of the hitters is way out of control in this game, and there is no feeling of accomplishment 
 when you hit one -- and you'll hit plenty.
  
  Likewise, the fielding in this game feels robotic. The absence of a throwing meter and the ability 
 to easily stab a hard grounder in the hole and fire a perfect strike to the first base also takes 
 away from the feeling of really trying to make a great play. Equally frustrating is the outfield 
 play. It's not so much that it's hard to track down a fly ball, but when the opposing batter hits 
 a scorcher down the alley and your outfielder is somewhere off the screen, running in the general 
 direction, and finally catching up with the ball when the batter is then rounding second only amplifies 
 that helpless feeling you get when playing this game.
  
  The pitching is a little better than it has been in the past few years. It gets harder on more 
 challenging difficult levels to really hit the corners, and this only amplifies as your pitcher 
 tires. But really none of these mechanics are any fun.
  
  On the brighter side, Joe Morgan and Jon Miller are just fantastic as the play-by-play announcers. 
 Their banter sounds so natural and off-the-cuff, you kind of begin to feel you're watching a real 
 game. Also, the pre-game analysis is unique and changes every game as the matchups change. It shows 
 that the developers really put a lot of effort into making each game feel like it's a part of a 
 string of important games all throughout the season.
  
  Like I said, the game looks fantastic, but when I am playing it I wonder just how much affect I 
 have on the outcome of the game. A great-lookig game can wow you only for so long before you start 
 to feel the real essence of the game itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K7 was an overall good experience, there were just way to many bugs that make you very frustrated.
 
  
  The Good: Excellent Commentary, Great online play with good leaderboards and lobbies, Great graphics (when 
 not skipping) , nice close ups on the players, many things you can do when creating a player
  
  The Bad: Many many bugs, online is sometimes very laggy, achievements are lame, Swing stick 
 is sometimes incredibly hard because the ball is pertty hard to judge, sometimes skippy graphics
 
  
  The gameplay on this game is pretty good when it is not overun by the many bugs and glitches in 
 the game. Glitches such as the players just standing there and not continuing the game after a 
 pickoff attempt makes me pretty frustrated. The swingstick is a nice thing in the game but the 
 ball is just so freakin hard to judge. I play baseball and I find it a ton easier to judge the 
 ball than on this game. Other than that the gameplay is pretty nice. The fielding controls inpressed 
 me a lot with all the things that you can do with the fielders such as robberies and nice dives.
 
  
  The graphics on this game are good but they seem to skip a lot. The closeups are absolutely incredible 
 when they are smooth. The players are detailed when they are smooth. Everything is awesome when 
 it is not skipping.
  
  The sound is excellent with the great commentary 2k Sports put into this game. The announcers are 
 great and honestly out of the 20-40 hours of me playing this game, it was never repetitive. It 
 was great and I was very suprised about that.
  
  Overall this game is a good get if you don't mind the occasional bugs and skips. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattster67
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 18, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  i put this game on the hardest level and even on there i constantly hit homers. its just way too 
 easy!!!!! please make 2k8 better! i mean yeah its a solid upgrade from 2k6 like i said in grphics 
 and game play and sound, but id stick to 2k its not worth all the extra money. any good game would 
 know that it takes alot more than flashy graphics to make a good game and 2k6 is more challanging.. 
 hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hih ihihihi hi hi hi hi hi ih hi hi hi hihi bye bye bye bye bye bye 
 hi agen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntercubs54
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 16, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first timeyou may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first timeyou may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your 
 review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you 
 to try to get your review right the first timeyou may choose to edit it later on, but by doing 
 so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your 
 review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into 
 the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfl123kid
Rating: 7
Date: May 13, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  While there's no denying the graphics are amazing and nuisances like last years defensive fielding 
 glitches and herculean sprinting have been cleaned up, the no-frills game modes have us longing 
 to play MLB 07: The Show. That's not to say the franchise mode isn't fun, but the only real highlight 
 in GM is seeing how much fans will pay for tickets when you hike them higher then Steve Swindals 
 blood/alcohol level. Still theres no denying MLB 2k7 looks killer. With the exception of Paul Lo 
 Duca looking like a Geico caveman, the Signature stle makes this one of the best looking baller 
 around. must have at least 100 words must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 7
Date: May 8, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  MLB 2K7 is 2K Sports second go at a baseball game for the 360. While it is an improvement over 
 2K6, there is still a ways to go.
  
  The game looks great, at times. Some player models look good and other look horrible. The crowd 
 and stadium lack detail and wow and make you wonder, why developers even have crowd shots in sports 
 games. The sound effects are decent but the play by play and color by Joe Morgan and John Miller 
 gets old, FAST.
  
  The gameplay has improved quite a bit. The pitching is solid and with the addition of the catcher 
 calls, makes for a more immersed feel. Batting is straight forward but lacks options for controlled 
 hitting. Base running is maddening and at times, makes you want to give up. Especially when you 
 run into double plays.... at home.
  
  Online offers a number of options if you are a) able to get past some of the gameplay issues or 
 b) are hardcore sports/baseball fan. Online leagues and tourneys and casual play make for a good 
 overall experience using Live.
  
  The achievements are fun and baseball centric and make a great challenge for any player (let me 
 know when you hit for the cycle or throw a no-hitter) .
  
  Two player local offers some interesting challenges. First, there is no catcher assist in calling 
 the game. Secondly, using the hit marker (as the batter) is touch and is best utilized when holding 
 the thumb stick down (visible) but that offers obvious problems. Going back to the base running 
 problems, it tough when you run into a double play with your bud rubbing it in your face sitting 
 next to you.
  
  Overall, a good game, if you need a baseball fix now that the season is underway. Give it a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nsider23
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 2, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Again, I have pretty much played this game non-stop (within reason) since it came out. I really 
 only have one problem with it so far. It might just be how you set up the league in Season Mode, 
 but when the computer makes trades with teams, not including the one you are playing with, there 
 is no Transaction Screen to search for them. This is the only flaw I can see in this game. Maybe 
 a few small, knit-picky things, here and there, but nothing too serious. Way to go 2K Sports. Maybe 
 just add a Transaction Screen to one of the Menus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROLLTIDE06
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 28, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  First off, if you played MLB 2K6, you can safely assume that the franchise can only go up. While 
 there are still a couple of glitches littered throughout the gameplay, it is vastly improved over 
 last year's version. The Franchise Mode returns and it's just as solid as last season. Manage your 
 ticket prices, team morale, lineups, playing time, etc. -- it's all here. Stadium upgrades could 
 be a nice feature, but that's just a thought. I couldn't really see that working out anyway. Maybe 
 a stadium creator? I think they had that before, but it wasn't really customizable. No problems 
 with the Franchise mode here. I will say that they improved the draft selections this year, and 
 most of the player ratings I've seen are not worth complaining about ... unlike last year. Team 
 Morale is interesting, because at first I couldn't figure out how to boost team chemistry. I have 
 determined that it has to do with your mix of veterans and younger players. In one of my fantasy 
 drafts, I didn't have a single player over 25 years old (starting) . I think Matt Lecroy was my 
 oldest player, and he was there for pinch hitting purposes or spot starts. Anyway, I fielded an 
 incredibly young team (on purpose) with Felix Pie in CF ... King Felix as the #1 with Francisco 
 Liriano as the #2 ... Francoeur in RF, Russel Martin at C ... Lastings Milledge in LF, etc. I noticed 
 that team chemistry for this team was not very good, and I think it had a lot to do with not having 
 any veteran leadership. In my 2nd fantasy draft, I used the Boston Red Sox (for their enormous 
 payroll and disdain of the Yankees) . I had the sole intention of taking big named players with 
 a few younger guys (i. e. Delmon Young) . I ended up with Beckett, El Duque, Tim Lincecum, Crawford, 
 Jeter, Jason Kendall, etc.... A much better balance of veterans and young stars. The result? Great 
 team chemistry. Perfect.
  
  I have to give a thumbs up to 2K Sports for removing the hustle baserunning system. It was absolutely 
 atrocious. This years baserunning, while still frustrating at times, is much more fluid. I have 
 committed far less baserunning blunders in this years game than last years. This is very important 
 to me, because I absolutely hate to make baserunning mistakes. It is one of the most frustrating 
 things to let happen, although there were a couple of glitches from 2K6 that left you with no control 
 over what your baserunner was doing. The Baseburner Mode is still a cool feature, but it takes 
 a lot of practice to master. It's pretty difficult to exact the timing of the pitcher's delivery. 
 It also seems if you don't get your initial jump at the exact moment the pitcher begins his delivery, 
 then you will most likely be caught stealing. I have not tested this against weaker armed catchers 
 though. I was testing the feature against catchers like Yadier Molina and Jorge Posada... needless 
 to say, it was a bad idea. 2K is still not the king of hitting. Their swing stick just doesn't 
 feel like you are really hitting, unlike MVP's swing stick. So, I prefer the classic style of hitting 
 in 2K7 -- and it's okay. I like to use the swing stick since MVP introduced it, but I'm just not 
 a fan of the 2K Swing Stick. Homeruns are still easy to come by, unless you get robbed, but it's 
 not as bad as last year. The main beef I have with hitting is how unrealistic it can be. I've pulled 
 outside pitches quite a few times for monster home runs. This just doesn't happen. They weren't 
 all on fastballs either... a couple of sliders as well. There are very few players who can pull 
 an outside pitch for a homerun - namely Vlad Guerrero and Andruw Jones. Not Jeff Cirillo. Maybe 
 working with the game tuners could affect the power, I'm not sure though.
  
  Fielding is much improved. The animations are very fluid and they don't waste as much time in this 
 years game. There have been a couple of occasions where the fielder has been lazy to get rid of 
 the ball -- but it is not as rampant as 2K6. Much, much improved. A few quirks include the annoying 
  the frequent wall climb catches, and the 
 seemingly frequent Web Gems that aren't robbing someone of a homerun. There have been a few occasions 
 where I was running after a ball that was planted right up against the fence, and my player just 
 collided with the wall. I wasn't running full speed - it was more of my guy reaching down to get 
 the ball and then just bouncing off of the wall like he had ran full speed into it. Fix that please 
 ... Most of you are already aware of all the gold glovers that litter the field each game, so I 
 won't elaborate here. There was one fielding instance, and this has only happened once -- nevertheless 
 -- when I was playing at Cleveland. The ball was hit to left field where there is a heightened 
 wall with a scoreboard. It bounced once and then hit off the wall; however, instead of bouncing 
 back off of the wall -- it stuck at the base of the scoreboard . In other words it was basically 
 sitting on top of a normal wall. It was still in the field of play, since there was a scoreboard 
 there... but I couldn't get to the ball! I tried to get close to the wall in an attempt to swipe 
 it, but the crazy wall physics of the game knocked me to the ground... My CPU opponent collected 
 an inside-the-park homerun. Some of the errors are not calculated correctly as well. This is a 
 much improved game over last year, and it is certainly more playable. Glitches still exist, but 
 they can be overlooked -- unless you have to have a perfect game. A couple of other minor problems 
 with the game I have ... The lineups are still not set realistically when you have a fantasy draft. 
 They are better -- still I've seen Vernon Wells hitting 7th in some lineups -- or Jason Giambi 
 leading off. There are some statistical glitches as well. I had runners on 2nd and 3rd, and hit 
 a sac fly to dept right-center. I tagged up with both runners -- the guy from 3rd scored easily, 
 but my guy advancing from 2nd to 3rd was thrown out on a ridiculous throw. There were 2 outs, so 
 that ended the inning. I got credit for the run, but my batter was not credited with a sac fly 
 or an RBI. Oops. My roommate also pitched an old-school 3 Inning Save , but was not credited with 
 a save. Oh well. This game is well worth the purchase if you are a hardcore baseball fan... if 
 not, maybe you should rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Let me just say that I was extremely nervous about spending $60.00 on this game after the poor 
 excuse for a baseball game came out last year, but once I sat down and opened the box I found myself 
 pleasantly surprised. Out of the box the game, in some aspects is flat out silly, both very easy 
 and extremely hard at the same time. A person playing their first game can hit home runs in abundance, 
 and at the same time will find it nearly impossible to get the AI batters out. This is where the 
 games difficulty sliders come into play. Giving the player the controls to adjust a multitude of 
 player and AI abilities makes this one of the best baseball games to hit any platform on the market. 
 After just a few games you can have everything tuned to just the way you like it, making for some 
 of the best, most realistic games ever. What really brings everything together for this game is 
 the presentation, and the attention to detail. Jon Miller and Joe Morgan announce the game (most 
 of the time they are right on with the plays) and the small details such as a ball boy running 
 out to chase foul balls really makes you feel like you are at the park. Graphics = AMAZING on a 
 HDTV, and if using any type of surround sound system you will be happy feeling like you are in 
 the seats!
  
  Franchise and GM mode are a little shallow but fun to play. You will probably have many home runs 
 taken away from you by overly aggressive AI outfielders, but again this can be fixed by adjusting 
 their abilities. Overall this is a great second shot for the 360, cant wait till next year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newyork_graffit
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  The 2k Sports have given us alot of sports games over the years. Basketball, Football, Baseball. 
 They have all been pretty good too. Well, Major League Baseball 2k7 is no exception. Its a great 
 baseball game for anyone.
  
  MLB 2k7 is a sports game from Kush Games and 2k Sports. Unlike last year's game, 2k6, 2k7 fixes 
 alot of the problems and glitches that kept 2k6 from being a great game.
  
  The graphics are some of the best on the Xbox 360 system. When the batters first come up, or you 
 see the pitchers on the mound, they allow you to see their faces. Derek Jeter and Roger Clemens 
 look exactly like their counterparts. The stadiums are espicially great-looking. Yankee Stadium 
 and Shea Stadium look just like the real thing. Its actually quite amazing.
  
  The presentation is phenominal as well. It makes you feel like your watching an actual Yankees-Red 
 Sox game on ESPN. Jon Miller and Joe Morgan once again reprise their roles. They call the game 
 very well, and add in a couple of pretty interesting fun-facts . Players batting stats come up, 
 pitchers ERA and B. A. stats come up, and they are all as realistic as can be. The presentation 
 really blows you away sometimes.
  
  As I said before, Jon Miller and Joe Morgan team up again, to come back and call the games. The 
 sound is very realistic. While there are Miller and Morgan up in the booth, the fans down in the 
 stadium make cheers that sound very much like the real thing. You have the Bleacher Creatures in 
 Yankee Stadium, performing the Roll Call every game, which adds to the realism. When a bat hits 
 the ball, or the ball hits the old, dusty, catcher's mitt, it sounds almost uncanny.
  
  If you love baseball, sports, or video games in general, I would highly reccomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadman618
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 24, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I have actually increased my rating of this game as I have continued with it. I really have to 
 say I am impressed with the depth of the game, the actions of the players and the pitching and 
 batting setups for this game. The franchise mode is deep, the abilities of the players are very 
 realistic and the movements, actions and graphics of the players are really great. Last night, 
 I saw the first home plate collision between a runner and a catcher and I was really impressed. 
 The more and more I play this, the fielding becomes more realistic (learning to get to grounders 
 and the throwing/timing) . A few things frustrate me, like way to many over the wall catches and 
 the ability of the AI to catch everything even close and my inability to climb the wall to catch 
 a fly over the fence. But maybe it is still learning process. It is really the best baseball game 
 that I have ever played and is a big step over last years version. Even the difficulties are good. 
 I am playing the Pro level and win only 60% of the time. Very realistic. The online play was frustrating 
 and I have not tried it in a while. There was a delay in the response time and the people rating 
 you were pretty harsh. Oh well, I guess self policing has its good and bad qualities. I really 
 say BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacdaniels006
Rating: 2.8
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  When you play this game you will yearn for the days of R. B. I. baseball and Baseball All-Stars 
 from the days of the NES. I have been waiting some time for a new Baseball game to surface and 
 I have to say, this isn't it. It's too slow, and every time I threw a pitch it was either a homerun 
 or a double. Changing the options doesn't help either, I changed the pin-point setting and the 
 ball still went all over the place. I threw 7 wild pitches in 3 at bats. Heres hoping they release 
 The Show for Xbox 360. Save your time and money. I am filing a complaint with 2K7 sports about 
 how they can continue to market and relaese such horrible, horrible games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Houston_Kid
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 21, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I just got the game a couple hours ago (finally) and id say that so far its an improvement from 
 my last version, 2k5 (on the ps2) . So naturally im seeing allot of improvements in more than just 
 graphics. But you can set the controls and presentation back to the old style if your used to the 
 old cheap $20 2k game... I have (old skool, lol) .
  
  The most obvious improvement over the old games is the fact that you can now make your pitchers 
 BETTER. Unlike the old games were you had to get Roger Clemens or Curt Chilling to have a good 
 pitcher.
  
  Things that have made me made so far... 1. Delayed achievements or not even getting them.... i 
 got one achievement 3 times before it finally game it to me... not to mention the fact im still 
 waiting to get my achievement for striking out 15 batters with one pitcher... I even went a full 
 9 innings with one guy just to get that and it still didn't give it to me. This same pitcher now 
 is up to 23 SO and I am yet to get the achievement.
  
  2. Incredibly offensive rating system for teams... this does change but this is more a matter of 
 principle... I'm a Astros fan and while I know we didn't do to hot last year we sure weren't the 
 23rd best team (out of 30? Come on... we almost got the wild card to get into the playoffs people... 
 I hate you cards fans....) . i didn't look at the other teams before I started my season so I'm 
 not sure how everybody else is with the exception of the Yankees. Whoever makes these games must 
 be Yankees fans because the Yankees did about as good as us yet start out as the best team... (not 
 to mention Derek Jeter being on the cover of every game... literally... every MLB game almost...) 
 Same thing goes for certain players... how is it Craig Biggio, who had something like 21 homers 
 and 62 RBI's last year (and that was a bad year) with has only a 75% rating by default and Ichiro 
 has a 95% with only 9 homers and 49 RBI's?!?!?!? Derek Jeter, the cover boy for the game, had only 
 14 homers (but 90 something RBI's) ... come on people.
  
  3. Minor game errors like i get a short loading screen in the middle of games sometimes... its 
 not bad but its still an issue... Another thing though I found (that made me mad btw...) was that 
 one time I was fielding a hit ball and my Center Fielder ran right over the ball without picking 
 it up 3 times... the hitter managed to get a 3 run in the park home run... I was mad... very mad 
 (I won the game in the end but at the time I was already down 1 so then I was down 3)
  
  
  
  For the newcomers to the series... Ive got to say the learning curve is great and you can 
 learn all the controls from just reading the book and if you don't get it by then there's still 
 the game tips that weren't in 2k5 (made the game hard to learn without them but I picked up on 
 all new features easy with these things...)
  
  The series itself is overall difficult for any beginner unless you play rookie or with some custom 
 difficulty setting that only a retard couldn't win on (liked i started with on 2k5... lol...) . 
 but once you get the bravery to start climbing in difficulty levels the game actually gets easier 
 regardless of difficultly. I play on All Star (which is the second highest or highest out of 4-5 
 difficulties) and the game is no harder for me than rookie was when i had a handle on the game. 
 (btw... rookie is the lowest setting... aside from custom...)
  
  Overall this is a must have for any baseball fan or sports game fan... and if your like me and 
 have alota friend into baseball you can all play it and have just as much fun with your GM careers 
 as you would will fantasy baseball (actually i don't even like fantasy anymore because this involves 
 you so much more...)
  
  Almost last thing... while everybody is amazed with the graphics i gotta say the textures are incredible 
 and the motions are realistic... but who really has thighs that big??? I mean i can understand 
 a couple of the bigger players like that almost but even the skinny guys have monstrous legs. I 
 mean I noticed it when i played the demo... first thing I says was Oh my god Becky, look at here 
 butt... he looks like one of those rap guys girlfriends or something... I mean her butt... It's 
 just so big... and round... 
  
  
  Finally the best thing about the game... Roger is still in it... hehehehehe... bad side of that 
 though... hes just as much of a B*tch about signing a contract as in real life... the guy wants 
 18.1 million (I think) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potvinandy
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game a day after it came out. I was all excited that this game was going to be 
 a huge improvement over 2k6. However, this game falls well short of perfection. I noticed very 
 quickly that you have to swing very early. When I say early, I mean before the pitcher even releases 
 his fastball, and the hardest part is the fielding. Even on a simple ground ball, I have a tough 
 time getting to the ball, and I usually end up dancing around the ball. Pretty sad huh? I can't 
 wait until EA once again is licensed to make Baseball games. I'm still going to give this game 
 a 7, because it has good presentation and the sound and visuals are pretty smooth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donjuan2222
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Always a lack of innovation in which they want to change just 1 thing and its complete, and with 
 the gm mode, so many things that i couldnt understand and also good job of ripping off minor leagues 
 from mvp. overall it is a good game but i just got bored alittle to fast with it and the gm mode 
 wasnt appealing at all. gameplay graphics are good and the gameplay itself is good but whats with 
 guys hitting the other way all the time. the defense needs something new to it cause it seems like 
 all im doing is running towards a circle and the hitting is alittle bit of the same thing where 
 im pushing the stick foward because most people have no sense of the balls and strikes either. 
 if a guy threw a ball in the dirt three times then i would swing 3 times so learn to make it alittle 
 easier. its a enjoyable game with achievments which arent to frustrating for the 360 and are easy 
 yet you still have to work for them. overall good game but innovate. jus plain fun but to much 
 of been there done that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaQuest
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 17, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  Game play is a little easy but it does feel great to hit a home run, that is until you have hitting 
 four to five in one inning. Graphics are definitely impressive. Characters fit pretty well to their 
 real life components. I am an Indians fan (please don't laugh, we're getting there) so I was a little 
 disappointed at the lack of an updated roster. Instead 2k just made up several players. Same thing 
 with most of the other teams. The best part of the game though is finding a friend to play with 
 and unlocking the old teams from baseball's great past. 97 Indians... All in all its a fun game 
 to play on a weekend unless you want to build a franchise... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaach11687
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 16, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Again 2k sports went with the swing stick this year and again they didn't fix it completely. 
 One can definitely tell that your swing isn't exactly going to do what you think it will. The controls 
 are just not as tight as they should be. The batting just shows what this game is all around. Don't 
 get me wrong this game plays great but i still don't feel like I am controlling everything. In 
 fielding, it seems that the players on the field are animating to my actions and not actually moving 
 like i want them to. Compared to last years game, this one bites its' head off but does not exactly 
 win the war.
  
  Graphics: Astonishing... This is what a next generation game should look like. Though i do see 
 frame-rate issues every once in a while.
  
  Sound: Great music and great announcers. Even the fans talking trash sounds so realistic.
  
 
  Value: Finally a truely in-depth franchise mode. It truely is a big as I hope it would be with 
 all the things you would expect. Including the ability for your pitchers to learn new pitches. 
 I love it. Online play could be better but are A ok with me.
  
  Tilt: The game looks great, sounds great, and has so many things to do. If only the gameplay could 
 have been a little bit more tighter then we might be looking at the next MVP 05. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markicksass
Rating: 2.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  2k6 was equally as bad but this game takes the cake as the biggest waste of money. Sure if you 
 like unrealistic and nonsensical playability with great graphics than this game is for you. I've 
 only had bad experiences with this games, the swing stick is the most difficult thing ive ever 
 played on a sports game. And the biggest BS about this game is you pretty much have to guess at 
 what pitch is coming and how your going to swing at it. There is no watching the pitch come in 
 then deciding. I hope one day 2ksports goes out of business and they all burn in hell for making 
 this game. It's horrible and barely an upgrade from 2k6. As game developers they should be ashamed 
 of themselves. It is pure garbage on a cd, it really is. Waste of money and time. I cant wait till 
 more MLB games come out once 2ksports is done strangling the life out baseball games. this game 
 is not fun period. It lacks playability and is a complete guessing game. Some of you may like that 
 but to me I would rather go to the dentist than be forced to play this game. It is a waste of time, 
 a waste of money and a waste of mlb licensing. I wish kush games would go out of business and never 
 make a game again cause i have never played a good game by them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deveets1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 12, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K7 for the xbox 360 had loads of areas to improve in from last years edition, but they passed 
 with flying colors. As someone who plays baseball and is extremely familiar with the sport, it 
 is the first great baseball game in a long time. Gameplay is what makes it stand out from others 
 and last year. The newly added swing stick is probably th most realistic interpretations of swinging 
 I've ever encountered. Whereas most would have you move the left stick and push a button, this 
 has you step back with the right stick and move forward for the swing. Fielding could be better 
 but still is good, allowing you to control your fielders. As for pitching, it works very well with 
 their original interface. Also, you're pitch starts where you aim meaning it's final destination 
 will be unknown, which also mean you have to learn you're pitcher and their movement on their pitches 
 which adds another dimension to the game. Overall the graphics look superb and like a next-gen 
 game should. Player animations are probably the best thing to come to this game though, with very 
 unique and accurate stances, swings, and movements overall. Expressions are great and everything 
 for the most part is fluid. The diffuculty is very good as well with the dynamic option. When games 
 in the past would either be too hard or way too easy, this game will adjust to the way you play 
 and offer you the biggest challenge. Overall, I like my sports games accurate and realistic and 
 with the advanced scouting which allows you to buy reports for certain players and teams, the great 
 GM mode, and solid gameplay MLB 2K7 is a serious step up in baseball games. There may be a few 
 bugs to be worked out for next year but it's still a very good and entertaining baseball game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xopherc7
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  There are some redeeming features to this game though. The soundtrack is great first off with plenty 
 of music to choose. The character models are amazingly detailed, and that's about as far as I can 
 go with the praises. Everything else felt cumbersome and not very engrossing. Determining pitches 
 and timing is a task and half in itself. This was my first 2k baseball game I've played, but comparing 
 it to The Show is like comparing a golden apple to a very stale orange. I would suggest as with 
 all sports games renting first as they have horrible trade in value later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty fun one here. Okay first off you going to get really cool graphics. The game play 
 is the same nothing new, but something new in the game is the replays after each inning ( like 
 a inning review) so your going to experience the same thing with a little different tactics. But 
 really you only have so much in a baseball game. The live is fun but in the quick games i would 
 have liked to see a whole team play but then it would need lots of players but i bet it could be 
 pulled off. Nothing new i mean you should get it for the update on rosters and continue. The game 
 made it off safe but for next time they really got spice it up. And don t ask me how i am not the 
 developer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20piece
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 10, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  MLB 2K7 is the latest installment in a less than thrilling franchise of baseball games. I fully 
 expected this game to be a bad game with great graphics. While the game is not perfect, it is close 
 enough to being so that I would put it among the best baseball video games to date and I've played 
 alot of them. The default control scheme is still bad, but you have the option to make it close 
 to that of MVP baseball (a game with some of the best play control) . The graphics leave nothing 
 to be desired and you have plenty of unlockable secrets, many of the mini games from other 2K franchises. 
 The create a player is somewhat weak, but the actual players look very close to the real thing. 
 Close ups of action and game physics are very well done. You can climb the wall, dive, although 
 you can't charge the mound. One unique thing is when your pitcher or batter is in a high pressure 
 situation that they may be ill equipped to handle your control will rumble violently while you 
 struggle to control them. The good things this game does far out weigh the bad and I look forward 
 to what they do in the future with this franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbence12286
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  After noticing the few differences from last seasons game this years is pretty much the same. The 
 Graphics are better all around. But you still have to deal with the touchy controls and what not. 
 I did however like when you swing and miss the batter steps out of the box and rethinks things. 
 Other than that the game still has very little to offer other than it is just another damn baseball 
 game. There is really nothing else to say, but this thing is making me type at least 100 frickin 
 words and yet the game is just the same as it was last year. There are some things that they could 
 change to make it a little more difficults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinida
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 8, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  This game is a ton of fun to play. The batting though is a bit different. You use the control stick 
 to take your step and then thrust it forward to hammer the ball. pitching never changes much. Its 
 a very good baseball game, although being a Giant fan was a bit disappointing they don't have Barry 
 Bonds, they just made someone who bats exactly like him but still its not the same :) . All around 
 its a great baseball game, you can explore the GM career which is fun, you can lose jobs, make 
 realistic trades, get hired by new teams, and even retire haha. The game is a bit realistic too, 
 some games get rained out depending on weather. But then again, the game is not very realistic 
 as well, if you hit a homerun that is maybe 10 feet past the wall, the outfielder will jump on 
 the wall pretty much and snag your ball. It happens at least once a game for me, which is quite 
 annoying. All around MLB is a good game, the graphics seem very realistic, and they have a lot 
 of signature players who have their own routines. I like a lot of the commentary, its good and 
 it is always different, i don't think I have heard the same commentary twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  It's baseball season again, and Major League Baseball 2k7 is back! I've been waiting so long for 
 this game, and it sure delivered. Now I'm like you, I'm tired of seeing Jeter on the cover, but 
 no matter.
  This game is easily the best baseball game I have ever played. Gameplay is just plain fun, and 
 realistic all at the same time. The AI could have been better, but that is okay. The pitching is 
 still excellent, but the hitting can be frustrating this year. Once you learn to time your swings 
 it is alright, but that is what baseball is about anyway. Franchise is definetly deep and satisfying 
 this year. It has news headlines, about how players act, player fines, and trades.
  The presentation is top notch as is with all 2k sports games. The couple things are that some stadiums 
 are represented as trashy before the game, and after innings usually the players go to their opposite 
 dugouts.
  The soundtrack is alright this year. Nothing more. The sound of the crack on the bats is pretty 
 accurate.
  What can you say about the graphics but that they are B E A utiful this year! I love the catcher/pitcher 
 interaction this year, and the way players throw around the ball after an out. The fact that 2k 
 took the trouble to nail the actions each batter and pitcher makes in between pitches is simply 
 amazing. You can even see players in the bullpen!
  If you're a baseball fan, you're going to love this game no doubt. Definetly a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DolphinFan21
Rating: 2.8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  this game sucks out loud. i cant hit it worth crap, i can only pitch but i only did that good because 
 i have it on pinpoint. i cant hit it, the hit stick sucks ass, i tired to read all the tips and 
 it still wont work, if i could hit it would be way better but i cant so. then i put it on classic 
 and i still couldnt hit it. The graphics are great but the gameplay is SH! T. Do not play it, do 
 not rent it do not buy it. it is crap crap crap c-r-a-p. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbeckwith23
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 3, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is a HUGE improvement over 2K6. Major League Baseball 2K7 is, in my opinion, the best 
 sports game released for the Xbox 360 to date. The visuals are incredible, gameplay is great, and 
 the achievements add for a nice challenge. This game is DEFINITELY a must buy for all baseball 
 fans! The detail of every player's uniform, face, and characteristics are all incredibly lifelike. 
 As with any game, there are some drawbacks. My major turn-off in this game is the fact that the 
 Yankees are virtually unbeatable. They are always rated far and above the best team in the league, 
 which is far from accurate. Other issues are present in online play, where it is tough to gauge 
 when to swing due to a tad bit of lag.
  
  Overall, this game is should absolutely be in your possession. If you can't get enough baseball, 
 Major League Baseball 2K7 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfman46
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  yeah yeah yeah yah yah yah yah yahy ayha yahya yahya yah yeah
  
  MLB 2k7 is great. **** this game is all about the new swing stick. it balls out. its amazing. it 
 just blows away the compotition. EA has MVP 07, but its only collage, and MLB 2007 the show is 
 for ps2 and is the same as 06 with new rosters. 2k7 is the only option, but its great. how often 
 do you see this kind of sh^t from 2k sports? not a lot of games. just one thing though, all the 
 other games have no chance, NO CHANCE IN HELL!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhrnw
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 31, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  After last years disappointment I wasn't sure if I would get another baseball game for my 360, 
 but as the season started approaching I got the urge to play a baseball game. I went and picked 
 up 2k7 expecting disappointment, thinking that I would just play it till it grows on me. I wasn't 
 expecting to find a game that is almost the perfect baseball simulator. This game would definitly 
 appeal to any true baseball fan. They improved the graphics, added signature player movements, 
 and improved the atmosphere of the game. This game feels like it actually puts you in the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patsfan1453
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Ok, Ive had this game for about a month now and Ive gone back and forth about it. First off the 
 difficulties that are pre-set don't work. You will hit 30 hrs a game and it will suck. Before starting 
 a season or franchise use the sliders that are in these forums it makes the game very addictive. 
 You will get a bunch of bloop single RBIs and have a close play at the plate. But anyway, the graphics 
 during day games in HD are utterly amazing! People have walked into my room and thought I was watching 
 a Red Sox game, its amazing! The pitching is very solid once you get a hang of it and you will 
 love it when a batter swings right through your curveball. Now if you're a fan of baseball and 
 like dazzling graphics this game is for you. However if you are a big baseball sim person you might 
 want to stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  MLB 2K7 only boasts minor improvements to the game play over last years offering. 
  
  Game play: Most of the core game play is the same as the previous version. Pitching is exactly 
 the same, as in 2K6, and batting is the same concept of using the analog stick, although I have 
 found that the timing for batting to be more difficult than the previous game. At first hitting 
 homeruns is somewhat difficult, but with practice, you can easily run up the score against the 
 computer.
  
  Graphics: Having played 2K6 on the Xbox last year, I am really impressed with the Graphics on 
 the Xbox 360 this year, there are so many little details that the developers have added to the 
 game that make you go Wow every once and a while. Unlike last years game, 2K has done an excellent 
 job capturing the likenesses of the players. Ichiro no longer looks like a white guy, so on and 
 so forth.
  
  Sound: The sound in the game is basically the same as last years, John Miller and Joe Morgan, 
 do become repetitive fairly quickly but it is bearable to listen to them, as the Cementation could 
 have been worse.
  
  Replay value: I find the replay value of the game is moderately high. I Intend to play a whole 
 season with my Detroit Tigers, and one month in and I'm still enjoying every game I play, Allot 
 of the games come down to the wire. (Which is either a sign that Im bad MLB gamer or the AI has 
 been improved greatly over last years game.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawooten
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  It is that time of the year again when NFL football is over and college basketball is winding down 
 to the Final Four. This means summertime is right around the corner and it is time for a new baseball 
 game. Major League Baseball 2K7 is back to redefine how a baseball game needs to be made from the 
 previous MLB 2K6. The most important part of a baseball game is to make sure it actually plays 
 like a baseball game. MLB 2K7 uses the familiar swing stick and classic controls once again for 
 the batting. The pitching interface is pretty much the same as the previous years. Fielding, however, 
 has improved but it still has a few mechanics to work out.
  
  After the disappointment of 2K6's port graphics, 2K Sports finally has decided to build the graphics 
 from the ground up and boy do they look nice. The player models have been redone completely and 
 with much more additional detail. With all the focus on the players, the stadium, grass, and the 
 crowd could use more detail when it comes to them. Sound this year can get a little annoying listening 
 to the same voices of Joe Morgan and John Miller but the game music has improved along with the 
 sound effects of the crowd, bats, and the background noise. 
  
  Overall, this game has made vast improvements over the previous version. It has made the transition 
 from ugly to a beautiful and smoothly developed game and is well worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agirlyman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 28, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K7 is a great game of baseball, still not as fluid, and intuitive as MVP 2005, but it's so 
 close, and does so many things better, it doesn't even matter anymore, this is the best baseball 
 game to date. Great presentation, excellent graphics, very good gameplay, fun, fast, smooth, and 
 AI is customizable to your skill level, solid online play, lastly great replay value. Pitching 
 is intense, and almost as fun as hitting, 2k Sports really showed me alot improving this game from 
 last years version, it gives me hope that one day they will make the perfect game of baseball. 
 AM I NOT MERCIFUL!?!?!?
  
  Tee Hee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhythmshocker
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 28, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I bought 2K7 the other day and I am disappointed. The feel of fielding is awful. Hitting and pitching 
 are below average. The game looks great, but who cares if it plays the way it does. I would not 
 rate this game above a 6.5. The consumer really got screwed when Sega got the rights to MLBPA. 
 It really sucks that MVP '05 is not backwards compatible. My original Xbox died, and now I am stuck 
 with a mediocre 2K7 game to play. Does anyone know how long Sega has the rights to MLBPA? Hopefully 
 not that long : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 9:23 am PT
Review:  Wow I was expecting at least this game to make me think about putting up MVP 05 this season but 
 it doesn't even come close to fulfilling my expectations. Alright lets get started on the things 
 that make this game not any fun. To have a good baseball game you must have an exciting batter/pitcher 
 matchup. 2K7 has neither. The pitcher is positioned way to close which makes it nearly impossible 
 to tell whether it is a ball or a strike. This is unexceptable because any baseball player will 
 tell you that if they had to swing at everything they would suck at baseball. Being able to work 
 the pitcher into a favorable count is what makes baseball exciting. Also the swing meter is finiky 
 at best, I would accidentally bunt at least two to three times a game. The pitching is not as bad 
 but it is very plain and boring. There is none of the tension of trying to throw that perfect pitch 
 when you are in a jam and your pitcher is tired. The camera angles are pathetic in this game. Every 
 ground ball, fly ball, etc has only one angle. Hitting a homerun has never been so unsatisfying, 
 it appears to be the same whether you just clear the fence or hit a 500 ft shot. You should at 
 least get to watch the ball in flight on a HR. The camera should pan out so you can see the entire 
 field so you know if you are about to have a bang bang play at first or not. The same goes for 
 the outfield, even using turbo the players seem to have no urgency to get to the ball or throw 
 it to a base. When they do throw it they usually throw a big rainbow that looks ridiculous. There 
 should be a power meter when throwing to determine whether the fielder is going to make a mistake. 
 The commentators have been saying the same thing for about five years now as well, inexcusable. 
 The good points are the graphics. The player models are done extremely well but graphics do not 
 make a good game. The game is also deep with plenty of statistics, but if the gameplay sucks what 
 is the point. There are plenty of options for tweaking the difficulty. I would only recommend this 
 game to video gamers who have never played real life baseball and just want some eye candy when 
 playing baseball. I would like to thank SEGA again for taking away the best baseball franchise 
 ever made. I will still be playing MVP 05. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RamboneForever
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game is nowhere and I mean NOWHERE near the best baseball video game at all, so that's why 
 it's a crime that this game is the ONLY MLB game for the 360.
  
  Me being a 360 owner was left no choice, but to purchase this game and I deeply regret my decision 
 as it is not as good as the MLB series from Sony, it's not even in the same damn league.
  The graphics are good, not great, there are some flaws in some graphics and as for their signature 
 style ,some signatures are not as authentic as they should be,
  
  The Inside Edge feature is not as helpful as it was described and at times makes you wonder why 
 you purchased some of them cause they don't help you against the batter or pitcher as they should.
 
  
  The presentation still has the ESPN look somewhat from when they had the ESPN license and it even 
 had their announcers in the booth which makes me wonder why that is since the license is in EA's 
 hands, but any ways, the commentators presentation to every batter and pitcher is generic and is 
 not in any way close to being spectacular or even authentic at times, they don't follow stats that 
 well and they repeat themselves alot when calling the game, especially Harold Morgan with his description 
 of certain batting or pitching situations.
  
  The cam angles for batting... well... there aren't any, their is one cam angle for batting and thats 
 right behind the batter, theirs 2 versions of the same angle tho, classic and zoom in, the zoom in 
 zooms into the strike zone for the pitch and classic just sits there. The pitching cam can be either 
 the behind the pitcher or the batting cam you have set on. This is crap, its only like that because 
 of the whole movement of the catchers glove so you don't know where the pitch will go, too bad they 
 couldn't just put some angled views in there or something, but whatever.
  
  GM Career and Franchise have little different about them, only difference is the whole GM duties 
 for GM Career make you get your created GM better by accomplishing goals set by the owner, other 
 than that there is no difference otherwise between the 2. The new section on the franchise/GM screen 
 gets a little exaggerative at times as it almost is a drama story with some articles in there, with 
 conspiracies behind beaned batters and only 3 games into the season someone isnt happy or wants 
 out of their current location, then there are the conflicts between players and managers, when your 
 5 -0 I guess you still have shouting matches for no apparent reason. The league news section is 
 where you'd find recently released players and milestones, etc.., but it can only be found from what 
 I know in an email marked Star Injury Notice other than that you can't access it any other way, so 
 you have to wait for a star player to go down with an injury to get that section, thats bulls**t! 
 Your minor league clubs don't go that deep so you only have few minor leaguers to deal with which 
 is crap because you have to go and sign people cause you don't have that position good enough in 
 your minors.
  
  Now I move onto what many call the creative and innovative feature to this game, the Swing Stick 
 ,this is the right analog stick to which you must time your step by pulling it back and letting 
 go when you want to swing, you can push it forward if you wish to swing with power, this isn't that 
 bad, but it's not that good as sometimes the stick will not react and cause you trouble while batting, especially 
 since the genuis' at 2K made the right analog the bunt feature as well, even tho the Y button is 
 already and still is while the swing stick is on the bunt button, so if your batting and accidentally 
 hit in the right analog, you will bunt and cause your self frustration because of some idiots idea 
 to put the bunt into the analog stick. This feature could have been better if they made it easier 
 to deal with.
  
  The pitching is the only good side as the pinpoint feature is simply great and is not a problem 
 at all to deal with.
  
  Fielding is bad as the cams are horrible in some situations to where you are hoping your guy, {who 
 isn't in the view} is heading the right drection and going to make it. To use their dive features 
 you must have the help on as some situations you have to hit the analog when your fielder is a 
 little bit away from the ball's landing point, basically this is the worst view of fielding I have 
 ever seen in my life of playing baseball video games, THE WORST!
  not to mention that the fielding glitches and your guy doesn't catch a fly ball or pick up a rolling 
 ball, sometimes the CPU will have an infielder running towards the ball and you wont know it and 
 when you hit the button to move, he over runs the ball!
  
  So in the end MLB 2K7 is by far nowhere near Sony's MLB series and it strikes out in an effort 
 to change and become the leader as EA has again not made a MLB game, so 2K tried to hard to take 
 advantage of the 2nd consecutive no show by EA and the advantage of a Playstation systems only 
 MLB 07 : The Show, and they also failed by simply not having the good enough feel and excitement 
 of a baseball game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haloxbox360
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 25, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  You will be amazed when you play your first baseball game in mlb 2k7. It looks like your watching 
 a game on tv. From the solid commentery to the replays recapping innings. The graphic are amazing 
 and they really shine when a batter is is preparing for the first pitch against him. The players 
 faces look so real and life like.
  
  The gameplay is solid but not great. At least theres not as many glitches as last year and they 
 have the new Busch Stadium. The new interface on the menus are easier to use and looks cleaner 
 then lasts year. This being your only choice for the 360 is a good choice. This game is no MVP 
 baseball 2005 but its a start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdonthate
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  First of all.... Breathe... Repeat after me... This is not MVP baseball. If you want MVP, go play 
 2005 over and over again and not be able to hit Homeruns with lefty batters. I like this game a 
 lot. I've had some of the best baseball games ever with this one. It's a good playing game and 
 very realistic. I say this though with a condition; you need to adjust the sliders. Out of the 
 box, even on Legend difficulty, the game is very arcadey, lots of robbed homeruns, lots of homeruns 
 in general. Once I adjusted the sliders (which you can find plenty of discussion on, even on 2Ksports 
 website) I've had one of the funnest seasons thus far I've ever played. Close games, comebacks, 
 heart breakers and the occasional blow outs. I've heard complaints about camera angles, or lack 
 thereof. Doesn't bother me. I bat from behind the batter view and I pitch from behind the pitcher. 
 All action after the ball is hit is from one camera angle, your standard above the infield type 
 view. One quirk is that sometimes it doesn't feel as though the camera views from high enough. 
 It seems to be when balls are lined to centerfield. Just seems like the camera stays too low, but 
 I've gotten used to it and it doesn't change gameplay. I was a HUGE MVP 05 fan, and still believe 
 that the feel of that game is the best out there, but this is a close second to me and is nothing 
 to sneeze at. The most important feature of any baseball game is the pitcher/batter interface and 
 this game has one of the best I have seen. I love pitching in this game. As far as batting goes, 
 it feels the same as any other. Although, I am noticing that the game responds very well to trying 
 to influence swings (pulling the ball, going opposite field, lining one, grounding it) . It is very 
 responsive and I have seen an abundance of different hit types depending on how you try to influence 
 the ball. Also, if you try to do something with a pitch that you shoudn't (IE: pulling a ball that 
 is low and outside) it will punish you. This is the first review that I have written and just fealt 
 that I had to with all the mixed reviews I have seen regarding this game.
  
  Just remember, if you are a simulation, true basebal fanatic - Adjust the sliders!!!!! If you don't, 
 and are expecting a real game of baseball, you will be horribly disappointed. There is no more 
 MVP guys. If you are that crushed and can't get over it, go buy the college baseball from EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josemiguel
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  I tell you, I have been playing baseball games since the Atari 2600 era and One of the reasons 
 I buy a console its because of sports games.
  I have been waiting for this game for such a long time I almost had a heart attack, but at the 
 end I got mad at myself because the game was not worth the anxiety.
  Stats are good, but gameplay, the sweeeet feeling of playing, batting and throwing the ball from 
 third base its what I love most.
  This game has great graphics, good sound but horrible camera angles!!! Why in this nex gen era 
 do you release a baseball game with only one infield fielding camera angle??? You should realize 
 we are not fools... I bet next year you will release the same game with several new and exciting 
 camera angles on batting, pitching and fieldind... New feature from sega sports ..... YOU FOOLS! 
 I will go back to MVP 2005!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melo_211
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 21, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I've never been a big fan of 2K's MLB series. 2K5 was horrendous for me. Gameplay was too easy, 
 created players faces were just recycled versions of the real faces, horrid graphics and the list 
 goes on. But from MLB 2K7 does indeed bring A whole new ballgame to the plate.
  
  This is one amazing baseball game. It will start of frustrating for some at the plate, as you will 
 find yourself striking out more than you will make contact. But once that is down, the pitching 
 interface is fun, the graphics are very nice and the game is just an all around solid baseball 
 game. The coaching interfaces are nice and easy to use, access to subs and to the bullpen is as 
 easy and tapping the LB. The catcher will finally do his job now, like a real life catcher, he 
 will call a pitch and move his glove (and body) to the position he wants the pitch.
  
  The presentation is the bread and butter of this game in my opinion. Absolutely unbelievably realistic. 
 All the things that are done during a real baseball broadcast you will find in this game. End of 
 inning highlights, pre-game opinions, in-game analysis features (2K Sports Progressive Performer 
 for example) and even commentary during a paused game! Yes, when you pause this game (on occasion) , 
 Joe Morgan and Jon Miller will start to do a fan mail question. Miller will ask and Morgan will 
 produce a in-depth answer, so its not like its some cheesy add-in that 2K decided to do. The questions 
 will get repetitive if you pause enough, but does everyone really pause THAT often?
  
  The Inside-Edge feature was not that useful to me. Besides the fact that you get to know what pitch 
 the pitcher likes to throw in certain situations, it's not that useful. Pitching wise, having the 
 IE will show you where the strikezone is and the hot and cold spots of the hitter, but the catcher 
 calls your pitches and he knows what he's doing anyway. Hitting wise as I said, a lot of times, 
 the pitcher doesn't even throw the ball into the red zones indicated as spots they like to throw. 
 But nonetheless a good feature to add to the realism of the game, because major league teams do 
 their scouting and know what's going on and the weaknesses and strengths of each hitter/pitcher.
 
  
  Overall, the features, presentation and gameplay are all solid and this year's 2K baseball game. 
 Plenty of game modes means lots of playtime, including the popular GM mode (For hardcore baseball 
 fans only, locked at 162 games a season) . If you are at all interested in baseball, this is a good 
 pick-up. Too bad MLB The Show is Sony made, cause the career mode is so fun in that game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nachoking2k2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  After last year's debacle, this game needed to be amazing to keep 2K's rep above the rest, and 
 it lived up to that expectation. No game has looked more realistic on the field then 2K7. Yes the 
 game has its qwerks, but it's easy to look past these. Yes too many home runs are hit but that 
 can be adjusted. Insiders edge is an amazing tool, however doesn't seem to work too well on pitching. 
 Most of the pitcher I see pitch down and in or away. Frame rate problems are there but only in 
 the cut scenes. It would have been nice to see real grass like Madden has. Hitting is great once, 
 but takes some getting use to by using the swing stick. Insiders Edge works great for the pitching 
 aspect. The create a player could have been a lot better. Yeah accessories can be added or whatnot, 
 but the personalization of the player model and the face itself was too simple, having to use preloaded 
 faces, but for some reason 2K does that on their games. This game cannot be truly appreciated until 
 a franchise has been started. When starting a franchise, it puts all this news and what not on 
 the page and has the layout of a webpage, sort of. When in the game, there are score overlay's 
 and when you start a game, it shows yesterday's stats. Little things like that add to the tv aspect. 
 The announcing is flawless, yet sometimes repetitive. Overall this is the best baseball experience 
 I have played before on any system. What flaws there are can be easily looked past. You won't see 
 a more realistic looking sports game out there currently. Sorry Fight Night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2k7 shows a lot of improvements than 2K6 i still think that 2K could have put more effort into 
 the game. the game looks realistic in almost every way. like the most of the players have their 
 batting stances and pitching delivery and wind ups. the jerseys flap when the wind blows. also 
 the players have their real numbers like robinson cano when he changed to 24 the developers gave 
 him the number in the game. the game still has every game mode from last years version except the 
 World Baseball Classic. i dont know why because i thought it was cool but i was never able to play 
 it because of the problems 2K6 had. i like the way the developers put authenticity to the game. 
 it lets you feel like you are watching a live game but only on HD. this game is a great buy if 
 you have an HDTV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vercetti05
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I am originally a MVP series fan, but since it stopped i had to pick between this and the show (what 
 a waste of friggin money, read my review for that one) . But this game is amazing!! Everything about 
 it is great, the graphics, the baserunning, the batting. The pitching could use a little work, 
 but other than that, its a 10. Believe me, dont go buy that Show crap, get this instead, trust 
 me it's well worth it! If the amount of legends that the Show has was on this one, the score of 
 this game between 1-10 would be 20! Batting - If you are having hitting the ball, just go to the 
 AI Pitching Options, and put the overall strike rating of the CPU pitcher on 100. You will be hitting 
 the holy crap out of the ball. If you are still having trouble, up the contact and power difficulty 
 settings for you, and you should be hitting the ball in no time. If either one of these options 
 do not work for you.. well then go play basketball or football.
  
  Pitching - Overall the pitching format is ok, but the format that starts out is complicated as 
 ever, so change it to classic mode, and line up the circles. Pretty easy stuff, just throw to the 
 mitt. If you are just pounding you with hits, go to the AI settings and turn down the contact and 
 power for them. Do that, and you will be throwing strikeouts like crazy!
  
  Franchise mode and GM career mode are pretty cool, just dont go crazy when free agents arrive, 
 LOOK at how much they are asking for before you sign them though. I didnt one time, and boy did 
 i pay for it. Speaking of free agents, you are going to have a cow when u find out how much Roger 
 Clemens asks for. 17 million 4 year deal will eat you alive. I mean Albert Pujols and Vlad aint 
 even asking that, and member they aint 44 years old either. The legends are pretty cool, but they 
 would have been better if they had the amount that other joke they call a game has. I dont yet 
 if you can put them into free agency.
  
  Well i hope this review has helped you, and member this game is a helluva lot better that that 
 piece of garbage the Show, and more enjoyable! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: egomez3
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 17, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry but GameSpot really got this one wrong. I've never been a fan of 2K Sports but they really 
 worked this game out and made it excellent. To me, this game is slightly better than MVP 2005 and 
 I like many was addicted to that game. A lot of the gripes I've been hearing don't really make 
 sense to me as this game is nearly flawless to me. 1. The Gameplay. The amazing visuals really 
 compliment the gameplay to me. The realistic throwing motions and batting mechanics really make 
 the game seem real. First of all, the pitching mechanic is very interesting because it can pose 
 more of a challenge to actually throw strikes. (In MVP you could basically throw a strike on every 
 pitch if you wanted to.) Knowing the motion and breaks of a pitch is like what a real pitcher thinks 
 of and I really think the pitching mechanic is excellent. It's very fine tuned from last years 
 game... the speed of the pitches and smooth motions of the pitchers don't make the game feel slow 
 like last years game did. The payoff pitch system really adds something to the game also because 
 you can boost your pitchers ratings by hitting the location. Also in clutch situations, the pitch 
 becomes harder to locate because of a pitchers nervousness. I think this also compliments the realism 
 of the game because that is what goes on to a real pitcher at times. What I really look for is 
 how this game compares to a real game of baseball and it did not dissappoint as far as pitching 
 goes.
  Hitting takes some time to get used to. With the increased speed of the pitches and breaks... there 
 is less time to react on the ball. The swing stick at first seems like an impossible task. In last 
 years game it really did because even a second off your lean back before the pitch you'd end up 
 poppin it out. This year I really think they fine tuned it to simplify it a little bit and I think 
 they got it. It'll take a few games to get used to it but once you do you'll be gettin more hits. 
 Hitting still does pose a challenge because you have to really read the breaks of the pitches and 
 time the pitch right. Overall I like the hitting mechanics and once you get used to it you should 
 have no problem hitting. Fielding is one of the things I've been hearing about as a part of the 
 game that is frustrating to people. I don't really know why. Yes they do make some errors sometimes 
 but there are those kinds of things in baseball. Fielding looks great. The throwing seems exactly 
 like in a real game of baseball. The speed of the grounders and line drives are really great and 
 make you work and move fast. Double plays... I can't say enough about how good the double plays 
 look. From jumping over the baserunner to smooth turns to first... Their just awesome!!! Outfileders 
 get under the ball and if they don't the balls will fall and they will have to make awkward jumps 
 but most of the the time they catch it but this also gives the game a realistic feel because you 
 do have to get under the ball in real life. All in all I really have no gripes about the fielding. 
 2. Graphics and Sound. The graphics are soo amazing!!! It's unbelievable how 2K made these players 
 look. From body weight and size to everything! Stadiums are very accurately displayed as well and 
 I really liked that a lot. What really got me was the animations and the signature style moves 
 that each player makes from Nomar doin his little dance at the plate and Ichiro pointing the bat 
 out to center and Hideki Matsui of the Yankees checking the label of the bat every time he steps 
 into the batters box (That really surprised me but that was really cool how they didn't foget that 
 detail.) As I said before I love how every move and animation looks smooth and realistic. Jon Miller 
 and Joe Morgan give okay commentary but it really never got to the annoying level for me. A cool 
 little detail to me was how they have the ball boys next to the foul lines to get the foul balls. 
 That was a interesting little detail that again added to the realism of the game for me. One thing 
 I've been hearing also is that the fans look terrible. True they do not look to interesting but 
 the games focus is not the fans in the stands. One thing though that I noticed and really liked 
 was that on foul balls and home runs fans seem to go after the balls and once when one caught the 
 ball he raised it up in the air as if to show off... I really thought that was cool because you 
 do see that kind of stuff during a baseball broadcast. Also when a homerun is hit into the bullpens 
 its real cool to see the bullpen guys reactions and how they some times scurry away from getting 
 hit by the ball. Another thing I liked was that when a player catches the ball it really looks 
 like they catch the ball and squeeze the glove... not like in MVP where it seems balls would somehow 
 make their ways into the glove. I really cannot complain about anything in the graphic and sound 
 department. It is the most realistic lookin baseball game ever on any console. Overall MLB 2K7 
 is very underrated. I really enjoy playing this game and I don't understand people's gripes over 
 some small things. This game matches up to MVP 2005 real well and its far better looking. Gamespot 
 got this one wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyrocks24
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 14, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Now i am see ing reviewers give this game 10/10 or 9/10 they must have been in withdrawl from MLB 
 2K6 because honostly this game is not the best baseball game to date.
  
  First off the graphics are simply amazing and are really cool to have every pitchers and batters 
 standard ways of pitching/batting. Next the batting is a very fun but frustrating thing to do. 
 You really have no time what so ever to think about if its gonna be a ball or strike you must guess 
 before the pitcher even throws it or you will be in trouble with the ball coming in 1 second. Also 
 it feels to me that this game is just a straight up homerun battle most of the time. I feel like 
 i give up homers as my only hits 2 hits 2 homers its very homerun based to me.
  
  The Defense/Pitching is what really takes away from the game. First off the Defense is move your 
 guy around and tap the desired base button which is super boring and to simple for a next gen game. 
 They really could implment a new type of throwing system and it needs to be done. Pitching is almost 
 the same as defense you hit what button you want to throw and then you hit it again which can get 
 very boring when doing 50-100 times a game. Mabey next year implement the hitting system into pitching.... Pull 
 back on the analog stick then push up to throw the pitch..... just a thought and probably could 
 be a very nice feature next year.
  
  As i said before this game is not a 9 or 10 but a good game for next gen baseball fans and is worth 
 your money no doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spooner007
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything that you could want in a baseball game. From great hitting (with the hit 
 stick control) , to the trying to make your favorite franchise. 150% better then 2k6, I went through 
 3 copies of 2k6 and told myself I wouldn't ever buy another 2K game again. I was happy with the 
 reviews and decided to check it out. From the first time I put it in I have been playing it. Creating 
 my own players and putting them into the draft to watch and see what they can do. Its great fun. 
 The online play makes everything else so worth it. Making your own leauges online and being able 
 to control your trash talking online. Pitching a no-no online is almost impossible to do but pretty 
 easy to do on normal play. Get use to painting the corners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s10fan2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  ive played a bunch of baseball games. from the NES to the Playstation 2. MVP baseball 2003 for 
 teh PS2 is one of my favorites but this one, this game has changed my entire view. the sounds, 
 the visuals are all top nothc for me. when i look at a game, and i can see the pores on Andrew 
 Jones' nose (Braves fans know who i'm tlaking about) thats when i know that i have a good looking 
 game. when the movements of the plays and motions can fool my dad into beleiving that the Braves 
 are actually playing, then i know that i have a played a good game. i havent ever played a sports 
 game where you create a player, the name is actually said by the color commentators, and in the 
 voice of the background announcer. this is one of the best games i have played. the best baseball 
 games i have played. this is one XBOX 360 game you must own. especially if you are a baseball fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDDichard07
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 13, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K7 is a decent baseball game that does an OK job in my opinion. Good: Player Models are some 
 of the best in any sports game and stays true to the 2K sports idea of making near flawless player 
 models by adding things such as muscle motions, sweat and realistic jerseys.
  Does a great job as recreating ballparks by giving them a very real feel by adding concessions 
 and other interesting little ballpark quirks a fan of the MLB would notice.
  After you pass the fairly steep learning curve for pitching, it becomes a fun piece of the game 
 that fans of baseball should appreciate.
  Payoff pitch ability.
  Ball physics are well tuned and realistic.
  Having to figure out the break of certain pitches 
 adds to the already great pitching mode.
  Sounds are amazing and Joe Morgan's commentary flows perfectly with the game.
  No complaints 
 about franchise mode.
  
  Bad:
  Graphics of the crowds are disgusting and partially emulate games like Triple Play 2000 for the 
 N64.
  The batting system is absolutely horrid, many people like this batting style, but I think its terrible 
 and I'm tired of games trying to use flicking the right thumb stick to swing. I doesn't work and 
 makes the game less enjoyable for everyone.
  The game isn't very immersive, but its alright.
  When batting, determining the pitch speed and 
 curve is wayyyyyyy to much of a challenge to make it fun.
  Lots of glitches occur over and over again.
  Fielding and baserunning have their errors (horrid 
 pun, I understand) .
  Camera angles sometimes add to the presentation but most of the time just take away from the immersion 
 factor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ramon100588
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 13, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  Hey people somebody know How i play my season with 2 players, because i cant do it , wheyn i go 
 to play my season mi litle brother wants to play and i turn on the control, and we cant put the 
 conotrol in the other side.. so please if everybody know how i cand fix that please tell me.... but 
 the game is amazin maybe is an error for mlb 2k7 but i dont know, ist the best game 4ever, and 
 thats my question if somebody know please answer me is a favor.
  Even if they aren't always spot on in what they say they are easy to listen to and don't get on 
 your nerves like some announcers do. (cough, Dickie V, cough) Even with these little annoying bugs 
 the game is still very fun if your a baseball fan and I recommend it. It's not GREAT, at least 
 not yet, but it certainly has the potential to be. Finally, I can let go of the awesomeness that 
 was MVP 2005 and move on to another game without feeling guilty about settling for an inferior 
 baseball sim just for improved graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anoking
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K7 is the best baseball game ever made in history.
  if you love Baseball, you will love this game with passion!
  I think this game has been made 
 to real, it is just unbelievable real.
  The graphics are stunning as well. I don't think there is any Baseball game that will beat this.
 
  It is really worth to buy this game, even if u dont like Baseball, this game will make you love 
 Baseball!
  From the sound to the graphics and the gameplay, all of that has been improved big time.
  All 
 i can say is that this game is a must have game for all gamers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyAl
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 12, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  You have read everything about this game by now because I am late to review... but there are few 
 things that don't- I repeat.. Don't take away from the game but its something that developers need 
 to know from a an avid gameplayer such as myself... 5 things that will make you a better game in 
 the long run... 5. The animations are so fluid in this game, there are times you will wonder if 
 you are doing it or is the computer doing it for you... i. e. I made a play with my shortstop where 
 he dove and the ball popped out of his mit, it hit the ground and my second baseman was in good 
 position. He bare handed the ball and made a blind throw to first base to make the out. It played 
 out so marvelously- it looked canned... Some of the animations are position sensitive. 4. Throw 
 arounds please. After a play is over, I would love to be able to toss the ball around and really 
 see the beauty of how the fielders throw... After a routine fly ball, the fielder will throw the 
 ball to whereever and then its back to the game... No playing around with the ball...
  
  3. Player development... Although the GM mode is great, I would like to see some practice modes.. 
 How about some fielding practice and drills to increase development... How about some batting practice... 
 2. Gentlemen... Please fix the fielding cam... its a crap shot trying to judge a routine high bounce 
 because the blue indicater is hard to see and the shadow of the ball resembles that of when you 
 break your bat. Thats cool to extent as well because when you break a bat and cause a ground ball, 
 its real easy to run towards the broken bat thinking its the balls shadow... 1. They depend to 
 much on the icon telling you when to dive then you really being able to judge by ball position... 
 This ties into the difficult camera angle. I have a tendacy to be near the wall and hitting the 
 right stick to wall climb and end up diving instead... These are not meant to deter anyone from 
 this game because the game is fabulous... There are just a few little things that a person may 
 wonder before they buy the game and may not purchase because not too many store guys would know... 
 Still and all, being able to save the game in the middle makes it so convient, that you will find 
 yourself playing a full season because it allows you to stop where you are, go to work or go to 
 the store because your lady is yapping then come back and continue where you were... The hit stick 
 is cool but sometime, it feels off all of a sudden. I play 3 games one day and the first 2, I was 
 using the hit stick and then the 3rd game, the stick just seemed sluggish... I had to go back to 
 classic method of batting... I also love the fact that having a good catcher with good game calling 
 skills can really affect the impact of the game... Also, you can either have the ball position 
 for pitching to be set to either breakpoint (knowing the pitch's movement and aiming to a spot 
 and watching the ball break) or Pinpoint (the ball going to where you are aiming) . Overall, if 
 you like baseball, this game does for the genre what bases loaded did for us back in the day... 
 It brings something new and needed to a genre that was dying down because of lack of realness that 
 us baseball fans thought about but never dreamed about seeing in a game. Buy this game, don't rent 
 it... If you rent it and play it for 2 days, you will not get the full experience... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capone101b
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome the grphics are great hoe they show the stats of the palyers. the hit stick 
 is awsome nothing can beat this game. i use to think that mp games were better but 2k7 is highly 
 superb there is no other game like this. every player look like they loook in real liife also th 
 datails in this are carzy every thing in this game was done perfcty people talking on cellsphone 
 the apple caoming out the mets stadium the monster coming down the brewers slide too much details 
 you can get blinf o how many details are in here lol!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadmanMorris
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 11, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 8
  I can't overlook the herky jerky, clumsy feeling that i get when i use my fielders. It takes getting 
 used to, definitely, but even now that i'm 30 games into my season, it still bugs me a bit. I feel 
 like i'm controlling crazy little squirells in the outfield. The controls are VERY sensitive, i'm 
 slowly mastering them though. I've learned a sensitive gentle touch with the controller is key, 
 or else your fielders run right past a ball at their feet. So be GENTLE with the stick.
  The mechanics of the players are tight. Spot on. They look and act like REAL players.
  Batting 
 is realistic, and pitching is actually FUN AGAIN. I used to dread pitching because of the lack 
 of excitement. Now, the pitchers get nervous, and the controller starts shaking, which makes me 
 nervous, and the bases are loaded, and i have some hack for a closer, and here comes the pitch, 
 ah!
  
  Graphics- 9
  I feel like i'm watching a game on tv. It is AMAZING how much the presentation helps to immerse 
 you into the game.
  The stadiums are almost photo realistic, for example playing a game that takes place at sunset 
 time, the way the light plays off of the centerfield wall, or the colors of the sky and how they 
 change from inning to inning.
  ARE YOU KIDDING ME?
  The only problem i really have are the fans. The cut scenes where they wave to the camera are very 
 poor looking. Also some spots in the game are underdeveloped, graphics wise. LITTLE spots, which 
 don't hinder the presentation significantly. Sound - 8
  Love the commentators. After a while they get repetitive. The crowd needs to be worked on. I win 
 a nail-biter and they seem like they would rather talk to themselves, than to cheer for my team. 
 The crowd is very sporatic in that way, they cheer for the visiting team, i knock a grand slam 
 and they must have hot dogs stuffed in their mouth, because i hear a low moan.
  Like i said it's sporatic, other times they cheer at the right moments. Value - 10
  I love playing 
 franchises, do it for madden, do it for NHL 2k7. I get ALL of my money's worth with these games, 
 and this game is no exeption. I will be playing it for the next year, or until my 360 burns to 
 the ground.
  Months and years of enjoyment (not hours) .
  
  Tilt
  This is an immersive game of baseball. By far the most realistic, exciting, play for 6 hours straight, 
 game that i own, or have ever played.
  
  It's a nice-a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjnwo4life
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  MLB is truly a great gaming experience. I love sports games and this one truly takes the cake. 
 I am really into getting my team into the hall of fame and making sure everyone on my team rules 
 the leader boards that this game has become very addictive. The graphics look decent for the players 
 and the ballparks look spot on. Online by 2k is yet again done nearly flawlessly. The only thing 
 I would add to nearly all sports games are the ability to have a story mode involved with 1 or 
 2 specific players. This will not only make the experience more meaningful for fans, it could also 
 help gain non sports fans who love story based games. MLB 2K 07 is A must buy for baseball fans 
 and sports fans in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maplesyrup101
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 10, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Well at first i was afraid to get this game. I thought most likely it would be exactly like last 
 years game. Well i couldnt have been more wrong. The graphics are so much more improved than last 
 years. lets face it last years was pretty bad. The only thing i liked was the commentary and the 
 the fans reactions. The commentary this year repeats itself VERY often. The thing that kept me 
 from giving the sound a 6 was the pretty good soundtrack. the fans however dont look nearly as 
 good as last year. they dont do the closeup anymore on them. But im glad they didnt work to much 
 on that though. the reason is because the graphics are much improved. the player models look SOOOO 
 much better. The faces this year are much more accurate.
  
  The create a player this year is one of the best i have ever seen. there are so many things you 
 can do to edit or creat players. you can give them wirstbands, forearm bands, sleaves, 2 colored 
 bating gloves, loose fitting tight fitting or normal fitting jersey, same goes for the pantsplus 
 many more options.
  
  I couldnt give the gameplay a 9 though. if you dont change the sliders you will hit many homeruns 
 and the ai will rob sooo many hits from you. But dont get me wrong the fielding is much improved 
 over last year. it feels more real. the pitching and batting however are bassically the same as 
 last year. for batting you can chose the swing stick or classic. Tis game is addictive once you 
 get the hang of it (which wont take long) You will be playing this for hours and hours.
  
  So with the better fielding, much improved graphics, and about everything else the same this game 
 is a must buy for any baseball fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tke54597
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I spent hours working on the sliders. The game is pretty much solid with my settings. I've weakened 
 the defenses so diving catches aren't made every other play. My pitching doesn't dominate too much, 
 and the hitters aren't juiced up beyond fairness (All-Star Mode) . I've had to come from behind, 
 to hold close leads late, or have pounded the opposing starter out by the 3rd inning. I love how 
 you can lace a double and watch the whole thing unfold from behind the baserunner. The variety 
 and randomness of camera angles are awesome. I love how the ball takes significant bounces off 
 of the outfield walls.
  
  Don't get tuned out so quickly on this game. It's all about the sliders. Get it right, and you're 
 in for the most enjoyable baseball experience on any console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldschoolplayer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I am new to the 360 and this is the main reason I jumped to next gen. I have only played the game 
 for two days but I am extemely impressed. I could talk forever but I just want this review to help 
 those that have not purchased the game.
  
  1) the graphics in 1080i on my widescreen are so beatiful I just want to cry. When the game pan 
 in on the hitters your draw will drop. 2) The gameplay is average. I dont like the camera as I 
 cant tell when the balll is going to drop out of the sky when fielding a a pop up or fly out. As 
 far as infielding goes they need to polish this up similar to MVP 05 with a throw meter.
  
  3) Hitting. This game replicates hitting a baseball real well. Not much time to react and you have 
 to work the count to get your pitch. Some tweaking here in next years version would be nice. If 
 you lack patience then this is not your game. 4) Presentation. Not bad not great. playing in 5.1 
 Dolby will get you there as far as the crowd goes.
  
  5) Pitching. Not much to complain about here. Smooth. conclusion.. Great game. Dont wait for next 
 years version to clean this game up to its full potential. Will some slider adjustments this is 
 a very playable game and an enjoyable experience. All this game really needs is a little wax and 
 some new tires and it will go down as the best ever. Worth every penny I spent. Game could use 
 a hitting tutorial in next years version to help the rookie player. You will have a hard time going 
 back to play anything on the PS2 or Xbox once playing this game because it does so many things 
 right as opposed to the minor flaws in this game (and I mean minor) I just hope brinkman does not 
 try to expand the game too much next year and just really focus on the fielding and tweak with 
 the hitting a little. If they stay the course with the present hitting system they should use the 
 hitters eye with color coded pitches similar to MVP baseball. Its not a grand slam but definetly 
 a home run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smurf5200
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this game deserves more credit than than what most people are saying, I 
 can't believe that some guys think this game is too hard if you want a baseball game that all you 
 do is hit n run and hit homeruns than get yourself those other arcade baseball game, this is truely 
 great baseball simulation, you have to know what is a strike or a ball, just like real baseball, 
 I thought the game was too easy on pro level and I thought All- Star was too hard so i adjusted 
 the slider just right, not to easy and not to hard, the graphics are sick and the gameplay is done 
 very well, just like NBA 2K7, so far i, ve been playing season mode so i have yet to play online 
 but the A. I. is just as competive, This is one game that i'll be showing to house guest when they 
 come over, I'll be playing this one for a while until MLB2K8 comes out next year, I recomend this 
 game to any baseball fan who want a truely great baseball game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reya10276
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  Awsome!! Let's see where to start, some people are complaning about the game being too hard when 
 it comes to pitching and batting. I say these people have not watched enough baseball games to 
 have a say so. Clearly this game is a very good simulation. When I pitch I feel like I'm watching 
 a baseball game on TV, the batting is also pretty good. The pitches come at you fast or slow depending 
 on the pitch type like it should be; also curve balls actually curve and sliders slide.
  
  The whole issue with the frame rates, which some have mentioned including gamespot, I have not 
 noticed it. Everything runs pretty smooth, I have not played online yet so I'll reserved judgement 
 on that.
  
  The graphics and sound are solid although the commentary is repetitive and can get boring. The 
 replay value of this games is there you have a variety of game modes to choose from. The one thing 
 I hate is that the rosters are not accurate right now, but I'm pretty sure once the season starts 
 a download will be available.
  
  Overall the game is alot better than 2k6 and should be lots of fun through out the season, I recomend 
 every baseball fan to get it, you'll love it err.. except for that one guy that gave it a 3.3 (what 
 a joke) . Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skihawks
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  I am not one that likes to read a review the size of War and Peace so I will keep this to pros 
 and cons:
  
  PROS
  1) Graphics -- The best in any sports game. The faces look good (not on all players) and the uniforms 
 are extremely detailed. One area that has been overlooked in many reviews I have read is the little 
 things. I am a fan of baseball and know the mannerisms of some players, specifically Tigers' pitchers 
 Kenny Rogers and Jeremy Bonderman. The way they catch the return throw from the catcher and stare 
 down the umpire when a call is missed is unreal. The stadiums are excellent however 2K failed to 
 include Detroit's fountains after a home run or the flashing, green eyes of the two large Tigers 
 mounted on the scoreboard.
  
  2) Animations -- Unreal. 3) Pitching mechanics are about as immersive as it gets. Have a catcher 
 that calls a solid game influences the outcome.
  
  4) Presentation -- Why can't EA steal a page from 2K's book? Visual Concepts has the best sports 
 presentation around and MLB 2K7 is loaded with it.
  
  5) Season mode is deep and unpredictable.
  
  6) New hitting mechanic has a learning curve attached 
 but once you get the hang of it, it is sweet
  
  7) Create-a-player is deep -- The only thing lacking is the ability to customize a face, which 
 is odd... Every other item is super deep
  
  8) Sliders aren't as difficult to adjust to find the happy-medium of gameplay
  
  CONS
  1) 
 Graphics -- I had a rain delay when there wasn't a cloud in the sky... Not good.
  
  2) Camera -- I hate, hate, hate the camera angle after a ball is hit. It is too low and tough to 
 judge the trajectory
  
  3) A. I. lineup glitches -- Frank Thomas hitting leadoff? WHAT!?
  
  4) Grounders -- Too many routine ground balls sneak past your fielder.... Momentum and camera 
 angle hurts
  
  5) Night games -- I played an exhibition and had the game start at 9 p. m. and the sky wasn't dark 
 and the lights were not on....
  
  6) Lack of dynamic lighting... Why doesn't it get darker in afternoon games
  
  7) Weather -- 
 Teams that play in the north (Chicago, Detroit, etc.) in April, the weather should be cold and 
 attire should reflect this....
  
  8) Classic teams -- Same unlockables year after year ... How about all W. S. championship teams? 
 Or at least the past 40 years... Not including the 1984 Tigers, which is arguably one of the best 
 teams in the past 50 years is ludicrous (yes, I have a bias)
  
  9) Sweat -- Not a huge deal but baseball players do sweat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrain14
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 7, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  this series has potential to be the best ( since they have exsclusivity) its a really good depth 
 game if you like to play your franchise mode like most people but i found the game play kinda quirky 
 the fielding was off a little bad pitchs constantly but other tyhan that the game is superb the 
 online play rocks and the graphics are amazing the shirt efects se spectacular ( when playing in 
 HD) the field looks great and this game is great but if ur not a real big baseball fan wait till 
 the price drops a little if u r a baseball fanatic then heres your dream game... ps GO YANKS BABY 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bremsy
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 7, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I used to play the MVP series and loved those games. Then EA is no longer allowed to make the MLB 
 titles and you don't see many copies of NCAA MVP Baseball. I was dissapointed last year with MLB 
 2K6 and am even more dissapointed this year with MLB 2K7. All this promise about improvements and 
 there wasn't much that was actually improved.
  
  The fielding is supposedly fixed this time around. It's not that bad, but a lot of times the ball 
 gets to the outfield when it really shouldn't have and gives the other teams the base hit. The 
 batting is attrocious since a lot of the pitches come in faster than you have a chance to swing 
 at them and a lot of the time you cannot tell if the pitch will be a ball or a strike. One problem 
 that was in last year's game that is back this time around is how overly difficult it is to win 
 as the away team against the CPU. I dominate the game when playing as the home team, but playing 
 as the away team and using the same strategies to win and I get blown out of the water. Pitching 
 is ok, but too many bad pitches seem to get knocked out of the park and that does get annoying 
 quick.
  Of course the only good things about the game are the graphics and sound. But what else? There 
 is no gameplay and the home run derby mode isn't that much fun.
  The 2k sports fan boys will love this game. EA fans clearly won't, and neither will those who are 
 truly looking for the best baseball game available. MLB 07 will probably be better than this, and 
 MVP 2005 is still the best MLB baseball game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillings24
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 7, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying how frustrating it is to know that EA Sports won't be coming out with an 
 MLB game for many years to come. MVP '05 was on the cusp of perfect baseball simulation. Two years 
 later and the best professional baseball product seems like two steps back and one kick in the 
 nuts. I've logged a dozen or so Xbox Live games and I have been completely turned off to the experience. 
 Almost everyone has been the Mets and pitched with Hernandez. His eephus pitch is borderline ridiculous 
 in this game, and I consider it cheating to take advantage of lagging online play with his pitches 
 that range 40mph in speed. Roughly half the hits in MLB are homeruns. HALF. What happened to singles? 
 Singles happen less than striking out the side. The fielding view is terrible, no sense of the 
 field when the ball is hit. When a ground ball is hit there are no hops, it just rolls on the ground. 
 Infielders muff the ball for no reason too. At least make a bad hop animation, these guys aren't 
 David Wells, half drunk on the field. When the fielders do catch the ball, the throwing is just 
 button pressing and momentum , so basically no control of speed or accuracy. Basically you don't 
 have control over the game as much as you should. A good pitch out of the strike zone is a homerun 
 too often. 2K Sports thanks for making an inferior product just because you own the licensing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgjunkey34n8
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  first thing that will be noticed are the graphics. they are the best of any sports game on the 
 market. i'd say just about every player can be recognized down to the stubble on their face. animations 
 are for the most part smooth from pitcher delivery to batting stance and in box o. c. d. fits. for 
 some reason the gameplay seems a little slower then last years dumpster baby, but i feel it makes 
 it a bit more realistic so if its a sim you want this is the game. now as for sound, yeah pretty 
 much no difference from last year, but what did you expect from joe ''the slow'' morgan. the create 
 a player lacks depth but overall works, and the franchise has not changed other than the ticket 
 price option. yet the game feels much better, plays and LOOKS much better unlike last years port. 
 the best feature of all is the removed freeze glitch. overall the game is really leaps and bounds 
 better then last year and is a must buy for sports game junkies. video game junkie done, go play 
 monkeys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  I read the reviews here on Gamespot and was a little to even try to play MLB 2k7. Well I did and 
 have spent many hours with it at this point. First let me say that those reviewers that have been 
 dissing this game must not have put much time in with it. I can understand that if they played 
 last year's MLB 2K6 that they might have missed some things. For one, the default mode of pitching 
 from the previous game is not the default in 2K7. Instead of having a stike zone box on-screen 
 to aim at as in 2K6 you now have as default to aim where the catcher sets up his glove. The catcher 
 even tells you what pitch. You don't have to keep that pitch and can shake it off and pitch what 
 and where you want. This is most definately different then in 2K6 and takes a little getting use 
 to, but it is far more realistic then the strike box. After a few innings I was able to pitch as 
 well if not better in 2K7 then in the previous game using this method. And, if you really can't 
 handle not having the strike box, there is a option you can set to make the strike box default 
 again. Either way is quite fun.
  
  As to other game play, the only other change I found was the way fielders caught fly balls. Instead 
 of just a circle that you get close to now you have a blue target that you get your player to. 
 The crux here is that you must be in a position where the target changes to a red. If you aren't 
 positioned and the circle is not red, there is a greater chance of a muffed catch. A change most 
 welcomed and actually fun. Graphics are extremely good. Player uniforms flap if there is a breeze. 
 Faces are extremely accurate. One touch I found interesting was player mannerisms being simulated. 
 I set up a game between the Cards and the Tigers. I unlocked the big head cheat previous so tried 
 that out. Kenny Rogers was the Tiger pitcher. Was laughing out loud to see Rogers actually talking 
 to himself on the mound between and sometimes during pitches. What I didn't like... the music. Don't 
 get me wrong, I liked some of what they had but most was just not what I thought of as baseball 
 music. Pretty minor point in a fairly great game.
  
  Overall, MLB 2K7 does what consoles games do best... present and play sports game very well. It 
 is a major step up from MLB 2K6. If you are a baseball fan, GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orin_Steel
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  2k sports has done it again. Most of my friends have been pretty leery about picking up anything 
 2k, but I can only say spellbinding when it comes to the actual game play. Now they have done it 
 again with MLB 2K7, great piece of work. I would definitely recommend it to anyone. The smooth 
 game play and realistic stat follower really lets you get a feel for the game. If you are not playing 
 this game in High Def you really are missing out so get to a Best Buy nearest you and get at least 
 a 50 something. Put your opponent at a disadvantage!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhinonvision
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Well its almost that time again to start smelling the grass, eat some hot dogs, and grab some peanuts! 
 I love patiently waiting for the next round of baseball!! With this saying, I love waiting to see 
 what baseball game will be coming out.. the bad version or the good version? To me, this years 
 game is really great! The graphics on the game are excellent, and the game play is great! There 
 are minor graphic issues that could have been fixed... detailed graphics... but over all.. its a 
 great game! Most of the reviews condemning the game for glitches is incredible, but not for my 
 game.. I have played this game alot, and I once never had a glitch yet.. My game has operated smoothly, 
 and most of the time making me mad because my Bosox lose in the late innings!! I truly think that 
 most individuals that have those games with glitches is just a minor problem. All in all, it has 
 been a challenging game, but fun!! I do miss the MVP games from EA but what choice do us baseball 
 fans have? For some, the game may stink, but what are you going to play? Just let the game grow 
 on you for a while, then you will see how much you miss baseball like me!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimboboklashaur
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Last year when MLB2K6 came out, I heard a lot of horrible things, so I decided I would stick with 
 The Show on my PS2 and PSP. Those were great games, but because of them my 360 became nothing more 
 than a dust collector for months. Because of that, I decided that this year, since I hadn't even 
 given the last game a try, that I would take a risk and go for the 2K side of baseball. I am not 
 disappointed.
  
  I won't even go into graphics because by this time, we know that it's on the 360, it's a 2K game, 
 that means it has great graphics. The gameplay is great. It's a very easily controlled game, and 
 it's hard to understand how they could'nt have had good controls as these ones felt natural and 
 worked great.
  
  Joe Morgan and Jim Miller do a great job calling the game, even though some of the phrases they 
 say are hilariously stupid. The music is just like any other baseball game's music, indie rock 
 mostly. It works and the in game sounds sound good and are mixed well right out of the case.
  
  I haven't played online yet but I hear there's quite a bit of lag, but I wouldn't know until 
 I go on myself. I'm sure it's fine though. All in all though, 2K7 is a great game. The GM mode 
 is keeping me plenty busy until the regular season of baseball starts up. Pick this up, you won't 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 5, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I rented both the 360 and PS3 versions of this game to see which one was better and believe it 
 or not the PS3 version is a lot better. Here is why.
  
  Graphics
  The PS3 graphics look like a real baseball game. The colors arent bright and there seems to be 
 a bit more detail in the stadiums and players. The 360 version seems to completely over do it on 
 the brightness of the colors. It looks just like 2K6. What baseball field has bright green grass? 
 The only thing better on the 360 is the fans. They have more detail than the PS3 version but who 
 cares?
  
  Sound
  The sound is great in both versions. Neither better than the other. Lots of commentary and loads 
 of crowd noises. Even the stadium announcer sounds good. Some of the music sucks though.
  
  Control
  The controls arent perfect on either system. Both are about the same. Its very hard 
 to jump a fence and steal a homerun but the CPU will do it to you 3 times a game.
  
  Overall
  If you have both systems I suggest you get the PS3 version because it just looks alot 
 better. If you play alot online and really want the achievements then get the 360 version. Both 
 are fun but I like better graphics and realism over achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunch_Box07
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Like most people who were hesitant on picking up MLB 2k7, I was hoping that this years game would 
 be a complete turn-around from that MLB 2k6. That is exactly what 2k7 is, a complete turn-around. 
 The graphics are top notch, the best by far in any sports game to date. The game play can still 
 use some fine tuning but if you adjust the sliders, you can have the most realistic baseball simulator 
 to date. My only complaints are, that the franchise mode could be a little more thorough and involved 
 and the fielding is sometimes shaky. Other than that, this game is definitley one worth buying 
 for th XBOX 360 in this gamers opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbnuts
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 5, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  I am glad mrbnuts did not post his review yet. I actually wrote one and it got deleted accidentally 
 from my desktop. Anyway, I played a lot this weekend and the game is basically a better graphics 
 version of the same bs. While fielding is improved there are still major flaws - players routinely 
 fail to make routine plays. (very FRUSTRATING!!!)
  
  Also and biggest beef of all is that Pro (default) mode is too easy. My pitchers are all unstoppable 
 and in All-Star mode the computer is so dominant is just stupid. I average giving up 8 HRs a game 
 to the CPU. You literally cant throw a ball in the strike zone and they NEVER EVER EVER strike 
 out.
  
  I give it a 6 for this reason - I the difficulty issues were resolved I think the game would be 
 decent. Maybe I need to play with the sliders.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 22troy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 5, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  I got this game the other day after playing the demo. I was a big fan of MVP '05 and was very cautious 
 after playing MLB 2K6. I hated 2K6. I mean I really hated it. Anyhow after playing the demo I was 
 very impressed and I was wanting more. This is in my opinion the best baseball game ever made. 
 The only thing that I really don't like is the swing stick. That is an easy fix though. Under the 
 options screen I just switched it to have the hitting controlled by pressing the A button. Much 
 better. And more like MVP '05. If you like baseball at least a little bit you should definitely 
 check this out. The reviews from Gamespot and IGN are way off. This is a beautiful game and fun 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: closetogenius
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 5, 2007 12:38 am PT
Review:  It's a whole lot of attention to visual details, some trivial enough to make the game feel incredibly 
 real. But guess what, that's what 2k6 should have been like.
  
  Unfortunately, what 2k Sports advertises as features are nothing more than updates. It lacks in 
 innovation and creativity. The new franchise mode offers a new interface and the ability to change 
 ticket prices. What about concessions? merchandise? promotional give-aways? TV and radio ads?
 
  
  There are no new gameplay modes. World Baseball Classic is missing (07 i get it, but I still want 
 my 06 WBC tournament) . Seasons with less than 30 teams? Expansion mode? Career or story mode? You 
 still can't play minor league games. The game, for the most part is feature-less. As the only company 
 making MLB games for consoles, 2k Sports should offer more despite the difficulty of programming. 
 Considering many new features it could add are already in older games by other companies, part 
 of the thought process is already done for them.
  
  2k7 is what 2k6 should have been. I returned my copy and bought Baseball Mogul 2007 and started 
 playing Ultimate Baseball Online. I have no intention on wasting 60 dollars for a game that is 
 nothing more than a pretty roster update. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportzfan8993
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2k7 is a good game for the xbox 360 and way better than MLB 2k6 but. it should have been better
 
  
  - Hitting is takes a bit of time to get your timing right, espically with the swing stick. It is 
 almost impossible to tell if the pitch is a ball or a strike like a curveball breaking outside.
 
  
  -fielding is pretty easy but it looks fake. the only person i see making a throw from the shortsop 
 hole all the way first is Derek Jeter, but in this game everyone does it. .
  
  -Pitching is fun because it isnt too hard or too easy
  .
  
  -Features are just Franchise 
 which there is a couple differences from last years: set ticket pricing and a bar for fan buzz. 
 GM Career isnt much different either. Home Run Derby is reall hard because theyll throw like a 
 90 mph straight fastball or like a 60 mph slider. skybox is the same thing
  
  -Graphics are decent but way over-rated. I like the presentation... but the announcers ruin everything. 
 Jon Miller is kinda cool but Joe Morgan makes me fall asleep. everything johan santana pitches 
 morgan says the same about him everytime, and thats just one of like 30 players he does it too. 
 I liked Krukow and Kuiper in MVP Baseball 2005 a lot better.
  
  the online part sticks out. from all the past experiences ive had in online sports modes like nba 
 live or madden theyve all had lag. but mlb 2k7 doesnt have lag or anything like. its really fun 
 to play. but the connection gets lost a lot.
  -Overall this game is a slight improvement from 2k6 but it should have been better. I want EA sports 
 to make the baseball game maybe MVP Baseball 2008? that would be cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ktenorman
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 4, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  This year 2K did a much better job than last. The many, many glitches of '06 are pretty much gone, 
 and they managed to greatly improve the look of the game especially the menus for franchise mode.
 
  
  The two things that bring it down for me are:
  
  1. The broadcast crew! I hate them they are even stupider in the game than in real life.
  
 
  2. It cost me 60 bucks and it feels pretty much the same.
  
  So, if you don't have 2K6 this is a great buy, but those who have 2K6 beware, it feels like a patched 
 version of that game with a new face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shank7408
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a weird one for me. The game itself is fabulously fantastic. Gameplay, graphics, signature 
 styles, new pitching interface, the career mode, even the fielding is ok and tolerable.
  
  I give it a 8.5 out of 10.
  
  Now the part I give a 3 out of 10 and why I am getting rid of 
 it. I have had it a week and I am trading it in already. I may even trade in the xbox 360, but 
 thats a story for a different day.
  
  The frame rate blows on this game, it locks up, and during the blimp scene on the intro I have 
 lost a couple of season games because it never goes to the next step. It just stays on the blimp 
 screen and keeps saying loading.......... I am fed up with this, I do not belive there is an auto 
 save, and there should be. I dont feel like saving it every time I want to play 3-4 consecutive 
 games. So if it locks up I lose it all. I hate that. The 360 has given me problems ever since I 
 had it. I miss the days of Triple Play for the PS1. These were fantastic games of baseball. This 
 one would be a perfect 10 if it didnt have the freezing and frame rate issues.
  
  It's a shame and a waste of money, but when you pump a game up so much, I would spend a trillion 
 practice hours on it, to make sure frame rate, and freezing issues never happen. And if its not 
 the game, then xbox should have done the same thing.
  
  My final rating for this game comes as a 5 out of 10 because the glichs with the freezing and rate 
 problems are too much to overcome, even with a near flawless pitching system (I love it) and fantastic 
 graphics.
  
  It is too easy to belt homers to, I play with yanks, and andy philips hit a straight away homer 
 run off sabathia..... Aint happening, especially when I didnt swing upwards for a homerun swing.
 
  
  Sorry if this was too long.
  
  5 out of 10
  
  JMM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcajberger
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 4, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I am happy to say we officially have a Next-Gen baseball game on a Next-Gen system. MLB2K7 is quite 
 honestly the best baseball game I have played in a very long time. A lot better than last years 
 attempt, for sure. Last year 2K bragged about the graphics, fan interaction, etc, etc. Unfortunately, 
 their end product was nothing less than a minor league effort. The graphics were so-so. The controls 
 / gameplay was lacking and the fan interaction was a glitchy gimmick. I think I gave it a 4.5. 
 Now..... A whole new year and a whole new ballgame. This year, it seems to me that they have improved 
 leaps and bounds over last years game. The effort was made to make the players look, move, and 
 act like their real-life counterparts. The animations are spot on, the player models are beautiful, 
 and the gameplay is improved 300%. It just feels more realistic. Overall, I am happy with this 
 years game and gladly give it a 9.1 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reppdogg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  i was not sure at first if i wanted to spend the money for this game so i downloaded the demo off 
 the xbox live marketplace. after loading up the game and playing the 3 inning demo i was very impressed 
 with it. it was my first time actually wanting to play a 2k baseball game since mvp lost the mlb 
 rights. i think that most reviews your reading are being way to harsh on it, this game is baseball 
 and its style is perfect. there are a couple things that i did not like, but there little things 
 like all the robbed home runs the cpu gets, its a bit annoying at times, but not enough to really 
 take enough away from the rest of the game, and another small thing i did not care for was all 
 the flashy throws in the infield, i wanna see basic throws, again this is just a small complaint 
 i have about it. but for the good things about this game.... where to start there is just so many. 
 the pitching system MVP use to have was great, but i feel the effort pitching is just as good, 
 if not a little bit better and more challenging to make a effective good pitch this is very fun 
 when your in a tight inning and they have runners in scoring position and you nail a big pitch 
 with lots of effort right on the T. the batter's eye is another cool little thing where you can 
 guess where the pitch will be thrown, and depending on the batter it will be larger for say joe 
 mauer, and smaller for a player off the bench. the graphics are nice like most of the 2k sport 
 series. things i'd like to see in MLB 2k8 are less flash and more real life movements. and maybe 
 give a option to change the fielding cam to your liking. good job 2k sports don't change what your 
 doing. this game is worth the 60 dollars if your looking for a baseball sim. i honestly think i 
 will be playing the whole 162 game season this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkslade
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  this game is so different then last years gameplay.
  when batting you can actually hit line drives down the base line without the fielder ALWAYS getting 
 to it. plus you can NOW go first to third with a hit with a man on first, plus FINALLY you can score 
 from first with a double against the wall unlike last years game. with just those improvements 
 alone it is MUCH better. one thing that i find tough is to find a good comfort level with the difficulty 
 settings, it is either too hard or too easy with the default settings. but those do not take away 
 anything from the play. the fielding is also touched up, this game you can CHARGE the ball instead 
 of waiting for it to come to you. the overall controls are a bit touchy at first but you get used 
 to after a couple of games. everybody always talks graphics, well thats not important to me.
  but they are pretty impressive. i am a mets fan and they nailed the signature styles of players 
 like jose reyes swing perfect, and david wright has his between pitches adjust gloves with the bat 
 under arm. and pitchers have the arm motion down perfect, and even the follow through is done well. 
 plus this game you can SKIP the little things to get right to the pitch.
  last but not least, 2K once again does a fantastic job with the stats for us stat junkies, in game 
 at the end of the inning they show a highlight from that inning. plus depending what a player is 
 doing during the game they will announce it. and at the end of the game they will show a couple 
 of inning highlights from the game. if you dont like this game, you dont like baseball. PERIOD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeffrey9910
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  I just want to start off by saying as with every 2k game, you will get a better sim experience 
 if you adjust the sliders. Yes the fielding camera could use some work. In my 10+ games played 
 I only had 1-2 balls that I should have gotten, but the camera screwed me up. I thought last years 
 camera was much better, or atleast give us the option to choose what camera we want. There is only 
 1 camera for each batting and fielding. MLB 2k7 is by far the best graphics I've ever seen on the 
 360, and the presentation will have you forgetting that you are playing a game. The game and presentation 
 is that damn good. The gameplay is bout like that year, but fixed. I really haven't ran across 
 any problems/glitches. So overall I give this game a 9.3. I'll be playing it for a long while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 4, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  The thing worth commenting on in this game is not abouit how goiod the player's faces are, but 
 how they perform actions just like there character. It is very hard to point out mistakes in character 
 even with some of the lower named players. I really like the behind the mound view for pitching. 
 I think it is a lot of fun. Very stylish touch, especially since they added it to online gaming. 
 As I said b4, the area that brings this game up is indeed it's style, something I think a lot of 
 developers need to take into consideration more. They got rid of all of the most aggervating nuances 
 in last years version. My biggest complaint with the game is tyhat homeruns come way too often. 
 There is a lot of slowdowns with the game also. Also, that fry element of gameplay that 2k has 
 always had, evemn with 2k5, is styill here. I cant quite put my finger on it but it is still here. 
 I guess it is just the pitching system they use, though it works, it may not be very exciting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheekSqueaker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  Not being able to play the 2k6 game even after the update, I was just happy to be able to play 
 a complete game without it freezing up on me. Beyond that , this 2k7 game is great! Not able to 
 play a baseball game for a long time I had a bunch of brushing up to do, The game play in this 
 game, while not perfect is done very well, The dives, throws, running of bases I can do well while 
 pitching and hitting shows how much my timing is off (getting better) . The graphics are improved 
 as the players faces and movements are pretty close to the real thing while batting and on the 
 field. The ball parks have looked good for a while in these games and now that I have a hd tv it 
 really shows. The music in the menu screens have been greatly improved also, although I haven't 
 been able to find the disable for the song notification that pops up as the song changes, but I 
 realize that song promotion is in effect here and that there probably isn't a disable for it but 
 oh well, no game is perfect. This game is best in series and would recommend it to anyone. I do 
 see some points that I have read like not being able to tell a ground ball from a line drive that 
 are hit to the outfield and not being able to tell a ball from a strike as the pitch comes in, 
 but I think in time, after getting used to the game a bit, don't think it will be as big of a problem 
 as it may be now. I have no problem recommending this game to anyone and certainly don't agree 
 with gamespots low review score - so GET this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bxferrarif50
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 4, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  After last years MLB masterpiece of disaster, I did not think that I was going to buy this years 
 version but, for the love of playing the game, I decided to shell out my hard earned money again.
 
  
  First of all, I do not agree with the review from Game spot. Last year, they gave that game a 6.8 
 rating. This year, they are giving this game, a 7.8. One of their comments was but MLB 2K7 is an 
 improvement over MLB 2K6 in nearly every way . So, if it improved in nearly every way, it does 
 not make sense to me why it only received a one point improvement difference from last year. Does 
 that make any sense? I am starting to question the the quality of their reviews. From what I've 
 seen so far, I don't think this is a poor rating game. I don't think it deserves the rating that 
 Game spot gave it. When I began playing the game, I noticed that it felt almost like last year. 
 However, I immediately noticed the facial look of the players resembling the real life players; 
 OVERDUE! I noticed that the jerseys move from the wind hitting it. I noticed the catcher move his 
 glove when one is pitching. I noticed after an inning, a recap of what occurred during the inning 
 that just finished; such as if you hit a home run. Overall, a lot of little things have been fine 
 tuned to make it feel like you're playing a real game.
  
  Graphics wise, aside from the facial look of the players, I think it is okay. What else is there 
 to see aside from the players whom are playing and a glimpse of the stadium? Game play, I think 
 it is solid. Two things I haven't figured out yet is stealing bases and, climbing the wall. I'm 
 sure I'll figure out the first before figuring out the second thing. The menus are very simple 
 to use. On line play haven't tapped yet but, will soon. Here are my gripes: One thing I did notice, 
 is that he MLB roster isn't current. Pedro Martinez is still available. I understand that Barry 
 Bonds name can't be used but, what about the two players from Japan on the Yankees and the Boston 
 Red Sox? I thought their names could be used. I also noticed that some of the people in the stands 
 look either identical or, similar or act similar. Occasionally I noticed players go through some 
 other players. For example, when sliding into second base or, if a player is heading to the umpire 
 at first. It isn't as annoying as last year but, still noticeable. Despite mentioning these things, 
 I don't find them annoying enough for me to feel discouraged from the purchase that I made; unlike 
 last year.
  
  Solid game. Good graphics; this is mainly due to the facial looks of players. Game play is solid. 
 Game won't be as annoying as last year. Worth purchase consideration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Botomastex
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 3, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  My first experience with MLB 2K7 was watching my cousin play it. Sitting there watching a console 
 game look and sound like a real broadcast dropped my jaw. It was beautiful. He was the Red Sox 
 (Whoo Raaa) against the Orioles and he was whooping them. I found my self cheering and yelling 
 as if it was a real game. Unfortunately this is where the unbridled enjoyment ends, at least for 
 a few hours. After going through the menus and creating a player, which I wish could be beefed 
 up with more customization, we started a franchise. My first, second, and third game were nothing 
 more than a 'learning experience'. I found batting to be, at first, an exercise in luck. My pitching 
 was like a little leaguer in the majors. Fielding anything that was not in the air was hard. All 
 this was what I was learning in the first few games. After 'boot camp' I was having much more fun. 
 I love base stealing and have pulled off some hit and runs and other signature baseball plays. 
 Spending time with this game with its presentation and player graphics, its fun pitching and (with 
 time) cool batting, I enjoy playing this game. I love the trading and Minor league jostling. I 
 like scouting players and drafting for future prospects. All in all this game is fun. Next year 
 I hope they press the few major wrinkles that are present to make it great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dekushrub212
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  much better then 2k6 an unbelievable difference, a total make over. not only is the signature style 
 a big deal and a noticeable difference from last years 2k6 disaster but bugs and glitches have 
 been fixed but unfortunately replaced with some annoying new ones. the headline of the game shouldn't 
 be Its a whole new ballgame it should be IT ACTUALLY WORKS we all remember last years freeze issue 
 that 2k sports did a terrible job taking care of to the point were i gave the game back and got 
 advance war fighter because i was fed up. although it is a whole new ball game there are some annoying 
 new glitches have came up. theres a unbelievably annoying glitch were there base runners for no 
 reason slow down as they round third base coasting you runs many times. In this game i fell the 
 goods out way the bads and this is truly the first true baseball game for the next gen the first 
 that is deserved to be played. 2k showed that there claim to fame isn't just there old nfl games. 
 this is a solid baseball game and for any xbox360 owner who is a baseball fan i would pick this 
 title up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMCorso
Rating: 4.1
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  once again 2k sports doesn't know how to maek a baseball game, i love MLB i wish i could play a 
 decent game with the players i love but with 2k and the show having the only games, and being horrible 
 ones at that, i jus tplay NCAA because EA actually knows something about baseball, i don't care 
 much about graphics, they only mkae somewhat of a difference in sports games, its more about the 
 gameplay and 2k makes baseball for the people tha tknow nothing about baseball, and its all very 
 inaccurate, i just can't play it like this, 2k just always makes horrible baseball games, EA should 
 get the liscense too, its so stupid how this whole thing works out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falconfighter08
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  People bash this game for the lag time between plays or little imperfections within this game. 
 The truth is that those little imperfections and lag time that is always mentioned as not so important. 
 The things that are important are the way the pitching and batting interfaces are and how they 
 react to the users controls. With all of this being said, both of these interfaces react really 
 well, well enough to make it a great game experience for baseball fans and baseball fanatics, like 
 myself, alike. The fielding is what could have been approved. The user can still overrun a baseball 
 when it is hit to them. And a player often times runs into walls when they would have the opportunity 
 to stop and throw the ball in to the cut-off man of infield. The best part of this game is the 
 difficulty. Surprisingly, it is rather difficult, something that I am happy about. I got tired 
 of bombing homers with pitchers like Pedro Martinez and Chris Carpenter, or even Dontrelle Willis. 
 This years version of the game is more realistic in the sense of homers are not hit by everybody 
 in the lineup. It is even hard enough to hit home runs with Alex Rodriguez or Albert Pujols. The 
 difficulty of this game is often overlooked when being evaluated, it makes it more realistic for 
 hitting and even pitching, not being able to strike people out so easily like Alex Rodriguez or 
 David Ortiz. With all of this being said, the game is the GREATEST baseball game i have ever played, 
 hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_ferris
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  This was the first Baseball game i had ever played on the 360. i enjoyed 2k sports' College Hoops, 
 and thought that MLB may be good too. as soon as i started playing, my mouth hit the floor. the 
 visuals are amazing. not only has 2k managed to get hundreds upon hundreds of players down, they 
 have done it accurately. gameplay doesn't disapoint in my eyes. its smooth and player motions look 
 very accurate. yes, its true fielding is a pain, that can be Extremely frustrating at points, but 
 you'll get over it.
  
  franchise mode is very deep and creates an authentic feel of the big leagues. an easy interface 
 is a good addition that feels right.
  
  the little things are what stick out. the beginning sequence is repetitive but still worthwhile 
 to listen to, (while on the fact of listening, the soundtrack is terrible at best) . having the 
 small box at the bottom is a good feature that can be useful to read. overall this game is a remarkable 
 game that every true baseball fan must give at least a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gio_Gambino
Rating: 4.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I will keep this short, because I am utterly disgusted. The fielding is poor, the framerate is 
 poor, and the batting is poor. What do those 3 main ingredients equal? A poor game, period.
  
  I see people on here being blind and oblivious to these things because they are EA haters, 
 or more importantly 2K lovers. I am neither. I just want the best sport games each year, regardless 
 of who makes them. I base my decisions from year to year on which game is the best, not by the 
 company who makes the game. The graphics are great, but I don't get blinded by them. I want gameplay 
 in a sports game, the graphics are just a bonus.
  
  Let's face it, even the last version of MVP was better than this mess. MVP was just peaking when 
 2K bought the license. It's a shame, because we could have had a much better alternative this year. 
 Two BIG thumbs down for 2K7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rawbwilsh
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  The game has awesome graphics and sound, the presentation is ok, kind of bland menus. From what 
 I hear the online is flawed, havent played online, but from what I have read its pretty useless. 
 I actually like the pitching and fielding. Pitching isnt a ton of fun, but its definitely doable. 
 Same with fielding, takes a second to get used to, but its fairly responsive. Hitting is terrible, 
 its obnoxious how you have to tweak the settings to have a remotely decent baseball game. Is frusterating. 
 If you are an mvp thinking you will be able to easily pick this up and start playing, think again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brechenme
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 3, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  I play online a lot with friends and have been impressed by the detail in the game with the Lack 
 of Lagging. Unlike 2k6 every online game has been smooth with no dropped connections or lost games 
 so far. Hard to deny the great feeling of seeing your home teams stadium depicted so accurately 
 in the game too. I love the attention to detail all around. The game can be played over and over 
 without getting bored or feeling repetitive. The Franchise mode is wonderful as always, with the 
 great addition of ticket prices and TV ratings. Makes for another great goal to work towards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmallory
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 5, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I was disappointed with this game at first. I've been playing GM career mode for a while and am 
 really getting into it. Once you get over the frustration curve, it's very entertaining. I recommend 
 to anyone who wants to get a lot of play out of a game. There are a couple things that are annoying 
 but once you get over these things you kinda forget about them. Getting robbed of home runs by 
 Griffey Jr. about 3 times a game never stops being annoying though. Now I'm done with my revised 
 review of this game. I still do not have 100 words why is there a min amout of words needed for 
 this thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dafinchi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  MLB 2K7 is the best baseball game to be realeased since MVP Baseball 2004. With competition no 
 longer a factor, I was afraid that 2k sports would slack off and fail to make improvements on the 
 series, but I assure you that they've done no such thing. The average professional review is landing 
 this right around an 8, but this game is better than that. The pitching is innovative and rewarding 
 when done right, the graphics will blow you away, and the 360 frame rate is NOT a problem. The 
 only time it ever seems to slow down is on a payoff pitch to strike someone out. The announcers 
 on the game, and the pregame show (while it gets boring after a while) are absolutely amazing, 
 giving this the best presentation value of any sports game since NFL 2K5. Using the swing stick 
 can be tricky, especially since each player has different swing speeds and different step backs 
 before the swing, but it provides realism to the game as well, even if it is a bit frustrating. 
 The only system of the game I believe to be broken is stealing. It is darn near impossible to steal 
 a base on the higher difficulty levels regardless of who you are using. The franchis mode is as 
 deep as ever, and there are several variations of the home run derby to play with a friend. Online 
 play can be a bit of a problem with lag, but if you're looking for a solid baseball game either 
 for a franchise, or for play with friends that live near you, this is an absolute must own -- no 
 hands down one of the greatest sports games I have ever played, and I've played them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corian_331
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 5, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I am getting sick and tired of reviewers bashing games for lack of online content or anything online 
 related. Bash games that are online enabled at release not a game that is offline first and adds 
 online components. Add points to the score for TRYING to create an online experience, rather than 
 wantonly subtract. Blame a lawyer for being a lawyer, not a garbage man! Every aspect of this game 
 is incredible. I was SOLD on MVP baseball when it first hit the scene and I will admit that baseball 
 games have lacked since '05. This game thoroughly broke not only all my suspicions but made me 
 realize that baseball is back from the dugout of 2K's team. The graphics are mind blowing, the 
 sound is absolutely phenomenal and the game play is smooth as velvet. Every new game I swear I 
 can see NEW fan faces and hear new cheers and taunts from the crowd. The integration of the Inside 
 Edge info is intimidating and delicious. The music has been respectfully submitted into quite possibly 
 the best soundtrack since MVP. The game WILL take a bit of time to get used to the hitting mechanic 
 and fielding is a bit tricky in some spots, (hence the 9 in game play) but it does not subtract 
 greatly from the overall game. Replay value is good until MLB 2K15. I have been playing baseball 
 for over 25 years and watching even longer and see this as the best baseball simulation ever to 
 grace a console. Congratulations to baseball fans everywhere, it is your birthday and this is your 
 present! I do not believe that many games warrant a 10, but this title is the FIRST sports game 
 of any kind since NFL 2K1 to come close to the grail of 10 in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohjtbehaaave
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 3, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  The Pitcher vs Batter confrontation stuff is great. The Graphics are great. But there are HUGE 
 issues that need fixing in this 2K baseball engine.
  For 2K8... Vc really just needs to focus on DEFENSE... and Dynamic camera's that PAN OUT when the 
 ball is put into play. You can't even see the ball on fly balls to the outfield. all you do is 
 run to the target on the field and the ball magically appears. That's awful. 2K needs to see how 
 MLB: The Show does Defense and camera pan outs to get 2K8 fixed. Playing D in 2K7 should be fun.. 
 but it's lame. The game is getting there in most areas... but now it's time to overhaul the Defense 
 and give us a camera that pans out when the ball is hit... and give the fields the proper dimensions... 
 where it takes a fielder 15 steps to get into the corner to dig out a double. Not 4 steps and they 
 hold you to a single. Once again SEE The Show 07 on PS2. Until 2K can get the defense and Camera 
 angles up to par... The show is still the only Baseball game for diehard Baseball junkies. Remember 
 2K.... It's always GAMEPLAY over Graphics when it comes to a killer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianroxie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 12:45 am PT
Review:  I have had the game for a few days and have played 4-5 games so far.
  
  I did have one that froze on me which had me annoyed but then it didn't happen since.
  
  Now 
 the great: Well the graphics are indeed real nice, almost as nice as the ones on nba 2k7, the feel 
 of the stadium and players are real enjoyable.
  
  The animation also is a major plus in this game which is always somewhat important.
  
  Now 
 the minor issue I have is this, I feel that eventually I get real bored playing it as it becomes 
 extremely repetitive and I have only played 5 games. Even with the pitcher catcher communication 
 being a big improvement in the game, I still feel the same things happen quite often.
  
  However one thing I have noticed which gives it a tad more realism, sometimes when you have a pitcher 
 who isn't hitting is pitches and is getting raddled well he gets hit hard alot during the game 
 even if you do start hitting pitchers later on. I allowed 7 runs with Felix Hernandez in 2 innings 
 and he left with 2 runners on, then the next pitcher shut down the next 2 batters.
  
  So realism seems fine. To be honest this game is worth the try and it will be made for 9 players 
 out of 10, its up to you to see where you find yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bdjohnst
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  MLB is back with 2K7 and the game has some promising improvements. The developer's threw out the 
 old engine and replaced it with a better, improved, more promising one. With EA's MVP developer 
 now with the 2K Sports, the game has had a vast improvement over last years disaster. The graphics 
 are great too, but still is not as good as the Xbox 360's. The fans aren't as annoying or UGLY 
 as they were last year, and at least this year you didn't see that annoying yellow vendor walking 
 back and forth every time you pitch. The game play is much improved and smoother, but the batting 
 stick still gets on your nerve a bit. It is hard to get the timing down. You'll get use to it though. 
 The pitching angle can also frustrate you. The pitching angle makes it hard to tell where the strike 
 zone is sometimes. The only things that 2K needs to improve on is the instant replay (hard to maneuver) , 
 the hit stick, and the fielding view (sometimes hard to tell where the ball is) . Otherwise, it 
 is a great improvement over last year's, but if you don't want to pay 60 bucks for it, get MLB 
 07: The Show for the PS2. You'll save 20 bucks for a good quality game. If you have a 360, buy 
 it for that instead of the PS3. Feels more natural for the Xbox 360 than it does for the PS3. I'm 
 looking forward to what MLB 2K8 will offer next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raw2076
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 2, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  This game was worth 59.99 because the graphics actually looks like the players they portray . the 
 game play has gone through a major upgrade but it was a good upgrade. I love the edge it tells 
 you where to throw the players so that u can get the player out I'm glad they kept this in the 
 game. The soundtrack is really good to. If you don't like the songs u can add your own music in 
 the game which is a great addition to the game. the gm and season didnt change much but i dint 
 think it needed much. so all in all great upgrade in this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero7159
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  I have not been hooked on a baseball game since Hardball for the C-64. That being said, this game 
 may get me. I played my first complete game last night and I liked it a lot. The pitching is accessible 
 but deep enough to be interesting. Every pitcher is different. The fielding is uncomplicated. Overall, 
 the graphics are excellent, particularly the close up views of the players. The only complaint 
 I have is that the Skydome in Toronto is awfully dark. Also, I would occasionally get a loading 
 message. In sum, anyone who likes sports games should give this one a try. I sure am glad I did. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cardozo
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 2, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  This game is not all that and a bag of chips. I have played every baseball video game that has 
 ever come out on every system. It used to be my favorite genre. From Earl Weaver Baseball to all 
 of the High Heat games to the whole MVP series. Let me tell you, this game just doesn't stack up. 
 It looks nice, but it just has too many flaws to be the game of choice. This is what happens when 
 there is no competition. Once 2K got the exclusive MLB license, I knew we would see a half-ass 
 broken game. And that is exactly what this is. Just like Madden failed to get better once EA got 
 the exclusive NFL license, baseball games will continue to stagnate. It is really too damn bad.
 
  
  Hitting: Hitting is decent in the game. I like using the anolog sticks. But there is no real feeling 
 of power when you hit the ball. The feel is the same whether you hit a single or a homerun. Also, 
 homeruns are far too easy to hit. I can see that if I played an entire season on this game, my 
 shortstop would have 70 or 80 homeruns. This destroys the realism of the game. Might as well go 
 buy Slugfest.
  
  Pitching: I actually like the pitching system. It is pretty unique and the money pitch system is 
 a nice touch. I like the catcher suggestion option too. But, even on the toughest level you can 
 groove fastballs right down the middle and strike guys out. The interface is nice but, once again, 
 it fails in execution.
  
  Fielding: Ok. This is where this game falls flat on its ugly face. Fielding is simply a total mess. 
 First of all, what is up with NO CAMERA OPTIONS??? In NBA 2K7 you have about 50 camera options 
 and the ability to set the camera any way you want. Camera angles make or break the fielding of 
 any baseball video game. Why doesn't the camera pan out when a flyball is hit? You never get the 
 feeling of loft when you hit a towering drive like you did on High Heat or MVP. Whether you hit 
 a grounder or a flyball the camera doesn't change. Also, when you hit a grounder, the ball glides 
 along the ground like it is sliding on ice. There are NO BALL PHYSICS AT ALL. Fielders consistently 
 misplay routine balls even when you are totally in position. This is the games worst element. Just 
 a total failure.
  
  Graphics: The game looks great. But it isn't enough to save it. I remember when I got the second 
 installment of High Heat back in 1997. The game didn't look very good at all. It wasn't even done 
 in 3D graphics - the players were still rendered as pixel sprites. But the gameplay was just plain 
 awesome. It was as much like the real game as anything I have ever played. Graphics can't save 
 a game that has a barrell full of flaws and glitches. I imagine that the early good reviews for 
 this game by users are mainly because they are blinded by the nice graphics. Once you get beyond 
 that, this game has little or nothing to offer.
  
  In short, I would not buy this game. I would wait to see what MLB '07 The Show will be like for 
 PS3. It may be the game we are all waiting for. But until 2K loses its grip on the MLB license, 
 I am not optimistic for anything much better.
  
  BRING BACK HIGH HEAT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bg_nyc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying i havent been drawn into a baseball game so fast since the mid 90s with 
 WSB on the Saturn. The HD graphics are freaking beautiful. Its really to the point where you can't 
 tell whether you're watching ESPNHD or a computer sim. Beautiful textures, individual blades of 
 grass, great shadowing and human-like motion. Players will shift their weight while standing around 
 waiting. Ball parks are beautiful (but i did notice that the area behind the catcher at Shea is 
 not really accurate) . Collision mechanics are fun and realistic (except for one time when I dove 
 for a ball behind 2B and went right through the umpire) .
  
  The gameplay is fun and somewhat intuitive, though i had a hard time figuring out how to move my 
 players around the bases at first. You need to refer to the instruction manual, or in-game tips 
 that are a great addition to any game which serve as instructions too. Hitting is not overly simple. 
 It does require some timing. Its a bit difficult to get a bead on the pitch, so you will be swinging 
 at alot of balls out of the strike zone. And its hard to guess the pitch unless you get 'Inside 
 Edge' which will help narrow down likely pitch locations. One very enjoyable feature (if you like 
 to steal) is called 'base burner mode', where you hand batting over to the AI and take control 
 of a baserunner. I took control of Jose Reyes. The view changes to the runners persepctive, adn 
 looks beautiful. You take the lead, watch the pitcher, and decide when to break for 2B. You also 
 preload an instruction to the AI on whether you want the batter to swing or take the pitch. This 
 was fun, and I plan on using it when moving that fast runner over to 2B is extremely crucial.
 
  
  But what i find that I enjoy most are the sounds of the game. The announcers do a fantastic job. 
 They actually discuss things between pitches, they talk about players, history, etc. And it blends 
 into the game in an incredible way that i didnt really think was possible. When first playing, 
 it really seemed like i was watching a real MLB game in addition to playing it. When you get a 
 hold of a fastball it sounds perfect, maybe too perfect. Not every base hit should sound like a 
 home run. Even bloopers over the second baseman sounded like 400 ft homers.
  
  One HUGE negative for me was fielding. It was difficult to see the ball once the camera switched 
 to the fielding view. And every time you move the analog stick to move the player, they run. There 
 is no slow increase of speed. At those times, the left stick feels digital, not analog. For instance, 
 a short hop ground ball was hit to David Wright at 3B. I tried to move over just a tad, and he 
 ran right past the ball. Then I tried to correct, and he ran by it again. There is no way to move 
 slowly or slightly, and this is very annoying. This also affects you when fielding fly balls. The 
 ball shifts due to wind, and when you try to correct, you can move too much. I'll try to get used 
 to the fielding thing. But other than that, this game is lots of fun. And with baseball season 
 just a month away, its exciting to see that lineups are updated and pretty accurate. Trades have 
 been incorporated (not sure as of what cutoff date) . This is a game that i will enjoy throughout 
 the next 7 months and it was well worth the wait for me, considering that I passed on 2K6 and was 
 a big fan of the EA series. I was hoping that lack of competition didnt ruin baseball like it did 
 football, but i am actually pleased with the result. Theres alot to this game, and I think it will 
 take a few games to be able to use every feature with proficiency, which makes it just challenging 
 enough to keep hardcore baseball fans happy and the casual baseball fans satisfied. I'm expecting 
 2K8 to be amazing... -BG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaycee224
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  First the flaws: the fielding, especially infielding, takes a little getting used to. I'm gettin 
 the hang of it now, but early on you'll notice your infielders over running a lot of grounders. 
 Basically it seems the stick is over responsive - but like I said, you'll learn how to get your 
 guys in position after a few games.
  
  Another issue that involves fielding is the camera view, which doesn't seem adjustable. The shallow 
 angle makes it tough to get a good jump on fly balls at first. Again, like with infielding, a little 
 time will get you up-to-speed.
  
  I like the batting interface, as it is my first experience with the stick-style swing. It really 
 adds a level of realism in how you are required to time your weight-shift back, before releasing 
 your swing. Another minor gripe I have is that there is no straight up practice mode to get this 
 interface down pat. It will take a few very frustratin games before you feel you have a good grasp 
 of things.
  
  Pitching is very easy on Pro mode, and very challenging at All-Star, rrequiring you to be pretty 
 spot on or you'll get hammered. By far the best aspect of the game is the presentation. We are 
 all used to action replays by now, but the way replays factor in between innings, or when reviewing 
 a batters previous success in both the field or at the plate.
  
  The graphics are very good, with a lot of appropriate animations for the situations on the field. 
 Like many of you, I loved MVP 05, and last years 'The Show.' (If there was a player mode like last 
 years 'The Show', or the ability to fast-forward in games this would really be close to a 10)
 
  
  Bottom line: I never played last years 2K game because of how awful y'all rated it. So based on 
 a fresh view, this is truly a VERY good next-gen sprts game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nefarious13
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 2, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  Those of you who said it's improved over the last game would be correct in saying so. However, 
 you must compare it to the best baseball game out there and we all know it's MVP 2005. The only 
 place that 2K7 beats MVP is in the graphics department.
  
  There are so many bugs I don't know where to start. I guess I'll start with things that were decent.
 
  
  DECENT- Hitting and pitching are OK. Feels quite realistic but there are far too many HR's and 
 very few ground balls. Why no ground balls I wonder? Hmm... see below.
  
  AWFUL- The fielding in this game is the worst I have ever seen. You rarely pick up the ball in 
 time and there is only 1 camera angle. It's choppy as hell to boot. This 30 fps is unnacceptable. 
 Also, there are many glitches that I came accross in only a few games. Fielding is what makes a 
 baseball game. C'mon Ben, work your magic.
  
  VERY GOOD- The presentation is top notch and the graphics are good. The animations are still off 
 and choppy though.
  
  Bottom Line: If you haven't played the MVP series then you might not know what you are missing. 
 It is better than 2K6 but that isn't saying much. Ben Brinkman came over from EA and has a 3 year 
 plan to fix it. Because of this I shall endeavor to put my faith in 2K8. But, in the end, 2K7 is 
 still only a platoon player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekJeter2007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Steller next gen grapics, excellent camera angles to spice up gameplay, very realistic 
 pitching mechinisim, good players ratings not based soley on 2006 like most games, excellent GM 
 Career &amp; Franchise, create-a-player is VERY detailed for more authentic players
  
  THE BAD: Normal games are basically homerun durbies, pitchers cannot pitch more than the 7th inning 
 unless you want to give up a lot of runs, nearly impossible to tell a ball from a strike with blazing 
 fast pitch speed, good OF such as Jim Edmonds and Ken Griffey Jr. have their own gravitational 
 field that sucks up every ball that comes near them, including an amazing number of robbed homeruns 
 by even no body outfielders. GOOD NEWS THOUGH - ALL The Bad can be adjusted (except robbed HR) 
 with game sliders. Problem is that you even have to adjust them, they should be fixed already, 
 and that some Xbox360 Acheivments cannot be unlocked if you adjust the dificulty to the game. Thats 
 ok though! Nobody wants to be an acheivment whore!
  
  GAMEPLAY ~ 9/10
  
  The best pitching system in any baseball game ever. Very realistic and not very hard to figure 
 out. The hit stick made me think to much on just being able to swing and not if the pitch is a 
 strike or a ball, so i changed it back to the classic just press the 'A' button to hit. Also the 
 fielding and throwing angles are very nice and the angles change all the time to keep things nice. 
 Also when you're running the angle keeps you in view and the fielder or it will follow your runner 
 and clock his time it takes for him to get to 1st base. The only problem I have is it is hard to 
 control the base runners at first, but you can set the base running to auto, but butt in whenever 
 you want.
  
  GRAPHICS ~ 10/10
  
  WOW.... AMAZING.... HOW DO THEY DO IT?! These graphics will KILL MLB 07: The Show. Replays and close-ins 
 on the players show how much better the graphics are.
  
  SOUND ~ 10/10
  
  The soundtrack is awesome and there are about 30 songs. The commentary by Jon Miller and Joe Morgan 
 isn't the worst, but it isn't the best. I don't know why people make such a big deal about how 
 bad it is. It is some what repetitive, but I really don't even notice it. My brain kinda tunes 
 it out on it's own. Lucky me. VALUE ~ 9/10
  
  You can play this up until 2K9 if you had too.
  
  TILT ~ 9/10
  
  Very, very good game. 
 I might even play this until 2K9 unless 2K8 has a player Career Mode
  
  EXTRA INFO
  
  There are Franchise and GM Career mode. Basically the same thing except GM Career has goals for 
 you to do, such as release an overpaid player, find a very good Prospect or lower your team's salary.
 
  
  There is a Create a Player option and if you don't have XBOX Live for roster updates the Japanese 
 players like Daisuke Matsuzaka and Kei Iwaga are already in the game, but have different names 
 with the same Initials. You can simply go to edit player and change thier name.
  
  The player raing are done by bar when you edit their stats, the are shown by numbers when you view 
 them from the roster, and they are done by letter grades when you view their player cards in game. 
 I wish there was no bar to edit players, but you get used to it.
  
  There is also the 'Sky Box' where you use tokens you earn in game to buy mini games (air hockey, 
 trivia, shuffle board, darts) , old time teams such as the 1927 Yankees (Murderer's Row) , old team 
 jerseys, and of course, CHEATS!!!!!!!. You also store all your trophies and Hall Of Fame players 
 you earn from GM Career or Franchise. You can also take photos in the game when you go to instant 
 replay and take a snap shot of it and then decorate you 'Sky Box' with up to 7 of them. That's 
 about it. Very good game, hope I gave a good, in depth review. Recommend this review so everyone 
 can read it! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 2, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, this is a great game and you should purchase it. The thing is patience. You 
 have to be patient with learning how to play the game. It can be very frustrating at times but 
 read the MANUAL! It tells you how to do it very specifically.
  As for the graphics, they are great. Cant ask for better. If you play a 7:00 game, the sun will 
 go down as the game progresses. I have noticed a glitch in this however, I was playing and it was 
 pretty much dark and then all of a sudden the sun just came again. Annoying yes, but nothing to 
 really that big of a deal.
  Now the gameplay... Its good once you figure out how to hit and ptich. Myslef, I got the hitting 
 down but im still trying to learn howe to pitch. This is where I was talking about the whole patience 
 thing. please be patient, it will come together eventually, dont get mad and return it because 
 then you are returning a good game. All the uniforms are in it already so dont worry about that, 
 You can choose anytime of the day to play your game, and you can also choose the weather. Overall, 
 its a good game but it takes a while to learn the controls and by a while i mean a couple of days 
 of playing it. I do request this game, for you baseball lover just remember PATIENCE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thugonomic101
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  while this years edition of 2k's mlb is far im proved from last year with the sickest graphics 
 you will see in a baseball game the swing stick batting system is extraordinarily frustrating and 
 takes along time to get the hang of. also commentary is extremely repetitive. another big issue 
 that 2k failed to improve is the fielding. it is slow and glitchy often resulting in errors. But 
 the overall game play is saved by the pitching system which i find to be innovative and fun. Too 
 make a long story short amazing graphics awesome pitching but batting will frustrate you for hour 
 and hours to come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stone2323
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of 2Ksports game and I must say that after last year's version of MLB I was worried. 
 But I must say that I am truly impressed with this years version. It is head and shoulders above 
 last years version and much better than I could hope for. The graphics are amazing. The stadiums 
 are beautiful. I forgot sometimes that I was playing a game. My fiancee thought the real Yankee 
 game was on. I mean come on.... damn this is good and addicting. The pitching interface is great 
 and the players move so much better. Especially on defense. There are no choopy movements anymore. 
 The camera views are beautiful especially on a HDTV. For anyone contemplating on getting the game... trust 
 me... do yourself a favor. If you arent used to the swing stick and dont like it you can always 
 go back to the classic A button swing. Go out and get this... I am dying to see how Gamespot rates 
 it... Playball.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billsfan257
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  After watching many video for 2K7 on IGN I decided i needed this game, unfortunately I did not 
 have a 360. 2 weeks later, here I am, with a 360, and w/ 2k7. After watching the videos I set high 
 expectations for this game, and aside from the fielding, I have not been let down. The graphics 
 in this game are unbelievable, the players and stadium look very realistic, and along with the 
 commentary (Jon Miller and Joe Morgan) , and overlays, it seems like you are watching the game on 
 ESPN, even if 2k doesn't have the ESPN license anymore.
  
  I have always been a huge fan of the MVP series and was disappointed, along with several other 
 people with 2k's acquisition of the exclusive license for MLB games. The pitching is different 
 from the meter which I am used to, but I think I like the new pitching better, takes more skill, 
 and is more fun in my opinion. U start off by clicking the pitch u want and holding that button 
 and u see brackets expanding. The longer you hold, the more stuff is on the pitch, after ur done 
 holding u let go and then hit the same button u just held once the brackets close. Another thing 
 they have is in pressure situations, especially when up by 1 in the 9th, the locater will jump 
 and move everywhere making it hard to pitch, this tries to simulate the nerves the pitcher will 
 be going through. While i think its alittle exaggerated, and has cost me a game before, I think 
 it is a cool, and innovative feature.
  
  Hitting is done with the swing stick, or classic and and hit A method. I prefer the the classic, 
 as I can't hit with the stick. After playing MVP the pitches will appear very slow, but you can 
 fix that easily by accessing the sliders.
  
  Fielding, I don't have as much of a problem with as mot other reviewers seem to have. I personally 
 do not have a hard time finding the ball on a grounder, but it is hard fielding fly balls sometimes 
 because if you make 1 bad move, ur screwed. 1 thing i think that is missing is the throw meter 
 that MVP had. In 2k7 u simply press the button corresponding to each base and hope for the best.
 
  
  GM/ Franchise Mode has a very nice look to it. It has drop down menus that make it easy to navigate 
 through menus, and makes it seem like ur playing the game on PC. While I wish you could control 
 more than just ticket price, as in MVP ( I know, I keep referring to MVP, but that game was soo 
 good) at least that option is there. Overall I am very impressed with 2k7. I have heard that they 
 have basically just fixed last year's game, but since I didn't play last years, I wouldnt know. 
 Great graphics, Great Presentation and Good gameplay lead to a great overall game that will keep 
 you busy for a long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacock1089
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Mlb 2k7 is an ok game but the game play seems the same so there isn't anything new so it's basicly 
 the same game with tuned up graphics and different rosters. The franchise is revamped from 2k6 
 but there really isn't anything extra to the franchise mode but it is better than last time so 
 if your looking forward to chage the rosters around of your favorite team and go all the way and 
 win the world series then it's the perfect game. The developers said that the game will have a 
 lot of modes well they do but some are not necessary beacause the stuff they have in there is home 
 run
  derby, and tournament.
  
  The achievments may keep you playing for a while but other than that this game is strait up play 
 a game, play a game, and play a geme all the time in franchise and gm mode. The online play will 
 not let you down beacause it's 2k sports so what else is thre to say about that.
  
  Anything else about the game will not keep you interested for that long beacause of the lack of 
 fun in the game modes so it gets repetitive after a while. There isn't any modes that are special 
 like Mlb 07's career mode. I wished this game would have career mode beacause that mode will be 
 per fect for this game.
  
  So that's my review i hoped you like it so recomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 1, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I like batting in this game. The graphics really pull you into the experience when behind the plate. 
 My only real gripe with batting is that if you power swing all the time, you'll easily hit over 
 10 home runs almost every game if you are even remotely good at batting.
  
  Pitching is good and bad. The pay off pitches are a nice touch, but the icon for controlling your 
 pitch is not consistent. The biggest problem is that the CPU will almost always hit a home run 
 if you throw a bad pitch, not often, but literally 99% of the time. I kept track in three games, 
 and out of 12 botched pitches, 11 of them resulted in home runs by hitters who are not that great. 
 Pretty lame.
  
  As for the fielding... this is were the game just falls apart. The controls for moving your fielding 
 are far too sensitive making your fielder seldom run in a perfect line to the ball. Not only that, 
 but you don't even get to control the fielder right after the ball is hit. The guy just stares 
 blankly for a few seconds and THEN the game lets you control your fielder, often too late to make 
 the save. This part of the game is just pathetic and there is no excuse for fielding to be this 
 freaking bad after all of 2K's experience.
  
  I cannot find an option to let my fielders be controlled by the comp. If you could just have auto 
 fielding on this would not be an issue and the game would be greatly improved if you don't mind 
 letting the computer take care of the defense. I'm trying to like this game, and while the batting 
 and pitching are a good time, I have to hold back the urge to throw up every time I field a ball 
 (or try to and can't due to buggy controls) . With better fielding next year could be a AAA title 
 for sure. Too bad this year is another letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dustyiron22
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Other than a few things, 2k did ALOT better job making a BASEBALL game. I dont know what kind of 
 drugs they were on when making 2k6, but im glad the got off it. I was very sceptical of this game 
 cause the last one was so unbelievably BAD! This game is pretty dang cool. It actually simulates 
 a more realistic baseball game. There are a few things that kind of suck. fielders have only one 
 mode... SPRINT . wich sucks cause when u move to a field a ground ball slightly to the left or 
 right you sprint past it. and it turns into a base hit when it shoulda been a routine out. It would 
 be nicer too if when you are playing on ALLSTAR that every STRIKE pitch you throw wouldnt be knocked 
 out of the park. Every STRIKE i throw to alfonso soriano is a HR. doing a season playing against 
 him he already has 7 homers in 6 games. at this rate he will have a WHOLE lot. Camera views are 
 limited. like a MVP like fielding view. see more of the field when fielding would be nice. but 
 all in all. im satisfied to have a playable enjoyable baseball game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: expls2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This is with out a doubt the best baseball title we have ever seen. It takes a while to get used 
 to the fielding and pitching and you more than likly miss a few easy ground balls getting the hang 
 of the timing required to make a play. The days of a ball magically vacuuming in to the glove are 
 gone. Also the diving is way more flexible then last years being no longer tied into the DIVE prompts 
 that pop up. Batting requires a lot of patience and ability to anticipate the pitcher and pitching 
 is unlike anything we have ever seen before in a baseball game. The graphics are top of the line 
 and the presentation is unequaled and the new signature series animations bring it all home. The 
 commentary can get a litte slate and it still rains inside the skydome but the small over-sites 
 are paled in comparison to the awesomeness of everything else about this game. GM carrer is one 
 of the deepest we have seen in any sports game to date and the menus are extremly easy to navigate. 
 Get this game. You wont be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mivery
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Major league baseball 2k7 is by far the best baseball game that i have ever played. Yes there are 
 some small things that could made the game better than it is. For example: When fielding you can 
 hardly see the ball. It is very small. The only thing that you see is a black shadow of where the 
 ball is. Another thing is that it is very very easy to hit a home-run. I am playing with the Reds 
 and i am in my 7 or 8 game into my franchise. Ken Griffey Jr leads the Majors with 10 home-runs. 
 Other than that the game is freakin sweet. The cutsceens are the best. When it is showing a replay 
 of a great pitch sometimes you will get a camera view from the ground. You will see how great the 
 dirt looks and from the outfield if making a diving play or rob a home-run you will see how great 
 the grass looks. The sound of the game is great. 2K sports games are the best!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tnayshuss
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Definitely a top a candidate for sports game of the year. I did not have the dubious honor of playing 
 MLB 2K6, but from what I hear it was good that I did not. All I know is that this game on all fronts 
 is incredibly deep, and a visual masterpiece. Baseball fans will relish the astute nuances that 
 are tucked away in this game. From arguing a bad call, to the activity of the ball boys in foul 
 grounds, to even rain delays! Yes, that's right rain delays! The animations of the players look 
 so lifelike, you may be tempted to allow the computer to play itself, and have some popcorn and 
 get a sneak peak at some of the matchups that will take place once the season starts.
  
  One thing as a baseball fan I really enjoy is the great teams of the past. My favorite team of 
 all time is the 1986 NYM. And this team is unlockable (along with nine others) although you have 
 to edit the players and give them correct names. They have also included two hall of fame teams, 
 Cooperstown 1, and Cooperstown 2. Sheer baseball nirvana! The only gripe is I would like to see 
 more classic teams, perhaps an entire version entitled, Cooperstown Collection. (I hope that someone 
 from 2K sports is reading this!)
  
  The only downside is the fielding controls, but it is quite a minimal problem. I have also read 
 in some of the other posts, that the pitching controls are horrible. But, that is NOT true at all! 
 To those who are having problems pitching, READ THE INSTRUCTIONS IN THE MANUAL! I was having the 
 same issues until I read the instructions, and now pitching is very realistic (I use to pitch in 
 high school) and very rewarding once you understand how the pitching mechanic works. The franchise 
 mode is great, and you can even edit the players, goodbye Joe Young, hello Barry Bonds. And you 
 can create your own players as well.
  
  There is much more to be said, but in closing, if you like sports, this game is a must. And it 
 has my vote for best sports game of the year so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strwrs24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  If can wait for MLB to start; this is the closest thing to the real thing. Here is my rundown- 
 get it rundown: Gameplay: Loads of modes and extras- HomeRun Derby is addictive. Easy to use controls, 
 pitching will need sometime to master. Graphics: Players, cutscenes &amp; Stadiums- Holy S%4&amp;! 
 Crowd- ok, not as good as Madden; but who really cares about the crowd. Sound: Best sound in a 
 Baseball game that I have found thus far; yes the commentaries are a bit repitive, but show me 
 a sports game where it's not Value: How long will it take you play a Season or Franchise? For me 
 an incredibly long time. Oh yeah, there's Online too. Reviewer's Tilt: To sum it up; best Baseball 
 Game created thus far by Man. There is nothing like hitting a line drive straight back at the pitcher; 
 hitting him in the head and giving him a mild Concussion ( actually happened) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JCS7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Just picked up this game and put it in the 360 and was just AMAZED at the level of work they put 
 into this. I usually BUY the latest baseball game every year and play with the BREW CREW. Every 
 year, I get disappointed that it looks like they put less time and effort on worse teams than Good 
 Teams as far as batting stances and what the players look like. THIS YEAR MLB 2K7 was truly AMAZING 
 and made every team like the BREWERS very REAL to their true styles of everything like looks of 
 their bodies and faces and stances, and even as far as seeing BERNIE Slide down the HOME RUN Slide!!! 
 THEY fixed the throwing mechanics and running the base paths as well. The batting is ALLOT more 
 REALISTIC because the pitches are FASTER and the batters swing is also FASTER. I won't even get 
 started with the graphics (AMAZING) . WELL DONE 2K SPORTS for making this game the BEST GAME I have 
 ever played*!!!!!
  
  GO BREWERS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormiestBUCK
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  This time 2K sports stepped up to the plate and made massive amounts of corrections to make this 
 game so realistic my father thought i was watching a spring training game and couldn't believe 
 that i was playing a video game.
  
  The signature style is just as good on this game as it was on NBA 2K7 and to have that many signature 
 styles in the game is amazing. The graphics in this one is far better than anything i have seen 
 for a sports game even the stadiums have great detail to them.
  
  The thing i like the most is the franchise mode. It has change for the better with new features 
 such as team news, up to date stats and much more. The other cool thing is the introduction to 
 the game is cooler with them telling you how the game will go according to them and what you should 
 expect to see. The only thing that is a little agravating is fielding in the infield; it is so 
 bright that sometimes you can't really see where the ball is going and as a result it turns into 
 an infield single or worse brings in the person on third base. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  As much as I hate to admit it, EA did have one sports game that they finally did right, and that 
 was MVP 05, and Im a card carrying fanboy. That game, at the time, put everything together that 
 was right with sports games at the time, graphics, animation, sound and game play. Since then, 
 we all know what happen, EA foolishly bought the rights to the NFL, and in turn 2KSports decided 
 they would do the same with MLB. I hated both moves equally.
  The first game that came out of the 2KSports game house was the dismal MLB 2K6, it was an insult 
 to anyone that enjoy the game of baseball, and computer baseball especially.
  That has all changed with this amazingly improved MLB 2K7 Baseball. If anyone says that the gaming 
 industry doesnt listen to its fan base, just need to take a look at what 2KSports has done with 
 this game. They Listened. The graphics are improved, with High Def, and amazing details clarity, 
 you can really tell the expression of the players, and the anguish the pitcher after giving up 
 a homer, very detailed. With improved animation, the graphics really does look amazing. For the 
 first time you can even see the uniform blowing in the wind, now how cool is that?
  Joe Morgan and Jon Miller are back to the broadcast booth, both do a good job, but voiceovers havent 
 changed much from last year. They may have added a few more lines. The game play is the real key 
 here, and its much improved and polished from last year debacle. Everything is smooth, and flow 
 very well, the pitcher/batter screen is still amazing to watch, and you have a lot of options to 
 tweak that part of the game to your desirer. The fielding is done really well also, but there are 
 2 things that I would probably change next year; the fielding camera is badly located, and it doesnt 
 seem to be a way to adjust it, because of that the second thing is the ball is small and is very 
 hard to pickup off the bat. The ball is the right size, but because the camera is so far back, 
 its hard to pickup.
  The menu options hasnt change that much since last year, you still have many options like GM, 
 Homerun Derby, situational play, and of course season modes. This is amazing game, I know I read 
 some real foolish reviews saying this game isnt all that, but that is just BS, this is really 
 a well done game. Sure it isnt perfect, but its the only game in town, and because of that we 
 are very lucky that its an awesome representation of the Game of Summer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BENZINO4677
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  So this is what exclusivity gives us gamers - no choices ! I bought this game because if you want 
 to play baseball on the Xbox 360 this is your only choice. I think this game is ok at best because 
 it doesn't do anything better (game play wise ) than MVP 2005. The two things that matter to me 
 most are pitcher and batter duels- this game just doesn't handle that well at all. The batters 
 don't swing in real time and all the pitches come flying in at the same speed. The other major 
 problem is with the fielding camera. It should have been fixed before this game was shipped there's 
 no excuse for this. Any way the rest of the game has great touches but I can't recommend this game 
 to anyone who likes MVP 2005 because the still has a way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  As I constantly sit back and read a bunch of naysayers complaining about the difficulty of the 
 game, some calling it "broken".... it makes me realized how many complete babies fail to understand 
 that baseball was never meant to be 14-12 shootout. The fact that pitching is harder to hit makes 
 the game more realistic. No more do we see the unrealistic, dramatic breaking balls. Now the cuts 
 and breaks are more sharp and realistic. What people who didn't play baseball past Senior Majors 
 (Or Pony if you played Pony baseball) don't realize that the difference in speed between a 93 MPH 
 fastball and a 83 MPH slider is not as noticeable to the naked eye as these previous baseball "simulators" 
 made them out to be. This game hits every angle of baseball realism that can possibly be hit. I 
 can't possibly understand anyone that understands real baseball giving this anything below an 7.5.
 
  
  Gameplay: 7
  
  Virtually glitch free. infielding CAN be irritating but usually isn't. Throws actually look like 
 smooth fluid throws and not some cockeyed drone looking fat slob flinging the ball like a retard 
 like in 2k6. Players hardly EVER overun anything as they run into their markers. The hitting has 
 never been so accurate and real, which may turn some fans who are no good at a real sports game 
 off. The pitching is close to flawless with my only complaint that pitchers sometimes tire too 
 fast, but Sabathia got me a a CG in his first start so I think it just depends on the situation. 
 It is so close to perfect gameplay but the pitchers tiring and sometimes infield being erratic. 
 Also, homeruns are hit far too often and far to often homeruns are robbed. But these aren't GLARING 
 weaknesses and that's why I can give it a 7.
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  Best graphics on a team sports game to date. The fact that there is so much complexity behind the 
 graphics in a game with this much content is mind-blowing. EVERY player, from A-Rod to Andy Marte, 
 this game has their batting stance DOWN. The wind blowing hair, jerseys, even dust at some points. 
 The details of the stadium is perfect. I have yet to see a single awkward player model. The uniforms, 
 players, details, stadiums, surrounding cities all look near perfect.
  
  Sound: 7
  
  Not the best sound, but sound is still great. The crowd seems to react a little "smarter" depending 
 on the situation. However, sometimes the crowd noise falls a little behind the game itself causing 
 some sound to become choppy and the announcers commentary can cross itself over. The music is much 
 better this year and you can, as usual, always change it with the music on your hard drive. The 
 sound effects are pretty real. The only effect that STILL doesn't sound as real (for whatever reason) 
 is the crack of the bat. The ball hitting the bat doesn't sound like a double-ply-wood board getting 
 stomped by your foot. Other than that, the game catches the atmosphere in near-perfect fashion. 
 If you listen close enough, you can hear fans having conversations and talking trash to the players.
 
  
  Value: 9
  
  With a multitude of options, online and off, MLB 2k7 gives a player thousands of hours of gameplay 
 options. Online is virtually flawless, with the normal 2k7 specialties tournaments, full leagues 
 and quick games. With GM, franchise modes, and unlockables, any baseball fan will love the different 
 options they will have to them. Tilt: 10
  
  I like this game. This is easily the best baseball release since MVP 2005. I love sports games 
 that closely emulate the real thing. MLB2k7 has caught that in near perfect fashion. As does every 
 game, this game could use a few tweaks. More realistic sound effects, clean up the fielding and 
 maybe add a mode that would be similar to Madden's superstar mode and you would be staring at one 
 of the best games ever made.... not just baseball games... all games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krhllywd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game. Way better than last season's game. The graphics are really good and I don't even 
 have a HDTV. There is great crowd interaction. The only bad part in my mind is the commentary. 
 I wish they had Joe Buck from FOX TV on there. I think that 2K lived up to the expectations on 
 this one and anyone who is a fan of MLB should get this game. The timing on it coming out was perfect 
 also with Spring Training games officially starting tomorrow. The Yankees are going to take it 
 this year for sure. Number 27 in '07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tony2632
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2k7 has made i big improvement from last year. good game play, great graphics and an outstanding 
 pitching machanics but, i think there is only one thing i hate about this game. it is the fielding 
 camera. when they hit the ball, almost everything looks like a ground ball, u hit a line drive 
 and it looks like a ground ball. plus the fielding camera is no good. they should make it different (like 
 mvp 2005) . because some times is hard to catch the ball because the camera is to low and u cant 
 even see every thing. u dont even see where the ball ends up when u hit a homer, so i think that 
 is the only thing i dont like about this game. ooh almost forgot there is another thing i dont 
 like and is that when u throw the ball to any base to get a runner out they always make an accurate 
 throw. it shouldn't be like that. i would like if the overthrow the ball like in the mvp franchise (that 
 players have a meter when they throw the ball) but, dont get me wrong, other than that. it is a 
 great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JayMezzy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I watch baseball from time to time and I know about the fundamentals having played some. I owned 
 MLB2k5 on x box and I was impressed but some things had to be fixed, I didn't own 2k6 but I heard 
 it was pretty lackluster. But this years game is pretty darn impressive, despite some little nuances. 
 Graphics
  ------------
  The graphics are easily an candidate for best looking game of the year. Heck I'd probably put these 
 graphics up with Gears of War. This games graphics and presentation is phenomenal, forget the darn 
 ESPN license. 2KSports has really stepped it up this year. I mean the wind on players jerseys and 
 the shadows on the field and players is amazing. Nice camera angles and player models are beautiful. 
 The negative aspect of the graphics is the fact that players still clip each other from time to 
 time and little glitches here and there, but hey nothings perfect.
  
  Gameplay, Sound, &amp; A. I.
  -----------------------------
  The gameplay is tight!! It really 
 feels like a real baseball game. The atmosphere is really nice, with ppl talking and conversations 
 in the background and the crowd booing the away team. If you don't have a surround sound system 
 please get one, no excuse not to have one if u have a next gen system. The gameplay is not too 
 slow and boring, it seems to have the right speed to it. As far as the negative or room for improvement... the 
 A. I. needs a little more tweaking... I've seen some mistakes by the computer that shouldn't be made 
 unless its on retard mode. The announcing gets a little repetitive but I like it because it sounds 
 natural and unscripted. That's what I enjoy about the game. Features
  ------------
  The features are pretty much the same, a little bit better create-a-player mode. I kinda wish they'd 
 get creative and create a little street baseball feature or something... kinda like the NBA 2K series, 
 but hey let your imagination soar lol. Just a thought. The music to the games soundtrack is really 
 good this year. It really fits the games mood. Kudos to 2Ksports on that.
  
  Overall
  ----------
  This game is a winner. Of course there is room for improvement, but 2KSports has 
 done a pretty good job capturing the game of baseball like it truly is without adding gimmicks 
 to it. This is a pure baseball game for all Baseball fans alike. This game is definitely worth 
 the $60 dollars!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelerman1
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  this is a better game than last years but i guess thats not saying much, in some ways its much improved 
 but it others 2 k6 was even better, the improved -- the feiding is much better than last year but 
 that wouldn't take much being that last years feilding was broken -- my biggest complaint this year 
 is, its sometimes hard to see the ball, it does have a blue circled light but they should of used 
 red or orange so you could pick out the ball better, it seems the blue blends in too much with the 
 grass (or it could just be my eyes? anyone else have this problem?) i know when it does turn red, i 
 can see it better. the uniforms look a lot better, there is a lot of detail in them, they did a great 
 job on that. the throws look much better, they don't throw strange like in last years game. the 
 players look and act more like themselfs. the backward step ---whats up with the awful looking crowd? 
 last years crowds looked great ---thease crowds look like they came out of dead riseing-like a bunch 
 of zombies! there are way too many homeruns taken away by great catchs, i see that in the real game 
 maybe 4 or 5 times a year but in the game there are that many in one game. the base runners still 
 do stupid things, the last game i played i was ahead by 4 runs yet the computer tried to steal home 
 from third ,i was shocked to see the player just jogging towards home, talk about an easy out! all 
 in all it is a very fun game if you love baseball, you will love the game but there is still a lot 
 of room for improvement. they do need to change a lot next year. kinda feels like i'm driveing 
 the same car, only with a new paint job and a new set of tires but sad to say, its the same under 
 the hood, i hope to be able to get into that new sports car next year 2k hear me 2k? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jstevenys
Rating: 4.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  I can't believe how many people have given MLB2k7 such a high score.
  
  I loved this series on the Dreamcast and on the Xbox, and I would happily plug in either my Dreamcast 
 or my old Xbox to play one of them over this game any day of the week (save 2k6 which I didn't 
 buy because I had heard early on that 2k7 would be the first truly next-gen baseball title) .
  
  Hitting in MLB2k7 is frustrating at best, completely broken at worst, and in all ways absurd. 
 I started out on Pro because I have been playing the series for the better part of the past decade, 
 and was lucky if I would see more than three pitches per batter.
  
  Every pitch looks basically the same. Fastballs, changeups, sliders, curves; I can never tell the 
 difference in this year's version. Plus, the pitches come in so fast that you basically have to 
 decide to swing before the pitcher releases the ball.
  
  I know timing is a huge part of batting, but timing your swing correctly in MLB2k7 doesn't even 
 assure you of getting a hit.
  
  After the first game I played I had so much trouble stringing hits together to score runs that 
 I started watching the replay of every single swing to see how I could improve. I thought that 
 was kind of cool, because that's probably how Major League hitters approach their at-bats, too.
 
  
  What I found was that I had been timing my swings perfectly a majority of the time... and on the 
 replay IT WAS CLEAR TO SEE THE BALL PASSING RIGHT THROUGH THE BAT FROM EVERY ANGLE.
  
  This did not happen just once, but happens often. My only explanation for this is that hitting 
 in this game has nothing to do with individual skill, but instead has everything to do with players 
 only having a statistical chance of getting a hit which you're given by correctly timing the swing. 
 It seems that statistical chance is then increased slightly if you correctly guess where the pitcher 
 will be locating the pitch before he even begins his wind-up.
  
  How fun is that? Not fun at all. It is not fun to feel like my individual hitting performance in 
 this game will have no bearing whatsoever on the outcome.
  
  Pitching, on the other hand, is either far too easy or also completely broken. The most mediocre 
 of pitchers (Carlos Silva of the Twins, for example) can routinely strike batters out and pitch 
 a complete game. Yet when you bump up the difficultly, the best of pitchers (Johan Santana, for 
 example) will strike out ten batters in a game, yet give up an average of three home runs. At any 
 difficulty above easy, ERAs skyrocket. Even when you throw a pitch well out of the zone, that no 
 hitter in his right mind would even swing at, some has-been or never-will-be batter will find a 
 way to knock it out of the park.
  
  There is nothing worse, or less realistic, than for a pitcher to be owning the other team half 
 the time only to be blown out of the water the other half of the time.
  
  The game, for the most part, looks fantastic. Sadly, though, you still see players running straight 
 through each other, and controlling players on defense for routine ground balls elicits more groans 
 than cheers.
  
  Players don't exactly stop on a dime. They seem to lazily wander around the field, take lackadaisical 
 turns to the ball, and commit more errors in a game than you would normally see in a week. Not 
 every infield in the majors regularly gives a defensive performance like the Tigers' pitching staff 
 in this past World Series... but you wouldn't know it from playing MLB2k7.
  
  I have not been this disappointed with a game in years. Baseball video games just took a big step 
 backwards. Save yourself some money and pain and don't buy this game.
  
  -- In response to remarks about never having played baseball at a serious level, I played on the 
 High School team when I was in Junior High. That's not saying much, because my Junior High / High 
 School was a small school. Nonetheless, I've seen fastballs in the high eighties, and I've seen 
 curves in the seventies. You can tell the difference between the two in real life. They don't look 
 as virtually identical as they do in MLB2k7.
  
  I'm not complaining that the game is too hard. I think the game is either very hard or very easy. 
 I know you can adjust the difficulty to your taste, but with so many options to choose from I find 
 that idea to be a little repulsive. Furthermore, the relative difficulty or ease of playing this 
 game does not alter what I perceive to be fundamental flaws in the gameplay mechanics, as described 
 above.
  
  I love baseball, and in spite of my bad review I'm still playing this game. It looks really good 
 and it will keep me occupied until the regular season starts. But as soon as April 2nd arrives 
 I can't see myself having any desire to play this game again. -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loogs
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 17, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that baseball and video games are my life. So I promise you that this 
 is a very thought out and accurate review. This is a very good game with some problems, but your 
 overall experience should be a good one especially if youre a fan of baseball and baseball video 
 games. Ill start with the graphics, which in my opinion are awesome. Im playing on a brand new 
 50-inch plasma with component cables and the colors really pop out. Most of the player models that 
 I saw were spot on and looked great. Some looked not so good but not terrible. Im a met fan so 
 I use them of course. David Wright, Jose Reyes, Beltran, Delgado all look great. They have their 
 mannerisms and batting stances all accurately. The uniforms look great and the detail is amazing. 
 You will not be disappointed with the way the game looks at all. I created a player of myself in 
 which you have plenty of options, all though I would have like to have seen more options especially 
 for the face. My first and last name are on the list which is a nice bonus to hear your name called 
 by the pa announcer and the announcers will call you by your last name. I only played in a couple 
 of stadiums but they look great. The fans look dumb but that doesnt bother me. They fixed one 
 of the biggest problems from last years game, which were the animations. No more weird throws. 
 The only issue I have is the computer sometimes doesnt know the right situation to use the right 
 animation. For instance, a very slow runner hit a bullet up the middle that Jose Reyes got to quickly, 
 he had all the time in the world to throw out the runner but he chose to rush the throw and make 
 a really awkward looking throw to first. You will notice that a lot. Unless im doing something 
 wrong. I havent figured that out yet.
  
  That leads me to the part that most baseball video games drop the ball, pun intended, fielding. 
 The fielding is the worst part of this game. Now thats not to say thats its terrible, its just 
 not very fluid. You have to work hard to make the fielding work for you and it shouldnt be like 
 that. The fielding is just as important as the batting and pitching interface and they need to 
 put more energy into making that part great. Also what in the world is with the robbing of homeruns? 
 I see an average of three unbelievable homerun robberies per game, PER GAME, are you kidding me. 
 Youd be lucky to see three catches like that a YEAR. Its like the owner of 2k sports had nothing 
 to do with this game except for that. He told the developers to go ahead and make the game they 
 want but put in one stipulation and told them that his 4 year old son loves it when a player robs 
 a homerun so they had to put that in their and have it come up in every game played at least three 
 times otherwise they would all be fired. It looks nice the first time you see it but come on, give 
 me a break.
  
  Now the batting interface. Wow did they nail this. Hitting is so much fun and its not hard to do. 
 Try to guess where the pitch will be, if youre right you get a little bonus, if not, good luck. 
 The swing animations finally look great. The only gripe I have with this is that for some reason 
 the contact between the bat and the ball does not always result in a realistic outcome. For example. 
 I hit a home run and I could tell that something didnt look right, so I checked the replay in 
 slo-mo to see that the ball had made contact with the bat down by the handle really close to the 
 hands. Now knowing baseball theres no doubt in my mind that in real life that ball would have 
 broken that bat resulting in a weak ground out, but here the ball traveled 411 feet and it was 
 pulled. Very very unrealistic. Im not sure how they allowed that to happen but they need to fix 
 that next year. There are some other strange things that youll encounter while batting, but youll 
 just have to see for yourself and figure out which ones bother you and which ones you can deal 
 with. Overall the batting is lots of fun and very well done.
  
  The best part of the game is the pitching interface. This is the reason youll want to play this 
 game. It is awesome. The inside edge is a fantastic idea that works great. If you dont own an 
 inside edge report the pitcher will make suggestions for you. I dont know what took them so long 
 to put that in a video game it is a great option. Two problems from last year that they fixed and 
 are just about perfect are, 1. The pitchers delivery is accurate as far as how much time he spends 
 in the windup and stretch. And 2. The ball travels to the plate a t a very realistic perceived 
 speed. You will enjoy this part a lot especially when you get into high-pressure situations. Great 
 job on this one 2k.
  
  The audio is not good at all. The announcers repeat themselves way too often. The stadium music 
 is not realistic or true to their real life counterparts. The crack of the bat hitting the ball 
 is way to exaggerated. The pitching does sound good but thats it.
  
  The menus are done nice.
  Franchise mode is great. I dont know about online but it seems to 
 be done well.
  
  Im waiting patiently for mlb 07 the show for ps3 but I think this is the game to beat. Usually 
 the show is a better game but this is next gen and no matter how many flaws this game has im not 
 going to play the show on ps2. This game just looks way too good. My expectations are very low 
 for mlb 07 the show on ps3 cause its their first try on the next gen systems and nobody seems to 
 be able to make a good game on the ps3 except for resistance, but it may be able to blow this game 
 away if they can combine their excellent baseball games with amazing graphics, well have to wait 
 and see but for now GO GET THIS GAME RIGHT NOW. its  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clockworkboy00
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  Most sports titles from year to year are nothing more than updated versions of the previous season's 
 game. Updated graphics, rosters, and the occasional gameplay mechanic update are usually the most 
 that you can hope for. That is, of course, unless the previous year's title was such an egregious 
 failure that the company is forced to overhaul the game to avoid losing their exclusive 3rd party 
 licensing rights. Such was the case with 2K's first attempt at exclusivity.
  
  Last year, MLB 2K6 was a depressing failure. Baseball fans flocked to pick up the first next-gen 
 version of America's favorite past time and were disappointed.
  
  This year, MLB 2K7 provides what 2K6 should have been. A number of other reviewers have dismissed 
 this game for that very reason. Not enough! has been the rallying cry. Should 2K be praised for 
 charging $120 over 2 years for what is essentially one working title? Well... no. But let's let 
 the past be the past and look at 2K7 for what it is. A good game of baseball.
  
  MLB 2K7 doesn't have all the bells and whistles. You can't play The World Baseball Classic with 
 Babe Ruth and Ted Williams. But you can play a very realistic season of baseball with gorgeous 
 graphics and some shockingly realistic player models and animations. You can't set up Dollar Dog 
 Night specials, but you can set average ticket prices and review fan buzz. You can't play AAA or 
 AA games with picture perfect models of your up-and-coming prospects, but you can play in any number 
 of online leagues and tournaments with a satisfying amount of customization.
  
  Many have lamented the minor graphical glitches and some creepy looking players lurking around 
 the ballpark. To those that complain, I ask them to show me a more realistic version of Johan Santana 
 or Albert Pujols in any other video game. Sure there are some funny things happening with blur 
 here and there and there is an annoying loading bar that pops up for a second or two occasionally 
 throughout a game, but I have yet to have any of these things detract from what is otherwise a 
 very tight game of baseball.
  
  There are certainly things to be improved upon. The fielding camera doesn't always give you the 
 best view of the action and ground balls can be difficult to eyeball. Cpu controlled opponents 
 are almost inhuman in their ability to rob home runs or make diving catches and some players on 
 my favorite team are underrated, but all things considered I'm happy to play the game as it is 
 or with a few slider adjustments for this season.
  
  I'd recommend the game to anyone interested in a good baseball simulator that takes patience and 
 effort to master. If you're more interested in 500ft. home runs than you may want to wait for The 
 Bigs coming later this summer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayne70
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  Compare to last year game huge improvements with glitches and graphics and game play. They got 
 rid of some stuff, but really doesn't matter to hard core baseball players, this game is great. 
 They made the AI smarter which makes for better games. I am very impressed with all around game 
 and the best in the serious so far. The faces are pretty close to real and fielding is so much 
 better than last year game. I have spent about 10 hours on the game so far and really enjoy it. 
 2K keep producing great quality why go any where else when it come to sport games, way to go 2K7. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Okay, I need to start this by saying that MLB 2K6 was PATHETIC! At first it seemed okay but as 
 I played it more the bugs were everywhere and the cut corners were shown easily. I am happy to 
 report that MLB 2K7 is a HUGE step up from last years catastrophy!
  
  Gameplay: Solid solid solid! The players all move in very fluid motions and the hit stick is great! 
 Defense works very and is much better than last year. Also, base running is easy and the new presentation 
 of it makes it work great.
  
  Graphics: Sick sick sick! Some of the best graphics you will see especially in a sports game. The 
 players and jerseys look amazing and the stadium and fields are incredible! Also, the presentation 
 is awesome. The in-game stuff adds so much to the game it's crazy!
  
  Audio: Solid play by play. Easily the best announcers in a sports game period. Also, the players 
 sounds are great and the crowd is a real treat.
  
  Overall this could be the best baseball game of all time. It's easily the best baseball game since 
 MVP 05 (which many consider to be the best ever, including me) . If you have a 360 and like baseball, 
 you owe it to yourself to go pick this game up. You will not be dissappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VolcanoMan001
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 28, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  I know that I was not the only one that was let down by MLB 2k6 from last year. It was full of 
 bugs and glitches that it ruined the experience for me. I was left with tolerating it's existence 
 because there was no other choice. However, the wrongs of last year's MLB 2k6 has been put right 
 with MLB 2k7. The graphics are simply amazing and the presentation is solid. The players look so 
 life like, that if someone walks in on you playing the game it is a good posibility that they will 
 think they are watching live TV. It is hard to describe but 2K has paid attention to detail in 
 the graphical department and it puts any other baseball game you have ever played to shame. It 
 is a combination of photo realistic player models, cloth physics and presentation details which 
 make it stand out. Also, the frequent replays and highlights from earlier in the game are outstanding 
 to watch. I especially like how the hightlights of the entire game play upon end of the ball game. 
 There are other amazing little details like distance blur and details like some players wearing 
 sun glasses on sunny days. The cinematic sequences are also quite nicely done.
  
  The one fault with the graphics would have to the occasional choppy frame rates in some cinematic 
 sequences when the crowed and many of the players are in full view. Luckily though, this frame 
 rate drop does not occur when the ball is in play.
  
  The sound is also outstanding. You can hear the crowed make comments and heckle the players that 
 actually go a long way to making you feel like you are at a real game. A couple of times I have 
 hit a no doubter home run ball and heard someone in the crowed yell gone!!! . The announcers (John 
 Miller and Joe Morgan) are back and call the game extremely well, as they did before. There are 
 a few new additions to their vocabulary but overall I think they are the best announcers to date 
 in any sports title. That said, it is not completely perfect in the sound department. My one solitary 
 complaint, albeit small, is that when you do hit a homerun you do not hear stadium specific noises 
 such as the whistle of the train at Minute Maid park, for example. I minor nit pick for sure, but 
 it would be a nice addition one day.
  
  By far the biggest improvement is the player animations. It is a pure treat to watch the signature 
 movements of many of the game's great players and brings the game to life more than ever. I find 
 myself watching the cut scenes between at bats and watching the batters readjust themselves after 
 each pitch. The only bad part is that the animations are so well done that the actual game time 
 to play a 9 inning game is much longer than before because you will find yourself actaully watching 
 the game instead of rushing it along to its conclusion. Of course you can always press A between 
 pitches and skip the entire post pitch, post at bat routines as well as skip all the replays if 
 you wanted to. But who would want to miss out so much?
  
  The user interface, specifically the main menus, are somewhat of a hit or miss affair. They are 
 definately clear and concise but they are getting somewhat dated as they have not been changed 
 for the past several years. The menus are perfectly functional though and being that the actual 
 substance of the game (the playing of baseball) is perfectly executed, it is still worth mentioning 
 this minor complaint none the less. That said, I do like the change in the menu in the GM mode. 
 It it now better organized and much clearer to understand. It appears like a top menu bar of a 
 computer program, presumably on the GM's desk.
  
  MLB 2k7 is an outstanding game and is well worth the money. It is not completely flawless as it 
 does have room for improvement, but MLB 2k7 is quite possibly the greatest baseball game ever made 
 thus far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicalmac
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  I played 2k6 almost daily after getting it, for a long time. It wasn't the best baseball sim I've 
 ever played, but it worked for me. When I started hearing about 2k7, I got excited, and had high 
 hopes it would fix some of the more annoying problems in 2k6.
  
  Well, did it? The short answer is, Yes .
  
  Player movements are now responsive! It doesn't 
 take an age to change what direction you're running in. Tired of running into the wall? I've been 
 playing for a long time, and have yet to run into any walls. You can dive and make plays anytime, 
 rather than when you get prompted on screen. You don't have to hold the button to throw it hard, 
 it's more important how you're moving (or not moving) that really effects how your player throws 
 the ball. Very cool.
  
  Batting has changed in a few important ways, as well as fielding (as described above) . The default 
 camera angle is zoomed in more than 2k6, and feels more immersive. There are three types of swings 
 now you can perform with the swing stick. There is a power swing, an even swing, and a defensive 
 swing (for those 0-2 counts) . Pitching has also improved. The catcher moves around quite a bit, 
 even if you don't have the Inside Edge on the batter, and he's responsive to your commands as well. 
 Much quicker.
  
  Presentation. It's actually quite stunning. At times, you will truly think it looks like a real 
 game of baseball. Because of the seamless presentation mixed with the excellent graphics, you're 
 looking at a great experience. On breezy days, the players uniform will blow in the wind. The uniforms 
 aren't stuck to the player's body, and it is a spectacular effect.
  
  I could go on forever, but basically, this is a great baseball game that fixes most problems in 
 the old version. I don't want to say ALL problems, but I can't think of any it didn't off the top 
 of my head. I highly recommend it.
  
  RSB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewhawk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  Last year I was docked points for giving a bad review for MLB 2K6. I was very disappointed in last 
 years game, however, the new installment not only fixes most problems but totally rebuilds them 
 from the ground up. This is the most fun I've had playing a baseball game since the old World Series 
 Baseball. First lets get the problems with the game out of the way. There are a few minor graphical 
 clipping issues as well as very unrealistic looking fans. There are also a lot of options that 
 got pulled from this years game because of the new build such as the World Baseball Classic and 
 very limited GM options. Also, some of the good player still look generic. Now lets get to the 
 good stuff. First off, the graphics are absolutely gorgeous. Player detail is amazingly lifelike. 
 The lighting in this game is also superb as are the ballparks. The gameplay has also received a 
 major upgrade and is much more suited to the game of baseball. Just watching a replay of a center 
 fielder making a running catch on the warning track and seeing him put his hands against the fence 
 is truly amazing. Base running is also much improved. I also really enjoy the new clutter free 
 menu system which is leaps and bounds better than previous years. The announcing is once again 
 top notch and is seamlessly integrated into the action. I very glad that Kush games decided to 
 give this game an overhaul from last year. It was sorely needed ,and now I should be playing this 
 game well into October. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  If you were a fan of MLB 2k6, you already have a great reference for this year's installment. It 
 plays very similar as far as pitching and hitting, but this game just seems more polished and thought 
 out.
  
  The first major difference I noticed came graphically. This game has some of the most accurate 
 player models I've ever seen. I chose the Detroit Tigers (I'm from Michigan) and when I saw how 
 close Kenny Rogers' character looked to his actual likeness I knew I was in for a treat. Even the 
 coaching staff looks like their real-life counterparts. Each stadium I've played in thus far looks 
 like the real thing with well manicured turf, fireworks displays after a long shot and it even 
 has fans that heckle you on a road game. One of the best aspects of this game to me is the total 
 control you get to shift your defenses, pinch hit, pinch run, sign free agents, trade players, 
 and new this year, even keep track of the franchise's bottom line by setting ticket prices and 
 sharing TV revenue, sort of like what Madden allows in GM mode, but not quite that deep. A great 
 start, but I'd love to see that expand to controlling food, advertising, merchandise and anything 
 else financial. Either way, what they do allow you to control in this year's version is enough 
 to add value to your game experience. Achievements are spread out a little better this year as 
 opposed to having 5 total achievements worth 2-300 points each. While I liked finally getting the 
 200 points in 2k6 for the 15 strikeouts, I like the fact that there are more things to get points 
 for this year, it makes the replay value higher, at least for me. I've had a few frustrating moments 
 in the field as far as your guys over-running ground balls or dropping deep fly balls, but that 
 should get better as I improve. I've also still not mastered base running, which can get frustrating 
 with more than one man on base, but that should get better with practice as well.
  
  Great sound, amazing graphics, smooth gameplay, deep franchise mode, Home Run Derby and online 
 play make this game $60 well spent. PLAY  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howard23
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  WOW 2k Sports has done it with this one. I have been waiting for this game for a long time. Last 
 year's game left a lot to be desired in player models and fielding. Even with those short coming, 
 it was truly a great baseball game and you could tell the solid foundation was there. Well MLB 
 2K7 has grabbed the baton and taken off in a full sprint. The immediate change is in graphics and 
 player models. They are nothing short of amazing. All the batting stances so far are on point. 
 and I am happy to say that each player looks like themselves. A big sore spot for me in 2K6 was 
 the fielding. Well it seems that my prayers have been answered. While fielding take a little getting 
 used to, it is much better. No more random running away from the ball. Another upgrade is the realism 
 of throwing from the outfield. No more getting hosed at the plate from fhe warning track by Johnny 
 Damon. I have not played this long enough to say it is perfect, but it is most certainly the best 
 baseball game to date. Thank you 2K Sports. Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 28, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  Graphics are very impressive, sound is pretty darn good, game-play is right where last years should 
 have been. Over-all this is an excellent choice for a purchase... due to the game even if you don't 
 like baseball will get you into it. There are a few things that keep this game from a perfect score. 
 Base funning is still taking time to get used to, the outfielders move a little strange if you 
 rush in for a catch. The game is very well set-up and you will be having fun before you know it. 
 I was not into last years due to boring sounds, visuals and controls. They have made a game that 
 should make 2K a household name in sports... other than basketball. Online with the exceptions of 
 a few hick-ups in my connection... it is very solid and lag for pitching doesn't effect it as much 
 as you would think. This is one of the few cases I have to lean on the buy it side..... game has 
 much replay value in my opinion...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sands_gunit
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 28, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  Im one of the only people that actually liked Last years game, mainly because of the realistic 
 pitching and sim style during GM modes. (Ever notice that in EA games, the most unlikely teams 
 make the playoffs?)
  
  Anyways 2K7 blows it out of the water in lots of different ways.
  
  Batting-
  If you ever played MVP 05 (and most people swear by it) than the hitting angle 
 will be right up your alley, since its pretty much identical. The cam is pretty much right on the 
 catchers helmet, and you can either use the swing stick or button batting. I turned on the Pitch 
 Zoom cam, so the hitting angle starts out more from the umpires stance, than as the pitcher winds 
 up it zooms right into the Strike Zone, and it looks as realistic as Ive seen. I suggest you use 
 the option too.
  
  Baserunning-
  More or less the same as last years, except no more mashing buttons to make the guys run faster.
 
  
  Pitching-
  The true heart of the game. Single player pitching is a gem, and wasnt changed too much from last 
 years. As with everything else this year, the graphics are better, and the catcher now calls pitches 
 for every pitch (and you can shake him off and throw what you want) . The goal of pitching is to 
 move the icon to where you want it, hold the button for the pitch you want, and the yellow circle 
 begins to grow. The larger you let the circle grow, the more velocity it will have, and the more 
 stamina you will lose. When the circle gets as big as you want it too, let the button go and it 
 will shrink, and you have to re-hit the button when it gets back to the circles starting size (thats 
 for the accuracy)
  
  Fielding-
  Although the fielding isnt as bad as last years, it didnt get much improvement. The players run 
 smoothly enough, but the camera angle needs to be a little higher up, in my opinion. Atmosphere-
 
  Awesome. Playing as the Sox in Yankee Stadium you'll hear the Yankee Roll call, and lots of graphical 
 nuggets like birds, blimps and stadium signs do a good job of bringing the game to life. Lots of 
 awesome replays and cutscenes keep the game fun. The crowd volume could have used a bit more. When 
 its the top of the ninth and theres two outs in a one run game, Fenway is usually jumping. This 
 game, not so much even with the crowd volume up.
  
  Final-
  Graphics= Awesome, Gameplay=Improved, Fun factor= Through the roof.
  Time will tell how the Dynasty/GM 
 modes are, I havent gotten into them yet. But its all your going to get on 360 this year, and its 
 def worth it. Great Baseball game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keatonmc
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 28, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  This game really is worth $60. The impressive motion captures and animations are what really draws 
 you in and makes you breathe a sigh of relief! ~ New game play animations are what really brings 
 home the bacon so to speak. ~ Of course the graphics are out of this world! Every little detail 
 on the not so popular players are even in the game!
  
  ~ The stadium home run celebrations are sweet. I flipped when I saw Bernie Brewer sliding down 
 the slide in Miller Park.
  
  ~ The rosters are great, and the bug from last year seems to have been fixed.
  
  ~ Create-a-player 
 gives you way more options this year. So many new accessories to chose from, and different ways 
 to wear the uniform!
  
  In all this game is a MAJOR LEAGUE improvement!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WOUslimshady
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 28, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  After purchasing MLB 2K6 last year and playing it over and over I realized that this was not even 
 comparable to MVP 2005 or any other previous generation game in the past. That game was lacking 
 everything, and that is no overexaggeration! I was skepticle buying this game, but the demo told 
 me a lot. From the demo I saw that the graphics were enhanced so much that I knew this was a different 
 game. I bought the retail version and played a few games after setting up a franchise with the 
 Atlanta Braves. Never did I get so exicted to see actual player models of their whole roster! Their 
 swings, stances, manarisms, everything were nearly identical! The gameplay part is a lot more smooth 
 for the most part. The baserunning is the biggest different that I have seen. The pitching is pretty 
 much the same, as well as, the batting (a good thing in my book) . The fielding is the only thing 
 I am really iffy about. It is still a little corky when it comes to running or diving after a ball. 
 I still think there is much to be improved on there. The throwing is the same, but the outfielder's 
 arms do not throw 90 mph stikes while throwing someone out at the plate everytime like in 2K6. 
 I would like to see a change in the throwing mechanics. I would like to see it change to that of 
 the MVP '05 throwing mechanics; where you hold down the button to throw harder or tap it to throw 
 it soft. Overall I am very impressed with this game. I am happy they made a change from last year's 
 game. I think they still have a lot to do as far as gameplay and maybe change up the commentation 
 a bit. Give 2K about 2 or 3 years and it will be the best sports game ever! (assuming they make 
 some upgraded changes) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Infidelcastro
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 27, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game tonight, and I'm so jazzed about it. One word to describe this game.... WOW. 
 The game is basically last years, with updated rosters, polished graphics, CGI moments that capture 
 the feel of a real ball game, better gameplay and more in depth stats.
  
  When first going into it, I looked through the rosters. I love to look at who's who as far as rookies 
 go. There are plenty of rookies here and former rookies such as Verlander, Barfield, Fielder, Weaver, 
 etc. But current rookies such as Matsuzaka are absent. I didn't do an extensive research, but I 
 noticed a few players missing. Going into Create a Player, this has got to be the most in depth 
 create a player I have ever seen. They paid special attention at what the pro's wear these days 
 from uniform fit, cap in helmet, helmet style, pine tar on bats, stirrups, ankle braces, etc. It 
 goes on and on and on, you'll spend a good 30 minutes creating a player. Going into a game, Presentation 
 is alright. Looks like last years, but when it goes inside the stadium, awesome. Looks as if you 
 are watching a real baseball game. Batters who have signature moves, pull it off pre-bat and with 
 homeruns. You'll see David Ortiz with the 1 arms swing back, Garciaparra constantly touching the 
 brim of his hat, etc. The fans will interact with players too such as heckling them and cheering 
 them on. There's a variety of that. Gameplay itself is awesome. The animation/moves of players 
 is near accurate. It doesn't play like a video game. It plays like a REAL BASEBALL GAME. Throw 
 a ground out with no on, and 1st base will play toss with the infield. Pitchers react to game time 
 situations. Batting and pitching is basically the same. But it's the polished animation behind 
 it all that makes it even better.
  
  I don't know what else to say. This is the game for baseball fans. Baseball fans, you will regret 
 it if you don't pick this one up. It's probably the best I've played yet. I pretty much guarantee 
 you'll enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilburne723
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so maybe I'm going a little overboard with the title, but come on, madden, fifa, it just 
 feels like cheap, good looking ports of ps2 games have been thrown onto the 360 just to be pretty 
 and play okay. This isn't the case.
  
  So many fixes over last year I'll just go right to what 2k7 does best.
  
  Hitting:
  
  The 
 new hitting options are great. You have the option to use classic hitting which is simply hitting 
 A when the pitch approaches and using the joystick to aim the pitch. But where the hitting really 
 takes off is in the Swing Stick mode. With the Swing Stick, you pull the right stick back to take 
 your step and either let go for a normal power swing, or lunge the stick forward for a powerful 
 swing. You can also maneuver the right stick left or right to aim your swing. Great batting system, 
 feels natural and gives options to use classic or the new system. Although I'd love to see motion 
 sensing like what is found in the PS3 version, this is more than enough to satisfy my needs.
  
  Pitching:
  
  I like the pitching system as well. Your catcher often calls for a certain 
 pitch/location combo or you can position the catcher as you wish and throw the pitch you choose. 
 Once you've chosen what you'll throw, you hold down the pitch button (A, B, X, Y, RB) as targets 
 move away from the ball on screen. You then let go and the targets rush back in towards the ball 
 and press the button quickly as they collide with the ball. It takes a bit of practice to get it 
 perfect and it gets harder as the pitcher loses stamina. It feels very natural, however, and the 
 behind-the-pitcher view is fantastic.
  
  Fielding:
  
  I like the fielding system although, as with most sports games I find, I am often put in control 
 of someone I wouldn't have chosen as I'm running for a fly ball and such. One thing that I realy 
 like about the fielding, though, is the right stick control for diving, jumping, and wall climbing. 
 It feels really natural to hit the right stick in the direction you want to dive and it's so satisfying 
 when you lunge ten feet in any given direction to snatch a blast hit to the outfield.
  
  Base Running:
  
  It seems like base running has been a lost art in baseball games of the past. 
 This time around, this isnt the case. I thought that the baserunning would be kind of boring but 
 there are so many possibilities. You can use the typical baseball-game style of controlling runners 
 by using a button to make them advance, lead, or steal.... Or you could control them directly. You 
 can set your current batter to four different modes (something to the effect of dont swing, swing 
 at everything, bunt, and be selective) . Then you can directly control any one of the runners on 
 base. It's very fun to do, although I do enjoy batting...
  
  Franchise Mode:
  
  It's great... thats all you need to know. The franchise mode feels extremely deep and gives you 
 the option to do everything from set rosters to ticket prices. It's a blast to balance the budget 
 as well as the team. Good work 2K...
  
  Online Play:
  
  I've only played one game online as I chose to immediately dive into the Franchise Mode. The game 
 I did play was fun and pretty much what you'd expect. No lag, voice worked well. It was fun... I 
 lost... let's move on.
  
  Sound:
  
  The announcing is great. It feels natural and live. I like it a lot better than the typical announcing 
 found in sports games. I feel like it repeats a lot less (although there is obviously some repetition) . 
 There are also rowdy fans that scream at the away team's batters. (My favorite was when Coco Crisp 
 is at bat a fan screams Sure, you're crunchy in milk but YOU SUCK! It just makes you feel more 
 like a batter and less like you're playing the game on your couch eating cheetos. The soundtrack 
 is great too. A good alternative rock mix and fully customizable as to which songs you want to 
 play at certain events... (home runs, grand slams, 7th inning stretch, etc)
  
  Visuals:
  
  Perfect 10... that's all there is to it. The cinematics are amazing and hold up against any 
 sports game on the market. The way the jersey's and players move is perfect and all the little 
 things that make the players individuals feel like they have been put into the game. It just works... perfectly.
 
  
  Overall:
  
  The game is great. Plain and Simple... It has a good feel to it and It's just what I've been looking 
 for on the 360. Don't get me wrong, I love my FPS's but I needed a good sports game to balance 
 into the mix, something I'll be able to keep on playing. I can tell after 10 hours or so that this 
 is going to be that game. I recommend it Highly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_k3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I remember MLB 2k6 and it never had any shock value to it. It was a good game because there wasnt 
 a lot to choose from. In a way we were forced to play it. The one thing about baseball is that 
 everyone can show off their individuality. The authenticity of each player can be known and its 
 great. The pitching and batting are similar to 2k6 version, but there have been some changes done. 
 The defense is also a little different. The game is definitely one of the best baseball games that 
 I have played. It is fun and exciting. The online play is also great. I haven't joined a league 
 but the concept is pretty amazing. The game is also a little more fast paced compared to 2k6. If 
 you are a baseball lover, you absolutely have to get this game. If you don't know much about baseball, 
 but want to know, you have to get this game. I totally recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willam13_basic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are beautiful! When it's windy the players uniform even move. The fields 
 reaction is quick and realistic. All the players have very unique moves at the plate. I didn't 
 really get into last years online play (because there wasn't any acheivements) but this years game 
 I have and it is awesome. The camera angles are all different, the ball always goes someplace different 
 and not just to the same outfielder every hit. EXCELLENT! Well done 2k Sports, quite an improvement. 
 Can't wait for new modes next year now that you've perfected gameplay &amp; visuals. The long term 
 value of this game is perfect due to season, franchise &amp; GM mode. All of those modes have at 
 least a full season of baseball and it will be different each time! GO TIGERS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadyjapes45
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I feel as if there are tons of things to do in this game and all of the stats are great, but the 
 graphics could be so much better. there is about a 3 hour learning curve and as soon as you think 
 that you have mastered the batting stick, someone throws a 15K game against you, its frustrating. 
 of course, unless ur playing ur moron friends, don't expect to unlock any of the lame achievements 
 for a while. It takes some getting used to.....
  
  graphics-7
  sound-8
  gameplay-9
  realism?-7
  interface-10
  
  pros- its not 2k6
  cons- steep learning curve, annoying camera 
 angles, graphics still look ehh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfacek
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Overall MLB 2K7 is very good. The graphics and representation are good and it has a lot to do. 
 I am dissapointed about the lack of the minor leagues importance in franchise modes and GM career 
 modes. The games are really fun but hard to master. Some minor framerate problems in cut scenes 
 so it really isn't anything to get hung up on. The franchise mode is well done and the MLB buzz 
 feature is a fun add. It is kind of like a mini newspaper reporting on trades, player performances, 
 and just about anything in the right hand corner of the main franchise, season, and GM career mode 
 menues. All the bugs from the last game have been fixed and it's been tweaked here and there.
 
  
  Gameplay- 9, it is fun and challenging.
  
  Graphics- 10, they look crisp and clean. Players faces look good and uniforms look great.
  
 
  Sound- 9, the commentators are insightful and not annoying, music is also very good.
  
  Value- 8, it has a lot of modes and features to keep you busy but the lack of a really important 
 minor league system is upsetting. (If you really aren't into the minors then it is about a 9)
 
  
  My tilt- 10, I love this game, it really is great and you should give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mugen76
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 27, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Remember back in 1991 when the Braves and Twins both pulled worst to first jobs to make the World 
 Series? Of course you do. Now, do we all remember that jumbled, glitchy mess that was MLB 2K6? 
 Those of us who played it know about it, and word of mouth had me avoiding it like the plague. 
 Now, with the dawn of a new season comes a new MLB 2K game, and this one is a whole heckuva lot 
 better than 2K6. However, the game is not quite perfect, as we shall see.
  
  The first thing you'll marvel over is the much-upgraded presentation. The graphics in 2K6 looked 
 distinctly last-gen, and there were a ton of graphical glitches with players clipping through walls 
 and into the crowd to make catches in foul ground and other places, not to mention the players 
 hardly looking like their real-life counterparts. People will be happy to see that the graphics 
 engine has been redone from the ground up, and every player has their own distinct look, from CC 
 Sabathia and David Wells' beer bellies, to the lankiness of Derek Jeter, to the sheer scrawniness 
 of Dustin Pedroia (Red Sox fans know who this guy is) . The play-by-play still gets repetitive too 
 quickly, but it's easier to stomach because Jon Miller and Joe Morgan are better than ever. Good 
 thing they didn't make the commentary too authentic, because Miller and Morgan (especially Morgan) 
 would sound like total idiots like they do on ESPN. Hey, it's better than having Tim McCarver in 
 the booth *shudders*.
  
  So, the presentation quality has been ramped up, but how about the various gameplay mechanics? 
 The swing stick comes back for its sophomore season after a tough rookie year which saw all sorts 
 of bugs bring it down. The swing stick makes use of the right stick for your swing. To swing, you 
 pull back on the stick to step. From there, there are a few options open to you. You can either 
 let go of the stick for contact, or you can flick it forward to swing for the fences. Another option 
 is to click the stick to bunt, or click it late for a drag bunt. You can also flick the stick forward 
 from its idle position to make a defensive swing to foul off a pitch. The system is intuitive, 
 but very tough to master. At first, you'll have offensive power outages, so be prepared to play 
 some small ball and win (or lose) games by scores of 2-1, 1-0, and a lot of low-scoring extra-inning 
 affairs. And if the Swing Stick doesn't suit your fancy, you can always go back to pressing a button 
 to swing.
  
  Other features that you need to learn aside from hitting are the BaseBurner mode, where you can 
 control a baserunner and have him manually steal a base. You can also do things like put the hit-and-run 
 on, and direct a sacrifice bunt as well. The only weak link is fielding. Too often you find yourself 
 wondering who should get to the ball on a grounder up the middle, and even on the easy ones, it's 
 too easy to make a wild off-balance throw that ends up costing you an out.
  
  These faults are minor, though, when you put the superb pitching interface into control. The pitching 
 is a simple 2-click scheme where you select your pitch after you get the signs from your catcher, 
 then you try to be as accurate as possible, with the brackets closing in on the ball. The closer 
 you get to the ball icon, the better the pitch will be.
  
  The game is deep, with a good amount of modes to play, including Franchise, GM, Online, and others. 
 The new mode this year is a GM mode where you control everything about the team. Think of Madden's 
 Owner mode, where you control ticket prices, signing free agents, the like. This, however, doesn't 
 add anything new.
  
  At the end of the day, MLB 2K7 does an almost complete 180 from its previous incarnation on the 
 Xbox 360. However, the steep learning curve of the Swing Stick, lack of interesting unlockables, 
 certain fielding problems, and a lack of innovation on some modes keep the score from being perfect. 
 However, the stat tracking is great, and the Inside Edge feature is phenomenal, especially if you 
 need to get the dirt on some pitchers or good hitters.
  
  MLB 2K7 gets 4 Big Papi bottom of the 9th homers out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadFinger118
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  The game has made a lot of improvments since its last game MLB 2K6. The graphics bring out wat 
 the Xbox 360 can really do. 2k6 was a major disappointment but with this newest edition it will 
 make 2k sports look good. You can almost hear every detail that is in the game. The addition of 
 inside the edge was a great one. You are able to pick the scouting report of the players that you 
 want to know about before the game. Also payoff pitch is more better in 2k7. when u are about to 
 make your payoff pitch the ai will automatically, show you the type of pitch that you should use 
 and where to position the ball. In conclusion 2k7 is a game that is a must buy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaruja77
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 27, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Excellent gameplay with good graphics, but not extraordinary due to the cheesy fans. Comparable 
 graphics to all the 2k7 games. The smoothness and flow of 2k games can be lacking at times, and 
 this one has similar motion slowdown issues, just enough to be annoying but not enough to detract 
 from the gameplay. Got over it quickly. I heard all the bad reviews about 2k6, so never played 
 it, but took a chance with this one and am VERY satisfied! I've now only paid FULL retail price 
 for 2 games - GOW and MLB 2k7. 2 for 2 baby! I've ebay'd all the others ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bighou
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I am somewhat disappointed in this game. From what I heard this was supposed to be the greatest 
 baseball game since sliced bread. Instead it just sliced half the money out of my wallet. I will 
 admit, it looks very good, Graphics and highlights are a 10+, but that's it with this game. This 
 game is a like the usual dumb blond, looks good on the outside but always missing the key ingrediants 
 to be special. Two key things I noticed that kept this game from being a 10. WHERE THE HELL IS 
 BEHIND THE PITCHER VIEW WHENT HITTING!!! WHO SAID TAKE THAT OUT!!! I live for true baseball, not 
 once have I ever turned on the television and viewed a baseball game from the catchers mask. Get 
 that **** outta here or at least let me bat with a view behind the pitcher. Last but not least, 
 WHERE IN THE HELL IS THE BALL GOING WHEN YOU HIT IT. I at least like to whatch the ball off the 
 bat to know where it is going. WHen you hit the ball, you are basically preying that you hit it 
 good, you don't know for sure until the screen goes in the direction of the ball. Oh yeah, one 
 more thing, WHY IS THE BALL SO DAMN SMALL!!!! It looks like I'm playing with an asprin pill out 
 there. All they had to do is put the behind the pitcher back in for batting, make the players a 
 little smaller so I can see where the ball is going when I hit it, and make the ball bigger. Is 
 that so hard to ask far. This game really might get returned. If 2k6 didn't have so many bugs in 
 it, it actually might've been a better game.... Nah!!!! This game looks good but key things throw 
 it off. MVP 05 still holds the title for best baseball game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrycee
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  To start off, This game is much better than last years MLB2k6. The graphics
  of the whole game is very nice. But!!! I think the gameplay should still be better. Only thing im 
 having a hard time with is seeing were the hell the
  baseball is being hit .if a grounder is being hit ,where is the damn ball, or
  if its hit in the 
 sky when will the fricken ball come down ??? .Will thats my
  only complained. I also think hiting isnt easy as last years, but im getting there.. I think If MVP 
 came out it still would of been the best baseball video
  game of all time , Im not throwing salt on this game but it still needs help in areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johndr
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This game graphics in my mind is the best graphics on the 360 period.... sure gears of war is good 
 but what good does it does if u can't explore the environment that is presented far away lol. Players 
 faces are right on, batting stances, animations and what the franchise presents u with... the grass 
 is the best i seen on any harwood or sport .sure u would like to break the controller and even 
 the game from time to time but then again baseball games are all difficult so yea buy the gm since 
 we don't have Mlb the show on the 360 damn sony 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beesters
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 27, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I was waiting for this game to come out since it was first talked about, and I am sure glad 
 that I have waited for this game. ITS AWESOME!!! 2K put all of those skeptics out there to SHAME! 
 Smooth graphics, great overlays, awesome music from Nirvana, 311 and MORE!!! Its a must buy. It 
 has to be a pressure burner for EA sports, cause 2k has really prove themselves this series. GREAT 
 GAME!! Each player has their own style. GM Mode is great, you can even set the ticket prices for 
 your team like they did in the 05 Madden!! Its turning out to be an instant classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonymac_1220
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 27, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This is much better than last year's 2k6 . The graphics are the best I have seen in a sports game 
 and are near the top out of all games. The game has the most realistic look, sometimes it almost 
 feels like you're at Fenway. The character models are beautiful and seem to have a realistic feel 
 to them for the most part. The interface for Franchise mode has been updated and the news broadcasts 
 for around-the-league activity is a very cool new feature. There is already an updated roster for 
 you to download and it seems like a well rounded game. But... It has a lot of drawbacks just in 
 the hour or so I have played it. First off, frame rate issues plague the game. It seems almost 
 every time I throw the ball from an outfielder to the infield I experience hitching. The mechanics 
 of fielders is where this game goes wrong. You don't feel like you're controlling the player, it 
 feels like you're steering the player in the right direction. For example I have a routine ground 
 ball hit to the 3rd base side of my 3rd base men. I move the left stick to the left and he barely 
 reacts, right as the ball is about to go past him he quickly backhands it and makes one of those, 
 cross the body throws and just barely gets the batter out. So I get a very similar ball hit to 
 me and I hammer on the left stick he does the same thing as last time with not reacting to the 
 ball and at the last second runs as fast as he can right by the ball. I can already see the announcers 
 getting mixed up, it's not game breaking but semi-annoying. I hit a batter and my pitcher gets 
 ejected then I hit another with a different pitch and the commentator says, Woah! That is the second 
 batter he has hit this inning, he better watch out! While thats not the most annoying of things 
 I noticed it. I did a fantasy draft, started a game and they made references to papi and others, 
 while not big I still noticed it.
  
  All of these things have come in an hour or so of play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IllReadIt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  First off, I didn't play last years rendition because I heard the fielding sucked and you had to 
 get a patch online, which I wasn't hooked up to XBOX Live yet, so I waited until this year. I have 
 always been a 2K Sports fan, although MVP had it's niceties also, I always thought if they got 
 together in any sport game, the game would be surperfluous.
  
  I won't go through all the controls, although I will mention, they are spot on, smooth, concise, 
 and some new innovations make this game rock.
  
  Thje gameplay is very smooth, the graphics are definitely next-gen (I heard last year's weren't) 
 and I find myself enjoying this game very very much, yelling an occassional this is baseball in 
 every game I play. I am getting used to the new swing bat control, it is cool, but I'm not sure 
 on the placing the ball yet, finding that exact spot to put the hurt, but it will come in time 
 I'm sure. The pitching is good too, working pitch strength, then vertical and horizontal placement 
 keeps finding the zone an effort of concentration (like in real baseball) , and not just hitting 
 a button and getting it anytime you want, kudos for that realistic touch. The broadcasting is the 
 same as I heard two years ago, but that is okay, I have heard a lot worse. The replays, cut scenes, 
 inning hightlights are done well, and not seeing the TV ESPN Logo, is the only indication at quick 
 glance that this is a video game and not the real thing. Franchise mode I can't judge, because 
 I am not a Franchise Gamer, I could care a less if it is even in a game, so you will have to decide 
 that area out on your own.
  
  The only complaint I find at this time is the Homerun Derby, they don't have the pitcher fence 
 guards up, and the pitcher just throws a stream of pitches like a junky downing pills, it's like 
 slow down dude, let me adjust my cup, what's the hurry? , it for me it too fast paced, otherwise 
 than that, this game takes me to the ballgame , and I assure you, it will take you there too : 
 ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griffey03Jr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 27, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I think that this is a great game. Although it is taking me some time to get used to the controls, 
 i still think the graphics are great and the gameplay is great. Everyone should be happy with this 
 purchase. The players move smoothly and the swing stick is interesting. I have yet to see an injury, 
 but i hear they are great, and the replays are awesome. I like the signature style. Even Ken Griffey 
 has his own batting stance, which was missing from most of the earlier baseball games. Im not sure 
 of all the controls yet so i cant give any feedback on that. Good luck, go reds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bennyd081
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Compared to last year's rendition, this is a much improved game accross the board. From Graphics, 
 Sound, and the little details, this game is fantastic! I also love the signature styles. The gameplay 
 is very similar to last year's edition, but that's ok. I like the overall mechanics of last year's 
 game. Great for the hardcore baseball fan. A definite must have. The Xbox live part of the game 
 is great too! 2k really captured the little nuances of the game of baseball. From the batter step-outs 
 to the uniforms, to batting stances and pitcher deliveries. Can't wait for 2k8!
  
  Keep up the great work 2kSports! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bartendermlb
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 27, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This year is a light year ahead of last year's 2k6. Yet despite being much better than its predecessor 
 it does have a few flaws. While the 2k team definitely spent the last year working hard at polishing 
 the game and adding touches it could still use just a little work on the defensive end. I applaud 
 the new camera angles which places you closer to the action, however some of the player's movements 
 in fielding particularly fly balls and trying to get it just right sometimes the players jerk... however 
 this is definitely something that can be overlooked. Another small things is several times a ball 
 up the middle my 2nd basemen moved slowly so i kept holding the analog stick then he darted about 
 the time ball goes by them... not perfect field but much better and realistic. That being said the 
 graphics are amazing and look much better on the 360 version the colors are better, lighting of 
 course benefits from the 360's capabilities. The hitting has been tweaked to make it more difficult 
 and realistic I'm not bombing 10 homers a game on legend like I was on 2k6. Adding signature style 
 was the best thing they added in this year's version almost every major player acts and reacts 
 just like their real-life counterpart. Also being a hardcore baseball fan the little touches 2k 
 games added, such as when pitchers are on the bases they were their jackets, as well on cold days 
 players and coaches on the bench wear theirs, umpire introductions, bat boys, much better music 
 with names like sublime, 311, nirvana, new animations in between pitches and swings is amazing. 
 The modes are nearly identical with the only exception being Franchise which got a cool new interface 
 and a couple new things such as fan buzz and a ticket prices to keep people like me occupied for 
 a long long long time. However, with the lack of new modes or more improvement on the modes shows 
 2k games knows they messed up bad last year and had to fix last years game before even thinking 
 about adding to this years... if it follows this path this game series will hit the peak of the 
 nfl 2k and nba 2k series have had in the past... amazing game... serious baseball gamers must own... just 
 want a fun game to play for a not so hardcore this is defintely a good sports game but not quite 
 a pick up and hit a homer the first time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XPrivateRyan22X
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Well I must admit this game is a lot better than last year. The graphics are the best I have ever 
 seen in any game, though the PS3 versions are much better. As far as the 360 goes you won't see 
 any game top these graphics any time soon. Last years game really didn't have jaw dropping graphics 
 or good player animations thats basically what separates this game from last years and it makes 
 this game a pretty big improvement. As always you get the great sound and excellent commentary 
 from John Miller and Joe Morgan. As far as gameplay is concerned there's not too big of an improvement 
 there. If you can remember in 2k6 the awful fielding views it gave you on defense they are back 
 in 2k7. It looks to cinematic when fielding and it almost feels like your not even doing anything. 
 As far as pitching it uses basically the same system which is not bad but not great either. If 
 you can remember last years game how they came up with the revolutionary analog stick hitting system 
 well in 2k7 whether you like it or not it's back as the default way of hitting, though it can be 
 changed to what they call classic hitting where you use the a button to hit. I much prefer the 
 classic mode of hitting it just feels like it's a more fluid mode of hitting, I wasn't very happy 
 to see they brought back the analog stick hitting in this years game. I don't know where everyone 
 stands on the analog stick hitting but from the people I have talked to they have all agreed with 
 me. Last years game wouldn't have gotten my recommendation it's hard to say this one does either, 
 but 360 owners don't really have a choice so I would say if your either a big fan of baseball or 
 just graphical masterpieces than I would pick this one up you will definitely get more for your 
 money than last year's game. If you are a PS3 owner than I think it would be smart to wait another 
 month until MLB 07: The Show comes out. I doubt the show will have better graphics than this one 
 but when it comes to baseball it's the gameplay that counts and MLB 2k7 really doesn't have it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bguy9
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 27, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay, the graphics, the level of fun this game brings to the table... All great! Even though 
 the screen shots are a little misleading on how good the graphics are, they still are stellar. 
 Playing through the game, almost every bug is gone. One thing I noticed is sometimes the fielder 
 won't field the ball when he's supposed to. But some people have no trouble with this. It only 
 seems to happen every once in a while and doesn't really take away from the fun of the game. It's 
 also sometimes hard to see the ball in the grass on a grounder, but after a few hours of playing 
 you should get used to finding the ball. There have been so many little details going into this 
 game, such as a ball boy on the field retrieving foul balls, the ump throwing the ball back to 
 you after a passed ball and an active bullpen that cheers on your team and warms up. It seems almost 
 as if there are an unlimited amount of animations. The opening cutscenes of every game are different 
 and interesting, sometimes showing you things like the moon and the actual structure of the stadium. 
 The gameplay is right up there with the best of baseball video games, and all the stats make sense. 
 The best part of this game is the replay value, it keeps you interested, especially for baseball. 
 The GM mode design has completely changed, but other than being able to change the average ticket 
 prices and being able to keep track of your income, nothing has really changed. The soundtrack 
 is great as well. Overall, MLB 2k7 is up there with all the other great baseball titles of the 
 past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pistolpete9500
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  I must say much improved over the horrendous 2k6, but still minor things that make this game feel 
 incomplete. In my opinion the fielding is not up to par yet, fielders move very akwardly and sometimes 
 just stop right in front of the ball and dont even bother picking and when u try to switch outfielders, 
 forget it . I also noticed the fielding is somewhat slower this year. Graphics are great, animations 
 smooth and overall presenation decent. Still the same boring music as always . The hitting is somewhat 
 improved. Maybe i expected much more. Definitely a step in the right direction but sttill a long 
 way to go. Hoping next years edition will top this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob139th
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 27, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  This game looks great and it feels great. Catcher pitcher interface is done very nicely. They have 
 improved the basics. The animation is incredible but even with that being said. It's all about 
 the game play and how good is the Ai and the good news is, you will not be disapointed. By the 
 looks of things, the AI was tweeked and thank god. Now you don't need to invite any friends over 
 to enjoy a competitive game of baseball. The AI is much improved and will offer even advance player's 
 a challange. Any baseball fan will enjoy this game. Now if the online play can be anything like 
 NBA2k7 or Madden, if it's, then this will be easily best in series. Good job 2K 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
