-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Major League Baseball 2K8
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/majorleaguebaseball2k8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Signature styles for pitchers and hitters look great.
 2K cards is a promising new feature.
 No shortage of game modes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bugs, glitches, and other technical problems mar nearly every aspect of the game.
 Frame rate is extremely poor during fielding.
 Online play lags.
 Collecting cards is cumbersome.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 982 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Genre: Baseball Sim
Date: Mar 3, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
MLB 2K8 is full of new ideas; unfortunately, it's also filled with technical problems. 

  2K Sports deserves credit for trying to deliver more than a roster update with MLB 2K8. There's 
 a new pitching mechanic, fielding has been revamped, and you can now put together your own team 
 using in-game baseball cards. There are also new bugs and poor design choices that come with every 
 new feature, making MLB 2K8 as frustrating as it is enjoyable.  

           The new pitching mechanic is flawed, but it's a step in the right direction.      

 
  The most notable change to how 2K8 plays when compared to 2K7 is the new pitching mechanic. To 
 throw a pitch, you pull the right analog stick in the direction shown in the pitch's diagram and 
 then wait for the expanding ring to flash. This determines the effectiveness of the pitch. Then 
 you release the stick when the ring has contracted into the release zone to throw the pitch. For 
 example, to throw a curveball, you would move the stick diagonally to the lower left and then make 
 a counterclockwise motion. If you time it all right, the pitch goes where you want it to, but if 
 you're just a bit off, the ball will end up several inches from its intended target -- a big problem 
 if you're trying to paint the corners. Certainly, pitchers miss their spots in real life, but very 
 seldom are they punished like in 2K8. If you're really off with your timing or stick movement, 
 you'll throw a meatball, and if you throw a meatball, chances are pretty good that you're giving 
 up a home run. The problem is that the game is extremely demanding when it comes to throwing a 
 pitch properly, but how it determines what is and isn't a good pitch doesn't seem to be as precise. 
 Sometimes you'll see the red flash that indicates you're getting ready to throw a meatball before 
 you've completed the first gesture; at other times, the game will think you're throwing one pitch 
 when you're trying to throw another. This is extremely frustrating and will likely cause you to 
 switch to the traditional button-pressing method of pitching if you care at all about winning close 
 games.  

  Pitching is just one of several mechanics that utilize the right analog stick. Once again, hitting 
 is mapped to the right stick, though you can swing via buttons if you prefer. To swing, you pull 
 the right stick back when the pitcher is getting ready to release the ball and then push forward 
 to swing. The game manual says you release the stick after pulling it back to perform a contact 
 swing, but this doesn't actually do anything. Although it may not work as described in the manual, 
 this method of hitting generally works well. It certainly works better than last year, though it's 
 still extremely difficult to judge a pitch's location and still have time to swing.  

  Fielding also eschews buttons for the right analog stick. You move your fielder with the left analog 
 stick, and to throw the ball, you push the right analog stick in the direction of your desired 
 base. As soon as you move the stick, a meter begins to fill. When it's filled to the center section, 
 you release the stick and the player makes the throw. If you move the stick to the wrong spot or 
 you release too late or early, you'll unleash an errant throw and either pull your man off base 
 or the ball will go right past the base. For the most part, this new method works well, and it 
 makes routine throws a little less routine, which in turn keeps them interesting. That's not to 
 say fielding doesn't have its problems -- because it has plenty. Players will fail to even attempt 
 to pick up slow-rolling ground balls at least once a game, and they'll stay down on the ground 
 as if they've been shot for what feels like an eternity if they miss a diving catch. Outfielders 
 really have it rough. You have to call one of them off if they're anywhere near one another or 
 they'll knock each other down, and they'll get in each other's way if they're both trying to pick 
 up a ball in the outfield. While they make like Willie Mays on balls hit over their heads, they 
 have a tough time getting to any ball hit in front of them.  

  The trend of new ideas that is almost really cool but has a fatal flaw continues with 2K8's 2K 
 cards: in-game baseball cards you can earn by performing certain feats with specific players. For 
 example: To unlock Randy Johnson, you need to strike out eight batters in a game; to earn David 
 Ortiz, you must hit two homers in a game; and to unlock Derrek Lee, you need to get three hits 
 in a single game. The cards aren't just for collecting; you can put a team together and then take 
 that team online to play other users' card teams. There's quite a bit of strategy involved when 
 putting together a team because each card has a monetary value assigned to it that counts against 
 your team's $150 million cap. There are three different types of cards: black, gold, and platinum. 
 Each player has one of each type, with the difference being that a black card counts the most against 
 the cap and platinum the least. The higher the difficulty you play, the better your odds are of 
 earning a gold or platinum card.  

           Collecting cards is time-consuming but fun.      

  This is a really neat feature that's 
 held back by a number of problems. For starters, it's incredibly time-consuming to put together 
 a team because most of the feats required to unlock a player are rather difficult. You can't unlock 
 player cards using a custom difficulty setting either. You can purchase packs, but they cost 500 
 credits, and the only way to earn credits is to sell cards you've already unlocked. These typically 
 go for five to 20 credits apiece, so you're looking at playing quite a few games to earn enough 
 just to buy one pack because you'll probably only unlock two to five cards a game. The game promises 
 a legend player in every pack, but we won or purchased seven or eight new packs and never received 
 one. You can unlock wild cards by hitting home runs, stealing bases, and striking out players, 
 but unless you're playing on the punishing harder difficulties, you're not likely to earn very 
 many; thus, you're not likely to earn any gold or platinum cards.  

  When you play online with your card team, the game randomly selects both teams' starting pitcher, 
 thereby encouraging you to put together a proper five-man rotation, but as soon as the game starts, 
 you can put in any starting pitcher you like, thereby negating the random selection process. That 
 doesn't really matter though, because you're not likely to play online. It lags so much that it's 
 nearly unplayable, and it's definitely not fun. 2K Sports is onto something with this card feature, 
 but it needs another year in the minors before it's user-friendly enough for the show.     

 
  MLB 2K8 includes a robust franchise mode that on the surface appears to give hardcore stat geeks 
 everything they'd want. Most notable is how much control you have over your entire franchise's 
 farm system from AAA to A. You can call up or demote players, manage the rosters of each squad, 
 and carefully monitor every player in your organization. The menus are clean, and thanks to the 
 excellent player finder that can pick out players by first or last name, position, handedness, 
 age, experience, salary, or rating, it's a breeze to locate any player in a matter of seconds. 
 It's one of the most user-friendly franchise modes in any sports game.  

           Signature styles for pitchers and hitters are one of the game's best features.      

 
  It's too bad, then, that the franchise mode has so many annoyances that will frustrate the same 
 audience to which it's trying to appeal. You might as well not even play as the Padres; every time 
 you promote or demote a starting pitcher, the game changes his position to long reliever, and there 
 doesn't appear to be any way to change it back in franchise mode. The Padres don't have a monopoly 
 on glitches though. We also experienced weird statistics in the minors -- rotations that would reset 
 for no apparent reason. On two occasions, we were unable to play past a certain date on the schedule 
 and had to start all over.  

  The trend of glitches and technical problems carries right over to the game's presentation. There 
 is some good, though. There are more signature styles than ever -- most of the hitters have the same 
 stance and swing in the game as they do in real life. And for the most part, pitchers' deliveries 
 seem to be spot-on. This gives the game a lot of character, highlighting the difference between 
 one player and another. The ballparks look about the same as last year, which is not a problem 
 because they're generally dead-on with the real thing. There are quite a few spring training and 
 minor league stadiums as well.  

  Now, for the bad. The frame rate is downright pitiful once the ball is put into play. It can get 
 so choppy that it's difficult to field and throw the ball. It also makes any camera transitions 
 terrible -- the game will pause and stutter, often leaving player shadows on the ground after the 
 player has vanished. Don't even bother with the postgame highlights; they're typically so jittery 
 that they're unwatchable. We thought turning off the ticker that runs across the bottom of the 
 screen might help, but turning it off in the menu doesn't actually get rid of it. PlayStation 3 
 owners get the worst of the lousy frame rate, but Xbox 360 owners don't get much better. But wait, 
 there's more.  

  Players don't have to be tagged with the ball to be called out; they just have to come into contact 
 with the fielder. At least you assume the player is coming into contact with the fielder because 
 the clipping is so bad they actually pass right through one another. The game has a difficult time 
 transitioning from one animation to another, which often results in players making late, acrobatic 
 throws on routine plays. Sometimes the game just gets confused, and fielders will hold on to the 
 ball while runners run the bases. Or the artificial intelligence won't recognize a play is over 
 and will stand there for seven or eight seconds before finally waking up to move on to the next 
 batter.  

  It shouldn't come as any surprise that MLB 2K8's audio suffers from the same sort of technical 
 issues as the rest of the game. Jon Miller and Joe Morgan generally do a competent job calling 
 the action, but it doesn't sound like they recorded any new dialogue. They seem to offer less insight 
 into the proceedings than last year and have a propensity for making the incorrect call or calling 
 out two entirely different plays during the same play. Jon will say a ball goes through for a base 
 hit and then follow that up by saying the fielder scooped it up for a routine play. One nice feature, 
 or one that should have been nice, is you can assign walk-up music using your own music -- it's too 
 bad that doing so frequently causes the game to lock up.  

           The poor frame rate makes fielding difficult.      

  Despite a bevy of technical problems, 
 those of you who are just looking to play a few games and aren't worried about playing a franchise 
 or trying to win close games on a higher difficulty will probably be reasonably pleased with MLB 
 2K8. With new pitching, hitting, and fielding mechanics, as well as new player cards, there's a 
 lot to like if you're the forgiving type. However, if you're someone who relishes the finer points 
 of the game, you'll walk away in disgust after just a few games. MLB 2K8 is a fine example of how 
 exclusive sports licenses hurt the average consumer. PlayStation 3 owners at least have the option 
 of MLB 08, but if you're an Xbox 360 owner and looking for a baseball game, it's either MLB 2K8 
 or the highway. And that's just not right.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (135 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: StealthySniper1
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 6:53 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2k7 was fun, but it felt as if you were fouling so much. It was a fun game while it lasted, 
 but my point is that 2k7 wasn't completed neither. I remember getting to the playoffs, winning 
 the Series and wanting to start a new franchise. In 2k7, I was done and started a 2008 season and 
 was knocking on the door to the post season. When I was going into the post season, the game would 
 lock up and freeze... I literally had to start a BRAND NEW Franchise. So, I thought it was my disc 
 and etc etc it was the game itself.
  
  So, 2k6 and 2k7 were bust imo. Then, I get 2k8 hoping they fixed the game. Now, I did like the 
 controls in 2k7 the best, I loved the pitching and etc which you can change. I did like the controls 
 while fielding and etc. But, what I didn't like :
  
  1. The game freezes... Literally will freeze and it's hard to finish a game.
  
  2. The game 
 had major FPS problems. The lag was soooo bad I stopped tried to play the game along with the damn 
 freezing.
  
  3. The Controls were annoying, I have to admit I haven't had time to master them and probably won't 
 since 2k9 is coming.
  
  4. The batting is a pain, I go to hit the swing button and he'll check swing. I literally will 
 press the button fully and let go to make a signal I want to hit and he'll check swing then swinging. 
 This was annoying as well.
  
  Since the preview is stating the game is a lot better this time around. I haven't bought 2k8 and 
 I won't buy 2k9. I will rent and will hope to god this game won't fail for 360 owners sake. I'm 
 sorry, I hate EA but EA made a better MLB game for the casual fan that just wants to enjoy the 
 game.
  
  EA ruined the NFL franchise
  2k ruined the MLB franchise...
  
  Still, EA pwns at NHL bc they have competition with 2k
  EA loses in the NBA to 2k at the NBA 
 scenery. In these sports, you have an alt company to go to.
  
  Where as so far, unless you own a PS3. You're stuck with MLB 2k and I have to say, when it was 
 2k vs MPV or ESPN.. It was a great time in sports for gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Baker04
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 7:53 am PT
Review:  o boy where do i start this game is just plain buggy from the get go. the whole trading card system 
 is just plain useless and kinda boring to be completely honest. the swing system is a bit buggy, 
 especially online. im not the biggest fan of all of the emphasis being on the right stick to pitch, 
 swing, and field (although the fielding is good and feels nice) however you can change the controls 
 back to the traditional way as well as the fielding and pitching (highly reccomended) i didnt have 
 any problems creating a player so that is a plus but the create a player feature is still far behind 
 the customization you get with MLB08 The Show. The presentation is decent with the regular ESPN 
 guys joe morgan and jon miller but at times they will constantly repeat themselves which can get 
 annoying not to mention that on mlb08 the show the presentation is outstanding. The Franchise mode 
 isnt much to complain about but at the same token isnt ANYTHING to write home about and is only 
 one player which is ok if thats what you want but if you want more control you will have to skip 
 this game. the online is just horriffic i mean they have leagues but even that isnt going to be 
 enough to convince yourself that its worth playing because the swing mechanic is near impossible 
 to master while online leading to a lot of strikes not to mention the pitches are hard to time. 
 the bugs during regular gameplay are also evident with sometimes there is many jersey glitches 
 and in some cutscenes to the crowd they just look highly unpolished. there also is some texture 
 issues at times with the wrinkles in the jerseys cutting in and out leading it to look more like 
 an original xbox game rather than an xbox 360 game. with all of the bugs this game has and a poor 
 online mode to support an already mediocre at best offline gameplay this game is a definate skip 
 unless ur an avid baseball fan and ONLY own a 360 but if you have PS3 go and get MLB the show, 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtmars1430
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 12:11 pm PT
Review:  First, the Commentary. It wouldn't be bad if it was accurate. Every game, The play of the game is in 
 the bottom of the seventh, even if it was really in the 1st.. I would love to be able to make a double 
 play, but no matter what I do, my 2nd baseman ALWAYS gets knocked down. I can throw a ball way outside, and 
 Boom.. Gone. All in all, I enjoyed 2k7 much more.2k8 is entertaining, but just has way too many problems 
 to be a great game. the computer hits doubles continuously, and the teams just aren't accurate enough. plus, I 
 can't get my catcher to move, Ai running is retarded for user run teams, and it switches me to the 
 wrong fielder quite often. My first baseman made a decent play, and when I steered him towards first, he 
 ran all the way to second. I like 2k sports take on MLB, but they need to really work on the franchise, or 
 that monster EA will be there to take it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pujols714
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 14, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  After loving MLB 2k7 I was extremely upset to find that, after buying the game as soon as it was 
 released, it was far worse than its predecessor. When I started the game I was pretty impressed 
 with the by the player stats and ability to play as each teams farm team. Then I started to play 
 a quick game! The graphics were far from good, much worse than last year. And I realized that the 
 frame rate was terrible especially when throwing the ball in the infield but it was almost as bad 
 when it went through to the outfield! It was quite difficult to hit home runs however which was 
 an improvement from last year but they might have made it a bit too challenging. Batting in general 
 was not really rewarding. Then we come to the issue of pitching. The new pitching controls, at 
 first, looked interesting but it turned out to be incredibly difficult to control so I just switched 
 it back to the classic pitching style. The only reason to get this game is to use the new attributes 
 and edit the players in MLB 2k7!!! I only played this game for a few hours, and some might say 
 that I didn't give the game a chance but truthfully I don't think it deserved one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SawtoothDragon
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 1, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  So... this game is the worst ever basically because you use the right stick for batting, pitching, 
 throwing, everything! It's like the latest Smackdown Vs. Raw game, which is also dead, but you 
 can actually have a chance at winning a match, in this game you can't win a game. I lost 51-2 in 
 the first game I played, haven't touched the game ever since. All I can say is get the Right Stick 
 out of the picture and use XY AB buttons to do everything and you can actually have a worthwhile 
 game. MLB 08 The Show has the best controls, the game is trash though because of repetitive commentating, 
 and plays made in the field, too easy for the better player. The graphics in MLB 2K8, without question, 
 is at least an 8 rating, because it looks life-like when the wind is blowing and the players shirt 
 is waving back-and-forth. Graphics don't make a game though, it's all about the controls, then 
 the difficulty, then you start thinking about the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAMSHAWN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Don't Read ANY other reviews. They are ALL wrong. The Graphics in the game are amazing. utterly 
 amazing. and the player closeups and replays and intro to the games are fantastic. The play by 
 play also cudnt be better.
  The Gameplay is incredible. Baserunning mechanics are better than any baseball game EVER! it manages 
 to perfectly show u where the player is in a full screen view without interfereing with the play 
 at all. and running is easy. just push the button in the direction of the base to run 2 it. (a, b, x, y) . 
 Throwing works rlly well with right analog. Batting is also flawless. The pitching system is incredibly 
 creative and effective. after an hour i wasnt throwing meatballs anymore and all the problems were 
 gone. Featurewise.... OMG! The difficulty can be Completely adjusted in EVERY way. u can change 
 how the game is 2 suit u better. 2 many homeruns? turn down batter power. get thrown out a lot? 
 turn cpu outfielder speed and reaction as low as possible and they wont reach the ball and slowly 
 chase it to the wall as u circle for a inside the parker or triple. The Franchise is my last topic. 
 The Stats and News tickers are cool. HR derby in the franchise is cool. The trade system is AWESOME. 
 pick a position ur looking for and wat players ur willing to trade and ul get a bunch of offers. 
 My only problem was making the playoffs as the jays cus the sox and skankees are stacked. GREAT 
 GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gedz16
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  This is the baseball game of the year. i mean wow, that game is so realistic and it is so fun to 
 play................... this game makes me feel as if im actually there and the chacters actually 
 look like the players from real life i mean wow when i first turned the game on you pick your favorite 
 team and of course i picked the soxs and they show pictures of the team and at first i thought 
 it was real players but when i looked closer it was the players on the game and it can't get more 
 realistic than that. I never played live yet but i heard it was awesome and the gameplay is out 
 of this world i love  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohanhope
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  I really must say that the new pitching mechanism in 2K8 is not just creative but also fabulous 
 for playing some true ball game. Someone named babbitt2121 wrote below "After you switch the pitching 
 to last years version which has worked for years, you actually have a chance of throwing a strike 
 that isn't a homer" but this is not true. If you love baseball and get use to the pitching mechanism, 
 it's a plain fun to play and you will enjoy throwing various types of pitches on different locations 
 just like real time baseball.
  
  babbitt2121 also said "Overall gameplay is easy, The cpu never steals" but it's because he totally 
 forgot about the customizing the difficulty. It's your choice to whether make a home-run party 
 in the stadium or a real tense ball game. CPU's stealing tendency could also be customized.
  
  Of course, there are also some disappointing parts. First of all, the Xbox Live is impossible 
 to play due to immense lag. You have to step and swing before the pitcher throws the ball. Secondly, 
 the card system is pretty much pointless and not attractive. I personally think it could have been 
 better if this card system wasn't there. Thirdly, although the graphic is great, there are glitches 
 like all the users talk crap about. (I got rid of this problem by turning off the inning replays) . 
 Also, it occasionally freezes during a game.
  
  Overall, what I want to say is that although this game is not brilliant, it's not a trash game 
 like everyone here says. It's somewhat suprising if you are a baseball fan and play 2K8 after reading 
 gamespot user reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmcgee353
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 17, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  2K sports third baseball title on the 360 is no better than the first. Instead of making better 
 game play they are spending thier time on "player cards", the type of addition that should only 
 be considered AFTER YOU HAVE A BASEBALL GAME WITH SOLID GAME PLAY. The entire game is played with 
 the right analogue stick, hitting, pitching, even a through from 2nd to first. What's wrong with 
 the cursor when you're hitting? That is a tried and true method and is what best resembles the 
 hand-eye cordination it takes to hit a real baseball. The only good thing I can say about this 
 game is the presentation and the graphics. The announcers seem to be pretty articulate and the 
 graphics do take adavantage of the 360's hardware (except for the framerate, uggghh) , but those 
 things should take a backseat until you have the game play right. I think I'll keep playing All 
 Star Baseball 05 seeing as it looks like a backwards compatible xbox baseball game is going to 
 be the best baseball I can get on the 360. Screw you 2K sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: babbitt2121
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 14, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  After you switch the pitching to last years version which has worked for years, you actually have 
 a chance of throwing a strike that isn't a homer. But, this game sux. I really wish EA was still 
 making MVP Baseball for XBOX. It really sux that this is the only baseball sim you can get on XBOX 
 360. 
  
  Outfield and infield collisions, infield glitches where pitchers miss covering first base. New 
 hitting mode is only improvement over last years game. And it is only a minor improvement otherwise 
 hitting is mostly the same.
  
  I Really hope they actually make this game better next year. MLB 2k8 is really just a very minorily 
 improved 2k7.
  
  Overall gameplay is easy, The cpu never steals, the new pitching method is completely useless. 
 It is Junk. I actually tried to use the new pitching method I got beat 33-3. I didn't strike anybody 
 out and I only got through 3 innings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julianray
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Trying my hardest to give this game a chance but while I enjoy playing a game here and there, overall 
 it is a waste of time.
  
  My biggest issues:
  1. The card system is a total waste, Been playing enough now and have yet to unlock a legend, or 
 old time park (which is the main reason i play) . I have no clue why they put this in.. Just unlock 
 the legens and parks. THe achievments are near impossible.. Whats with that??? Ie. to unlock Jake 
 Peavy you have to strikeout 9 consecutive batters. For Johan Santana, you must strikeout 18 batters 
 in game.. Like those 2 things happen often!
  
  2. The default settings (ie Pro, All Pro) are unplayable. You have to play the game on custom settings, 
 which of course means you cannot unlock achievments. Nice move there.
  
  3. CPU never, never steals.
  
  4. Outfield collisions. WHile I can contol them most of the 
 time, every once in awhile a fielder will fly in and collide with my OF.. I lost a no no in the 
 9th because of that. 
  
  5. SIM stats are offensively inflated.. My team ERA is always 4.50 or more, regardless of pticher 
 ratings. 
  
  6. Game crashes way too much. Nothing like playing a nice game for 40 mins, then it freezes in 
 the 8th or 9th...
  
  7. The Total control htting and pitching (or whatever it is called) is way to difficult to play. 
 
  
  8. Why put in Manager Argueing when it NEVER happens. I think in 100 games ive played, its happened 
 once. 
  
  IF this game was an EA game I would expect this.. but was hoping 2K would have put forth a better 
 product. Considering this is the only baseball game available for the 360 I have to put up with 
 it "if" I feel like playing a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piercetruth34
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I guess a 7 is decent although this game more than likely deserved a 6, but i'm being nice. It's 
 not finished. It's filled with glitchers.. The player models are pretty good. The field looks horrible. 
 Some of the animations are good. Others are horrible. It's choppy. There are tons of bugs. The 
 cpu rarely throws a ball and i rarely swing and miss. The hitting interface in general is pretty 
 bad although i like the controls. The sound effects stink. Some of the stuff just seems thrown 
 together and I dont trust the ai in the game either because of this. It just seems like there are 
 glitches everywhere. All that said it does play a pretty fun game of baseball and shows potential 
 to be really good surprisingly. But it's more frustrating than anything. I wish they would patch 
 it. The patched it once and its still choppy and bugged filled. If they came out with a good patch, 
 I could see this game getting a 7.5 or 8. If they really expand on what they were trying to do 
 for next year and fix all the bugs and improve the game overall in general i could see it getting 
 a 9 and being a really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismarra1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Okay. I will admit by saying this is an improvement from 2k7. But it is still not good enough. 
 I will start out with the good things, which will be much shorter than the negative. 
  
  The controls are terrible. I ran out of body parts to count the times where the ball goes right 
 next to the fielder. A huge and very annoying glitch. The commentary is good at first, but it gets 
 old real fast. And the players faces are not very realistic to me at least. A-Rod looks like some 
 average Joe playing baseball. The menus are a chore to navigate, and even worse, i need a magnifying 
 glass to read the print on e-mails and other such. Some of the player ratings are whack. 
  
  Now the good.
  
  Of course it's entertaining. Graphics are good enough to hold me by. Everything 
 looks mostly real, and the stadiums and retro jerseys are nice. But that's about it from the positives. 
 There are other things, don't get me wrong, but what I am trying to say is that 2K gots some splaining 
 to do. They need to work and improve this game drastically by next year. I know that i will rent 
 before buying this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChroTOR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so a lot of people are really disliking this game. But it's the greatest baseball game 
 I've ever seen or played. I'm sorry if you disagree, but that's my thought. The gameplay is great! 
 The ideas are wonderful, but there are a few bugs here and there. The franchise mode may not be 
 too deep, but it is fun to play. The Inside Edge is a new thing in baseball gaming. It helps you 
 get that edge on your opponents. It's your trusting scouts showing batter's weaknesses or pitcher's 
 special info. I guess I may be missing the big picture but the only bugs I've noticed is that Bernie 
 physically goes through the slide in his dugout and players can't run into walls, but my biggest 
 problem is how hard it is. But I love that. You can play on the Pro level and get a challenge. 
 The graphics are better than any game I've ever seen. You can see Prince's tattoo on the side of 
 his neck. The players' jersey's fold, that's really new to me they also blow in the wind. The graphics 
 are amazing, the game play is above par and the franchise mode is a little below average, but I 
 give it a decent score of 8.2/10. I think people are being to hard on this game. I recommend it 
 . :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metsfan12386
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  (Sigh) Just wasted 60 dollars for really bad glitches, gameplay and crappy graphics. But I almost 
 had to because there is no other REALISTIC (sorry The BIGS) baseball game for the wonderful XBOX 
 360. I mean this game has endless glitches. Everytime at bat, and every other time imaginable. 
 The gameplay sucks..... just flat out. And I take back the graphics comment because they are just 
 O. K. Remember to check out my page for good, honest reviews and good ratings!!! GAMESPOT PLEASE 
 GET RID OF THIS STUPID 100 WORD RULE! It really really really kills me in every every every review! 
 I am looking foward to the day when MLB: The Show series come out for 360 instead of stupid sony 
 fanboys So once  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deftones2366
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  - Animations for players when hitting and pitching look great.
  - Overall graphics are good.
  - Fun to play with friends, not online though.
  - Roster updates 
 are pretty frequent and help with realism.
  
  Cons:
  - Franchise mode is broken and doesn't work. 
  - Some (not as bad as Gamespot's review says) 
 graphical glitches make for annoyances.
  - Bad commentary.
  - Awful clipping.
  - Unless you used inside edge, good luck hitting.
  - Some pitching controls over-lap, causing 
 wrong pitches to be thrown.
  - Did I mention the Franchise mode?
  
  As you can tell, I'm mainly annoyed with franchise. Why buy a sports game if you aren't at least 
 going to try to play through a franchise at least once? I have tried 4 different ones and here's 
 a run down:
  
  Started with Rockies, tried to trade minor league players after 3 games, said they were traded 
 but were still on roster, game froze after trying to fix lineups.
  
  Made All-Star team on Red Sox, finished last in league, with Johan Santana losing 20 games and 
 A-Rod/ Pujols both hitting .220.
  
  Started with Mariners, froze in first game.
  
  Started with Rockies, froze after first trade.
  
  Ugh. If that's your idea of a good time, 
 you can pay me to beat you with an XBox controller and get more fun. The new pitching and hitting 
 controls are good ideas that are implemented funny, and can be very unforgiving or make life too 
 easy, depending on your ability that day. Pitches that overlap are curve and slider, and if your 
 pitcher throws both, you'll mainly get one or the other. Once you get hitting down, if you have 
 inside edge on the opposing pitcher it helps you know what to look for, otherwise good luck. Another 
 knock on franchise is that you have to pay for inside edge, but you start out with little or no 
 money, so you really can't get any info until you win some games. It's like saying the Rockies 
 can't scout Arizona because it's too early in the year. Awful.
  
  There are winners here, since this isn't Gods and Generals. The new controls make for better game 
 depth, and playing with a friend at home is a fun time. Online is way too laggy, but at home its 
 fun. Getting cards for players is fun, although sometimes too easy (Jeff Francis, all you have 
 to do is get a win with him) or waaaay to hard (Jose Reyes requires you to hit for the cycle, yeah 
 sure) . Getting packs is impossible, since you get like 15 credits per card but a pack is 500. It's 
 like trading in 40 Jeff Francis cards for 12 random cards. Again awful.
  
  Hitting home runs looks great, and you'll know when you've gotten one really good, which has been 
 a problem for past baseball games (MLB 07, I'm looking at you) . Pitching is really rewarding when 
 you make hitters look bad by pitching like real life players do, and frustrating in the same way 
 when you don't. Graphical glitches and stupid AI will make you lose no-hitters (ball goes through 
 legs, called a hit; player covers first, ball is right next to bag, player stands on first) or 
 even games (outfielder is standing inside of circle where ball will land, ball goes over head, 
 winning run scores) . Awful.
  
  I haven't even mentioned the terrible announcing. "That ball is SMASHED up the middle, base hit! 
 And he makes the routine play to record the out." "That's a hit right up the middle (as Shortstop 
 ranges toward third and backhands ball, jump throws to first) , and he's on with one out. So that's 
 two down in the inning and no one on (runner safe at first on late throw, ruled and error on pitcher?) ." 
 On and on. Thanks John Miller for sucking just as much as in real life. Don't even get me started 
 with the graphical glitches in pre and post game presentation. It's unwatchable. Just awful.
  
  Overall this game has a few new features that could make it a lot of fun to play. It's just 
 too bad that they are hidden by insane bugs (FRANCHISE MODE!) or don't work well in their current 
 state (Card Book) . You know my one word for this game, and here's what I say: don't buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: actingmatt96
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 24, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Before reading this review, please know that this is written in a negative attitude, not a positive 
 one. So if you like this game, I recommend clicking the BACK button immediately! This is your last 
 chance. 5 4 3 2 1 HERE WE GO! I'll tell you a little bit about each part of the game. When at bat, 
 it is almost impossible to hit a grounder. If you do, you will still most likely be out. Pop-ups, 
 forget about them. No matter what, you're out. When pitching, it's usually okay, but you never 
 know. Fielding, don't get me started on fielding. Almost EVERY time it's a home run. If it is a 
 pop-up, it surprisingly is usually easy to catch. That is probably the easiest thing in the game, 
 along with pitching. But in the case that it's a grounder, your luck is out! In conclusion, do 
 NOT get this game. It will save you a lot of lost time. Time that I will never get back... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fudger2
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  The answer is achievements! I had this game for 6 days and i completely hated it. The achievements 
 are flawed like the whole game!!! I can guarantee i should have unlocked about 10-15 achievements 
 but was never rewarded. Icompleted more then 10 games with advanced controls, i got all sorts of 
 line drives with the advanced controls and no reward... i sould like an achievement wh*** but it 
 angers me that i wasted all that time on a garbage game and got nothing for it. I WASTED 60 bucks 
 on this game and got about 45 when i traded it in. Its just not fun... i played the show for psp 
 and got more fun out of a handheld. Baseball is the only place 2K is weak man, they need to work 
 on this. I know theres an achievement for beating the catcher and scoring which IVE DONE and no 
 achievements. This game is good the first 3 times you play then you realize how much glitches are 
 in it. I hate the fact that you run like a obese man also. This game defines boring. MLB 2K5 for 
 xbox is way funner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mostazadinho
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Lack of competition has made 2K Sports careless... and that shows in this years MLB 2K8.
  
  I'll start with the graphics. 
  
  Though not much different from last years, and arguably worse, 
 the graphics are nonetheless pretty good. Player faces aren't great, but they aren't bobble doll 
 bad either. On the other hand, the stadiums look very good. Batter walkups, and box step-outs in 
 between pitches add quite a bit of realism to the game, but nature ruins this as wind physics seem 
 to only apply to the midsection of players' jerseys. Though this isn't that big of a deal, it DEFINITELY 
 stands out, and helps to pull you out of the whole sim experience that the game is supposed to 
 bring.
  
  Replays are often a pain to watch as the framerate is so bad they will sometimes end in you restarting 
 your system.
  
  Gameplay is done pretty well...
  
  Hitting is the best gameplay mechanic in the game as Swing Stick 2.0 is a nice improvement over 
 last years mechanic. It is far more realistic, relying a great deal on timing, and requiring a 
 bit of skill. However, timing your swing can be a problem with the Signature Styles because different 
 pitchers can have VERY differing deliveries, and the game does a poor job of letting you know where 
 you went wrong... if you're eyes aren't fast enough you'll miss your step and swing feedback at 
 the top of the screen. And the CPU's inability to throw balls helps to further suck the realism 
 out of this game. Another issue is, since you use your right thumb to hit, it's harder to hit with 
 right handed hitters because the thumb movement required for hitting with righties is unnatural, 
 and takes a bit of getting used to.
  
  Then there's pitching...
  
  I would like to first commend 2K on trying to improve upon MVP 07s pitching mechanic, but it's 
 implementation was poor (and it wasn't necessary) . I should not be able to locate every pitch perfectly, 
 it doesn't happen in reality and shouldn't happen in a baseball sim. However, when I do miss, which 
 the sensitivity of the pitching mechanic allows a lot of, not even Albert Pujols would turn every 
 mistake into a homerun because not every mistake is necessarily bad. And often times, you'll find 
 yourself throwing one pitch though you made the motion, or tried to make the motion, for another 
 pitch. With practice, however, pitching does become easier.
  Also, being a baseball player myself I feel I should note, despite what anyone says, with the exception 
 of the fastball, this new pitching mechanic does not mimic an actual pitching motion. Unless of 
 course you're a pitcher that wants to ruin your arm/wrist.
  
  But even more frustrating is fielding...
  
  The use of the right thumbstick to throw to bases 
 instead of face buttons is implemented pretty well, but sadly the instruction manual doesn't correspond 
 with the actual controls. And framerate (noticeably mostly prior to the patch release) , can hamper 
 not only the experience, but also the ability to make some plays. But the framerate isn't the only 
 enemy to your fielding woes -- seemingly routine plays will become "in-field hits" because fielders, 
 even the best of them defensively, have an uncanny ability to fumble every other groundball, drop 
 pop ups, or just simply let slow grounders roll between their legs. Computer fielders seem to be 
 immune to this particular disease (most of the time) , and infielders make/attempt a riduculous 
 amount of diving stops, which, in reality, is like asking to be placed on the DL. And if you hit 
 a home run and you don't go to batter view, there's a chance you will be robbed of a homerun, by 
 even the worse vertical leapers in all of baseball - this is a rather minor and rare issue, but 
 irritating nonetheless. 
  
  More...
  
  Online play is a nightmare in itself, as framerates come up again, and combined with lag, kill 
 any hope of playing a solid game of baseball. The card collecting aspect is a pretty cool idea, 
 but I personally didn't get too involved with it due to the difficulty to earn enough credits to 
 purchase packs to build your collection or team, and 2K's deception... I thought there was supposed 
 to be a rare card in every pack!! 
  
  Sound...
  
  John Miller and Joe Morgan, who used to be highly insightful, and sometimes entertaining, are now 
 often innacurate, extremely repetitive, and rather boring. Then there's Steve Physioc who loves 
 calling inside the park homeruns, even though the ball clearly cleared the wall, and sometimes 
 the post-game commentary is absolutely absurd (they like to belittle pitchers for having an 0-0 
 record, and every other game seems to be introduced with the same commentary) . And the music is 
 horrible, like most 2K Sports games...
  
  Miscellaneous...
  
  There are other minor problems, for example the CPU generated lineups being completely out of wack. 
 I once played a franchise game where Derek Jeter hit cleanup, and Mike Napoli led off for the opposing 
 team... weird... and they just love to screw around with the rotations, which has been a problem 
 since 2K5... 
  There is also an annoying issue where late/mid game heroics can occur with two outs and a mediocre 
 batter up against your star closer. Even when your pitching is phenomenal or at least close enough.
 
  
  However, at the end of the day, this is a game that, if given a chance, can grow on you, and you'll 
 learn to put up with some of the nagging issues. Although, after delivering a quality effort with 
 2K7, this years release is a rather big disappointment. The creativity is there, but the effort 
 seems to be lacking... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-of-ruckus
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  I always enjoy baseball games and since EA had to stop making MVP baseball because of licensing 
 issues the genre has never been the same. 
  
  This year the game is filled with terrible glitches. For instance while playing outfield if say 
 my left fielder is about to catch a pop fly in left center, the center fielder will run into my 
 left fielder and they drop the ball. It is not every once in a while either, it happens many times 
 during a game sometimes. 
  
  The game-play is not bad. Nothing seems really new about it. It keeps you entertained for a while 
 and the franchise mode is always fun. The trading cards feature is a good idea but it doesn't really 
 do anything. Graphically it was disappointing. The player animation are sometimes sloppy and you 
 can really tell they did not spend much time improving them. The "sweat" on a tired players face 
 is laughable. 
  
  Overall this game is fun if you are a baseball game fan. It offers pretty much everything previous 
 baseball sims offered, but does little to improve on the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musical2595
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 10, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has some pros, but many more cons. 
  
  first, the game does not even say how to do things right. for example it says to pull back and 
 release the swing stick for a contact swing, but this doesn't do anything. for the player to swing, 
 you have to pull back and then push forward.
  
  also the audio commentary SUCKS!!!! i mean they dont even say the plays right half of the time. 
 every time i hit a homerun that clears the fence by a mile, steve physioc says later that it was 
 an inside the park homerun!!!! other than that jon miller and joe morgan dont do so bad except 
 for the occasional, "and thats through for a base hit" and then right after, he says "and the fielder 
 scoops it up for the routine out" ?????? 
  
  after some time though, you look past the glitches and immense lagging, and have lots of fun with 
 the new and realistic total control pitching
  
  
  
  P. S. dont even try xbox live with this game, its downright impossible to play with the extreme 
 lagging 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxsuck818
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  The MLB 2K series has been struggling lately, it has yet to come close to catching MLB The Show 
 series. It seems that there is a lot of negatives and few positives to make the game enjoyable.
 
  
  Pros: -The graphics are really good
  - Fans and stadiums are extremely detailed
  - John Miller and Joe Morgan provide great broadcasting
  - Lots of features
  
  Now with the 
 numerous Cons:
  - The gameplay is terrible
  - The players glitch across the field with insane lag
  - The throwing, pitching, and hitting 
 controls are broken and aren't effective at all
  - The player cards are a waste of time
  - Players run like they have broken legs
  - The players ratings are wrong with Albert Pujols 
 being the best by far
  
  All in all, it seems like the makers of MLB 2K8 focused more on the scenery and graphics instead 
 of whats most important, THE GAMEPLAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalech
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game as I never buy a game without playing the demo and/or renting it. Based on how 
 good the recent football games I have played have looked I was expecting the same quality or better 
 out of MLB 2K8. Instead I found a game that looks to be a couple of years old with several very 
 noticeable technical glitches. It is still fun to play, but could of been much much better.
  
  I was also disappointed to see that the rosters on each team were not correct this far into 
 the season. I don't expect the game to update with every call up or send down, but teams like the 
 Mariners don't have players like Eric Bedard who they acquired in the of-season. I made sure the 
 game was updated just in case I missed that step, but no changes to the roster I could see.
  
  Graphics = Substandard for a nex-gen game.
  
  Game Play = Choppy at times, but pretty easy 
 to learn.
  
  Control = Good, I like the pitching and hitting controls quite a bit.
  
  Overall = Disappointing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDL54876
Rating: 6
Date: May 10, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  besides the most noticeable down-grade in graphics, it seems like they tried to do too much adding 
 all this **** in, and in effect spent less time getting down the basics. frame rate is choppy, 
 fielding doesnt feel smooth like it should, i have only played 3 games and encountered bugs/glitches.. 
 all together this was probably the worst buy on a baseball game in a while, I would've been happy 
 if they had just gave me an mlb 2k7 w/ better graphics and a roster update. either way i've only 
 played 3 games and am going to return it, for such a good mlb 2k7 game i dont know what they were 
 thinking...
  
  i gave mlb 2k7 an 8 or 8.5 something like that, i'm giving this a 6... believe me, im not hard 
 to please- as i said roster updates and better graphics would've earned this like a 9 for me. huge 
 letdown 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxfanshawn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game, I thought it was horrible. I was a huge fan of the MVP series as 
 most people were and was very disappointed when 2K bought the exclusive third party rights for 
 MLB baseball games. Since I don't own a PS3, and don't wish to purchase one just to play The Show, 
 I am stuck playing 2K8. I found out after playing for a while, that this isn't such a bad thing. 
 The new pitching system really is great, and I enjoy the Swing Stick because it adds an element 
 of skill to hitting. The graphics are decent, but sometimes the player models can look a little 
 cartoonish. The franchise mode seems deep and I really like the idea of the cards. The main problem 
 with this game is all the bugs and glitches. You will find long pauses between cut scenes in the 
 middle of a game, poor frame rates (even though the patch helped with some of this) , and even sometimes 
 balls that stick to the ground (I have hit screamers up the middle that stick to the mound and 
 then bounce slowly away to the middle of the field) . Once these bugs get ironed out, this will 
 probably be a great game, but until then, they hinder the game play just enough to where it takes 
 away from the experience. Overall, I am having fun with the game and any baseball fan should give 
 it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crzycespy
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are decent enough, though more-so with the stadiums than the players. As said in the 
 GS review, frames drop to a near stand-still when fielding. Pretty ridiculous for this type of 
 game.
  
  Card collecting is terrible, as they have a tendency to disappear consistently (And not just a 
 card or two, all of them; err, and the credits go by by as well) .
  
  Oh, one great part about the game; the home run animations. Watching Manny Ramirez too shis bat, 
 throw his hands up, and admire a 425 foot long ball is a treat. Not such a treat is watching outfielders 
 run into each other over and over again on flyballs. Gotta remember to hit that darn X button I 
 tell you.
  
  Don't get me going on the repitive announcers... Heh, it actually made me miss hearing "Can of 
 corn" on my old Genesis.
  
  That said, if you like baseball and enjoy stats, this is still a pretty darn fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadruler08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing baseball games for years, and till this day I have to say MLB '06 The Show was 
 my absolute favorite. I then proceeded to buy a 360 and was forced to play mlb 2k7 which wasn't 
 that bad of a game by any means. It had a lot of great ideas as well as revolutionary aspects that 
 emulated real life baseball to a high degree. With that being said, MLB 2K8 builds upon these fundamentals 
 though it seems that either they didnt beta test the game or the developers were half asleep when 
 working on it...
  
  Graphics:
  A step down from 2K7. The overall resolution is bland compared to last year's game, and players' 
 faces are for the most part either on or totally off.
  
  Gameplay:
  The new pitching mechanic as well as hit stick 2.0 takes time getting use to, but they are both 
 worth the extra work. The patch fixed the frame rate problem when throwing the ball in and out 
 of the infield; the truth is that there are a plethora of glitches that really hinder this game 
 from achieving it's potential. The batter walk ups freeze for about two seconds, the pitcher seems 
 to randomly slide after every other pitch, online gameplay is completely unplayable due to immense 
 lag, the AI never steals bases, replays lag a lot even with the patch, and the list continues (go 
 to mlb 2k8 forums to see)
  
  Sound: 
  The commentating is usually off about 7/10 times, but for the most part the hitting sounds good 
 except I think they should make the ball hitting the glove sound a bit more realistic.
  
  Overall:
  This could've been the greatest baseball experience ever if the developers took the 
 time to go back and check the game for bugs and pay attention to detail. XBOX 360 owners should 
 not be punished to buy a broken game and wait months and months for multiple patches and title 
 updates to bring the game to where it could've been when released. One thing I loved about The 
 Show is the ability to play online and actually enjoy it. Luckily I find playing in the franchise 
 to be very exciting, but I couldn't imagine how much fun this game might be in about five or six 
 months when hopefully most of these bugs will be squashed and online becomes playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endwill1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I really liked mlb 2k8 partly because it is the only baseball game for the Xbox 360 and partly 
 because I love the new pitching controls. The franchise mode may be the best out of all the baseball 
 games (all two of them) because of the goals and stuff.
  
  The Gameplay is great I love the new pitching although it can be hard in the beginning especially 
 when trying to throw the 2 seam fastball and the cutter. The gamespot review said the frame rate 
 was bad when fielding but I didn't notice that. I didn't get a chance to try Xbox live so I don't 
 know how that works. The franchise mode is great I love the trade finder because it really helps 
 when making trades. There is a bunch of subtle things in the game that make it better. The card 
 collecting thing is cool to but I didn't really get that many cards while playing the game because 
 I only rented it.
  
  The graphics are great as always on 360 games but there is not a lot to talk about in this case 
 because the graphics have been great in the 2k series all along.
  
  The soundtrack is great I like the addition of The Cars, Modest Mouse, and The Presidents of the 
 United States of America.
  
  I can't tell you whether to buy the game or not if you own a 360 this is the only baseball game 
 you have to choose from if you own a PS2 get mlb 08 the show. Or just wait for EA to make another 
 MVP game in like ten years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: golamj
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 6, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  For what it's worth, I agree with Gamespot's assessment that the game is buggy and incomplete. 
 I felt that the addition of the right stick for all in-game actions - pitching, hitting and throwing 
 to the bases from the field - was a stupid attempt to make my Xbox into a mini-Wii, but have come 
 around a little on that.
  
  In order to get one of the Xbox achievements, you're forced to play 10 games using the new controls, 
 which forced me to get a better feel for the batting aspect. Using it to field is clunky and takes 
 too long to turn quick plays while the animation takes place. I've missed a few double plays waiting 
 for the player to start moving.
  
  Aside from that, the new pitching interface is great. It adds a more organic feel to pitching than 
 just pushing a button and I have problems executing some pitches, just like real pitchers do. That's 
 not a bad thing.
  
  Where 2K really falls flat is support on the game. The first patch being repeatedly delayed is 
 a source of anger for most on the 2K boards and the game shipped with a manual that was for last 
 year's game and completely worthless.
  
  Jump over to the 2K forums and you'll see that the post on the new pitching interface - and how 
 to use it - is one of the most viewed. That's not good. Ditto for incorrect instructions on throwing 
 to the cutoff man that are part of the in-game help system.
  
  If you can't get things right in your in-game documents, there are bound to be major problems with 
 the game.
  
  The gameplay is pretty standard, the card collecting is addictive, but the game as it stands out 
 of the box is badly broken. I think I speak for most baseball fans when I say I would have liked 
 the game to work correctly with less flash instead of the mess I had to work through to get to 
 a point that the game was fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bizsumpark182
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K8 is a good game. The controls work well once you learn how to use them. I especially like 
 the new fielding controls, its make it feel more natural. The game looks good and for the most 
 part sounds good (some of the pregame commentary could use some work) . 
  
  But, once you start really getting into the game many MANY problems arise. First off, is the frame 
 rate issue that hits during gameplay. When you throw the ball and the camera pans across the field 
 framerate becomes very choppy. This is also a problem during some of the cutscenes. 
  
  There are also numerous bugs when you are playing in franchise mode. The first one I discovered 
 occurs when you look at or edit your rosters. After you do so and the game validates your roster 
 it likes to reset your pitching rotation back to your number one pitcher pitching your next game, 
 even if he just pitched the last game and is in no condition to pitch. The next one that really 
 bugs me comes up after a rain delay. If a game is called because of rain, instead of rescheduling 
 the game for another day it forces you to replay the game on the same day. Rained out games is 
 something that has been in baseball games for many years now, and its something that 2K Sports 
 should not have a problem making work properly. 
  
  There are many other bugs in this game that I personally have not encountered. But, a quick trip 
 to the MLB 2K8 forums will dig up info on many many problems that this game just should not have. 
 Another big issue with MLB 2K8 is the online play. To put it quite simply, it is nearly broken. 
 I played one game and ended up helping the other guy to an almost perfect game because I could 
 not time my swing. Not because of my skill, but because of the poor response time. Many players 
 have said that you have to start your swing before the pitch to be able to hit the ball.
  
  Besides the problems the game is fun. The presentation is very solid. The controls are a breath 
 of fresh air from what has been standard for years now. And the franchise mode, despite its bugs, 
 is very fun to play. Hell, I even like the card collecting aspect that is in the game. But, to 
 be honest unless 2K Sports promised fixes happen soon, I may stop playing the game before the second 
 month of baseball season begins. And I will not like knowing that I wasted $60 on a broken game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nnarum23
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this short and sweet. Go out and buy MLB 2k7 used for a great price now and save your 
 money you would've spent on this garbage. No real improvements worth $60. The pitching mechanics 
 are receiving praise, but IMO I like the regular pitching style by pressing the buttons. It's not 
 that I don't like change, it just isn't that fun IMO to use the right stick. The frame rate kills 
 this game making each fly ball an adventure, the graphics are actually a step down from last year 
 and look like a PS2 or OG Xbox game, and it just isn't as atmospheric as say an MVP Baseball or 
 MLB The Show game... The commentary is by the best in the business, Jon Miller and Joe Morgan, 
 but we've heard these same lines 2 games ago... Way too easy to hit home runs too. Next years MLB 
 2k9 will not be purchased by me unless the whole game is revamped. I'm talking from the ground 
 up. Way to mail it in with the exclusive license 2k. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxReklawxX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I love this game i love the new pitching style.
  and i love the challenging computer.
  this game was great thway that you can throw the ball just like an actual baseball star in the 
 outfield andi love the new jumping throws man are they great and totally awesome.
  this game is just total all around amazing if you like baseball games then you will love this game.
 
  and besides if you area noob and cant use the stick pitch then switch it to the old stlye baseball. 
 seriously go and buy this game it is totally worth the 60$
  yeah its been out for a month but still if you get into this gme you feel like you have been in 
 the real season of mlb....
  if you dont like baseball you wont like this game case you feel like your playing a baseball game 
 and that my friend is the coolest thing about mlb is that its play recognition is amazing.
  yeah there are some glitches in the game but let me tell you what game hasnt never had a glitch.
 
  yeah exactly some of the greatest games have had glitches halo1,2,3
  rainbow six, graw, gears.
  i can name them all.
  and besides its a game where its fun to play 
 with your friends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  LETS GO METS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  jose reyes david wright carlos beltran carlos delgado ryan church luis castillo ryan church brian 
 schnidier moises alou angel pagan endy chavez brady clark marlon anderson damion easley johan santana 
 pedro martinez john maine oliver perez orlando hernandez mike pelfrey joe smith billy wagner pedro 
 feliciano duaner sanchez matt wise scott schoienweis nelson figz.
  
  despite some glitches thiers alot of great and addicting stuff and ideas in this years baseball 
 game. lots of great ideas like the new pitching and hitting controls base running collecting baseball 
 cards and extra features and updated modes make u feel more like ur really thier however the glitches 
 hold it down from being great although i still enjoy the game too however they need to evolve thier 
 ideas more i feel next year is the year 2k will beat the awesome MVP baseball 2005 i mean they 
 came close with 2k7 hope reyes is on next years cover peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 901Hallion
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I got this great game off Ebay a couple of weeks ago and overall I have enjoyed it. First 
 off, Jose Reyes grasping the title for this game is ballin. I am a huge Mets fan so this is more 
 of a collectible than anything else to me. Second, the game itself is setup well. it has all the 
 bells and whistles on the previous 2k7, which featured the shortstop of the Skanks (Yankees) , Derek 
 Jeter. There are a few tweaks however that I myself am not to fond of. The new "Total Control" 
 pitching mode is inventive but it is just to damn hard to get a hold of unless you practice it 
 relentlessly. The new "Swing Stick 2.0" is terrible in my eyes. The original "Swing Stick" is just 
 plain better.
  
  Now let's get to what everyone has been fussing about over this game... the glitches. Now, for $60 
 I expect damn hear perfection. This games fps and just overall glitch f ups are terrible. For example, 
 in one of the games that I was playing against the Atlanta Braves, Brian Schneider, the Mets catcher, 
 just got up and started to run all the way out in to center field and just kept on running into 
 the wall over and over again and the game just continued to loop like that until I shut down my 
 console.
  
  My overall evaluation is that if your a baseball fan and absolutly have to have the newest game 
 then go for it but if you just want to tool around and play a game everynow and then, stick to 
 MLB 2K7.
  
  Later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ontrack3226
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  I was hesitant to buy this game after reading so many negative reviews, so I downloaded the demo 
 first. Initially I absolutely hated the new controls, but I was determined to really test them. 
 So rather than quitting after the first 3 inning game (the demo only allows 3 innings) I tried 
 again. After the 3rd game I was getting much better at the pitching and hitting.
  
  I think the new throwing controls are a major improvement over 2k7. I never used the hit stick 
 in 2k7, so it was a little strange for me at first, but I'm very comfortable with it now. The controls 
 overall are much better in 2k8 than they were in 2k7. The fielding is a major improvement over 
 last year's effort.
  
  The card collecting feature I think is awesome. It is a innovative idea, and was one of the things 
 that I looked forward to the most. It does not disappoint. I think that it is challenging and rewarding 
 at the same time.
  
  There are some things that could have used some more work. The font they use in the game is so 
 small it is near impossible to read at times. The manual does not do an adequate job to help you 
 out either. Minor annoyances include some occasional stuttering of the game play usually after 
 the ball is in play, and some mis-calls by the announcers. Neither of these things detract from 
 the game play all that much. 
  
  A little more work would have made this game a 10. Instead I think it deserves an 8.0 for the improvements 
 they have made to last year's game. With a little more work, I think MLB 2k9 could be 2k Sports 
 defining moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROLLTIDE06
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Last years game was a vast improvement over the previous installment in 2006. The same cannot be 
 said about MLB 2K8. Perhaps the most frustrating part about all of it is that this could have been 
 a fun, quality baseball game if it were not for all of the bugs that bring this game down. Gameplay 
 is one of the more important aspects of a game, so that's where I'll begin.
  
  The new pitching mechanic is fun and challenging. It has its problems, but I guess that is to be 
 expected in its first year of use. The pitching mechanic requires you to imitate a gesture specifically 
 designed to that pitch. You begin by making an initial gesture (up, down, left, right, diagnoally) 
 and let the effectiveness circle reach the outer rings before beginning your second gesture. The 
 2nd gesture is determined by what pitch you are throwing. Once you make your second gesture, you 
 will try to release the analog stick at the right time in order to gain maximum accuracy. The longer 
 you hold the first gesture, the more effective your pitch will be -- however, this will also make 
 it difficult to locate your pitch. Sometimes, it gives you a slider instead of a curve if you are 
 ever so slightly off. A 2-seam fastball or cutter can be extremely frustrating to throw sometimes. 
 I've felt like I've imitated the motion perfectly at time only to throw a meatball. Other times, 
 it just stops me in the middle of my gesture and the circle goes red, indicating that I'm about 
 to throw a meatball. No other explanation for it other than it's a glitch in the system -- but 
 it's incredibly frustrating to do nothing wrong and be punished because more than likely you are 
 serving up a homerun when you throw a meatball. 
  
  The hitting is OK. I would say it's an improvement over last years hitting system for sure. There 
 are still plenty of homeruns to be had, though. Please, for the love of all that is good, copy 
 MVP 2005's hitting system! Or just bring back the game altogether. I still play that game. Lots 
 of fun to sit around and play with your buddies. Anyway, I guess it feels a little more like you 
 are swinging -- but the timing seems off. I think you can pretty much throw away the "timing of 
 the step feedback" because it can't be right. You have to step far too early in order to have a 
 perfect step -- and you have to swing far too early to get a perfect swing. If it were real, a 
 perfect step would be just about the time the pitcher is releasing the ball and this is not the 
 case. It doesn't seem to matter if your swing is "perfect", though, as you will still hit homeruns. 
 What's even more troublesome is that you can still pull outside pitches (even breaking balls) for 
 homeruns. That being said, it's not AS BAD as last year -- but it still happens. The biggest problem 
 I have with the hitting is that you can't influence your swing type. I realize that you can pull 
 the ball or push it. Put it down the line or try for the gap -- but there are other things that 
 go into hitting besides these! First of all, it's imperative to be able to influence your swing 
 for a ground ball or a fly ball. Situational hitting is extremely important in baseball and 2K8 
 doesn't do a good job with this. You never really know what you'll get, it seems. Forrest Gump 
 knows about this. This is something that makes MVP's hitting system so fun. You really feel like 
 you are influencing the swing and doing what you want with it. Ah, the memories. I'll keep praying 
 for an MVP-like hitting system ...
  
  I'll group fielding and baserunning together. I enjoy the new fielding system -- mainly the improved 
 dive (which shouldn't have been a problem in the first place) and throwing system. The new throwing 
 system is done with the right analog stick and presents challenges even after you've gotten used 
 to it. That's what I like to see! However, the animations can be quite drawn out and unnecessary 
 at times. This is, of course, frustrating if it causes you to miss an out because you're shortstop 
 padded his glove one too many times while Michael Bourn was streaking down the first base line. 
 The other knock on fielding is not having an ability to control the jumping of a fielder. C'mon 
 2K! You give us the right to dive, but not to jump? Don't hate. Another problem is the cut-off 
 man. Man, for a "hardcore" baseball sim, you guys really dropped the ball on some SMALL, yet IMPORTANT 
 aspects of the game of baseball. The cut-off man from last year was MUCH better than this year. 
 Please remap the cutoff man to the RB (LB?) button. Now, it may be that way with the old controls, 
 but I like to use the advanced controls. Last season, we could intentionally throw it to the cut-off 
 man. This year, we press LT after we've thrown the ball and sometimes the cut off man is not there! 
 Alas, the ball just rolls into third base while the other team crosses home plate. Sometimes the 
 pitcher and first baseman get confused when a slow roller is hit and it seems that no one covers 
 the bag (?) . The second baseman seems to be at a loss for what to do, as well. Quite an AI blunder. 
 Also, I've seen a tendency with outfielders dropping fly balls that they are tracking from side 
 to side. Outfielders also have an enormous difficulty reaching fly balls in front of them ... Don't 
 try to hit it over their head though! They get offended and track it down with ease. Other times, 
 fielders don't even bother to reach down for and scoop a ball slowly rolling to them in the outfield. 
 This usually results in a double for the opposing team as the ball kicks off several feet to the 
 side.
  
  Baserunning can be a bit confusing at first, but it's not a trivial task once you get used to it. 
 Although, I have noticed some unresponsiveness occasionally and given the poor mapping of the scheme, 
 it can present problems at times. I haven't used baseburner mode at all this year. I tried it out 
 last year and never gained the skill to do it. Maybe I'll go do that after this review?
  
  The 2K card feature is pretty cool. It's not THAT cool, though. I would probably spend more time 
 on it if it weren't so difficult to acquire some cards... Or if buying packs of cards were easier... 
 500 credits for a pack? I'd have to sell at least 12.5 Alex Rios Black cards! That's a lot of games 
 to play for one pack of cards. The player "achievements" are fun to go for, but this feature just 
 needs a little fine tuning. 
  
  Woe, woe ... WOE. Oh, Franchise Mode. This is easily my biggest problem with the game. Screw the 
 frame rate problem. Yeah, that's a bold statement considering how poor the framerate is. First 
 of all, I love the inclusion of A, AA and AAA teams and stadiums. Managing the farm system of your 
 organization is just endless hours of fun for hardcore baseball fans. There are stats on top of 
 stats at the Major League level to google your eyes over and the Player Finder search engine is 
 a godsend. Really. It's so easy to find players with this feature. Franchise mode is fun and even 
 better to play with a friend. They included new "fantasy draft friendly" features such as whether 
 or not you want to take your first 25 picks before any other AI controlled team does or not. Kinda 
 cool. I'd never use it unless I just wanted to create a monster team or fill it up with youngsters. 
 Which, by the way, what's up with teams taking Ubaldo Jimenez in the first round? He's not THAT 
 good. Pretty sure I saw Francisco Liriano go before Johan Santana too ... The AI drafting makes 
 the fantasy draft a little less exciting. Everybody likes the young talent -- only the AI takes 
 all of it up by Round 10 -- with the exception of a few players. You want Tim Lincecum? I hope 
 you get a good first round pick ... Anyway, enough with that. The lineups of AI controlled teams 
 are still awful. I saw Curtis Granderson hitting 9th ... I've also seen Jonny Gomes leading off. 
 I usually just adjust the other teams lineup before I play. They also like to throw their pitchers 
 back to back occasionally, even if he does have 6% stamina. So, yeah, I obviously change that as 
 well. But shouldn't the game be doing this? If you have a day off, and you're #4 guy is scheduled 
 to pitch -- but your #1 guy has 100% stamina after that 1 DAY OFF, then the #1 guy will pitch. 
 Five days off is generally the norm, 2K. So, it all seems good so far, right? I wish I could provide 
 more insight though ... I haven't gotten past April 12th in a season, yet. That's right. There's 
 some kind of glitch that prevents you from getting to the game on your schedule. It's incredibly 
 annoying and there is a way around it -- but why the hell should I, or we, have to deal with crap 
 like that? I don't want to waste time with numerous amounts of reloading and powering off the console 
 just so I can get to my game. It completely kills the franchise mode because I don't know if my 
 schedule is going to work every time and if that doesn't work -- then I can't advance the franchise. 
 If there's a fear that I won't be able to advance my franchise, then I won't waste my time playing 
 it. It's a reason that people buy your game, 2K! It's why I buy it! Bah. 
  
  This game is filled with so many glitches that I couldn't possibly list them all. Most of you have 
 experienced them and there are probably some wacky stories out there. I'll share this one with 
 you as I wrap up this unnecessarily long review. It seems to have become a tradition for me to 
 write a long review of 2K baseball. Anyway, I was playing a game with my franchise team and the 
 computer was at the plate. The AI rips one into right center. I finally get to it and make the 
 throw to third base to cut off the runner from advancing past 2nd base. Well, amidst all of this 
 -- the pitcher was, of course, backing up third base. Good man, that pitcher. It was Greg Maddux, 
 by the way. He knows where he's supposed to be. Carl Crawford, however, did not. For whatever reason, 
 Crawford is surging in from left field to back up third base. I think he had good intentions -- 
 well, up until the point where he barrels in to Maddux. I then learn that Crawford is out for 2 
 weeks with some sort of bruise ... What is this!? My guy gets injured in foul territory for being 
 in a place that he wasn't even supposed to be?? Foul territory?! I'm still confused by what happened. 
 I'm just glad he didn't break his leg. Good grief.
  
  Yes, I'm crying out for a release of MLB: The Show on the 360 or the renaissance of the MVP series 
 because 2K is disappointing us XBOX owners. Exclusive ownership of an official license is bad for 
 the people who buy the games. We get one choice on XBOX. Until competition is brought back to the 
 market, we will continue to get mediocre and unfinished products. Some people, like me, wait all 
 year to see the new baseball games released. I'm highly disappointed with 2K8 as this could have 
 been much better, yet 2K presented a sloppy effort to us. There's no excuse for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingDre410
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  What kind of a game is this. This game is so slow, i would be supprised if they said that this 
 game was running at 20 fps. this game sucks. 
  you wanna score 5 runs and lose a game by ten be my guest and buy this game. this game will beat 
 you until you get so angry that you want to drop ur controller and break your game disc. And this 
 game cheats. for example on Tuesday i played the a game with my red sox i was beating the game 
 9 to 2 in the bottom of the seventh. then it started to rain. you know like after 5and a half innings 
 ur supposed to get the win if it rains and the game is can canceled right. well the 2K guys don't. 
 the game made me re- do the whole game i didn't get the win, the stats or anything, it was like 
 it never happened. also on monday i was beating the game in th bottom of the 7 ( again) and this 
 game is so slow that the game was stuck and the music was still playing, i was forced 2 turn it 
 off.
  
  Graphics: 8.5
  
  gameplay: 7.5 ( this game will cheat u)
  
  realism: 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redalucard1977
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  I've always loved baseball games. I've played them from the MLB game on the NES to this current 
 game. They used to be simple and fun. I like realism as much as anyone but at the same time the 
 companies seem to forget they are creating a video GAME, as in: it should be fun and user friendly. 
 Much of the new Total Control system is far too complex. I'm not stupid, I get it and understand 
 all of the controls but what I'm saying is they are making it a little too difficult to be successful 
 with the game. I just got beat by the Red Sox 23-0. I only had one hit which was a bloop hit to 
 the opposite field. I know the Red Sox are good but what the heck?! Jason Varitek who typically 
 hits 12 to 15 homeruns a season, hit 4 homeruns off of my pitcher. Josh Beckett pitched a complete 
 game one hit shutout and struck out my batters 12 times. I have always dominated sports games, 
 especially against the computer (A. I.)
  
  The graphics are only alright, not great. The frame rate of the players when on defense is very 
 shaky. The controls are terrible. It allows you to choose pitch location and the pitch type which 
 is great.... except that the pitch NEVER, not even once, landed where I selected for it to go. 
 My catcher had about 5 or 6 passed balls in one game, which should never happen with Major League 
 catchers. 
  
  I was really looking forward to this game and ended up very disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSIZEMATTER
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  The smell of hotdogs and cold beer is in the air. The chalk lines are fresh on the field and the 
 nation is gearing for yet another season of baseball. And to the gaming community this also means 
 that the consoles are gearing up for another year of baseball season. 2K Sports is back again with 
 Major League Baseball 2K8, the latest of their hardball franchise. As a huge die-hard Yankees fan 
 I always look forward to the games that hit right around Spring Training. And this year was no 
 different. Major League Baseball 2K8 hits the big this year (PS3, Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii) and 
 nobody is being left this time around. I had the pleasure of taking on Major League Baseball 2K8 
 for the Xbox 360 (as well as the PS3 version) . And while Major League Baseball 2K8 does still have 
 a few issues that need to be addressed, this years entry is much better then last years. 
  
  Presentation:
  So how does Major League Baseball 2K8 play compared to last year's game? It 
 looks like things have greatly improved. This is the section of the game where Major League Baseball 
 2K8 shines. 2KSports took everything from last years edition and expanded on them. I found that 
 the gameplay is much tighter and there are far less glitches in the game. I remember the game being 
 plagued with field glitches last year and it seems that many of those issues have been resolved.
 
  
  The games controls are also very good. You have a ton of options on how you want to play the game. 
 You can use the analog stick to pitch now, which is very fun and pretty innovative. I like that 
 2K Sports took a different approach to something new and it actually paid off. You can also go 
 back to the classic form of pitching and hitting (button pressing) . You can also choose how to 
 field as well (analog stick or classic button pressing) . The fielding has been greatly improved 
 over last years game. It is so much easier to field in the outfield as well as playing the infield. 
 I also really like how 2K Sports did the base running, which will allow you to make a batter run 
 to second or third almost seconds after you hit the ball. Pressing the R1/L1 buttons will allow 
 you to go back and forth at any time. While you are running down the first base line and you press 
 L1 you will see a little icon over the player. It will show you which base you want the runner 
 to go to. While this has been done in the past, 2K Sports has made the task extremely easy this 
 year. Basically Major League Baseball 2K8 gives you various choices of how to play. While I do 
 prefer the classic ways, the new types of gameplay gives users a more broader way of playing.
 
  
  The VIP feature is also great . You can basically change everything you want, from fielding to 
 how you want to hit. Everything can be tweaked in Major League Baseball 2K8. You can have Home 
 Run contests, play Franchise mode (Spring Training all the way to the big showdown for the World 
 Series) or just settle for a fast game of hardball. Major League Baseball 2K8 keeps track of pretty 
 much everything you do from hitting, pitching and fielding. The vast options that you have in Major 
 League Baseball 2K8 is very satisfying. You can even play as every minor league team as well and 
 keep track of each of the minor league teams during franchise mode. Minor League teams have been 
 greatly missed since the EA baseball days and I am glad you now have the option to play as any 
 A, AA, or AAA team.
  
  Major League Baseball 2K8 now features the new baseball card features as well. You basically have 
 to accomplish various things to unlock player cards. You can make teams as well as trade and sell 
 your unwanted cards in for points to buy new baseball packs. Each new pack consists of 10 cards. 
 I am trying to complete my Yankees team and then move out from there, collecting other teams. This 
 is a very cool addition to Major League Baseball 2K8. Being a child of the 80's I used to collect 
 baseball cards like they were going out of style (Topps, Donruss, Upper Deck and Flair) . This is 
 something greatly missed, as baseball cards have become so crazy with multiple types of cards and 
 special editions. They have also become too damn expensive. I remember when a pack of baseball 
 cards was about $1. Now they are ridiculously priced for packs.
  
  Online:
  One of the most important things to me is online play. And in terms of a baseball game, it does 
 not get any better then playing a game online with your friends. Now the first thing I want to 
 talk about is the roster, and I saved talking about the game roster until I got to this section 
 because team rosters have a lot to do with the online mode. Out of the gate, Major League Baseball 
 2K8 does not have a current updated roster. You can download a updated roster from February 29th 
 2008. Santana is still on the twins, players like Ian Kennedy, Fukudome and other rookies have 
 not been added. These will be updated on opening day when every player is registered and they are 
 allowed to be on the MLB roster. So you will be able to keep your teams up to date thanks to the 
 online roster updates.
  
  Online mode is packed full of great features. You can check news, check your player card (your 
 online stats) as well as get updates. The news online does not just tell you about what is going 
 on around baseball. You can also check news on the NBA, NHL, NFL, NCAA, etc. This is yet another 
 very cool feature. You can also set your VIP settings online and choose which view you want for 
 pitching and batting. You can also trade your baseball cards to other players online. As far as 
 play goes, you can have ranked and unranked matches. The game will keep track of all of your wins 
 and losses as well as other stats. You can join leagues, tournaments and play other games like 
 "Strikes Only" and Card Battle. Sadly, online play does have some major lag issues. These problems 
 can hopefully be fixed with future patches (at the time of this review the problem is being looked 
 into) .
  
  Graphics:
  I am running the game in 720 p on a HD television and the game looks pretty good. Major League 
 Baseball 2K8 supports 720p, but not 1080i or 1080p. I will first concentrate on what is good about 
 Major League Baseball 2K8. From major league right down to minor league, the stadiums all look 
 really good. 2K Sports even threw in the Spring Training stadiums as well. I was happy to see Legends 
 Field (now re-named Steinbrenner Field) in the game as well. As far as stadium details, you still 
 have people walking around in the concession area. Depending on which stadium you play in, the 
 crowd will sport home-team colors and wear. I also like the background blur in certain areas of 
 the game (when a batter comes up to plate, etc) . There are still little details like the subway 
 at Yankee Stadium and the sounds of police cars, boat horns and other sounds in the distance of 
 the Stadium. Overall Major League Baseball 2K8 looks good on a HDTV, but still leaves room for 
 improvement.
  
  Major League Baseball 2K8 also has shadows in the stadiums which sometimes I found to be a bit 
 too much. I was playing one game and the shadows toward home plate were extremely too dark. It 
 was almost to the point of where I had to turn my contrast up on my HDTV because I felt like I 
 was pitching into a black hole. Other details that stand out are the player uniform movement. You 
 can see the cloth bend and move in the wind. Little details like dirt and dust flying up has also 
 been added. Major League Baseball 2K8 also features weather effects that you can select if you 
 play an exhibition game. You can play a game a night with high winds, 30 degree weather and rain. 
 Playing in cold weather also results in being able to see the players breath. Again, very nice 
 added details to this years game. 
  
  Now for the downers of the game. There seems to be a lot of "Catch 22's" in Major League Baseball 
 2K8. First I will start with the players themselves. At times they move and animate nicely, while 
 other times they walk and move like robots. I would say its about 80/20 for great player movement. 
 Another gripe, which madly seems to hampers the game, is the very glitchy camera movements. This 
 is one of the main reason why I gave this game a rating under 90. Because trust me, Major League 
 Baseball 2K8 has the potential to be the best baseball game in town. But these damn camera glitches 
 makes me want to throw my controller through my TV. You can have smooth movement during one at 
 bat, and then the next time the camera pans with chugs, skipping frames, stuttering and jerking 
 about like someone is punching the cameraman in the arm while filming. Sometimes you get a jerky 
 movement just by hitting a ball to third base, and when they throw the ball to first the camera 
 skips and chugs while panning from third to first, making things look very off. Throwing a ball 
 from the outfield to home also results in very glitchy camera movement. I also found skips and 
 glitches when logos and replays pop up as well. I have heard various rumors on the 2KSports forums 
 about loading your VIP or updated rosters will cause this. The Xbox 360 version suffers really 
 bad compared to the Playstation 3 version. Hopefully this is fixed in a patch down the road. 
 
  
  Another problem lies in the players themselves. Some of the players look good while others look 
 nothing like their real-life counterpart. The face mapping is very spotty on most of the players. 
 Players like Robinson Cano looks spot-on, while A-rod looks like an alien. Players have their trademark 
 stances, but the faces are just not where they need to be. Animation is also glitchy at times. 
 About 85% of the time the animation is spot-on, but the other 15% of the time the players seem 
 to have a robotic move to them. Don't get me wrong, the animation is very good in Major League 
 Baseball 2K8. Some of the animation is actually spectacular. The players make great dives and throws 
 from their knees. They run to the warning track and jump up walls. But that 15% I was talking about 
 with the spotty animation. It could be so much better on today's game systems. 
  
  Another very minor flaw that I have to point out is that I noticed a few of the baseball player 
 images are not updated. Sure some just got traded but players like Bobby Abreu have been with the 
 New York Yankees for three seasons now, and he still has his photo with Phillies. When they show 
 him coming up to bat he is clearly sporting a red hat and a red and white jersey in his picture. 
 I know this is a minor gripe, but please update the pictures of the players as well as the rest 
 of the game. I don't want to see one of my team players sporting other colors other then the good 
 old Yankees pinstripes he is wearing now. 
  
  Music and Sound:
  This year the great voice of Jon Miller returns with Joe Morgan. I grew up in Baltimore Maryland 
 and Jon Miller was the voice of the Orioles. I used to listen to him broadcast every time they 
 would play my beloved Yankees and he has a very good "baseball" voice. So I am glad 2K Sports brought 
 him back for 2K8. I personally am not too crazy about Joe Morgan though, but this is just a personal 
 dislike. Having watched hundreds of games on television with him announcing I just do not find 
 him to be a favorite. You also have the rest of the announcing crew (Steve Physioc and Jeanne Zelasco) 
 from last year returning as well. The announcing is really good throughout each game with very 
 minor announcing glitches here and there. I did find that playing minor league games you do not 
 have announcing. This is very understandable since the announcers would have to do weeks of voices 
 just to cover the 90 minor league teams. 
  
  The games sounds are also very good. The sounds of the stadiums are once again very accurate and 
 detailed. The crowd will cheer or boo at almost each move. You have the trademark Yankees roll-call 
 at the stadium (Jon Miller even says something about it) . Each stadium is filled with its own unique 
 touches. I will also add that the in-game sounds are also very well done. Organ sounds, chanting, 
 whistles and calls, they are all here for your listening pleasure. 
  
  The Bottom Line:
  You know that this year there will be a huge comparison between Major League Baseball 2K8 and Sony's 
 MLB 08 The Show. While I can sit here and nit-pick every difference I will shy away and not do 
 so in this review. You can just read my review for MLB 08 The show and come to your own conclusion. 
 Basically Major League Baseball 2K8 is the only game in town for the Xbox 360 and the Nintendo 
 Wii. And while Major League Baseball 2K8 does have its share of flaws, it still ends up being a 
 very good baseball game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eaglezfreak36
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K8 has stunning graphics... and is overall ENTERTAINING!!! There's nothing better then swinging 
 ur analog stick like a bat and smacking it out of the park... on the other hand there is nothing 
 more frustrating than losing ur grip on the analog stick and throwing a meatball which then goes 
 for the game winning home-run.... All buyers be warned... unless u set the difficulty to rookie 
 (easy) and tamper with the settings.... It's going to take u a while before u win a game.... But 
 in the end, once u get the hang of things... there is no denying that this game is plane and simple... 
 Fun! When i turn on my 360 and try to decide what to play i always pop in MLB 2K8 and have fun 
 playing americas greatest past time... Another warning... u might not think this game is what you 
 wanted... once u've spent 60 dollars on it and have to trade it in for probably about half of what 
 you spent... RENT IT FIRST.... Do not be swayed by the low rated reviews... this could be just what 
 you were looking for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justsomeguy99
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I love the gameplay. But the text for all the stats and email and anything that you are supposed 
 to READ are so tiny that you can't even see it when you are 6 inches from the screen!! If there 
 is a setting that I have missed that can change this issue, then I will gladly accept any input.
 
  Overall the game has not changed much as far as playing THE GAME. And I love the "real" feeling 
 of the players actions the same as I always have. I'm not a die-hard paint my face and all that 
 jazz , fanatic of baseball, so this game is fine with me as far as the game play goes. 
  The newly added pitching control is more of a hassle than it's worth to me, so I just turned it 
 off. But this tiny text is a pain in the a$$ to me and i have perfect vision and am using a 47" 
 LCD HD tv to play it on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donezy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K8 ANNOUNCED THEY WILL B PUTTING AN UPDATE PATCH ON THE MARKET WHICH WILL FIX ALL OF THE BUGS, GLITCHES 
 AND FRAMERATE PROBLEMS. ONCE THE PATCH IS AVAILABLE AND YOU ADD THAT TO A GAME WHICH IS WAY MORE 
 REALISTIC THAN MLB 08 THE CRAPPY SHOW, IN WHICH THEIR BATTING STANCES DONT EVEN MATCH THEIR REAL 
 LIFE COUNTERPARTS, YOU HAVE NOT ONLY THE BEST BASEBALL GAME ON THE MARKET BUT THE BEST BASEBALL 
 GAME SINCE MVP BASEBALL 2005. MLB 2K8 HAS ALMOST EVERYONE'S BATTING AND PITCHING STANCES, FROM ROOKIES 
 TO VETERANS, THEY HAVE ALL OF THE MINOR LEAGUE TEAMS, INCLUDING STADIUMS. THEIR FIELDING MECHANICS 
 WILL BE SO SMOOTH WHEN THE PATCH COMES OUT, BECAUSE THE WAY THE PLAYERS TRANSITION FROM CATCHIN 
 THE BALL TO THROWING THE BALL IS VASTLY IMPROVED FROM LAST YEAR. PLAYERS DONT HIT HOME RUNS OFF 
 OF BALLS THAT R WAYYY OUT OF ZONE, YOU BASICALLY HAVE TO PITCH A BALL THAT YOU DIDNT TIME RIGHT 
 ON THE THROWING METER FOR THE COMPUTER TO DESTROY YOU. ON THE FLIP SIDE IT IS VERY DIFFUCULT TO 
 HIT THE BALL, ESPECIALLY GOOD PITCHERS, YOU CANT JUST HIT A HOME RUN OFF ANYTHING, IT TAKES COMPLETLY 
 CORRECT TIMING AND CONCENTRATION. IT IS MUCH EASIER TO READ THE BALL FROM THE PICTHERS HAND AS 
 WELL TO TELL IF ITS GONNA BE A BALL OR NOT WHICH CAN LEAD TO MANY MORE WALKS THEN OF ANY OTHER 
 BASEBALL GAMES. THE COMMENTARY IS SOLID, EVEN THOUGH THEY HAVE THEIR MOMENTS WHERE THEIR INNACUARTE, THEY 
 STILL CALL A VERY GOOD GAME IN AND OUT. ANOTHER KEY IN THE GAME IS THE CATCHERS CALL GAME ATTRIBUTE, IT 
 ACTUALLY MATTERS IN THIS GAME AS THEY CAN TELL WHAT PICTCHES TO THROW IN THE SITUATION THEY CAN 
 GET U OUT OF AN BASES LOADED JAM. MLB 08 THE SHOW GET READY FOR MLB 2K8 TO PUT ON A SHOW ON THE 
 SALES MARKET BECAUSE THIS IS TRULY THE BEGINNING OF A DYNASTY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceking003
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  This has to be the worst baseball game i have even played. I feel sorry for baseball fans who dont 
 have a PSP or PS3, cause you cant buy The Show 08. And this game doesnt even feel like it was made 
 in the same decade as The Show 07. The controls are glitchy and dont really make sense, the fantasy 
 draft is just set up badly, and mostly the words on the screen are unreadable because they are 
 so tiny. My freind and i were at blockbuster, and i urged him to rent Call of Duty 4, but he insisted 
 on this. 10 minutes later, he wanted to go back to blockbuster and treade this in. We both hated 
 it, and played it for about 20 minutes total. It is almost impossable to throw someone out from 
 anywere farther then 2nd base, the player graphics look like they come from a glitchy PS1, and 
 the commentators dont know what they are talking about most of the time. Its just bad, if you dont 
 want to listen go buy it and see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mps32
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 25, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  I usually give the benefit of the doubt to games but this game is GOD AWFUL. Take a glitchy fielding 
 system, a pitching system that is just downright terrible (i had about 10 people hit homeruns on 
 curveballs that were low and OUT OF THE ZONE... what?!?! the computer will completely shell your 
 pitcher on even some of the easier difficulties and it's darn near impossible to get anything past 
 the players in the computers field. the frame rate is terrible and throws start and stop in mid-air 
 as well as players choppy running in the outfield. i traded in last years game and a few cheaper 
 games for this and i completely regret it. do not i repeat DO NOT buy this game i'm taking it back 
 right now and getting Rainbow Six Vegas 2 or NHL 08. i have a few characters left to burn so here's 
 a word of advice IF YOU WANT A GOOD BASEBALL GAME BUY A PS2 AND GET A VERSION OF THE SHOW, IT'S 
 EASILY THE BETTER OF THE TWO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsox38
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  Technical problems make this game slightly below great. I would like to see a highlight reel without 
 the screen becoming all choppy and freezing time to time. I like how it shows the managers when 
 you chose to substitute a pitcher of when you visit the pitcher on the mound to calm his composure. 
 I also like how uniforms look in a baseball game, and a better variety of PRESENT DAY uniforms 
 would be great. For example, I want to play with the San Diego Padres in thier dark blue, light 
 brown pants when they are away, and vice versa with any othe team and thier alternatitve road uniform 
 attire. Also the BP uniforms would be nice too, some of those actually look very nice. 
  This game isn't terrible, but then again its not that great thanks to all the bugs and glitches 
 that make it a pain in the ass to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmairano
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  I was a college baseball player, I have been playing baseball sims since 1984, and I can honestly 
 say this is one of the most glitchy, unrealistic games ever released in this genre. The frame rate 
 is so poor it makes fielding a chore; things look so choppy you swear you are either playing a 
 beta version or that your XBox is dying. Graphically, the game is actually a small step down from 
 last year; antialiasing is poor, and stadium/fan detail is downright embarrassing!
  
  Gameplay is also full of glitches- errors often count for hits (I had a not hitter going in the 
 9th inning when a muffed ball hit directly to a fielder was called a hit!) . In addition, just about 
 anything hit to right field at Fenway becomes a ground rule double. I actually had 7 ground rule 
 doubles in one game! In addition, it is almost impossible to tell what type of pitch is coming- 
 there is no way to read the seams of the ball out of the pitchers hand, and the CPU almost never 
 throws balls. In a recent game, Barry Zito actually threw strikes on an 0-2 count 7 different times! 
 Apparently the developers of this game are nerds who have never actually strapped on spikes and 
 played a real game of baseball. Finally, online play is TERRIBLE, as lag and frame rate issues 
 make the game almost unplayable. 
  
  I literally can not believe that 2K released a game this full of bugs. Have they ever heard of 
 Beta Testing? How can the same company that produced Bioshock have made this mess of a game? Surely 
 heads should roll at EA Los Angeles.
  
  Looks like it's back to MVP 05 again for me! Shame on EA Sports and the Madden team for creating 
 this exclusive licensing mess! Even though I spent $60 on this game, I am going to mail it back 
 to 2K sports and request a refund for my "broken" product.
  
  Allow me to re-iterate- DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedijohnhawk
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Nothing makes me more jealous of PS3 owners than the fact that us 360 fans have no other option 
 than to suffer through 2K Sports baseball. How I wish for the days of MVP baseball! In many respects 
 it feels like 2K is still trying to catch up to the bar set by MVP 2005. After this year's attempt 
 they should just give up their exclusive licensing rights and let the professionals step back up 
 to the plate. 
  Aside from the technical problems (which are many) the game just doesn't do a very good job of 
 allowing the player to have fun with the national pastime. It feels very sterile and methodical 
 and doesn't really give you a reason to care. The new controls are nothing but a gimmick and the 
 AI could use some serious work to make it feel natural and make it flow. 
  Once again, bring back the heyday of console baseball and allow EASports to raise the bar even 
 higher, before I'm forced to get a PS3!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdharper
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  great game. I think its pretty good and with the card collecting it makes it great. I spent alot 
 of time trading cards with other users on xbl. Granted there is some glitches as with any game it 
 hooked me with it's deep franchise mode and card collecting. Overall i think its a great game with 
 a great idea with card collecting. Hopefully in the future you can redeem those cards for real cards 
 ala Etopps. Give it a try if your into deep sport sims, that alone is worth the price. I don't have 
 ps3 so this all i got to play and i really enjoy it. Thanks pd  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agirlyman
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  At first glance MLB 2K8 might seem like the same damn game as last years, but it's the little things 
 you miss. The gameplay is tighter, faster, the animations fluid and spot on, a very beautiful game 
 of baseball. The fielders catch the ball, and throw the ball exactly the way they should at every 
 position. 2K Sport have made alot of litte changes to make this years game of baseball better than 
 the last, is it innovative? Maybe, with the new control scheme (I just cant get into it) , but itI 
 doesn't have to be, it gets the game of baseball down pat, however there is always room for improvement. 
 MLB 2K8 is a great game of baseball, and any fan of the game will love this game. Is it the best 
 game of baseball out there? I will have to let you know when I get my hands on a ps3, and check 
 out "The Show". It is the best baseball game on the 360, more than worthy for your hard earned 
 dollars, hitting, pitching, and fielding are all equally fun, and satisfying to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelCheritto
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  It's unbelievable to me how the makers of this game could release such a lousy video game. I mean, 
 how could they play this game with ALL it's problems and think that it is playable and more importantly, 
 enjoyable. When we pay 60 dollars for a game we should get a game that at least is free from bugs 
 and glitches that make the game unplayable. It's obvious that the maker of the game took advantage 
 of having NO competition. They put a game out that they knew wasn't ready. But, hey, why do they 
 care?? They get our money and don't have to take any responsibility for the game being just an 
 awful experience. 
  
  In closing, I won't buy another 2K baseball game. Last years game was decent and I really had the 
 feeling that they would make the adjustments for this years game to be outstanding. They failed 
 miserably!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewhawk
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  I am a HUGE baseball fan. I really wanted a fun and immersive baseball game to play this year. 
 MLB 2k6 was a big let down but 2k7 was a much improved installment. So I'm not sure what in the 
 heck happened this year. I have played around ten games and I must give up 5 homers plus a game. 
 The frame rate is so terrible that I'm not sure how this game passed certification. The replays 
 are a joke, as are the post-game reports. They are so slow and choppy that they are not even worth 
 watching. I do like the many AAA and AA stadiums they have added as well as signature pitching 
 and batting. But besides that, there isn't much to cheer for in 2k Sports latest baseball entry. 
 I'm hoping maybe Microsoft will make another baseball game, otherwise it looks as if the best baseball 
 game this year goes to the PS3 with The Show 08. I really hope 2k takes the time and fixes these 
 problems for next year because this is a great baseball franchise and it is worth saving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hahaleo1
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 17, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I agree with almost everything gamespot said. The game is full of new promises, i especially love 
 the idea of the trading card system. Being a baseball card collector myself, i think that it's 
 a brilliant idea to finally have the system in a video game. However, the difficulty of unlocking 
 cards is too hard. The preview also said that a pack of card will give the gamer at least one gold 
 or platinum card, well, i had 3 packs already, and the best card i got out of these packs was a 
 Houston Street black edition (I got John Rauch 3 times out of 3 packs...)
  The gamplay is improved with the new pitching right stick control and the fielding right stick 
 control. I think the best improvement was improving a batter's fouling ability. In 2k7, you either 
 strikeout, or you put the ball in play, there was no fouls whatsoever. But there are still alot 
 of improvements needed in 2k8. Fielders let easy ground balls pass them by, shortstops throw an 
 easy out away in crucial situations, errors appear too often, and turning a double play becomes 
 nearly impossible (everytime you try to throw the ball to 1st, you collide with the runner) . Pitching 
 is absolutely better off with this new right stick control, but again, 2k made it extremely difficult 
 and the learning curve was set way too high. Another thing that i've noticed is that CPU never 
 throws any balls, which means that walks are basically left out in this game.
  I like the achievements set for this game, 2k mixed some nearly impossible tasks (Eagle Eye, A 
 Day to Remember) with many easy points (Advanced Mind, Advanced Pleasure and Strikeout the Side) . 
 But i've done the achievement De-Railed, which is successfully prevent the runner plowing over 
 your catcher and score, about 4 times, and yet, i still dont have the archievement... (I'm pissed 
 about that too)
  Franchise again was the highlight of the 2k sports series, as 2k always have the deepest franchise 
 or association mode. The new fantasy draft is awesome (100 rounds!!!) , and the trading system is 
 better than ever.
  Overall, the game is very decent, and it contains many brilliant new ideas, but the overloaded 
 glitches separate the game from the good sports games. Me and my friends looked forward to this 
 game for over two months, and i can only say that i'm very disappointed because the game is nowhere 
 close to meet my expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimpos
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna keep this short. I dont think the reviewer (s) who rated this game gave it a fair shake 
 judging by some of their criticisms. After playing maybe six or so games, I was able to throw a 
 complete game, 10k, six-hit shutout on pro difficulty with a pitcher rated at 77 overall. Granted 
 it is a little bit vexing to start but after a short while of learning the mechanics its very, 
 very manageable. There are however those glitches that are obviously present but they are all aesthetic 
 and do not deter me from playing this underrated, solid game. The card system is fun and it is 
 time consuming, but hey there are lots of gamers out there that spend every waking hour trying 
 to get every last achievement in any game ever made so this may just be a personal preference thing. 
 I hope that maybe I can help to persuade the Game Spot reviewers, who normally do an excellent 
 job, to give this and other seemingly poor games one more go through. You never know, you might 
 just see the light. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_n_16
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K8 was a good buy, or so I thought before I put it in my Xbox 360 for the first time. The 
 problems with this game begin the first time you are pitching or batting. In the manual, you'll 
 notice that there are two types of swings listed that you can't perform, a contact swing and a 
 defensive swing. That makes hitting unrealistic, especially when hitting with a slugger like Prince 
 Fielder, who for me over a series of five games on All Star had 6 hits, all homers. Pitching isn't 
 much easier. It is way too easy to throw a curve when trying to throw a back door slider with a 
 3-2 count and the bases loaded. If you have a pitcher that throws both a 4 seam and 2 seam fastball, 
 good luck trying to throw the 2 seamer. The game does a horrible job of picking up on which pitch 
 you are actually trying to throw. The fielding isn't much better. Far too often a fielder will 
 simply let a soft grounder roll by without making any attempt to grab it. Once you finish an inning 
 or a game, you might find that it takes longer to get from one inning to another, or from the end 
 of the game back to the menu, longer than it took to play the inning. The replays are very good, 
 however, the loading takes so long, that you are forced to turn replays off if you want any kind 
 of flow to your game. The cards in MLB 2K8 are a very neat idea. However, it takes far too long 
 in order to obtain the cards, and too hard to get any good cards, that the feature seems like a 
 waste of time. For example, getting the Markakis card on pro (hitting a homer) gets you a black 
 card while getting the David Wright card (hit a homer, steal a base, get two hits and drive in 
 2 runs) on pro will also only net you a black card, even though the David Wright task is 10x harder 
 than the Markakis task. Also, in each pack there was promised a legend. I got 5 packs through wild 
 cards and received 0 legends. Which brings me to packs. The only guaranteed way to get a pack is 
 to sell duplicates for credits. This is a time consuming task seeing as how cards sell on average 
 of 15 credits, while you need 500 credits to get 1 pack of 10 cards. Overall, 2K8 has some great 
 ideas. However, it's a case of 1 step forward and 2 steps back. For every innovative idea (thumbstick 
 pitching) there is a glitch or structural error that makes the innovation a waste of the consumers 
 time (glitching, bad read and responsiveness) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darobinson67
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Why did 2k sports make such a big deal on a game that has some new and improved features, but the 
 game also takes the fun out of baseball. This game has so many glitches and frame rate issues that 
 its not even enjoyable. If you have played this game online then you know what i mean. SLOW and 
 CHOPPY. The only new feature that this game improved on was the swing stick. swing stick 2.0 is 
 much better than the original, better timeing. The new pitching interface is laughable. you cannot 
 put a pitch where you want, to save your life. you must rotate the right stick in the direction 
 of the certain pitch you choose to throw. for example; if you want to throw a changeup you must 
 push the stick forward and then pull it back, the problem is that the game sometimes thinks your 
 throwing a diffrent type. Whic makes you throw a meatball and you might as well get ready to watch 
 a home run fly overhead. Too many flaws for fun. 2K sports can we please get it right in MLB 2K9? 
 Xbox 360 owners dont have a choice!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smileatdeath11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2k8 has some flaws, but its not as bad as some people say it is. overall this is still a fun 
 game for baseball fans.
  
  Pros:
  
  1. Improved franchise mode
  2. New card feature 3. new pitching mode is awesome (give it time)
  4. You can switch all the 
 new interfaces back to the old ones
  5. Good commentary 
  
  Cons:
  1. Bad frame rate in the field
  2. imo the new fielding and hitting modes aren't that good (you 
 can aways switch them back)
  3. Hitches in presentation 
  4. After about 4 or 5 years in franchise mode, the star pitchers demand too much money, and a lot 
 of 90+ rated pitchers are on the free agent list 
  
  Overall this is still a fun game for baseball fans. its far from perfect, but it dose have some 
 good things going for it. I would recommend it for big baseball fans, but some of the causal fans 
 may not like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derekismyname21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I think that mlb 2k8 is a good, not great baseball game. The frame rate is bad but the graphics 
 are good. They have great faces to players that are stars, but not really to the bad players which 
 is fine because if you are an average person then you wont know what they look like anyway. I do 
 because i'm a baseball nerd. The pitching in this game is different. At first it may be very frusterating 
 but after awhile you will start rolling over your oppenents. The online play lags which is a big 
 let down because my favorite part about video games is online play. The throwing to base is different. 
 You have to get the ball and hold the right stick until its in the green. It makes more bad throws. 
 hitiing is the same as 2k7. They made base-running simple in my opinion, but it may cause you problems. 
 Another thing is that they don't have average players like Shawn Green and Cliff Floyd rated 99 
 or 100. They got the overalls right in this one. If you like baseball, then buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derrick2331
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 15, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Hello Gamers,
  
  This game is really bad for any baseball fans as well as Xbox owners!!!! You would think that MLB 
 2k8 developers would get things with the hitting and pitching!! For having TOTAL CONTROL PITCHING (why 
 did i feel like i had no control???) the hitting was hideous as well!! 
  
  This is bad for XBOX owners because:
  
  1. This is the ONLY baseball game we can buy to date -- while 
 MLB the show is kicking butt in sales and a TRUE baseball experience on the PS3!!!
  
  2. I would rather buy MVP Baseball 2005 and change the rosters to today's CURRENT rosters and have 
 a true game (but MVP Baseball 2005 isn't available for backwards compatability for the 360 -- i checked 
 today) .
  
  P. S. the frame rate for this game is so CHOPPY that i had to turn OFF the ticker, replays and cutscenes 
 to get thru a game without freezing my 360!!!
  
  I have made a decision to turn in my 360 and games for store credit and buy a PS3 -- so i can have 
 MLB the show08 and not to deal with a disappoinment EVERY YEAR with 2k sports baseball!!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sickness87th
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  The start of something beautiful and close to the real thing. for most of us who have given MLB 
 2K8 some time is all about getting familiar with the controls, that said the game does lag a bit 
 but not to the point you will be waiting for minutes, 2 or 3 seconds lag's that realy dont get 
 into the game
  Baseball is a slow game a thinking man's game.
  this was not meant to be an arcade baseball game. thats why we have the bigs cool game by the way. 
 Now i have seen people talking about the hitting mode 2.0 been weak. give me a break its the best. 
 why would we want to just press A and hit homer or a single, for the first time we have to read 
 the pitcher just like in a real game by no means Im saying is the best BASEBALL game out there 
 but I would say that is the only close one to the real thing if you want to feel close to the game. 
 FOR THE LOVE OF THE GAME try it give train for about 1hr and you will love it dont expect to hammer 
 homers right away and you'll understand why we all cant play MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettmduncan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  as an avid baseball player and gamer - owning such classic titles as the Triple Play series and 
 MVP lineup, I have to sadly admit that the 2k series is going backwards, not forwards. Ever since 
 2k6 hit the stands, I was like...."ok.... fresh face in the crowd", then 2k7 rolled in..... ok.... 
 a little better, but now that 2k8 is out...... where did all the fun go? Someone pinch me.... did 
 they say they fixed the hitting and pitching? I do remember belting out some bad a$$ home runs, 
 but I figured they would have evened it out, not give the computer the upper hand. Oh, please don't 
 get me started on the whack pitching concept. I was so thrown off (pardon the pun) that i switched 
 to classic mode (just pressing the button twice) that then the guts and glory of my ace pitcher 
 were left up to the weakest teams on the market...... (PS: never seen the orioles hit 7 home runs 
 in one inning, let alone 3 different occasions against me) .
  
  I do have issues and here they are in the top 5 order.
  
  #5: graphic glitches - nuff said 
 (framerates need some help) and lighting issues - played a game at noon, sunny skies and it looked 
 like god was smiting me with a cloud directly overhead - uh.......... ok
  
  #4: the computer is smart, but have some common sense when messing with lineups and rotations
 
  
  #3: hitting - (decently hard on Pro - i'm fearfull of breaking another 50 dollar controller)
 
  
  #2 pitching - I swear i threw a 98 mph that even ichiro couldnt hit..... what gives? 7 hrs in the 
 first inning???
  
  #1 the look/style - graphics (again) look to clean cut - smooth it out.... it still looks like 2k6 
 and dare I say....... one MVP game I played. Photorealstic is a good word....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numblock2009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing MLB games for the past two year, each year with it flaws. With that said, what 
 game doesn't have a glitch or two that are over looked, and only noticed when you've actually played 
 the game. Now with that said, everyone is intitled to an opinion which is viewed and expressed 
 in there own words, because they played the game and to note of whats wrong. Well when it comes 
 to Gamespots reviews of MLB 2K8, it seems they really didn't play the game all the way through 
 to the end to justify a 6.5 rating, based on the fact that 2K sports is planning a patch to fix 
 issues in the game in the such as frame rate and Padre issues. In fact it makes me think Gamespot 
 never really played the game and relied on MLB 2K8 forums on the 2ksport. com website to pick up 
 points to add to this review, thats why they never released a review on the game til like a week 
 after it release.
  
  Sure this game has a share of bugs, but not as bad as Atari's Test Drive Unlimited when it first 
 came out and to think, it took like 6 months to a year just to get a patch just so you could play 
 a game without it freezing up and then having it delete or corrupt a save file of a career you 
 had just put some time into it. This game atleast doesn't do that, it just lacks some framerates 
 and some minor flaws, which can be fixed if you just unplug your xbox360 from your internet connection. 
 Further more when it comes to playing with the Padres and having it fault out, WHO CARES, the Padres 
 haven't been a good time since Tony Gwynn was a rookie with them back in the 80's.
  
  So as you can see, there's always a fix to something if it's not working right, and this game is 
 far from being a "single game" playball type game and is fully functional, just use the 2Ksports. com 
 website forum for quick fixes till a patch comes out. And Gamespot, spot using the 2ksports forum 
 for your reviews and do your homework, maybe you should reconsider a rewrite on the review.
  
  Thanks
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: durdin
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 13, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Where to start? I'm still trying to figure-out what the big changes from last year are. Other than 
 the gimmicky new control system and useless effect of someone aiming a leaf blower at the ballplayer's 
 jerseys, I can't seem to find any 'improvements' over last year's game. Oh, wait... there is the 
 nifty new addition of those lame baseball cards (-sigh-) . Is that what they spent all their time 
 on? Stupid bonus features? Because to me, it looks EXACTLY like the sub-par game I played last 
 year! Player animations are still so-so and inconsistent... Morgan and Miller (who I really like) 
 still make the wrong calls throughout the game... and the frame rate is even worse than last time! 
 A couple good things: added signature styles are nice and I like the home run batter perspective. 
 And let's talk about the batting for a second. The character animations after a home run (posing 
 as the ball leaves the park) are cool, but EVERY home run? Players show-up the pitcher even if 
 a ball barely clears the fence. Sort of takes away some of the excitement from it when it happens 
 on every single home run. And occasionally you still get the annoying glitch of players watching 
 their home run ball in the wrong direction. And what happened to the crowd reacting to foul balls? 
 I know it's minor, but it really added to the overall feel (I'd rather watch them react to the 
 game play instead walking around aimlessly outside the ballpark) . Now it's like playing in front 
 of cardboard cut-outs. It's just more of these missteps that really take away from the baseball 
 experience. And don't even get me started on the horrendous frame rate! I can't remember a game 
 with worse hiccups. The choppiness is almost unbearable. I don't mean to be hating too much, because 
 I've always been a really big 2K fan, but it's frustrating to see them piss-away their exclusive 
 MLB license by making little to no improvements on a game that was mediocre at best last year. 
 I just expected much more. I really look forward to the yearly release of a new baseball game, 
 so needless to say I'm slightly beyond disappointed. It's kinda like getting socks on Christmas. 
 Bummer. Well, I guess there's always next year (-sigh-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erp47
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty good game. The batting is fluid and is less home-run centric compared to 2K7, 
 the new gesture-based pitching mechanic is challenging and realistic, and the cards feature is 
 cool. But there are lots of things in this game that just bug the $&!# out of me. For one, some 
 of the components of fielding. The diving mechanic is not fluid at all. You could be running forward 
 and dive the same direction just to make sure you make a catch, but since the game judges your 
 dive as "unnecessary", it for some reason makes you dive to the right. WTF? Also, the tutorial 
 for cutoffs doesn't even give the right instructions!! It's LT to hit the cutoff, not RB! Know 
 your own game, developers! The graphics are alright, but the game stutters like Jimmy Vollmer once 
 the ball is in play, causing me to overrun many a fly ball. The player's jerseys also flap very 
 unrealistically in the wind. It looks kind of creepy. The commentary is adequate at best. Joe and 
 Jon constantly call out the wrong play, and if you hit a home run sometime before the 7th inning 
 stretch and it is judged game-changing, Steve Physioc always identifies it as an inside-the-parker! 
 Even if it's with David frickin' Ortiz! MLB 2K8 is an OK game, but with more honing, it could have 
 been an excellent one. If you have a 360, it is good enough to buy, but for anyone else, there 
 are better options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VolcanoMan001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I am shocked and appalled by Gamespots review as well as the laughable and atrocious terrible reviews 
 by other gamers. The GS reviewer chooses to nit pick some little details and look beyond an enjoyable 
 experience. The game feels right when it plays and has got to be the best playing game of baseball 
 that has yet been created. The reviewer must be an old sour MVP fan if I had to guess, because 
 even the most pessimistic should give the game a 7.5 to 8. I suppose it would be like asking an 
 old hardened NFL 2k5 fan to review Madden football.
  
  In most of the issues the GS reviewer describes, I have yet to witness the same problems. As mentioned 
 it must be due to lack of subjectivity or a bias against the game. Fielding flows as smooth as 
 silk and feels perfect. Pitching is the best interface ever created with it no longer possible 
 to paint the corners with every pitch (turn the difficulty up to at least All-star once you get 
 the hang of it) . Batting feels right so that you are no longer belting a home run at every at bat. 
 The trading cards is an awesome new feature that is very addicting. While I think the graphics 
 standards were lowered this year due to consoles other than the 360 (because graphically MLB 2k7 
 on the 360 looked a little better) , the sound effects and stadium ambiance is amazing this year. 
 It was great last year but this year you have a litany of little details that make this game stand 
 out. Hit a home run at Minute Maid Park and you will hear the whistle and bell of the train, and 
 all home run specific sounds like this are in the game. Even some stadiums that are located close 
 to airports have the sounds of aircraft landing and taking off in the background!
  
  Is the game perfect? No, it is not perfect yet, but they are evolving the game into new and innovative 
 territory rather than sitting complacent and churning out roster updates like *ahem* some people 
 (but the sad thing is, perhaps that is what the game needs, no innovation just roster updates because, 
 apparently, that is what people would rather have) . On the other hand, is MLB 2k8 worth a 6.5 review? 
 Absolutely not and it is a complete injustice to the game. I would say that between the two, the 
 game is more perfect than it could be considered a legitimate 6.5. Be very weary of sour MVP fans 
 that look try at every opportunity to discourage someone from playing MLB. If you have doubts rent 
 it and play it first and I am sure you will like it. Thankfully though, other game reviewers and 
 websites are more honest in their assessment of MLB 2k8. Give it a try for yourself and don't believe 
 the propaganda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codbeast
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K8 was too complicated. 2K sports idea of utilizing the right stick was good in the 2007 version, 
 but it is needed too much in this years version. When standing at the plate you had to time your 
 step perfectly to hit a good ball. The new swing stick makes it nearly impossible to hit ground 
 ball or balls "down the line." In a nine inning game, I would find myself hitting one or two ground 
 balls if I was lucky. Most people would find themselves striking out or hitting it out of the park, 
 not very realistic. Online play was even worse then last years, I didn't think it was even possible 
 but they did it. Lag, lag, and a little more lag. Frame rates were awful. You would think that 
 after last years complaints about terrible frame rates 2K would have done something but I guess 
 not. I also noticed lag while trying to field balls in offline games against the cpu. It was a 
 real dissapointment if you aske me. There first attempt to make a game in 06 was awful, this was 
 their first attempt though, in 2007 they made great strides fixing almost all of the faults from 
 2K6, with 2K8 I feel that the MLB series is right back to where it started, unfortunately.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: minerl99
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game unless you're incredibly picky and very uncoordinated. Pitching is easy. Use 
 your head. Don't over pitch. How tough is that? Throwing is the best ever in a baseball game. Calling 
 off players is too difficult for the reviewer? Huh? I agree with the poster below me. I feel like 
 I'm on another planet. Then again, if I had to make video gamers happy for a living, I'd kill myself.
 
  
  The game stats play out about right. HR's, doubles, triples etc. Pitchers throw a lot of strikes, 
 but there are simple sliders to fix that issue. The ball physics keep it from being scripted. Example. 
 Third baseman stabs at a one hopper and knocks it down. Moves forward and picks it up. You put 
 a little extra on your throw and miss high and wide on the 1st base line. The first baseman jumps 
 to catch it, but comes down and is off the bag. At the same time he wheels and swipes at the runner 
 tagging him as he runs by.... How cool is that? That is baseball. If you appreciate baseball and 
 spend enough time to learn how to pitch, catch, throw you'll be rewarded with the best baseball 
 sim ever created. Or you could spend your time **** about the frame rate hiccups that happen occaisionally 
 and having to call off an outfielder by hitting the X button. Like that is a big deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 12, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for a game that is awkward to use and just plain frustrating, then this game is 
 for you. I can't make up my mind if they just rushed it out the door or they don't have a QA department. 
 
  
  After opening the box the first thing you should do is throw away the totally useless instruction 
 manual, they spent a whole 5 minutes on this. Some of the instructions are just plain wrong, see 
 the hitting instructions. The instruction manual also doesn't mention at all the pitch system, 
 you're left to discover that there is a pitching tutorial within the game. Even then the tutorial 
 was not clear, it took me several games of being blown out to finally understand what I was supposed 
 to do.
  
  To sum up, this game is immediate trade-in material, I won't be back for next years version unless 
 I read good reviews about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkeefe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  I find this game nothing but fun, and very realistic. Its the best baseball game since High Heat 
 died. I have it on the 360. I am still playing with the vast array of sliders to make it more realistic 
 to my likings. It does give up too many HRs but often that is my fault in my pitching, which is 
 good IMO.
  
  Not having owned any previous MLB2k_ I cannot compare it to anything but High Heat for the PC. 
 I think its quite realistic and fun so far and find it hilarious that this sites reviewer gave 
 it a 6.1 and so many other reveiw sites rated it fairly high. I guess it depends on what you are 
 looking for.
  
  Personally I couldn't care less about the card system, don't even understand what it is. All I 
 want to do is play my team in a season, and in exh games now to get sliders wehre I want them. 
 Negatives I have seen, are, the AI players swing at too many pitches. That is getting much better 
 with slider adjustments. Out of the box, they swung at everything, but thats also related to my 
 getting better with pitching I imagine.
  
  I also had a game totally die on me yesterady. Changed pitchers and could do nothing, it was like 
 a windows game, really surprised me, as I didn't think such things happened on consoles! Guess 
 I am naive. But had no choice but to quit the game, menu system still worked, just had no control 
 whatsoever over the players, no menus for pitching etc. Just dead in the water.
  
  I guess I still have more to expreience but so far I think this is a good game and that this sites 
 reviewer was very unfair to it. Frame rate? I have seen absoultely NO choppiness ever. Everything 
 is as smooth as glass and i cannot imagine what he is talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jweb24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This game has the potential to be great but I would settle for very good right now. I actually 
 like this game right now, but when I played my first game I hated the game. The controls were overly 
 complicated ( you can change the controls in the options menu) and the game had bugs. I haven't 
 experienced as many bugs as the gamespot reviewer but I know what he means. 
  The game takes time to learn if you use the new pitching and batting controls but after some games 
 you can be successful. The fielding and running has been decent , batting at times has been frustrating 
 for me because when I hit the ball dead on with power hitters I pop up or hit a harmless fly ball 
 but that's just a minor gripe. Graphics are great , having the minor league system is great and 
 having baseball cards is okay but it definitely needs work. The tasks to unlock certain cards are 
 ridiculous plus I don't feel that you should have to play as a particular player or team to unlock 
 a card. I believe in game tasks with whatever team you play with are better . All game modes are 
 good and the commentary hasn't been updated that much.
  Overall the game is good but nothing more. I gave it an 8 because I tweaked the game to my liking, 
 love the graphics and the AI plays a good game of baseball. I'm a baseball fan and instead of concentrating 
 on making the controls more difficult 2k Sports should concentrate more on the BASEBALL side of 
 the game (and get rid of the bugs , too) . YOU CAN enjoy this game but it will take time. 
  
  
  Since my above review I've played the game with my own tweaking and an update of the game through 
 Xbox live and unless it's my imagination, the game seems to play at a better frame rate and less 
 glitches. Basically I'm saying play the game more than once, play as a person who is PATIENT, and 
 ENJOYS a baseball simulation game not an arcade type game of baseball, and you may find you enjoy 
 the game better than you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 12, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  I was a fan of MLB 2K7, it had good graphics, the pacing of the game play was nice, and it was 
 easy to pick up. The down side to 2K7 was that it was generally an unrealistic slug fest with each 
 team trading home runs, or one team pitching a shutout/no hitter. 
  
  MLB 2K8 looked to change this, and succeeded, but in the process broke allot of what did work in 
 2K7. 
  
  2K8 suffers from considerable performance issues, and its presentation is sloppy. The pregame show 
 always gets cut off prior to the first pitch, regardless of if you pushed 'start' or not. The Post 
 game highlights are un-watchable displays of chop. There are frame rate issues all around the game, 
 hitting and pitching are playable, but fielding can be made into a chore sometimes due to the graphic 
 lag.
  
  Although it took me a couple games to get use to pitching with the new analog control, I can see 
 this scheme working well in future versions of the game; however in its current state it is hit 
 or miss, as it tends to misinterpret your input to the analog stick far too often.
  
  Again the use of the analog stick to throw the ball from a fielding positron to a base is a nice 
 feature in theory. But the game has a habit of misinterpreting the analog stick position, causing 
 a throw to first to become a throw to second.
  
  Ok maybe I am being overly mean, the game is playable, if not significantly more difficult than 
 last year's game. It has maintained a deep franchise mode & the addition of the Trading card game 
 is fun, if not slightly tedious at times. 
  
  MLB 2K8 has potential, but it suffers from a rushed release, 2K tried to accomplish allot for this 
 year and It shows. They weren't able to get everything working quite the way they intended and 
 the game suffers because of this.
  
  MLB 2K8 is for fans of MLB that need to have a baseball game that's up to date, for everyone else 
 we should wait to see what 2K9 becomes, or play 2K7 some more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Norbyous1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  2k7 guranteed me an amazing 2k8, Pre ordered it a month early and counted down the days. As soon 
 as the game started I just realized I was ROBBED! everything came together after that. The fact 
 that there was no demo before it came out and the fact that the video's and interviews had mixed 
 messages to begin with, it all made sense to me as I've just been had! Overall 2k took a step backwords. 
 As a loyal 360 owner, 2k made me go as far as trading this crap in plus a few games and getting 
 a PS3 just for MLB the show. As this will probably be the last game before GTA that I EVER preorder, 
 I will always wait a week and read messages either like this one or positive ones. If I wanted 
 to, I can go on about how bad they've made this game, but there's already hundreds of reviews that 
 describe that aspect better than I can. Financially I'm going to feel it soon because I coughed 
 up almost 500 bucks just for been a true gamer and loving baseball! For those who can't afford 
 it, I'm sorry that 360's only baseball game is a steal, for all the wrong reasons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naughtypug
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Next Gen owners deserve better. Too bad only PS3 owners have better, far better. MLB08 The Show 
 is amazing and quite honestly the best AI baseball sim ever programmed. Gameplay is exquisite. 
 
  
  I've played MLB2K7 and MLB2K6. I had no faith that MLB2K8 was going to be an improvement. Judging 
 by the responses, sounds like what I already knew: it still sucks. I score it a 5 as I do not want 
 to be overly mean or obnoxious with my opinion of 2K Sports baseball. I personally love "THE BIGS" 
 and thought they did that game much better than their standard sim 2K7.
  
  Do not get me wrong, I'm no fanboy for any system. I'm an adult who owns both of these systems. 
 I just wanted to let everyone know what they are missing if they haven't thought about what PS3 
 has to offer for MLB fans.
  
  Xbox360: Since Dec 2005
  PS3: Since Dec 2007
  
  -np 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  If you like controlling your pitches to a max and timing of the bat.... this game is for you. The 
 frame-rate issue needs fixing on and offline. The visuals are up and down. The sounds are pretty 
 of, but Joe Morgan needs new material. The game would be a better sell at $39.99 but if you have 
 to have a new baseball game this is an ok buy... but that's it, an ok buy. I wish I could say it 
 is a strait up 9 or higher, but I can't. The gameplay is good when you get the hang of it..... rosters 
 are good to go and the season mode is right there.... and it's OK. If 2K had the funds like EA, 
 there would be nothing to stop them from games that would knock almost perfect sports games out 
 the park.... but this is a quality game offline... and pretty good online pending your connection. 
 This is a step-up in gameplay and a step-down in visuals/framerates... I think.... My opinion is 
 pretty fair, I would hope. Rent this game if before you buy, it is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedimaster815
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2k8 is one of those games that has the potential to be something great, a game baseball fans 
 can all enjoy, but the bugs, quirks and general lack of polish make this game a flop. 
  
  The games hitting mechanic, the swing stick makes a return this year, now dubbed swing stick 2.0 
 . As with last year, the swing stick is one of the games bright points. Putting the hitting on 
 the joystick was one of 2k's better decisions. It feels very satisfying when you time a pitcher 
 perfectly and rip a double down the line. One thing of note is that the power swing is now gone, 
 which lowers the outrages home run numbers of last years games, even though home run totals are 
 still a bit high. 
  
  The game also features a new pitching system dubbed Total Pitching control, which also focuses 
 on using the right joystick. Each pitch has an individual input consisting of three motions, a 
 pull back, a push forward and a release (for example a fastball is back, forward and then release.) 
 The pitching takes some getting used to, and features some holes it needs to overcome. One issue 
 is that of "meatballs". If you make one mistake in motion the game will throw an insta homer to 
 the other team. The pitching motion is also unforgiving timing wise. If your timing is even slightly 
 off your opponents will grove doubles and triples all over the outfield. This leads to some really 
 lopsided scores and ERAs which can be disheartening to someone trying to feel their way into the 
 game. 
  
  The rest of the game, apart from the pitching and hitting is a buggy mess. Frequently, frame rate 
 issues will pop of throwing off your hitting or pitching ever so slightly, which in turn leads 
 to pop flys and meatballs that can be very frustrating. This frame rate issues also occur in the 
 field where outfielders will slow down or stop completely, before rapidly accelerating to the ball, 
 a very disturbing image. This issue takes away from the games fluidity, and can cause you to misjudge 
 a ball landing, leading to easy assists for the computers outfielders. The fielding is also a mess. 
 The new throwing mechanic (based off the right stick as well) is a good attempt at something original,. 
 However it feels tacked on and only hurts your ability to play a simple grounder or ball of the 
 wall. Throwing to the cutoff man is also an uneccesary evil. First you must throw to a given base, 
 then Have the cutoff man snag the ball out of the air. This leads to some instances were he misses 
 it and that ball just rolls along the ground, turning many a double into a triple or inside the 
 park home run. There are also several instances I experienced where a fielder will miss a pop fly 
 or ground ball they are perfectly positioned for, which can be incredibly aggravating when your 
 in the 9th inning with a one run lead. 
  
  The AI in this game also has some issues. In franchise mode it will make some very bone head moves 
 that will leave you scratching your head. One example is starting the same pitcher two days in 
 a row. In one game Josh Beckett began with 30% stamina and pitched only one inning, not a very 
 effective strategy in the 162 game marathon of baseball. The computer still tends to make boneheaded 
 trades and moves (such as leaving Johan Santanna in the minors to win 20 games for the AAA team) 
 that will totally destroy any immersion your trying to get in franchise mode. The games catch up 
 Ai is pretty crappy as well. When your pounding the computer by ten runs, the game tends to end 
 with only a two or three run deficit, after the computer erupts for hits and runs that seem completely 
 unwarranted.
  
  As far as atmosphere and presentation go this game once again underwhelms. The commentators ( John 
 Miller and Joe Morgan) feature lines that rotate way too much, and make you feel like every game 
 is the same as the last. They also blow calls regularly, calling easy outs base hits or vice versa. 
 The pre game show (which plays as the game loads so you can't skip it) is full of stale dialog 
 and banter that helps to kill the mode before a pitch is even thrown. The soundtrack is an also 
 an issue. Although the songs aren't that bad the game's inclusion of one song throws off everything. 
 That song is Cleavland Rocks. Why during a game against the clevland indians would the home team 
 play cleveland rocks, 4 times throughout the game. This is a totally dumb move by the develppers 
 who must either all be clevland fans, or fans of the drew carey show.
  
  Despite all of these issues the 7th inning recap is worst part of all. Apparently to these goons 
 every home run is inside the park, and they praise it as a rare and special occurrence. The funny 
 thing is this happens almost every single game. The stale and just plain stupid comments continue 
 throughout the recap and are quite infuriating. This feature only serves to slow down that game 
 and to keep you out of the action longer. 
  
  The online of this game is atrocious, thanks to the crippling lag of freezing issues it comes packed 
 with. Although the has tons of online modes and options, its all useless when the game is unplayable 
 due to lag or ends early due to disconnections. 
  
  In hindsight, MLB 2k8 was a huge waste of potential. The developers should be lambasted for releasing 
 a product, that with a little more time for polish could have been something special. Instead we 
 get a buggy mess that should have not been released in tis present incarnation. The game is a complete 
 disappointment because it fails on so many levels. I could not under any circumstance suggest this 
 game, because by buying it you will only contribute to the pockets of lazy development hoping to 
 cash in the MLB license. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterodd
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  MLB 2K8 is the first baseball game I've purchased for the next gen. Maybe I'm out of bounds here, 
 but I was expecting a lot more. I'm surprised how bad the frame rate is. It's not so bad in actual 
 play, but in between cut-scenes it's real choppy. 
  
  What really surprised me is how poor the graphics are. To me, the stadium graphics look cartoony, 
 especially the backgrounds behind the parks. Reminds me of Super Nes. Perhaps I'm just jealous 
 after seeing how good MLB the Show looks on PS3. Has me wishing for a 360 port, which will never 
 come. I thought this was supposed to be the level of gaming where there is a fine line between 
 the real world and video games. 
  
  The game is still fun to play though. I'm impressed with the work that went into each athlete to 
 make them seem like their actual counter parts. Not a huge fan of the new controls. I was kinda 
 surprised there was no elaborate intro of any type - and it wouldn't hurt to update Kauffman Stadium 
 - they moved those walls back like 3 years ago. 
  
  I'm a life-long baseball gamer. Beginning with RBI baseball to Hardball 3, Tony LaRussa, MVP... 
 I thought MLB 2K8 would blow me away. I did not.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cknieto
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Im just going to say that u dont kill this game after one game
  
  the new controls takes time, but after a few games its really really fun and simulation like.
 
  
  the pitching feel really good and simulation, no more press one button to get the pitch and another 
 one to throw, know u have to make the "gesture" of every pitch with RS son no more gems with mediocre 
 pitchers, no more pitches 100% exactly where u want, no its more like real life, like pitching 
 has to be. and the fielding its more like supposed to be, u control the throws so no more, why 
 the cpu make that throw hi!!!! now its up to you.
  
  The minors teams its a great addition and the graphics are polished.
  The cards system its plain 
 fun and gives u more interest in the game and to play with other teams or maybe play live games 
 to get your rivals cards.
  
  This is really a step ahead in the series.
  
  
  
  Really give this a chance because its worth it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schmmj
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  After reading many of the reviews here bashing this game, I was determined not to buy it. But my 
 love baseball video games won out and since it's the only game in town I gave in. I expected to 
 be annoyed with the new pitching control system and driven crazy by framerate issues and collission 
 detection problems, but none of these things are really a problem in Major League Baseball 2k8. 
 Sure the framerate could be a little smoother, but it's not jerky at all and it doesn't effect 
 the way you play the game. As for the new pitching control system, if you actually take the time 
 to figure it's great. The only problem I've encountered is with the "payoff pitch". Those of you 
 who have played the game know what I am talking about: when you get 2 strikes on the batter, you 
 get what is called a "payoff pitch". If you hit the catcher's target with a good pitch, your pitch 
 rating goes up. If you miss, it goes down. Good concept, but I find the pitching mechanism to change 
 whenever I enter a payoff pitch situation and I end up serving meatballs. There is an option to 
 get out of the payoff pitch mode by pressing B, so it's not a big deal. That is my only gripe so 
 far. The animations are awesome and graphics are good; they did a really good job with the stadium 
 models IMHO. 
  
  In summary, not a perfect game, but a good one and a lot of fun to play. In my mind, that's what 
 video games are all about. Don't be swayed by all the negative reviews out there, play it for yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerjock815
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Although I admire the strides toward gameplay evolution with the total control stick, this game 
 is still full of bugs. First the good. I absolutely love the pitching mechanic. If anyone has played 
 "Skate.," the pitching is very similar. Each pitch has a unique input you have to perform on the 
 right analog stick. This allows for more human error and when pitchers fatigue you tend to give 
 up more meatballs. Unlike last year, pitchers can now go all 9 innings. I actually used Josh Beckett 
 for 11 innings. The hitting has also changed. It plays like the MVP NCAA baseball. First you pull 
 down on the RS to step and then press up to swing. You can also influence the ball to right or 
 left field. Fielders are a little more smooth, don't make AS MANY dumb errors, and using the RS 
 to throw to bases is a welcome addition... when it works. The Bad. They did fix some of the problems 
 from last year but as you may guess, new ones arose. At one point I tried to throw the ball from 
 center field to 2nd base and instead my fielder RAN all the way to 2nd base and I could not interrupt 
 him. This of course caused an inside the park home run. Another instance was after the play had 
 stopped, I held the ball at third and the AI randomly decided to takeoff from 2nd toward third 
 and I tagged them out. MANY dropped balls by the catchers! The graphics aren't as polished as 2K7. 
 There is a lot of "flickering" in the bottom right corner while batting in the home run derby. 
 The crowd no longer lunges for the ball when it is hit there. 2K reintroduced custom soundtracks 
 but you still can't edit the song to play a particular part in a given situation (that I could 
 find) . All in all, it is a fair game. Capturing the mood of baseball is a challenge in itself and 
 when glitches show up, it just about wrecks the experience for me. I don't know if these problems 
 can be fixed with updates but I don't think I will hang on to it long enough to find out. Would 
 rather wait for MVP 2005 to be backwards compatible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rong42
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  After 5 months without baseball I include myself with many other baseball fans as eagerly anticipating 
 the first MLB game to be released this year.
  
  I have to say I was quite dissapointed!
  
  This is basically a clone from last years game. The graphics are very equal to last years, 
 the in game announcincg I swear has not been changed, and the game music is the exact same melody. 
 
  
  Really the only difference to the game is the advance controls used to pitch and field. Using these 
 advanced controls can be quite a pain. If you dont hit it exactly at the right moment you serve 
 up a meatball, a mediocre fastball right down the middle of the plate.
  
  The ingame announcing is bad at times. Often on replays of a home run they will say that it was 
 an inside the park HR when it was really a legit home run. A lot of the game just doesnt work. 
 Could have stayed with last years game and updated the roster, would have been a lot more cost 
 effective! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infernocow
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2k8 is a fun game for baseball fans, but it certainly isn't approachable for those who aren't 
 the most die-hard of fans. It requires a real maternal/paternal love to get past the many glitches 
 and annoyances present in this game. Nevertheless, if you want an up-to-date baseball experience, 
 it is still worth giving it a shot. 2K sports, though, really could use some healthy competition, 
 as their monopoly can no doubt be contributing to what is a truly underdeveloped series of games.
 
  
  In this iteration, 2K decided to introduce some key innovations to some key areas of gameplay. 
 immediately, the most noticeable is the pitching mechanics. Pitching is now mapped to right analog 
 stick, and pitches are completed by executing distinct gestures corresponding to a particular pitch 
 (e. g: Fastball = pull back and push forward.) These gestures must be timed in relation to an onscreen 
 reticle which determines the effectiveness of the pitch. Gesturing and/or releasing the stick at 
 the wrong time could result in a "meatball" which, in turn, is very likely to be hit out of the 
 park. Executing correctly, though, makes the pitch respond the way you intended, and makes it much 
 harder to hit. The new mechanics are a very neat idea, but they have an incredibly large learning 
 curve, so one should expect to have probably about a week of play under their belts before they 
 really get a true handle on it. Given this, we're left wondering if perhaps 2K did indeed make 
 it too hard... but regardless, it is a neat and creative technique, and kudos shall be given for 
 their attempt at innovation.
  
  Similarly to the pitching controls, the fielding controls have also been mapped to the right stick, 
 and your throwing effectiveness is also dependent on the gesture you make. Holding the stick toward 
 the desired base at which you are to throw the ball will "charge" your throw, but you must strive 
 to point the stick directly at the base, otherwise you run the risk of committing an error. This 
 is also a neat idea, and adds an interesting element. It may take some getting used to, depending 
 on the baseball sims you may have played in the past, but it is generally not hard to grasp.
  Besides the throwing controls, fielding is generally hit-or-miss in regard to its quality. There 
 are times when it feels very fluid and natural, but there are other times when fielders respond 
 in completely unintuitive ways, which are practically impossible for a player to predict. Expect 
 to watch a few balls hit the ground after you've placed your fielder under a pop-up, or completely 
 over-run a ball when trying to cut off a grounder. Also, in an attempt to more accurately simulate 
 reality, the player is expected to call off other fielders when tracking down fly balls by pressing 
 X (in the xbox 360 version) . Not doing so could result in a collision. While this is an interesting 
 dynamic, there are times when it is really redundant. You'll find on occasion, if you watch a replay 
 of a collision, that the second fielder would come completely out of no-where and would run face-first 
 right into you. This, needless to say, can be absolutely infuriating. This lapse in A. I can be 
 found quite conversely in the superhuman abilities of opposing defenders. It seems that every time 
 there is an opportunity for a highlight-reel play, the CPU pulls it off in fine style. That, to 
 put it bluntly, sucks. I, for one, have never seen Jason Giambi fly quite as nimbly through the 
 air as he seems to do quite regularly in this game. 
  
  Continuing in the vein of A. I, there are times when the game's more notable power-hitters hit virtually 
 everything out of the park when controlled by the computer. In one case, Hideki Matsui hit a Roy 
 Halladay cutter running in under his hands over 450 feet, to the opposite field. The pitch was 
 near perfectly executed. Frankly, that is just impossible to do, and it really stank since it was 
 the bottom of the ninth, and that hit won the game. It should be noted, though, that it is also 
 relatively easy for players to hit home runs as well.
  
  As for the rest of the hitting mechanics, they remain nothing beyond simply decent. The timing 
 mechanism works by pulling back on the right analog stick to step into the pitch, and the pushing 
 up to swing. Timing correctly will increase swing effectiveness, but getting an effective timing 
 is very difficult. The gesture must be timed in relation to the pitcher's release of the ball, 
 but there are times when this seems inconsistent, and it can be difficult to repeat a successful 
 swing. The "batter's eye" lets you select the location of where you think the pitcher is going 
 to throw next, also allowing you to further control your swing effectiveness. It is done simply 
 by moving a circular indicator by moving your control stick while holding the Left Trigger.
  
  The game-modes are varied and generally fun. Homerun derbies are easy to set up (and easy to 
 win) , and it is also very easy to enter a game quickly off the menu. Online play is also riddled 
 with options, but it is riddled with glitches, as well. With such precise gameplay as is required 
 in baseball sims, online play and its inherent lag presents an unavoidable problem. Some players 
 exploit this by throwing nothing but borderline pitches, knowing that the player will swing because 
 they must anticipate in order to compensate for the lag. There is an option for "strikes only" 
 play, though, which somewhat diminishes this this problem.
  
  Graphically, the game is nothing to write home about. The art of jersey animation still has a long 
 way to go. As one of my friends pointed out, there are times when the over-zealous jersey flapping 
 gives a viewer the impression that an alien is about to explode from the character's stomach. There 
 are also many glitches, including flashes during cloudy days where the cloud effects seem to disappear 
 momentarily, and some slowdown (most of the slowdown has been fixed via update since the release 
 of the game.) There are still some visual slowdowns, particularly during pre/post-game coverage. 
 Stadiums look great, generally, though audience animation can be humorously awkward. I would like 
 to know, though, why developers of virtually every MLB sim I've played split the screen at the 
 Rogers Centre in to two sections consisting of a scoreboard and a jumbotron. The whole thing is 
 a video-display (It is the second largest display in the world) .
  
  The commentary in the game is quite natural-sounding. It doesn't get all that repetitive, especially 
 when compared to past games from various developers. The many TV graces, though, can sometimes 
 negatively alter the flow of gameplay. There are times when there are just too many things to skip 
 in order to return to the game. Generally, though, it's well done.
  
  Overall, MLB 2k8 does offer a decent package. It is fun to play, but it has many, many moments 
 that can render the player irate because of various gameplay glitches. There are other many minor 
 glitches in the game that give it a generally unfinished feel, and it greatly diminishes the overall 
 effect. Granted, the game does make some strides with regard to essential gameplay, and given 2K's 
 3-game-process leading up to MLB 2K9, let's just hope that they finally deliver next year what 
 we've been waiting for since the demise of EA's MVP career in MLB simulation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speeednat
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  I have been anticipating the release of this game all winter. So, needless to say I was excited 
 when it finally got released. I picked up my copy, tore it open, threw it in, and the excitement 
 faded and disappointment mounted. Wheras there were a lot of great improvements, the game still 
 felt like 2k7. I had been reading about all the vast improvements, but they didn't outweight the 
 flaws that have been present since last year. 
  Yes, the baseball card collector is a great idea, but I didn't spend $60 for this feature. What 
 I paid my hard earned cash for, was the ability to play and enjoy seasons of baseball. What I get 
 though is 2K7 wrapped in a new interface with (yes) easier controls to master. The pitching has 
 become a bit harder to master, but that was needed as with 2K7 I would get15-20 strikeouts a game. 
 But, the hitting is still a stab in the dark, and the batters eye seemed to have gotten harder 
 not easier to work with. It is still impossible to get a walk, and there are still flaws that they 
 should have woked out in the testing lab. My first game I rounded first only to get thrown behind 
 by the right fielder. But was I out.... NO the First baseman got the ball, stood on the base, and 
 my runner lethargically trots back to first, only to be called SAFE??? I am fully expecting the 
 outfield assist flaw to rear its ugly head as well as the umpire that won't move out of your catchers 
 path. Only time will tell on these issues. They did seem to get the HR ratio better but now it 
 has swung the wrong way as I am hard pressed to hit a ball out of the infield. 
  I do like the swing timing comment after each swing. And there are other features that are welcome. 
 From the fielders throwing process, to the pitching changes. However with all these changes, flaws 
 like those mentioned will ruin the game for any die-hards like myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Major League 2KSports series never seems to be able to have back to back great seasons. Last year 
 I though 2K7 was pretty good though with many flaws, but I'm not sure why 2KSports didn't just 
 decide to work on the broken things, they decided to add a bunch of junk that most people rarely 
 use.
  As with last year, Major League Baseball series is exclusively 2KSports (Sony can make a baseball 
 game only for their own platform) so they desired to be scrutinize more then most companies, and 
 this series have been pretty good over its life. I think last year it finally produced a game as 
 good as my favorite baseball game EA's MVP 05. 
  The graphics hasn't changed a lot; it may have even gotten a bit worst, if you take a look at the 
 player's faces. I mean why in the world does the NL Rookie of the Year Ryan Braun have a generic 
 face, OMG what are you guys thinking about 2KSports LA?!?!?
  The game play is pretty much like last year, but with added player control by the use of the right 
 analog stick. You can now control pitching, throwing and hitting all with the use of the right 
 stick. The control was hard to get use to, and I didn't really care for it. I never like the "life 
 like" right stick hitting controls, I think with both of these 2KSports just added it just to make 
 things more difficult then the need to be. They don't really add anything to the game, they aren't 
 life like at all, and they were both set back to "classic" mode quickly. I do like the right analog 
 for throwing the ball as a fielder. That adds a new little dimension to the game, and I think it's 
 a plus. Again with all three you can turn them on and off, so good job with that 2KSports, you're 
 not forcing a change on players.
  
  The sounds in the game are pretty much exactly like last years, with maybe a few added anecdotes, 
 but everything is about the same. They changed up the menu music, but if you ever read one of my 
 reviews of sports game, know I've always turn that off as soon as I get into the game for the first 
 time. I've always hated, and I probably always will. That music has absolutely nothing with baseball, 
 and adds nothing add to it. 
  The new menu system is plus, I was getting pretty sick of the menu system that 2K have been using 
 for the last few years, though this isn't that great either it's better then the old system. The 
 save option in the game have been fixed, so now you know when and what you have saved.
  Overall I think the game is a bit disappointing, the graphics hasn't changed that much but the 
 game is more choppy and the game seems a bit rushed out the door, and it really shows. With that 
 I do like a few of the added features in the game, but would been much happier if they would have 
 fixed the old problems first. Overall the game is about as good as last years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: huskerman34
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  MAN THIS IS SOMETHING NEW AND VERY PERPLEX IN THE PITCHING DEPARTMENT OF 2K8. iT WAS A VRRY GOOD 
 THING IN DEED. iT MAKES THE GAME WORTH PLAYING. i LOVE THE STREET FIGHTE MOVES YOU NEED TO MAKE 
 TO PICTH THE BALL. IN WHICH I HAVENT MASTERED. THE HITTIING IS PRETTTY GOOD. THE FRANCHISE MODE 
 IS VEERY DEEEP . tO THINK I WAS THINKING OF GETTING MLB THE SHOW FOR THE PS3 ILL PROBABLY RENT 
 THE SHOW AND BUY 2K8 FOR TE 360. I LOVE HOW THE ROSTER IS UPDATED AND THE FARM SYSTEM IS AACCURATE. 
 . IVE ALWAYS BEEN A FAN OF 2K SPORTS. MY BIGGEST GRIPE IS THE FIELDENG IT CAN BE AWKWARDS AT TIME. 
 OTHER THAN THAT I WOULD RECCOMENSD 2K 8 TO EVERY ONE. i WISH THEY WOULD HELP EA IMPROVE MADDEN.. 
 THE FRANCHISE IS WORTH CHECKING OUT THEY HAVE DAILY TRANSACTION OF PLAYERS SIGINGN PLAYEERS WANTING 
 TRADES . I LIKE THE IDEA THAT YOU CAN GAIN PLAYER CARDS WITH ACHIEVEING CERTAIN GOALS WITHIN THE 
 GAME. GOOD JOB 2KK LA GO DODOGERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arivero03
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  I think the developers did a good job at upgrading the Hitting engine so you cant get so many home-runs 
 like 2K7, and you get more line drives, ground balls, and ropes down the line. The controls are 
 very interesting, they make the game a bit more challenging, especially the pitching total controls. 
 Graphics are OK but they still can do better considering that they have powerful consoles to work 
 with and they are so hesitant to upgrade graphics it's mind boggeling.
  The only down fall for the game are the glitches witch I hope they make a patch for in the future 
 so they can improve on the lag time from screen to screen. It's not something that takes away from 
 the actual game play, but if you want to make a perfect game thats worth every penny consumers 
 pay for, this should not happen because they have lots of time to develop these games. I haven't 
 tried the baseball card thing so I can't comment on that. 
  Now the online play is way better that last year. The highlight for me is that when you play ranked 
 games you don't get to chose your opponent like last year. The game looks for someone for you to 
 play and walla. It 's good because now you don't know what you are going to get. It can be a good 
 player or a newbie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slick_13_30
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Decent game play with a good assortment of options. Clean interface. Game play gets choppy in some 
 parts. Pitching interface brings some much needed realism to the game. Batters will take you into 
 full counts and draw walks. Batting interface seems somewhat sloppy and "normal" swings are often 
 non-responsive. Card system, is innovative and addicting. Franchise mode is pretty in-depth and 
 the addition of all the minor league teams add a sense of actually managing an entire farm system. 
 The game is a nice step up from 2K7 but still has a few errors, which will hopefully be fixed in 
 the next installment. If you are a fan of the series it is, despite it's quirks a must have, if 
 you are just breaking in to the baseball genre, you might want to rent it first. The advanced control 
 scheme may be too much for some of the more "traditional" baseball players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebjunior
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  This game had a lot of potential and in my opinion it blew it, I was looking forward to this game 
 all year and it was a let-down, but... don't get me wrong I still do enjoy it. It is very innovative 
 with its new features like card collecting, finally playable minor league teams, and also so cool 
 new controls. But the ugly glitches, crowds, framerate and TINY, TINY, RIDICULOUSLY TINY font in 
 the game is pretty crappy and that is what makes this game average and not even as good as the 
 last years 2k game. My advice would be to get back to basics, and keep the innovations and fix 
 the damn glitches, slow-a$$ fielding, easy homeruns, fake/terrible looking crowd, overall graphics, 
 create-a-player and many other things need to be fixed as well. But I do enjoy some parts of the 
 game and it does keep me interested, but I would highly suggest renting it first to see if this 
 is your type of ballgame sim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CorkyMcDoogle
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  First let me say that the new pitching system is the best part about this game, despite what others 
 may say. It is difficult to master but adds more realism to the game because pitchers don't throw 
 95% strikes in real life. However, the game has awful graphics and terrible framerate issues (that 
 they are aware of and working on, supposedly) . The hitting system is clunky and extremely difficult 
 to use. Fielding is a total pain too.
  
  Most importantly, the entire reason I got the game was for online play and... IT IS COMPLETELY 
 UNPLAYABLE. It is beyond laggy. We're talking almost an entire second before what you do actually 
 happens. This is ridiculous considering the pitching system requires exact control and pinpoint 
 timing. It has nothing to do with my connection or anything I can control.
  
  I hope the fix the issues quickly and patch is asap. Otherwise, it's a complete waste of money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbnuts
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  ATTENTION ALL HATERS  BACKOFF, TAKE A TIMEOUT, SIP THE HATER-AID as I break this down for those 
 who want 2 know the know.
  
  This game is good. "period" It does take time to learn, it does take time to learn, but once you 
 invest some time it is amazing. Barry Bonds & Sammy did not get diesel after one season on the 
 sauce  it took a few years. So give this game some time before you rush to the GAMESPOT with the 
 HATE.
  
  Here is a breakdown of the gameplay as I see it:
  
  HITTING
  The main change I see from 2k7 to 2k8 is that CPU pitchers do not throw too many balls, so it worth 
 it to just swing at everything. In one sense I do not like this because it is not so realistic, 
 but it does speed the game up. Also, maybe it is just me but as a right handed hitter I can rarely 
 ever pull the ball. Everything I hit for the most part goes right whether I use a left handed or 
 right handed batter.
  
  For a minute I thought there were too many homeruns in this game. That is because I would only 
 use the Yanks & they crush the ball. Using some of the other teams in the league has eased my fears.
 
  
  PITCHING
  The system has been revamped and for the better. It is amazing, you can no longer just throw strikes 
 at will. The new system is challenging and fun. Also, if you slip up you will pay. Pitchers that 
 suck slip up more and pay the price.
  
  BASERUNNIG
  The new base running seems smooth to me, no complaints here. The only complaint I have is that 
 base stealing seems like you just push a button and hope for the best. I wouldn't mind a bit more 
 control over stealing a bag.
  
  FIELDING
  This is fine as well. People say the fielders move slow, but so does the ball. It gives you a minute 
 to figure out what is going on. Again, no complaints here.
  
  BEEFS
  There are weaknesses of this game. It seems like later in the game it hiccups. Meaning, it freezes 
 for a second between animations after an out. Also, the sound kind of sucks. They need new announcers. 
 During a season I like to be able to play games other than the one my team is involved in. You 
 can only play games of the team you have chosen for your season.
  
  Lastly, I still blame 2k7 for breaking 2 of my Xboxes. Myself and two of my friends all experienced 
 the red lights of death from 2k7 and we were convinced it broke our Xboxes. I have had one freeze 
 already. If this thing breaks my Xbox again I will lose it!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nefarious13
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 7, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I just played the demo and have to say that this is the game I have been waiting for since they 
 canned MVP 05. It is soooooo much like it I can't believe it. Thks Ben Brinkman. Only problem is 
 the game is unplayable because the lag is terrible. Next year will finally be the game we have 
 be waiting on. Man, this is 30 more fps away from Xanadu! MVP LIVES!!!!! MVP LIVES MVP LIVES MVP 
 LIVES MVP LIVES MVP MVP LIVES!!!! MVP LIVES MVP LIVES MVP LIVES MVP LIVES!!!! MVP LIVES MVP LIVES 
 MVP LIVES MVP LIVES!!! MVP LIVES MVP LIVES MVP LIVES!!!!! MVP LIVES MVP LIVES MVP  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geoffstl
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 7, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  My opinion of sports games on the next generation consoles is that they all suck! Ever since the 
 two companies signed exclusive rights agreements we have been forced to buy and play crap games. 
 This will be the last sports game I will ever buy. How dissapointing can a game be? The graphics 
 suck, the gameplay sucks, the announcing sucks and everything about this game sucks! Has anyone 
 even won a game yet? Every game I play, I lose 20 to 1 or less. I am lucky to get a hit in a game. 
 On the reverse side, unless you are pitching with your ace pitcher, you are screwed. You have to 
 be unrealistically accurate in hitting & pitching. It is impossible to tell whether a pitch is 
 a ball or a strike, and timing is impossible. I have been playing baseball games every year for 
 the past 10 years of my life. This game is tied for worst baseball game ever made. The other worst 
 game ever made is MLB 2k6. I will never buy another product with the label 2K & I will not be buying 
 a sports game untill these exclusive rights agreements are terminated. This is complete BS and 
 I refuse to stand for it. I am writing the company for a complete refund. If you bought this game, 
 I would do the same. This game is terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazed_2300
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K8 is an alright game they really didnt ... do much with the game... dont understand why they 
 changed the hitting to 2. O instead they should have kept the hitting the way that they did last 
 year with contact hitting instead of no it is a hit or miss depending on how you time it... I like 
 the pitching it makes a big difference in the game last year it became simple to pitch now you 
 have to perfect the movement of you the left analog stick...... all in all the game is not a bad 
 game they should have done more.... maybe a patch will help some of the bugs that are in there.... 
 but one thing that i am excited about is that this one doesnt freeze like last year... atleast 
 i can play this without requiring a patch right off the  
 go out an try the game u will like the pitching 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueDemon1999
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I like the graphics, as the players look pretty realistic. The gameplay is a little frustrating. 
 Batting is more realistic because you don't hit homeruns at every at bat, but you also pop out 
 and ground out an awful lot. Using the total control system seems difficult when it comes to baserunning 
 and pitching. Fielding is fine, pretty simple until you hit the RT to run faster and your player 
 dives flat on his face. Batting with swing stick 2.0 works pretty well, and using classic control 
 is worthless. Pitchiing is tough, new timing mechanism with total control, but with time should 
 become easier and accurate. One bad pitch and bye bye baseball. Seem to be some framerate problems, 
 as the cut scenes and gameplay can get choppy.
  
  It may help to rent the game first if you can spend a lot of time playing. I personally just enjoy 
 baseball sims, and this is a sim, not arcade game. Looking forward to getting deep into a franchise 
 to see how it all works. Too early to bash or praise the game. Pretty solid all the way around.
 
  
  Looks good, plays OK, controls awkwardly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballplayer4203
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  OK ive read many reviews on here and it puzzles me why gamespot still hasn't gotten their review 
 up but heres my complaints. First off the frame rate glitches, online problems, roster inaccuracies, 
 and tired graphics are not even problems to me. I could deal with this game and be pleased if the 
 following were not issues. First off I am not the best video game player around so I usually play 
 on Pro or All-star, i stay away from the Legend difficulty. Now, this is the case with 2K7 as well, 
 the difficulty between Pro and All Star is incredible. I started on Pro to get used to the game 
 and found myself hitting 5 HR's a game winning by 10 runs so that wasn't too fun, what should I 
 do, up the difficulty a little. Now I can't get through 2 innings without giving up home run after 
 home run. If you throw a ball they don't swing, if come in the strike zone its either a home run 
 or a double in the gap, guaranteed. I dont know how they expect the average gamer to have fun destroying 
 the computer or being dominated every inning, especially when you have no control over hitting 
 the ball. When their pitcher misses their spot and the little red circle comes up, I could get 
 off the perfectly timed swing and its a little dribbler to first, i mean come on, I could throw 
 a curveball right on the corner and 8th place hitters are crushing the ball but I can't get a meatball 
 out of the infield, not because I suck or anything but because it's just not a fair game. 
  
  This game is also a victim of the "must swing every time syndrome" Now the only game iv'e seen 
 it successful in was MVP but this is just another game where it is literally impossible to recognize 
 whether the pitch is a ball or a strike before it's too late. It's just not that fun to have to 
 predetermine whether or not your going to swing at the pitch. Once again the manual doesn't tell 
 you how to steal bases so thats still a mystery to me. 2K ruined baseball for the next gen systems 
 by getting that exclusive contract. I can't imagine where MVP would be if they were still pumping 
 out classic games. Lets hope EA has been building a monster all these years waiting for that ridiculous 
 contract to expire.
  
  Overall, not the worst game ever, but just another list of disappointments from 2K sports. I think 
 its because they know their the only baseball game out there so their sales won't be hurt too much 
 by another failed attempt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnygg69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  I picked this up yesterday and loved the games feel and overall play of the game. too many ppl 
 are jumping down on this one cause they can't learn the new pitching but i loved this game and 
 would buy 2k again. a word of advice for most ppl don't knock this game untill u have had it for 
 more than 6hrs. cause honestly this game will suprise you. the framerate glitch isn't that noticeable. 
 but with the patch being released soon this will make it one of the best baseball sims todate. 
 not saying anything bad about MVP 2005 by EA. now that was one hell of a good game. one other thing 
 that was being slammed on about this game was their issues with online play and the franchise mode. 
 I CAN hONESLTY SAY I HAVE NOT HAD ANY ISSUES WITH THIS IT WAS JUST RIGHT. i also like the uses 
 of the minor league teams and being able to play as them. this makes the game more indeapth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckshotmike
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  For those who give this game a 1.5 or anything in that area only score it like this because they 
 are not good at the game. The pitching mechanics are completely different and seriously are a welcome 
 change from previous years. What drags down Madden is the lack of change over the years. The new 
 button mechanics help MLB 2k8 steer clear of this problem. Kudos for offering probably the most 
 realistic simulation of any facet of any sport (other than maybe the knockout replays in EA's fight 
 night) .
  
  Next, the graphics are pretty sharp for most of the players. They are improved and most signature 
 styles are very noticable. The stadiums look nice and the addition of the fan cam is kind of clever. 
 Also, there is already a bunch of free downloads from xbox live which is cool!
  
  I think the play by play gets is a little underatted as well. I didnt here them screw up too much. 
 However, there was very little new dialouge between the two. But they still have plenty of baseball 
 knowledge to keep you entertained.
  
  Achievements are fun, obtainable, and diverse which is a plus. The franchise mode has some changes 
 and continues to be deep as ever.
  
  The bad are plenty however. I had a slow single go up the middle and my center fielder let it go 
 through his legs and to the wall for an inside the park homerun. I still hit and give up waaaay 
 too many home runs.... seriously annoying. That frame rate everyone talks about takes away from 
 the smoothness and the graphics of MLB2k8. Confusing how they would let this happen but it gets 
 overtalked about a little much.
  
  Also, how in the hell is Johan Santana still on the Twins? fix that! I spent a good hour fixing 
 the roster of the Minnesota Twins because thats my team. Last, the swing animations that I witness 
 on the replays after home runs are not very realistic. They look a bit generic.
  
  Overall, I think the people who came straight out and ripped this game didnt give it enough time. 
 There is a ton of stuff going on in a 162 game season and also in one game. 2K offers a good effort 
 but I expected a lot more improvement from last year. Still not a bad effort and most who stick 
 through it to learn the pitching mechanics will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostAdvenger
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  While many of you reading this have probably played MLB 2KX or MVP 0X in the past, I will be writing 
 this review with no actual perception on the previously released baseball titles. 
  
  The first thing I noticed when I started playing was a ridiculous frame rate problem. I cleared 
 my Xbox cache and was glad to see that the frame rate improved. It's not perfect, but good enough 
 that I can pretty much ignore it now. 
  
  After that issue was resolved, I could go on an play a game while paying better attention to the 
 gameplay itself. 
  First off, I'm glad to say that the graphics look pretty darn good. I especially like how the player's 
 jersey blow in the wind. (I am currently playing this on SDTV, so I'm sure it looks even better 
 on higher definition TVs) .
  Next I studied the pitching and hitting. I'm really impressed at the detail that put into all of 
 the different pitching and hitting styles in the game. However, there was a pitch in which I was 
 certain I hit a ball, but it went by as a strike. I reviewed the instant replay to see that about 
 70% of the ball passed through my bat. 
  Also I appreciate some of the new minor league stadiums, mostly because I live 5 minutes away from 
 one of them. I was glad to see it put in the game. They nailed the field and the stands, but the 
 left out about a third of the additional things that really add to the atmosphere. Oh well, it's 
 cool none the less.
  The cards is another cool feature in the game, unfortunately most of them are almost impossible 
 to achieve. I get about 1 every other game.
  I'm sure you've all read about the new controls. They take some getting used to, but are fun. 
 
  The soundtrack is pretty good. When I'm not playing I'm dancing.
  Commentary is acceptable, but isn't anywhere near special.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  Gameplay - 
 8/10
  Audio - 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomfan234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  You may hear people complain about numerous issues about this game, but they are just too stupid 
 to fix them on their own. The main reason to whine is the frame rate, which can easily be fixed 
 by googleing "XBOX 360 clear cache" and your problem will be solved!
  
  Now onto the review!
  
  This game is a HUGE improvement in almost every way over MLB 2K7 and 
 it has almost turned into MVP 05! Here is what has been added sense MLB 2K7:
  - new fielder's throwing meter where you can sacrifice accuracy for speed and vice versa.
  - 
 new minor league system with 90 minor league teams and 20 stadiums!
  - new Card system which is VERY fun and like an extra 500+ game achievements
  - new pitching 
 mechanism that can be tricky at first, but the funnest way to pitch EVER (you can use the old pitching 
 if you want)
  - the hitting has been done so low inside pitches aren't taken to the opposite field for a HR
 
  - swing stick 2.0... its basically just the power swing from 2K7 except there is no contact or 
 power swing. Its just a swing! (don't worry you can go abck to Swing Stick 1.0 and Classic)
  - new base running.. it's ok...
  
  Here is what has been fixed sense MLB 2K7.
  
  - Franchise: 
 you have total control. You can edit any player, trade any player, and there is an option you can 
 turn on so the CPU can't trade players with an OVR of 80+
  - Franchise: ridiculous stats.. Johan Santana no longer posts 5+ ERA and every single 70 overall 
 players isn't batting .300, 20 HR, 100 RBI...
  - Game play: like I said above, the hitting has been completely redone so you can't hit an 400ft 
 opposite field HR from getting jammed low and inside
  - Online: there is now a lobby where you can throw STRIKES ONLY!!!!
  
  This game has improved 
 is almost every way except graphics which are already sweet. I recommend getting this game completely!
 
  
  Here is my score for the 5 categories.
  Game play 9/10
  Graphics 8/10
  Sound 8/10
  Value 8/10
  Tilt 9/10
  Overall 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trekker1303
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  If you ask anyone who knows me, I am a huge sports fanatic. I love anything related to sports, 
 and this 'obsession' does not stop when it comes to video games. Baseball games have always held 
 a special place for me, as I have fond memories playing Triple Play 99 on the PSOne, and even Baseball 
 on the GameBoy way before that.
  
  Today's baseball game market is limited to say the least. Unless you have a Sony product, your 
 only choice now a days is MLB 2K_. The 2K8 edition releases following in the footsteps of a very 
 underachieving 2K7. The major points 2K addressed were the pitching interface, fielding, and they 
 also upgraded the batting interface.
  
  The best feature for me this year is the Trading Card system. You can collect, sell, trade, and 
 use baseball cards in the game that you receive when you complete specific tasks for specific players. 
 The system is designed so that you have to play plenty of games before your collection is a decent 
 size, but that also prevents people from quickly flooding the market with cheap cards. This also 
 brings A LOT of replay value to the title because as you try to build your collection, you need 
 to keep playing games.
  
  The new pitching interface was a little intimidating at first, using the right thumb stick to throw. 
 But after a game or two, you will find it is actually more intuitive than other baseball games 
 of the past. The leeway with the pitching system is fair, but sometimes the 'MeatBall' happens 
 even though you throw a perfect pitch.
  
  As for similarities with 2K7, there are some and not all are good. The Swing Stick is back with 
 an upgraded system. It still takes some getting used to, but works when you get the rhythm down. 
 Some major problems are still present, such as graphical sticks during batter entrances, inbetween 
 innings, and at the beginning and end of games. The voice over work is excellent but the game puts 
 some voice clips is parts of the game when that action did not even happen on the screen.
  
  The A. I. is decent on Pro difficulty and online has few problems to report. Overall, the 2K8 
 version of baseball this year is a step above 2K7 and advances on pitching and extras in-game, 
 but graphical issues and sound problems still hold this game back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsim1733
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  I really like the new pitching controls. Theyre not too hard to get a hang of unless youre half 
 retarded. The baserunning n fielding take some getting used to but once i did i like better than 
 previous years. The batting is hard to master, so it makes the game more realistic. I did notice 
 some freamerate issues, but its nots some people just like to over react to draw attention to themselves. 
 I have not tried a online game yet, but it looks to be set up better than last year. I like the 
 fast that there is a strikes only mode for online play, because thats how i would sually play with 
 my firneds anyways. Also the card album is a nice new feature that i think if u play the game enough 
 and have friends that do too, then i could be a cool new idea for gameplay. So I would go out and 
 buy this game if u like a good realistic baseball game. If lack skill and want win easily every 
 time, then get 2k7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maaly81
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Normally I do not review games that I have just played the demo of without having the full version 
 of it, but dag gone it!!! this game just sucks. Going through the tutorial in pitching, the shotty 
 controls and the overall slow pace of guys in the outfield who I have seen run faster than a snail, 
 goodness gracious!!
  
  This game is not worth looking at. Playing the demo, and being that I love 2kgames, I would call 
 this game a step back from what they usually do with their games. In the game, I played boston 
 versus ROckies, and every pitch I through ended up being a homerun. How is that possible?? guys 
 in the majors got it like that?? the pitcher hit a homerun on me. everybodu in the starting lineup 
 hit a homerun on me. And hitting, is terrible. The analog stick mixed in with the animation make 
 for a realistic, but bad engine and mechanic. THe controls for everything was awkward.
  
  Anyway, ended up losing 34 to 1. I know I just played it once, but first impression shows me that 
 they will be doing a lot of updating for MLB2k8 just like they had for the other 2ksports games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acooley79
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This game makes me wonder. What about moving the analog stick for pitching makes it feel so "REAL?" 
 Funny thing.... its still a controller people, its also still a game, you want real, then you should 
 have been better at baseball as a kid, you want real, go out and buy a bat, glove and mitt and 
 go play on the diamond near your neighborhood park. The swing stick, its okay, the feel is better 
 but its still just a controller to me. What makes a baseball game like this REAL is graphics, sounds, 
 stadiums, seamless framerate, good commentary and animation. Bogging down that, recycling it, and 
 dulling the color makes it SUCK and I was so FREAKING AMPED for this game, and I was let down, 
 big time. Is 2K8 telling us that they sacraficed many of the things we enjoyed about this game 
 in 2K7 to give us the more real pitching interface? Are you kidding me? As soon as I got to the 
 main interface minutes after I turned the game on I was disappointed. What happened to the clean 
 and polished look of 2K7? Who in the hell made that decision? You could have kept it the same as 
 far as the Menus and everyone would have been happy. But no, a ugly ass brown and confusing Menu 
 Interface was the perfect choice. Making the menus and the letters smaller, perfect choice. Making 
 it even look abysmal on a 42' Plasma, Perfect freaking choice. So many things went wrong here. 
 Lets make the game more real.... lets use the same player pictures from two years ago.. how hard 
 is it to find a relevant picture on a player. I can go and get Alfonso Soriano's Cubs pic from 
 MLB. com, Im surprised they dont have Johnny Damon still on the Red Sox! 
  
  Look, if people wanted a more real feeling for the game, then they can get it on the Wii. We have 
 XBOX360 because we want life-like, we want color, great animation, texture and sounds all while 
 still making a pretty solid controller interface, Yeah, some want the pitch control and the swing 
 stick, but most just want a fun game without having to redesign the baseball mechanics wheel they 
 have been used to for so long. I dont mind trying to learn the Pitching control or getting better 
 with the swing stick, i just dont want to have to practice it like a freak and spend hours perfecting 
 it when I just want to play. Im not a kid, im not on summer break, and even kids dont have that 
 much time these days. My point is, dont re-invent the wheel then jack everything else up in the 
 process. I have to say, I dont like this game better than 2K7, not at all, and if I had $500 to 
 drop on a PS3 or felt like putting it on my credit card I would, and Id get the THE SHOW and I 
 know I would enjoy that very much. 
  
  Work with your fans 2k studios. You did so much right in 2K7 and were so close and now, while you 
 might be closer, you did more wrong this time in my opinion. The flaws in 2K7 aren't 100% improved 
 in 2K8 so it doesnt make that much of a difference to me. If I would have known that this is the 
 product that was going to be put out and I had the choice to wait, I would have waited. I wont 
 be suprised when I visit my local video game store to find a few copies of this in the USED section. 
 NBA 2K8, great game, great gameplay, weak Franchise but a fun basketball game. Awesome graphics 
 and colors, sounds, animations.... What happened to your flagship game?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantbyce
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  Even though the game has a few glitches that could possibly be fixed with a patch, the game is 
 incredibly innovative and addictive. I would recommend it for anyone that likes to play baseball 
 games on consoles. It has gotten mixed reactions but I believe that is because of the new ways 
 to hit, pitch and field. Once you get these down though, you will end up feeling like you have 
 alot more control of what you are doing on the field of play. Definitely a step up from last years 
 good game. At some point though, they are going to have to fix the lag glitch between cut-scenes 
 to gameplay. This seems annoying most of the time.
  As time goes on the game not only grows on you but it ends up being one of those that you want 
 to play just because of the vast variety of things that you can do. From franchise to card collecting 
 to unlocking stadiums and teams, the game just does not get old very quick. Great replay value 
 to be sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  As I sit here wondering exactly how to start this review, thoughts of how I truly feel about this 
 came are crashing into each other in my brain. I am not going to sugar coat my feelings here. This, 
 even though it's a sports title, was one of my most anticipated games of 08'. I was such a HUGE 
 fan of MLB 2k7, I was sure that 2k8 was going to be a near perfect game, finally, something equal 
 to, or better then MVP 05'. Wow, was I in for a rude awakening.
  
  
  2k7 was not a perfect game by any stretch, but it was such a huge improvement over 2k6, it almost 
 felt like a different game. Yes, it had issues with frame rate (witch were fixed with a patch) 
 yes, the number of home runs hit, and the number taken away by wall climbing outfielders was ridiculous, 
 but all of that could be fixed by tweaking the ability sliders. At the end of the day you could 
 custom tune the game to be exactly what you wanted it to be. The major flaw was the one that kept 
 franchise owners from continuing to the playoffs with their team at the end of the season, that 
 is the bug that finally got me, and made me stop playing. Other then that, the game was great, 
 how could 2k8 be any less? Let me tell you how..
  
  
  1) The frame rate was so bad, it almost gave me motion sickness at times. Sure, I heard that if 
 you dumb down your TV settings it would run smoother, but this is NEXT GEN, I should not have to 
 play in 480P or even on a standard TV in order to get the game to run smooth! 
  
  2) It is still a HR fest, no matter what they say. First game out of the box, on ALL-STAR settings 
 I hit 5 HR in the game, and the computer hit 3. Thanks for the effort 2k.
  
  3) Little things like player pictures should be updated! Why is Alfonso Soriano still wearing a 
 NATIONALS uniform in his Cubs team pic? HE WAS A CUB LAST YEAR!
  
  4) During the in game update, where they talk about, and show a key play of the game, I should 
 not get a replay of a 423ft HR described as a "inside the park HR"!!! What park are they playing 
 in where the ball can go that far and not be out of the park? This is not YELLOWSTONE! 
  
  5) 2k6 had better crowd reactions
  
  6) While on pause, sometimes you hear the PA announcer 
 say things one time he was asking kids to sign up for the "2006 run, hit and catch competition"! 
 is it really still 2006?
  
  7) Why d o e s t h e g aaame s t u dddddeerr in certain spots?
  
  8 ) There are only frame 
 rate issues when : you hit the ball, when you throw from 3rd to 1st, 2nd to 1st, left field to 
 2nd, ss to 1st, center field to 2nd, right field to 2nd or 3rd, other than that, it hardly every 
 happens......
  
  9) When my right fielder catches a can of corn for a CLEAR OUT, the batter should not end up on 
 2nd with a double!
  
  10) Im going to stop here.
  
  
  Sure they added some cool new features, like the game does not completely freeze up anymore, and 
 a new pitching interface, but other then that this is almost a direct rerun of last year. Shame 
 on you 2k for crushing my dreams of having a good BB game this year. Also, thanks for making me 
 spend almost $500 for another system and game, I have very much enjoyed The Show for the past 2 
 days.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhrnw
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  This game is being bashed for frame-rate problems but I haven't noticed any problems and I looked 
 pretty hard. I don't know if it was fixed with a patch or if everyone experiencing these problems 
 just has a crappy 360 but I've played a bunch of games and it worked great. This game is basically 
 2K7 with updated rosters. They made a few changes to the gameplay and added a card collection feature 
 that reminds me of old Madden games, but just like any other sports game they just "slightly" modified 
 the previous years game. The new gameplay features include total control pitching, a new approach 
 to baserunning, and fielding. Total control pitching is ridiculously hard and to me is a pointless 
 change. I just changed the pitching to precision pitching which is the same technique as 2K7. The 
 new baserunning technique is decent. You can't make the players run but they seem to go pretty 
 quick on their own if they are a fast player, for example Jose Reyes will be alot more likely to 
 beat out a throw at first then David Ortiz would. Fielding has changed by making players have to 
 estimate their dives on their own without being told when to dive. Also players throw with the 
 RS which is a very frustrating experience. Again I just set the fielding controls on classic and 
 it reverted back to the same technique as 2K7. Since I negated almost all of the gameplay changes 
 to the game it became 2K7 with updated rosters and a new card collection feature. I am a huge baseball 
 fan so I bought this game and love it. I think that they put out a very good baseball game, sure 
 they made stupid gameplay changes but they didn't force them down our throats. If you play the 
 demo and hate the changes don't worry you can make the changes in the actual game just not on the 
 demo. If you are a baseball fan and have played 2K7 and liked it and want the updated rosters then 
 go get it. You wont be disappointed. And you never know you might actually like the changes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lawman9485
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I look at this game the same way I did NHL 07 when they tried the shot stick... graphically the 
 game looks nice although for some reason though the facial features on some players just always 
 look a little off to me. There is a framerate and slowdown issue it seems when the ball is put 
 in play. There are some clipping detection problems I've noticed especially on baserunners being 
 tagged out. But for all that I still can't help but like this game because of the new pitching 
 mechanics. It takes about a game to get fully used to it but I don't really want to go back any 
 more to button presses. The same goes using the right analog stick to get the fielder to throw 
 a ball to a particular base. Its actually felt rewarding to pull off a double play with the the 
 new mechanics. The swing stick i actually like just because it seems there is more tied to it which 
 makes me feel like i am actually pulling the ball. So graphical issues aside I do like it. I own 
 both MLB 08: The Show and 2K8 and they ar both very good games for different reasons. 
  
  03-15-08
  
  After more playing time with this game (I've played this far more that The Show) 
 I'm really starting to notice the snags that maybe I overlooked in previous games because I was 
 soooo taken with the pitch mechanics (I still am) But I'm noticing technical issues like players 
 stuttering on routine ground or fly balls that they should make it to thereby causing the ball 
 to go by and turn into a hit. Fouls balls? Sometimes a player won't even go into foul ground to 
 get the ball. Now most often this occurs when the ball is out of play or the play is dead but it 
 just detracts i feel from the overall immersion into the game. The pitch mechanic which i do love 
 when it works I noticed started not recognizing my first motion in certain innings which throws 
 off my timing. I dont know if anyone else encountered this glitch. But it is on again off again 
 so I tring to narrow it down. Anyway still not enough to drop it (hoping the patch will fix most 
 of the issues) but it is enough to drop my score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srapp002
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  So far 2k8 hasn't really lived up to my expectations... i had really hoped that it would be a great 
 improvement from 2k7. Don't get me wrong, there are many improvements but at certain points during 
 the game i still feel like i'm playing 2k7. This is in large part to the fact that Jon Miller an 
 Joe Morgan say the exact same things in 2k8 as they do in 2k7. I can't think of one thing that 
 i've heard after playing about 10 games that i didn't hear in 2k7. As far as gameplay goes i love 
 the throwing meter for the fielder, however when fielding there is no speed burst. you just run 
 at whatever speed your selected player can run at which makes it difficult to reach gapers that 
 you might have a change at tracking down in 2k7 with the speed burst. The total pitch control is 
 cool, and takes some getting used to but overall its not that hard. The only thing i don't like 
 about the total pitch control is that you can't move the catcher... or atleast i haven't found a 
 way to move the catcher (if anyone knows how to move the cather for total control please let me 
 know) . Batting is ok, there are more weird swings and fly balls which makes the game feel more 
 real, but it seems that there are still too many homers, but not to the extent that they were in 
 2k7. One frustrating thing is that the umpire will call strikes that arn't in the strike zone, 
 at first it is cool because it feels more real, but after a while it's just annoying because just 
 about every pitch is a strike, making it very difficult to work a count or draw a walk. Franchise 
 mode is sick, many diff options and seems to be really fun so far. The only other gripe i have 
 is that the game is really glitchy. Not smooth at all, and there is a white box that flashes in 
 front of the batters box through out the game. it just seems like it is unfinished or needs to 
 be polished a little bit, but overall it is a decent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I've read almost every reader submitted review on this game posted to this site. I'm a huge fan 
 of the MLB 2K series and had really high hopes for this years edition before It came out, and hesitated 
 at first after reading some bad reviews. After playing 3 games tonight, I've decided to add my 
 2 cents into the review pool and want to start by saying that MLB 2K8 is totally different than 
 what you are used to playing. The new pitching interface takes some getting used to and can be 
 extremely frustrating at times, but rewarding if you can learn how to control it. If the new control 
 setup deosnt work for you, you always have the option to revert to classic style and most everything 
 you know and love returns to the buttons you're used to. 
  
  I did notice frame rate issues during gameplay. I wouldn'y say they are deal breakers, but hopefully 
 some form of downloadable patch comes and fixes that anyhow. I've also noticed that the frequency 
 of errors/wild pitches/fielder collision seems to have increased beyond believable bounds at points. 
 That can gett annoying, but still.... not a deal breaker. 
  
  My advice to anyone is rent it first, go through every tutorial, and give youorself some time to 
 develop patience at the plate and try not to hack and chop at every pitch. the depth they've added 
 in allowing full control of minor league teams and teh new baseball card collection system is enough 
 for me to look past some shortfalls in gameplay, and, if I really have to, I can always play my 
 copy of 2K7 that's sitting on the shelf right next to it. Give it a chance, you might find that 
 you like it even if some others don't seem to as much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilirch100302
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is awful.... the graphics are not even 1/4 as good as MLB 2k7 were... what happened... 
 all the new stuff is awesome but after watching and playing Mlb 2k7 since its release... i just 
 cant bring myself to play this... why in the world would they downgrade the graphics for a few 
 gimmicke addons?? now if this game had the style of this a little bit more realistic as far as 
 hitting and pitching with the graphics and presentation that 2k7 had then we could possibly have 
 the best baseball game out but as of the year 08' guess we will just have to wait another year 
 and hope they can pick up the ball... i will be returning this tomorrow and continuing my season 
 on 2k7....................
  
  This game is awful.... the graphics are not even 1/4 as good as MLB 2k7 were... what happened... 
 all the new stuff is awesome but after watching and playing Mlb 2k7 since its release... i just 
 cant bring myself to play this... why in the world would they downgrade the graphics for a few 
 gimmicke addons?? now if this game had the style of this a little bit more realistic as far as 
 hitting and pitching with the graphics and presentation that 2k7 had then we could possibly have 
 the best baseball game out but as of the year 08' guess we will just have to wait another year 
 and hope they can pick up the ball... i will be returning this tomorrow and continuing my season 
 on 2k7........... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaShmOn3y
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K8 is finally here and let us see what new things they have done to the series to try and 
 make it "better". Prior to the release, many people were skeptical over whether or not this will 
 be a failure or not. I expected a lot better from this game because after all, 2K Sports make the 
 best sports games (NBA 2K8 and NFL2K5 destroyed Madden 2005, I wish they were still making a licsenced 
 game) . When I first started playing, boy I was pissed off. The game sucked. But as you keep playing 
 and start using the classic mode before you start using the other new features, it works out to 
 be an okay experience. 
  
  First off, the Total Pitch Control system is a great idea and it actually works pretty well. There 
 could be improvements there as well as mostly everywhere else in this game though. Baserunning 
 has been cleaned up, the cards are a fun addition, and Swing Stick 2.0 is difficult as of right 
 now.
  
  Frame rates get screwed up when the game loads. This game was defintiely rushed to be produced. 
 Great job 2K! The worst part of all was that the game froze about 20 minutes after I started playing. 
 Can you seriously have a brand new game freezing no less than a half hour from playing it? I am 
 not the only one who had this happened too. 
  
  In the end, 2K did an ok job on this game. Definitely not worth the money. But in the end, it is 
 not that bad. This game does have its moments and it is actually a pretty fun simulation. 
  
  -Robert Score 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmieBlood4
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  There are still flaws with the game that are pretty easy too see. Overall though it is still a 
 fun game to play as it does take a step towards being a more realistic video game. The pitching 
 and hitting controls do take some time and practice to get use to. The fielding and hitting aspect 
 of the game is head and shoulders over any previous version of the mlb 2k line. Being able to take 
 control of a franchise and have young prospects make the climb from low rated players to major 
 league contributors is a very realistic aspect of the pros that 2k finally put into their game. 
 
  
  One downfall for players will be the difficulty learned to use the new pitching and hitting controls. 
 Most players will end up getting beat their first few games because they are not able to pitch 
 effectively. The hitting aspect takes a little bit of practice but most players will be able to 
 learn the system quickly and enjoy the game.
  
  Overall the game has flaws and areas where one might wish the game would have been improved. But 
 it is still a good baseball game to play and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgfanr
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 5, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I usually don't listen to people about their reviews... cuz we get a lot of haterz! This was one 
 game I was looking forward to BUT, I know enough to understand that if 2K can drop the ball... 
 they will!! 
  
  First of all they are promoting 2K Los Angeles as the devs and QA..... I follow 2K and know enough 
 to understand "THEY DON'T TEST SPORTS GAMES!" they test games like "FANTASIC FOUR and BIO SHOCK" 
 
  
  Second: When you can see Flaws in the DEMO and that is supposed to be their best showing of the 
 game I not very sure about giving 2K $65 and I'll wait til they drop the price to $29.99 (as they 
 always do) . The basemen were SPINNING in place after they caught the ball so they could face the 
 correct direction. 
  
  Third: The fielding seems worst.... no turbo! Almost everything is bases and a gapper. I saw way 
 more issues but I don't want to take the time to write about them. 
  
  It seems sad that I saw all of this from the DEMO ONLY on XBL.... PS3 wins this round unless they 
 have a great patch for this game!
  
  PS   
  GameSpot what's up with not staying on top of the reviews on the release dates? 
  
  Most people 
 need this info that day.... but don't worry I'll keep going to IGN. com until you guys get caught 
 up on your reviews!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DomKing77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  This game was totally rushed out of the 2k/Kush games office but its still fun. The game does have 
 a bunch of issues that should have been fixed before release. The frame rate does slow up during 
 gameplay and replays, The commentary is sometimes off and is recycled from last year, The replays 
 at the end of the game are broken and never really work. But all in all the new features and adjustments 
 to gameplay make up for everything. The new pitching style is tough at first but after running 
 through the tutorial it works fantastic. The graphics are pretty much the same as last year and 
 the new throw meter is more fun than just pressing a button. The baseball card feature is pretty 
 cool, hitting has been tuned also and gives the user a more "at the plate" feel when swinging at 
 a pitch. To sum it up, yes there are some bad issues with the game, but in my opinion I think all 
 the new features that were added make up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loogs
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Everything negative that you read about this game is true. How in the world does a company say 
 they are going to improve every aspect of a game and totally blow it. Its worse than last years 
 game. Its not even worth playing.
  
  The graphics stink. The audio is junk. The commentary is flawed. Then theirs the framerate. ?????????????????? 
 What the hell is going on here. I just dont get it. Im actually in shock. Before this and the show 
 08 came out, i swore that this would be the game to beat. Im not sure why im even wasting my time 
 writing this. Maybe its so that i can help someone save their money instead of throwing it away 
 like i did.
  
  Trust me, DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. If you dont own a ps3 and you love baseball and baseball video 
 games, you must go out and buy one and get MLB 08 the show. Its exactly what a baseball sim should 
 be, and everything this game is not. A MASTERPIECE.
  
  after playing this game some more im going to raise my score. there are some bright spots in the 
 game mainly the pitching and the animations. its still a let down from what i was expecting but 
 ill probably play it when im extremely bored and want to unlock some achievements. by the way, 
 the total control pitching is not for me at all. i just dont get it and i dont like it. im going 
 to be using the classic setting. on the other hand i love throwing the ball around in the field 
 with the analog stick. it works really well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormthru
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  This game was such a dissapointment, i dont know where to begin. The worst part of the game for 
 me was the frame rate. While fielding the ball, the screen was incredibly choppy. Throws from shortstop 
 and third were not smooth at all and seemed to jump from place to place. The pitching system took 
 a while to get use to, but was a fun experience. I suck at the swing stick, but it was entertaining 
 to try. The graphics seem to be worse this year than last. Some of the stadium looked really bad, 
 while some looked really good. The only brigt spot for me was the cards. I like the idea of being 
 able to trade cards onling and win a persons card in a game. After reading the previews on gamespot 
 i was really looking foward to this game. I loved 2k7. I think 2k8 is worse than 2k7 by a lot, 
 and i am going to by mlb 08 the show for my ps3 today. I hope that is better than this garbage. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  MLB 2k8 is back and... not better than ever. There are so many small things that are wrong about 
 this game, it creates one big problem. If a game only has minor glitches, we can all get by those, 
 but MLB 2k8 has so many that it really makes you wonder why they would release this game.
  Now we know that there is no such thing as a perfect video game, but there is such things as a 
 descent one. And MLB 2k8 falls short. Now, this game is playable but it is really difficult to 
 get by and not get annoyed.
  First there is the "lag" or the Frame rate of this game. It is terrible. It really cuts down on 
 all presentation that they have because there voices are cutting in and out, and the screen jerks. 
 
  One thing I also noticed was the screen flashes after you skip cut sceens, which, is very annoying. 
 
  Now Im a Twins fan so of course I play at the dome, Now it looks ok, but last years dome was way 
 better. First of all, the absolute most annoying thing is if you play a day game, the lights are 
 off in the stadium, its still light in there but come on, how can they make a stadium that is indoors 
 and not have the lights on.
  IF I didnt have xboxlive I would be ticked because the rosters are so outdated it practicly rosters 
 form 2k7. I know there is a cut off date but once you get the game you feel like you have to do 
 all there jobs.
  In my first game of the season with the twins we hit 7 homeruns, and since I have started writing 
 this review I have heard the announcer say "GONE A HOMERUN" about 5 times from my brother playing 
 in the next room over. The home runs get rediculous after a while and unrealistic. 
  I have to say that I am dissapointed in how they take things out of last years game and by doing 
 so they make it worse. 2K IF SOMETHING WORKS STICK WITH IT! Dont take it out of the game like uniforms. 
 Almost all the teams are missing atleast one of there unifroms, however, last years game had them, 
 so why they took it out? Who the He** knows.
  This game is worse than last years by far. The only good thing better cut screens and player animation 
 but other than that not much. I rate this game a 6.5. This game is disapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkendo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately, when it comes to sports games, things will never be perfect. They improve on one 
 thing, and then 2 steps back on another. 
  
  However, MLB 2K8 is "ALMOST THERE". After screwed around with it for about 2hours (had to study) 
 there are still a few things that bug me. 
  
  1. Custom soundtracks are inconsistant. I set it so that when Papelbon comes into the game "Shipping 
 up to Boston" is supposed to play. Instead, i get organ music. BOOO! Or when you select a song 
 to be played for a batter, it plays for the first batter of the inning, but not the second because 
 when something happens, like a hit, it plays that soundtrack. HOWEVER, at the end of a game, and 
 when i win, i set it so "Dirty Water" plays, and it plays. DO DO DO DODODO! So, i hope there is 
 an update to fix this. REALLY ANNOYING.
  2. ITS HIGH...... ITS FAR...... ITS FOUL........ NO..... ITS A HOME RUN!!!
  I benefitted from such 
 an eronious call, but the fact that it exists ,is annoying. 
  
  There were MANY improvments.
  1. ITS AN ACTUAL GAME!!! Not a home run derby. That was the WORST 
 thing about 2K7 was that either the online or the offline games were home run derbys. I can actually 
 jam somebody inside and not have to worry about an opposite field blast. Good times....
  2. I kinda like the hit-stick and the new pitching controls. Yeah, it's different from your normal 
 push X to swing or something like that, It does feel more authentic. Practice makes perfect........
 
  
  I am still kinda screwing around with it. Havent started a franchise yet, I still wait until the 
 rosters settle around the first week of the season 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoyoyomanman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  The games graphics are great to start off with, despite being the same as last years. MLB 2k8 added 
 new controls where you use the right analog stick for nearly everything in the game, pitching, 
 hitting, running, fielding etc. The controls take awhile getting use to but was your use to it 
 you should have no problems winning games for your favorite team.
  The Bad:
  The text is hard to read when going through off-game menus if you have a standard definition TV. 
 Alot of the rosters are off despite them having over a month to change them, one really big mistake 
 is that Johan Santana isn't on the Mets. I know that mistake easily could've been fixed because 
 MLB the show does have Johan Santana on the Mets. Another thing i find annoying is the camera angles 
 the game uses when playing a game, the angles are noting that of watching a major league baseball 
 game, something that mlb: the show has accomplished for the past 2 years. And last but not least 
 there is a commentary glitch at the beginning of every game where whatever the announcer is saying 
 gets cut off and you suddenly unexpectedly go right into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrrader72
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  There are some obvious flaws with this game, but if you love Baseball this game will work for ya. 
 I've always wanted a baseball game that played true. Meaning the stats are not either too inflated 
 or too low. This game plays true. You can strike batters out, and you wont be striking out ten 
 times every game. You'll have to play defence in this game. The frame rate problem only occurs 
 when you throw the ball across the diamond. Some of the text is too small to read. The game is 
 way too much like last years game I think. If you have last years version there really isn't much 
 reason to purchase this one. Other than the updated rosters, wich could be slightly more accurate. 
 My first take on the game right out of the plastic was not great. After playing it awhile it began 
 to grow on me. It's a fine game, and the only baseball option us 360 owners have right now. Might 
 I suggest you use the classic interface. I really didn't care for the new interface. Oh yea; It 
 looks great! The play by play is the best I've heard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clemkd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  This game has everything a great sports game should have from a setup that allows you to get the 
 feel for the game too being totally in control of all game play. Once you spend some time learning 
 how to pitch and field you'll find the game a lot more rewarding than any other baseball game to 
 date. I was also impressed with the next gen graphics and the new Minor League system. The reason 
 I didn't give it a 10 was some of the faces on the players need improving. I haven't checked out 
 the playing cards or the Home Run Derby yet but those aren't normally something I buy a baseball 
 game for.
  I've heard some complaints about the frame rate and for me the game played flawless without any 
 studders or jerky motion. I'm sure like last years game whatever issues with gameplay and frame 
 rate their are 2K will get them fixed. If anyone has played 2K7 lately they know that it barely 
 resembles the game that was released in fact I hate to give it up. But with all the new control 
 in 2K8 I just had too and I'm so grateful I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyuubi_03
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  This is a big jump from 2K7, I'll say that. 2K7 had so many things wrong that 2K8 brings attention 
 to and fixes, but that's not to say that it does not create more flaws...
  
  First off i'll say that the new innovative features (pitching, new hitting scheme) work and IMO 
 pretty well. 
  
  The pitching takes some time to get used to but it's really second hand once you get the hang of 
 it. 
  
  Batting is more realistic and it comes more natural this time around. 
  
  Some new things were brought into this years title, some things suffered severely instead. The 
 biggest to take the hit was the graphics. The player models look really shotty and just not up 
 to par, especially since last years seemed to be better IMO. 
  
  So make your own opinion. If you can look past the visuals, and enjoy the innovative gameplay, 
 it's a really good game and a big step in the right direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjl259
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 1, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  ***First off, DO NOT DOWNLOAD THE ROSTER THEY HAVE FROM THE LIVE MARKETPLACE, IT WILL FREEZE YOUR 
 CONSOLE AFTER YOU RESTART THE GAME EVERY TIME! (at least this happened to me, deleting it cured 
 the problem) ****
  
  The best way to sum up MLB 2k8 is unfinished; they have successfully regressed to MLB 2k6 quality. 
 It was unfinished and disappointing in virtually every aspect. MLB 2k7 was such a good game and 
 had me excited about what was to come, but 2k8 was more like a fastball to the testicles: painful 
 and leaves with a feeling of constipation!
  
  I made the mistake of buying the game right away full price. The developers had me sold when they 
 said MLB 2k7 was the first big step in the right direction and 2k8 was the next phase towards perfection.... ummmmm 
 I think not.
  
  I was especially disappointed with how ugly it was. There is a huge downgrade in graphical quality 
 from 2k7 to 2k8, particularly in the lighting/shading/shine department. Secondly, (and I noticed 
 this immediately) they removed at least half of the crowd from the stands, exposing the fact that 
 they are not sitting on anything but air. In 2k7, it was shoulder to shoulder in the stands and 
 the proper area would jump up and react to foul balls and such, but not in 2k8. I heard recently 
 that 2k did this to help framerate issues by downgrading the grphics, but the framerate is actually 
 worse! In fact, 2k7 ran like a dream compared to this game!
  
  On the whole, MLB 2k8 has many bugs and framerate issues were not necessary. I would have been 
 satisfied with a simple roster and player stat updated version of mlb 2k7 to be honest. Imagine 
 running a game on a pc that is underspec-ed greatly - you get laggy video and input response right? 
 Well, this is how MLB 2k8 runs on the 360, particularly when a ball is hit, replays, loading screens, 
 highlights, and online play.
  
  LIke so many others stated before me, there are too many bugs to mention, but some of the biggest 
 are terrible framerate issues, (stated above) Broken animations, (busch stadium had no seats whatsoever 
 in foul territory, post-home run the camera looked to the outfield sky for the fireworks that never 
 came) After just about every home run I've hit, the announcers said it was an in-the-park homer 
 during the highlights almost every time, among may other noticeable flaws.
  
  On the upside, the new menus are slick, especially the LIVE menus, which, have been re-vamped and 
 much better. THe trading card system is sweet as well. The new pitching controls were a good idea, 
 but 2k failed miserably at putting that idea to reality, as it frequently misreads pitches. I love 
 the fielder throwing meters, (they remind me of the ones from the MVP days) however they could 
 be better; their design doesnt make sense in my opinion. THe strike zone is probably the best part 
 of the game that i wish all baseball games had - your pitches are at the mercy of the ump, not 
 a fictional "box." For example, in older baseball games, you HAD to be in the strike zone to get 
 a strike. In 2k8, the ump tends to call close pitches as strikes as long as you hit the pitch o 
 meter perfectly, which is sweet!!!! I strike out batters looking with bases loaded on a pitch that 
 could be ruled either way, how cool is that - very real looking
  
  My final gripe about this game are the rosters, particularly the minor league ones. I realize that 
 minor leaguers come and g, but for God's sake, at least get the top players in and accurate AAA 
 teams. WTF? WHERE IS COLBY RASMUS?!?! He is the top prospect in baseball and not in the game, yet 
 they have plenty of obscure and fictional no talent minor leaguers. Also, alot of the player pictures 
 were taken from 2k7, which is annoying because some still have generic artificial faces that could 
 have easily been cropped from google or the like!
  
  Overall, 360 owners looking to buy a baseball game should buy THe Bigs or MLB 2k7 and just update 
 the rosters - stay away from mlb 2k8! I mean seriously, you know that 2k knew they released crap 
 when it shipped out, and they should know that they are going to have ALOT of unsatisfied customers 
 like me. It just makes me mad that I paid for the **** that is MLB 2k8 and 2k wont do anything 
 to fix that problem! :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roushfan1799
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Ok I ve read reviews by Mets fans crying about they don't have some pitcher, heres my legit review. 
 Overall its a improvement from last year gameplay wise. Fielding Mechanics are flawless, Infielder's 
 throw like Infielders, Outfielders throw like outfielders. I had a situation while playing with 
 the Stros. I was attempting to throw out a runner going home I miss threw it to the right of the 
 plate, thus my catcher scoops it swings to the left side of the plate applying the tag. He was 
 safe but I didn't care the play was so amazing it looked so real. Batting is better then last year 
 the batter eyes follows were the ball is hit, even in HR. Last year 2K7 there were HR's down left 
 field but the batter was looking down right field. The pitching is nice but Im having trouble with 
 it, its new but its cool how we can now throw with the RS, also to note you pick off with the RS, 
 just hold LT and point the RS. I have not tried online so I can't say anything. The field are beautifully 
 done, even the generic Minor League fields look like real ballpark. There fans cams, yes you read 
 that correctly there is fan cam btw innings. The announcer's only talk during MLB vs MLB games, 
 so when you play a Minor League game you only hear the atmosphere of the ballpark. Overall its 
 a great game and its maybe the best baseball game in awhile, I give it a 8.5
  
  Gameplay- Ballplayers play like ballplayers
  
  Graphics- Ballpark are wonderfull, jersey move 
 freely never feels like its glue to the player
  
  Content- Full Minor League Teams, card play would make you play this game until you earn all of 
 them
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maverick2448
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Alright lets keep it simple. I own both a PS3 and 360. Thank God for that, because if I was stuck 
 with this game as my only choice I would be ten times as ticked as I am. The bottom line here folks 
 is that 2k released a game that feels like a developer's work in progress build. It has so many 
 flaws in it that it isn't even worth mentioning them all. I can't begin to describe how disappointed 
 I am right now with 2k sports. They usually do pretty good games but not in this case. Stay away 
 from this game and play your 2K7. As strange as it sounds that is a much better game. And for those 
 who do own a PS3, MLB 08 The Show is hands down the best baseball game to date on any system.
 
  
  Huge disappointment 2K
  
  Lets hope that they take the hint because word has it that the MLB is not happy with what they 
 have put out so far and this game won't help matters. This is why we as sports fans need to voice 
 our opinion. Lack of competition between companies makes for crappy sports games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: submissions72
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 4, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This game took one step forward and two steps backwards. I already lost my $65.00 but I'm trying 
 to help you not make the same mistake. This is the same game as last year with everything on right 
 thumb stick. If not it's even worse. The field mechanisms are terrible... they've taken out the 
 dugout fences.. the dugout players look terrible and tiny... the players jerseys always are flapping 
 around making it look as if they're being hit by 100mph winds all the time... there's a limited 
 about of jerseys that the players can wear as opposed to the numerous ones last year. I mean this 
 game.... I'm sorry I will no longer be buying the 2k series games after this year... I also had to 
 update the roster to begin with they didn't have Santana on the Mets and I dont know what other 
 things they were lagging behind.. DISASTER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: primetime0326
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 4, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I bought MLB 2K8 today, as soon as I started to play I was hit by a surprise. The Frame Rate in 
 this game is terrible. Everything is in slow motion and at times your player will even get a tad 
 bit blurry. The new pitching system is cool takes a game or 2 to master. base running has a new 
 feature to it and so does throwing the ball while fielding. These features give a new feel to the 
 game, but the frame rate always catches up to you. I believed this game could be a lot better but 
 if I could go back in time I would of kept my $64.86 spent on this game. When I bought this game 
 i was looking for a next gen game and 2k sure didnt give me  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I am a die hard 2K7 fan and I had nothing but high hopes for this years game. I was completely 
 let down! The online mode is complete garbage and the frame rates are absolutely terrible. It seems 
 like there are frames being skipped at times. There are jagged edges around the players and weird 
 glitches appear when playing. The game just seems so washed out and it just doesnt seem like much 
 effort was put in to this title. 
  
  Graphics
  Seems a bit blurry and lots of jagged edges hurt the eyes. Character models look worse than last 
 year.
  
  Sound
  Same annoying announcers saying the same annoying crap.
  
  Gameplay
  Baserunning is a joke as you cant speed up runners. New pitching and batting change 
 things up but seem more annoying than fun.
  
  Overall
  The game needs to be finished before being put out for sale. This game is not finished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ag3ntz3rox0x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  i recently wrote a review out of anger, why was i angry you ask? becausse i didnt know how to pitch 
 the right way, but i gave it one more chance and what do yoyu know i maastered it. the new pitching 
 and hitting system brings more realism to an mlb game that i can remember. think of the controls 
 for skate put into pitching. one of the coolest things that is new is the cards. its fun earningh 
 and selling and buying packs of cards, brings me back to when i was a hard core baseball card collector. 
 now there still are some nagging problemms with the gamme such as online s dredfully bad, stitched 
 with intense lag. but i didnt buy this game for online. the franchise is why i bought it and it 
 delivers. so everyone out there keep trying and practicing you will get the hang of it . im sorry 
 2k for bashing your game without really getting into it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 5, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  In my first review I told you how the online is broke and isnt worth your time so I will skip that 
 part and focus solely on the offline game this time around. The first problem is the font of the 
 letters they use. Thats right the font. its the same problem in all 2k games you can barely read 
 what they are writing on the screen. Next is the lack of batting practice and fielding practice. 
 in order to master these two features you have to play through a regualr game and most of those 
 games is spent pitching anyway. the hiting is totaly unrealitic. you cant really aim where you 
 want the ball to go and I get the feeling tht its the computer dictating if you are allowed to 
 get a hit or not. it seems to have nothing to do with the player aside from getting the timing 
 down. and then therse the LAG! lag lag lag are you serious 2k? then theres the errors. I even turned 
 that option all the way down and sometimes my players still mishandle the ball. the computer however 
 is a fielding wizard that makes unbelievable plays all the time. What most of you are missing including 
 the web sites who gave this game a score of 7 or better is that it doesnt matter how many options 
 there are, trading cards, online lobbies, homerun derby etc etc. if the gameplay is broke then 
 thats it the game is terrible. Gameplay is the most important aspect of any game. if that doesnt 
 work properly then everything is renedered useless. Why cant people realize that. This game is 
 broke! 65 dollars! we need to demand more of the developers or it wont improve. Since nintendo 
 of 1984 how many GREAT games can you name? maybee 10, in 24 years 10 games? enough is enough, shame 
 on 2k and anyone else who rates this game high. WE DEMAND BETTER! if only there was someway to 
 regualte the industry some objective voice that protects the consumer from garabage like mlb2k8 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  I bought this today at my local gamestop and was very excited. I own both a ps3 and a 360 and I 
 unfortunatly decided to buy mlb 2k8 for the 360 even when knowing that MLB the Show got an 8.7/10 
 from ign. Now when I brought 2k8 home I was immediatly turned off. The presentation is the same 
 as last years, pretty bad to say the least. Then came the frame rates... I played about 4 games 
 in full and all were littered with terrible frame rates, the game just skipped too damn much. I 
 knew I was out of 60 bucks so I decieded to go back to gamestop and hope they can give me my money 
 back and thankfully! they gave me a giftcard of the same price i paid. Please dont make the same 
 mistake i did and stay away from this title. If you have a PS3 and really want baseball then go 
 for "The Show"!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigSuz77
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  The game had been fixed and besides a minimally flawed frame rate this game has a lot to offer.
 
  lineup issues have been fixed so your teams lineup and pitching rotations through out the years 
 stay realistic. Also you can change the weather or time of day before any games. Homerus are now 
 realistic and stats too. Arod had 40 HRs at ALLStar game. Graphics are a little better but grass 
 looks a little sluggish. Advanced controls I dont use , I put all the controls to classic because 
 those controls are more relative to the simulation in dynasty, HR derby is in the game but you 
 can only be 1 player not all 8. Everything seems to be in improvement over last year except frame 
 rate but it isnt as bad as everyone says I feel it is improving over time less noticeable skips. 
 Get the game tweak it and its definitely worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickC75
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 4, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2K8 SUCKS!!! I got it for my 360 a couple hours ago. Im a Mets fan and noticed that Johann 
 wasn't on the Mets, so of course I traded for him. When I did that my lineups weren't correct, 
 so I proceeded to fix them. After every lineup you fix the game asks you to Save, which is pretty 
 stupid. But here is the problem, almost every time I tried to Save it the game FROZE. 2K sports 
 has a history of this crap happening to their games. So I decided to let the CPU optimize the lineups 
 because everytime I tried doing it, it froze on me. So anyway lets get to the game. There are big 
 framerate problems, the game stutters a lot. Graphics SUCK, the new total pitching thing is stupid 
 and hard to get used too. The game doesnt have that real feel to it, its just not fluent. When 
 you hit the baseball the ball doesnt come off the bat right, its just weird. The only thing I like 
 about it are the homeruns, they arent as frequent as last years game and when you hit them the 
 ball travels like it should. It sucks that we cant have MVP baseball for the 360. Looks like I 
 have to bring this crappy game back and get something else. Has anyone played MLB 08 the Show yet? 
 Im actually thinking about getting the cheapest PS3 just so I can play that baseball game, if thats 
 not good I can just stick with MVP on PC because we all know that wont be disappointing. 2K Sports 
 please stop making baseball games!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangpanz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  My first review was given after my first two games... now I've got a few more under my belt, so 
 I'll re-visit things...
  
  I definitely like the pitching interface now. As someone else said, pitching in the big leagues 
 is not perfect - they don't thrown strikes everytime in real life. So, it makes sense that throwing 
 strikes be more difficult than last year's version. The only pitching issue I have is with the 
 computer-controlled pitching - they almost never throw anything but strikes. Good luck working 
 deep into a pitch count - you will likely be down 0-2 & will start getting junk pitches that still 
 seem to hit the corners for strikes. So, step up to the plate & START SWINGING!
  
  I've gotten used to the hitting interface, although it's still missing something. It still feels 
 like I'm just closing my eyes & swinging. There's very little sense of control over what is happening 
 at the plate. It does seem as though the batting stats are more realistic at the end of the game. 
 
  
  I also like the analog fielding controls - they seem pretty intuitive & realistic.
  
  Pros: The pitching interface, fielding, franchise mode depth
  
  Cons: Hitting is a crap-shoot, 
 no "second gear" in base-running or outfield defense, FRAME RATE!, many glitches... for example 
 - I do the pitching motion for a change-up, but they throw a fastball - this has hurt me on a couple 
 of occassions, the whole post-game wrap up is pathetic & makes little sense
  
  Overall - I've had alot of fun with this game in the last few days. But, there are alot of issues 
 that, if corrected, will make this game feel complete. I can't comment on the on-line play because 
 I haven't tried it. Still, rent first & decide if you can deal with the issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTalkative_Mime
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  MLB 2k8 -- This game is very good when it comes to the controls. There is a huge learning curve, 
 but it is well well worth it to figure it all out. Basically everything is done with the right 
 analog stick. It seems like a bad idea, but it is actually a great one. The only thing I recommend 
 you do with the recent controls is throwing... like A = Home, B = First, etc... That is frustrating 
 when you make a bad throw because you are trying o hurry and it is slightly not straight to the 
 right... Overall, this is way better than 2k7.
  
  Pros:
  
  Pitching
  Batter Stances
  Baseball Cards
  Graphics
  Lots of game modes
  Franchise mode is better
 
  Full Minor-Leagues
  
  
  Cons:
  
  Baserunning
  Throwing to bases
  Teams are rated by talent and not standings
  
  
  Okay, the baserunning is kinda half-baked. 
 You don't feel like you are running fast enough. It isn't that big of a deal. Franchise mode s 
 great this time around, because the minor-leagues make a huge change to your team. You can step 
 in and play your farm team's games. All around, this is definitely a game a baseball fan will have 
 so much fun with and play every day. 2K did a great job with this game, but the real game to buy 
 coming out this week is Army Of Two. If you got $120 -- BUY BOTH.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: REMLOC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME ROCKS, TOTAL CONTROL PITCHING IS EVERYTHING I EXPECTED AND THEN SOME. THIS GAME REALLY 
 DELIVERS ON ALL THINGS THAT MAKE BASEBALL GREAT. BASE RUNNING ,FIELDING ,BATTING AND PITCHING ARE 
 ALL PHENOMENAL. ITS A LITTLE TOUGHER THAN PAST BASEBALL GAMES BUT THATS A GOOD THING, YOU CAN'T 
 JUST BANG HOME RUNS ALL DAY. IT ACTUALLY TAKES SKILL TO PLAY THIS GAME. YOU BETTER MASTER DIVING 
 CATCHES AND ACCURATE FIELDING IF YOU WANT TO STAND A CHANCE IN THIS GAME. DEFENSE IS DEFINITELY 
 NEEDED TO WIN. IF YOU LOVE BASE BALL AND REALISM THIS IS A MUST BUY! IT ALSO HAS THE COMPLETE MINOR 
 LEAGUE WHICH YOU CAN SEND PROS BACK AND FOURTH, AS WELL AS BRING MINORS TO THE PROS. THIS FEATURE 
 REALLY ADDS DEPTH AND REPLAY VALUE TO AN ALREADY AMAZING GAME. WHEN IT COMES TO SPORTS 2K ALWAYS 
 DELIVERS THE GOODS, THATS WHY EA BOUGHT THE RIGHTS TO FOOTBALL BECAUSE 2K WOULD KICK THERE ASS! 
 DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME OR MONEY WITH THAT WATER DOWN REPRESENTATION OF BASEBALL FROM EA. STICK WITH 
 2K BASEBALL AND HAVE FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faceman420
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  I played the hell out of 2k7 and after 30 min. of 2k8 I can already tell u my biggest gripes. The 
 baserunning lacks any ability to run faster! That totally takes me out of the game cuz I like to 
 feel like I'm hustlin for the base. Instead theres a more specific button layout for which base 
 u wanna go to. This is a great improvement over the ol forward-backward setup, but I'm so used 
 to pressin A to run!! You can't even run when you field. 
  
  Another issue is a glitch where a shade of white flickers over the field in front of the batter 
 when you're up to bat. Also, all the print is super TINYYY.. I guess cuz it was optimized for bigger 
 screens (I use a 42 inch SD) but still ridiculously small. 
  
  The new pitching mechanism is pretty frustrating at first so I switched back to 2k7 pitching controls. 
 I know it would prolly play better with more practice but I have no patience for that. I play to 
 have fun, and I love the old control scheme for pitching. The new fielding controls are bad too; 
 so not comfortable using the right stick to throw to a base, so I stick to the old controls. 
 
  
  The animation doesnt seem as fluid as in 2k7.. a lot of times the players skip movements and it 
 looks pretty rushed. I think all the time taken for the new controls took away from time spent 
 on the fundamentals. The graphics still look nice, but not phenomenally better than last yr's. 
 I just hope they come out with a patch that brings back the running button and fixes these glitches 
 and cosmetic eff-ups. If you have 2k7, you're better off waitin till next year to upgrade or else 
 ull be wishin u saved the money for army of two. peace.
  
  www. myspace. com/themcfaceman 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
