-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Marvel: Ultimate Alliance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/rpg/marvelultimatealliance/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge, eclectic cast of Marvel heroes and villains.
 Deep yet largely optional character customization system.
 Great variety of environments.
 Seamless local and Xbox live co-op play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Presentation a little technically uneven.
 Some customization options seem contradictory.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 27, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.2, 80 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 6,661 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Raven Software
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Oct 24, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Raven improves upon the great work it did with the X-Men Legends games, with a lengthy adventure 
 that touches upon nearly every last corner of the Marvel Universe. 

  In 2004, Raven Software surprised a lot of people with X-Men Legends, an action RPG focusing on 
 the exploits of Marvel's mutant superheroes. The Diablo-style gameplay was a significant departure 
 for Raven, a developer best known for its extensive work on first-person shooters. Perhaps more 
 surprising was the game's success in introducing action RPG conventions to the world of superheroes, 
 a fairly novel combination at the time. It proved to be a winning formula, one that Raven further 
 refined with last year's X-Men Legends II: Rise of Apocalypse. Not content with the localized struggles 
 of the X-Men, the concept has been blown out to an intergalactic, interdimensional scale with Marvel: 
 Ultimate Alliance. With well over 20 unique playable heroes, a massive campaign that features a 
 wide variety of well-known Marvel Universe villains, supporting characters, and locations, as well 
 as plenty of hidden extras, it's the biggest piece of Marvel fan service seen in a video game. 
 It also builds upon a lot of the gameplay systems established in the X-Men Legends games, making 
 for an experience that's deeper, longer-lasting, and generally more satisfying.  

          The stars of the world's greatest comics join forces in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance.     
 

  Ominous things are afoot right from the start in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance. Dr. Doom has brought 
 together a coalition of supervillains under the Masters of Evil name, whose first act is to attack 
 a S. H. I. E. L. D. helicarrier. An opposing coalition of superheroes quickly comes to the aid of S. H. I. E. L. D. 
 director Nick Fury, who takes command of the situation and coordinates the superheroes as they 
 continue to track Doom and his minions across the universe and into different dimensions. The sheer 
 quantity of Marvel supervillains you'll face on your quest to defeat Dr. Doom is genuinely staggering. 
 Heavy hitters like Ultron, the Mandarin, Mephisto, Loki, and Galactus all play major roles, but 
 there's still room for lower-profile villains like M. O. D. O. K., Fin Fang Foom, Arcade, Grey Gargoyle, 
 Blackheart, Super Skrull, and literally dozens of others. There are a couple of truly excellent 
 twists and turns, and the story does a good job of concealing the true nature of Dr. Doom's plans 
 until just the right moment. Some of the finer points, such as the excess of long-winded expository 
 speeches in between levels, don't stand up to close scrutiny so well, but the narrative is successful 
 in keeping the game moving at a fast clip.  

  Your starting lineup in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance consists of Captain America, Thor, Spider-Man, 
 and Wolverine, but after a few levels playing with these heroes, you're given the option to create 
 your own custom team. At first you'll have about 18 different heroes to choose from, and they represent 
 a good cross-section of high-profile heroes and more obscure fan favorites. Old-schoolers like 
 the Fantastic Four, Iron Man, and several X-Men are there, as are a number of heroes who are likely 
 unknown to those who don't keep up with comics, such as Moon Knight, Luke Cage, Spider-Woman, and 
 Deadpool. As you progress you'll run into other heroes such as Blade, Dr. Strange, Ghost Rider, 
 and the Silver Surfer, who will in turn join the cause.  

  Part of the fun of Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is the sheer variety of places the game takes you. 
 While the X-Men Legends games seemed stuck mostly in dungeonlike corridors and sewers and such, 
 here you'll visit some of the most spectacular and mythical locations in the Marvel Universe, including 
 Mephisto's Realm, Asgard, Mandarin's palace, the Skrull homeworld, and, finally, Dr. Doom's sinister 
 Latverian castle. The lush environments really do look as if they came straight out of a comic 
 book, and the game's overall look is enhanced with loads of dramatic lighting and crazy particle 
 effects. The heroes and villains look good from afar, but up close they lack detail and have been 
 bump-mapped to the point that they look like action figures. There are other inconsistencies, such 
 as a few distractingly large, blurry background textures and the ravine of difference in quality 
 among some of the prerendered cinematic sequences. It's also unfortunate that the frame rate isn't 
 more stable, though, curiously, we found that the game actually performed better when running in 
 HD resolutions. The sound design is also a little uneven, with some overly chatty characters and 
 environmental sound loops, but it more than makes up for this with a soundtrack that's just fantastic, 
 capably shifting gears to keep up with the game's near-constant, dramatic scenery changes.  

          Character customization runs deep, though you can choose to automate it if it's too much 
 for you.     

  The basics of the gameplay should be perfectly familiar by now to fans of hack-and-slash dungeon 
 crawlers like Diablo, Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance, or Raven's own X-Men Legends games. Commanding 
 a group of four superheroes, you'll fight your way through swarms of enemies, becoming more powerful 
 and gaining new abilities and the occasional piece of gear along the way. From the get-go, everyone 
 can perform a handful of straight-up melee combos with the A and B buttons. TThere are a few details 
 that give the basic combat some depth beyond simple button mashing, such as the ability to disarm 
 enemies and grapple with them and enemies that are only susceptible to specific attacks. Pulling 
 the right trigger gives you access to a number of your hero's special powers, and these special 
 powers, along with stuff like the ability of flight when appropriate, play a big part in giving 
 each hero a unique feel. As different as the abilities can look and feel, most can be easily slotted 
 into a handful of categories. There are melee attacks, radial attacks, projectile attacks, beam 
 attacks, individual as well as team boosts, and high-powered "xtreme" attacks that you can only 
 trigger after your usually slow-filling momentum meter reaches capacity. Save for the Silver Surfer, 
 who seems stymied by the terranean nature of the gameplay, the heroes feel quite comparable to 
 their ink-and-paper counterparts.  

  Though you have little control over how your hero's basic stats like health and energy increase 
 as you reach new experience levels, with each new level you're given skill points that you can 
 put toward special powers. Each hero has eight or more special powers in an arsenal, though many 
 of them are inaccessible until you reach certain experience plateaus. You can also use cold, hard 
 cash that you pick up by beating enemies and smashing crates to purchase points, though they start 
 off pricey and become exponentially more so as you progress. Each hero also has three alternate 
 costumes that you can unlock, which not only can drastically affect the hero's appearance, but 
 also comes with a unique set of bonuses that you can pay to increase. Defeating significant villains 
 and finding special treasure chests will usually net you a piece of performance-enhancing equipment. 
 Usually any hero can use any gear you happen upon, though it never shows up on their person, and 
 there are also lots of rare pieces of gear that only specific heroes can use.     

   

  It would seem that there would be a bit of a conundrum in having an RPG-style experience system 
 with such a huge cast of characters. You'd think that any hero who isn't constantly a part of your 
 active team would become useless after the first level. Marvel: Ultimate Alliance addresses this 
 smartly by artificially increasing the experience levels of nonactive heroes as your active team 
 progresses. Nonactive heroes will usually be about one full experience level behind your active 
 heroes, which is just enough that, should you choose to swap in a hero that you haven't used before, 
 they'll still be tough enough to keep up. Perhaps most interesting about the whole hero customization 
 system in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is the fact that few of your choices are permanent. Though 
 you can't take back any money spent, any skill points you've earned or purchased can be redistributed 
 to different special powers at the drop of a hat. Additionally, if all of this talk of skill points 
 and team boosts seems boring or confusing to you and you're just interested in beating up lots 
 of bad guys, you'll love that the game handles all character customization by default.  

          Who you choose as teammates can earn you unique performance enhancements.     

  Beyond 
 the individual heroes, the actual team building plays an interesting role in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance. 
 When you're initially given the choice to create a team, you can either pick a prefab group such 
 as the Fantastic Four or the Avengers, or you can pick four heroes of your liking to create a custom 
 team. You can swap in other heroes as you please, but by playing with heroes that have been designated 
 as a part of your team, your team gains reputation points that can be used to infer specific bonuses 
 on the team. Playing with heroes who aren't designated as part of your team will reduce reputation, 
 though if you stick with your initial team of four for a while, you'll be able to add additional 
 heroes to the team. Separate from the team reputation system, who you choose for your team can 
 earn you  yet another  stat bonus. Some of them are obvious. For example, you'll get an X-Men boost 
 for playing with mutants, and a Fantastic Four bonus for playing with Mister Fantastic, Invisible 
 Woman, Human Torch, and The Thing. Alternately, if you play with, say, Captain America, Spider-Woman, 
 Luke Cage, and Spider-Man, you'll get a New Avengers bonus, while playing with all female characters 
 will earn you a Femme Fatale bonus. Juggling specific heroes' skill points, gear, and costumes, 
 as well as your team reputation points and roster-specific team bonuses, can be overwhelming at 
 times, but this also facilitates a great amount of flexibility for those who seek it.  

  The amount of crate and barrel smashing that you'll do in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is discouraging, 
 but the game does a lot to keep the action interesting and varied. There are a few puzzles that 
 you'll have to solve while simultaneously wailing on villains, though they have a tendency to alternate 
 between painfully obvious and excessively obscured. There's no shortage of boss battles, the best 
 of which incorporate Resident Evil 4-style real-time cutscenes that prompt you to press specific 
 face buttons in order to successfully attack the enemy. The mechanics of these sequences are rarely 
 difficult to pull off, but they make moments like your confrontation with Galactus satisfying and 
 memorable. The game is also unafraid to indulge in the occasional gameplay tangent, which is no 
 more apparent than when you face the villain Arcade in his ominously named amusement park Murderworld, 
 which finds your heroes engaging in video game and carnival activities in rather unexpected ways. 

  You can play Marvel: Ultimate Alliance by yourself, allowing the computer to pick up the slack 
 with the three heroes you're currently not controlling. You can instantly assume control of a different 
 team member with the D pad, and holding the left trigger gives you access to some basic team behavior 
 controls. The artificial intelligence can generally hold its own, but it doesn't always listen 
 to orders and can act a bit buggy at times. For a better experience, you can have other, real-life 
 players take control at any point for some satisfying cooperative play, which holds true regardless 
 of whether the other players are playing on the same system or over Xbox Live.  

          Seamless cooperative play makes it easy for others to jump in.     

  Another fun distraction 
 is the way you can earn experience points in between missions by correctly answering Marvel-themed 
 trivia questions. The trivia questions range from relative basics, like which newspaper Peter Parker 
 works for, to obscure details, like the name of Fin Fang Foom's home planet. There's no time limit 
 for answering questions, making it easy enough to hit up the Internet for answers, and you'll find 
 that you can find the answers to most questions by chatting up non-player characters in the game. 
 Still, it's a nice touch for fans to see just how much they really know about comics.  

  Even if you choose to ignore the numerous side missions that you'll be presented with along the 
 way, it'll easily take you a good 15 or 20 hours to play through Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, and 
 it's a good ride from start to finish. The game gives you the sense that you can affect how the 
 story ends by certain decisions you make, but these choices are usually pretty superficial, and 
 not really worth playing through the entire game again for. The unlockable hard mode is much more 
 attractive since you can import the buffed-up team you already beat the game with. There are also 
 Xbox 360 achievement points to consider, most of which seem to flow quite naturally as you play 
 the game, though there is a large number of secret achievements for you to suss out as well.  

 
  Beyond being a well-made and accessible action RPG, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance really captures 
 the essence of the Marvel Universe, a pretty incredible feat considering the breadth of the source 
 material, though there are just enough omissions to easily justify a sequel. This is simply a must-have 
 for Marvel fans, though the action itself remains satisfying enough for those in search of a good 
 dungeon-crawl to enjoy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (358 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: soggywaffleman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate alliance (MUA) is the 3rd game in the X-men Legends (XML) series. However Activision 
 kind of pulls a Far Cry 2 in a sense that story wise MUA is in no way related at all. In fact besides 
 five characters the playable cast has completely changed. Instead of focusing on just the x-men 
 team, ur now playing as all of the most famous Marvel heroes. Now at first I was kind of dissapointed 
 that i wouldn't be able to play as some of mi favorite x-men, but the first time u see combinations 
 like Captain America and the Human Torch, or Spider man and Wolverine u no ur in for a treat, but 
 be prepared for a few set backs on the way.
  
  The story of MUA is pretty generic, one of the most famous and BA marvel villains Dr. Doom starts 
 doin some evil shenanigans and u hav 2 figure out why, as u might've guest u end up having to save 
 the universe in some way. While the story may not be the most thrilling piece of fiction it definately 
 keeps u motivated enough to keep going and to keep wondering wat happens next. The game does a 
 good job of never letting u feel like u dont no wats going on or u dont understand something because 
 ur not a fan of the comics. However if u r indeed a fan then ull c som exciting cameos and special 
 hidden dialogue related to past comic events.
  
  For those of u who didnt play the first two x-men legends games the basic set-up of the game is 
 this. At any given time u control a team of four heroes, whom u can pick from a group of around 
 16-18, which increases over time. U can change ur heroes at any given save point in a level which 
 are frequent enough that they keep u from ever getting tired of ur chosen warriors. Each character 
 has a long list of moves of around 7-9, but during combat a hero may only use 4 of those moves 
 at a time, and the range of powers is incredible, from telekinesis, mega punches, gun blasts, teleporting, 
 u can even turn enemies into crates. The RPG element comes into play bi deciding which moves u 
 want to use in action and which movies u level up. The game stands out from it's predecessors bi 
 doing a great job in making every hero feel truly unique. Every hero has it's own animations for 
 just about everything, from running to punching to jumping, and especially flying. Plus so many 
 of the characters have special abilites that make them feel new and fresh from the other characters. 
 For instance Spider man can web swing, Iceman does his little ice slide thing, Dead Pool teleports, 
 Daredevil has an extra high jump, and the list goes on. Now the best way to play MUA is without 
 doubt with friends it feels rly cool wen u work as one elite team and the experience is just great. 
 Playing by urself is still great fun tho, and dont think that the game is worthless without any1 
 to play it with, the A. I. may not be rocket scientists but rarely will u find them getting killed, 
 they'll through down some powers here and there but wen going solo ur pretty much pulling the weight, 
 the computer just serves for something else for the enemy to focus on to keep u from being overwhelmed.
 
  
  Now on a technical stand point MUA is at it's weakest. Though neither XML were great technical 
 achievments they both hav great style with a rly need and cool looking comic book look. However 
 it seems like Activision went for a more realistic and edgier look, and the results rly aren't 
 too great. The character models are decent enough and are surprisingly well detailed but wenevr 
 the camera zooms in or wen ur leveling up ur hero and u c the models up close u start seeing some 
 flaws. The voice acting is pretty good i mean probably much better then one would expect from a 
 comic book video game, but for the most part the voices will sound more or less how u think they 
 should. However the sound effects are pretty generic and uninspired, in an atmosphere where one 
 would think it would be a joy to experiment with different unique cool sounds, even stuff like 
 explosions and gun fire sound kind of weak.
  
  MUA is a must have for all marvel fans because of its huge and memorable cast and fun game play. 
 However any1 else may have trouble building a connection to the game and it's great cast of heroes, 
 and they might also not so easily overlook som definate technical problems
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: H_H_J_J
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2009 7:06 am PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is, well, not a great game.
  
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is, well, a game I really do love.
  
  This isn't really a game which 
 I would actively try and "sell" someone on. Chances are if this game is for you, then you already 
 own it. It's simple, it's fun and it's a comic fan's dream. Bringing together around 25 or more 
 of Marvels most (and not-so-most) popular characters this game allows you to play through a rather 
 lengthy co-op campaign in classic coin-op Gauntlet-style with light RPG-elements that allow you 
 to advance and improve your team of heroes.
  
  If you enjoy your Marvel comics then chances are you will enjoy this title. If you don't, it's 
 probably not worth your time. The engine was designed for the last generation of systems and it 
 shows. The graphics are mediocre. The AI is atrocious. The physics system is all but non-existent. 
 There are a truck load of bugs and glitches which, to date, have not been patched (and likely never 
 will be) . There are a plethora of inaccuracies in the stat screen descriptions of abilities... 
 the whole game is really kind of a mess. This is a licensed product that sells itself almost completely 
 on it's license.
  
  If you want to play a game where Captain America, Spider-Man and Iron Man get to knock their fists 
 off of Doctor Doom's metal plated noggin then you probably want to buy this game. If you don't 
 or are wondering who any of the aforementioned characters are then you probably want to invest 
 your time and money elsewhere as this title's only real selling point is it's expansive lineup 
 of superheroes and villains.
  
  For comic fans the title is easily a 9.0/10
  
  For everyone else you're looking at 4.5/10 at best
  
  That would average out to 6.75/10, rounded 
 up to 7/10 for my submitted score
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigdaddyrob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 3:50 pm PT
Review:  The words Amazing, Phenomenal, Fantastic, Spectacular, these words are used a lot in the comic 
 book world and they also describe this game. I have been a big fan of these types of Marvel games 
 ever since X-Men Legends. I love the ability to play as some of my favorite characters from the 
 Marvel universe. Ultimate Alliance not only gives you ton of characters to play with, but also 
 provides excellent game play and a well written story to go along with it. Whether you are playing 
 solo or with friends this game will provide hours of fun with a high replay value. I really liked 
 being able to team up some of my favorite characters and beat the crap out of some of Marvel's 
 most infamous bad guys. Certain combinations of characters can give bonuses during combat. There 
 are a lot of subtle things in this game that make it enjoyable too, like being able to unlock different 
 costumes and powers for each character. There are a lot of hidden items in the game that will unlock 
 mini games that can help level your characters. The controls are easy to use and you can map different 
 powers to different buttons for easier customization. Oh, yeah and did I mention the story? This 
 game has a wonderful story that tie in so many different locations throughout the Marvel universe. 
 Some of the voice acting is a little cheesy, but hey it is a comic book game lol. The camera angles 
 when playing with others can get a little confusing but for the most part is handled very well. 
 The graphics on this game are not going to blow you away, however the effects look good and the 
 environments are nicely done too. This game is very enjoyable and I would highly recommend it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xplode_77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 7:06 am PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite games ever. The graphics in the cut-scenes are simply incredible. There 
 is so much you can do after you beat the game like, beat comic disc missons, play it through on 
 hard mode, and unlock character suits and items.
  If you have ever played through an X-men Legends game and loved it, you will love this one more. 
 But there was one thing that realy got on my nerves, I was just walking around killing guys, and 
 went to a S. H. E. I. L. D. station to change my character, and it said he was not unlocked. Do you 
 want to know what the funny thing was, I was playing as that character! And then I figured out 
 every thing was locked. It sucked!
  There is some (well only one) good XBL content, the 8 characters.
  Over all from the great story 
 line, and the great environment, to the awesome characters, this is an incredible game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esman39
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a great value these days. You can get it used for $10 easy. It is a 
 game loaded with class. The graphics are good though I wish you could zoom the camera in a bit 
 closer on the action. The sound is on par and the story is decent. However, the voice acting and 
 character animations during cut scenes are pretty cheesy.
  But the game is FUN. Smashing, pummeling and destroying things is always fun but doing it as Spiderman, 
 Hulk and Wolverine is even better!
  This game is not going to rock your world or anything but you'll find it is a sweet escape if you're 
 down for some easy entertainment. It reminds me of the old days of Final Fight and Streets of Rage. 
 I love just sitting down and mashing buttons and mashing faces. "Veg-out" bliss after a long day 
 of reality. The trivia and back-story on the characters in between missions and during training 
 sessions was fun too. Good stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boney721
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Great Game and extremely fun. Can't wait for the second version to come out.
  Just recently bought the game and I cant get enough of it, heck now my wife plays it more than 
 me. The game may not be for everybody but for those who enjoy this style of game play, it is well 
 worth it. Great Game and extremely fun. Can't wait for the second version to come out.
  Just recently bought the game and I cant get enough of it, heck now my wife plays it more than 
 me. The game may not be for everybody but for those who enjoy this style of game play, it is well 
 worth it. Great Game and extremely fun. Can't wait for the second version to come out.
  Just recently bought the game and I cant get enough of it, heck now my wife plays it more than 
 me. The game may not be for everybody but for those who enjoy this style of game play, it is well 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance sounded like it was going to be a great game. A fantastic host of characters 
 you can pick from. It was setting us up for disappointment, but it totally delivered on what it 
 promised. 
  
  More than 20 Character, each one with their own powers and upgrades. Can you think of a game that 
 offers you that type of diversity? No. A Cast of Marvel's best creations made it into this game. 
 Spider-man, Fantastic 4, Storm, Wolverine, Ironman, Captain America... to name a few.
  
  The story line follows the heroes as they embark on a quest to stop Dr. Doom's evil plan to destroy 
 everything and take over the world. In the meantime you face off with the super villains of the 
 Marvel universe. From Scorpion, Shocker, Rhino to Mephisto and Dr. Doom himself.
  
  The Graphics for the game is very simple but very detailed all in one. The units and environments 
 are crisp and well designed, but not over done. Each character has an amazing amount of detail, 
 both to their suits and their powers. Voice acting in the game is pretty good, with a solid cast 
 of people chosen. None of them famous, but all of them perfect for the job.
  
  The game has a fantastic library of powers that you can upgrade, both as a team as an individual 
 unit. This add a lot in terms of Replay value (not that the sheer amount of characters shouldn't 
 do it already) .
  
  The game does get a little bit easy to the end as you start upgrading your units to a level where 
 they are almost indestructible. The end boss was also very easy to defeat.
  
  Awesome game. Keeps you busy and well entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CYCLOP5
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Whenever I see this game I cry inside, I mean it has no substance. I usually try to be punctual 
 and spell everything right but this game doesn't deserve that. My biggest problem is the story 
 is fluff, its boring and senseless I still can't understand why they made one up. Next its just 
 so repetitive, the combat isn't inventive and it can be beat by running towards an enemy and randomly 
 hitting buttons then repeating the process. The only reason I played it is because I enjoy comic 
 books, but they seemed to ask some random person for a storyline, battle system, and level design, 
 at least Call of Duty makes detailed enticing cut scenes to help make the linear levels feel more 
 like a real war. In total why attempt to make a game like this in the first place, the only way 
 it actually entertained me was by having so much fan service that you have to keep playing no matter 
 how much you dislike it, couldn't they at least make it a little more fun, but not here, not in 
 this game, it doesn't live up to even a portion of its hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maccian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Best team EVAR Blade, Captain America, Thing, Iron Man.... and to reach 100 characters, so Best 
 team EVAR Blade, Captain America, Thing, Iron Man.... and to reach 100 characters, so Best team 
 EVAR Blade, Captain America, Thing, Iron Man.... and to reach 100 characters, so Best team EVAR 
 Blade, Captain America, Thing, Iron Man.... and to reach 100 characters, so Best team EVAR Blade, 
 Captain America, Thing, Iron Man.... and to reach 100 characters, so Best team EVAR Blade, Captain 
 America, Thing, Iron Man.... and to reach 100 characters, so Best team EVAR Blade, Captain America, 
 Thing, Iron Man.... and to reach 100 characters, so Best team EVAR Blade, Captain America, Thing, 
 Iron Man.... and to reach 100 characters, so Best team EVAR Blade, Captain America, Thing, Iron 
 Man.... and to reach 100 characters, so Best team EVAR Blade, Captain America, Thing, Iron Man.... 
 and to reach 100 characters, so Best team EVAR Blade, Captain America, Thing, Iron Man.... and 
 to reach 100 characters, so Best team EVAR Blade, Captain America, Thing, Iron Man.... and to reach 
 100 characters, so Best team EVAR Blade, Captain America, Thing, Iron Man.... and to reach 100 
 characters, so Best team EVAR Blade, Captain America, Thing, Iron Man.... and to reach 100 characters, 
 so Best team EVAR Blade, Captain America, Thing, Iron Man.... and to reach 100 characters, so Best 
 team EVAR Blade, Captain America, Thing, Iron Man.... and to reach 100 characters, so 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WildCat_Vet
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent superhero game. It contains many Marvel favorites including Spider-Man, the 
 Fantastic Four, and several members of the Avengers and the X-men. Their are certain heroes that 
 are only available on the PSP (such as Ronin and Captain Marvel) or next gen consoles (which include 
 Moon Knight and Colossus) . The Xbox 360 gold edition includes four additional heroes plus 4 villains 
 that are also playable. 
  
  You choose your team of four heroes and purchase upgrades for their abilites as you earn points. 
 This allows you to choose which abilities/fighting style to concentrate on. Each hero has their 
 strengths which you can build-up to your advantage. 
  
  Multiplayer with up to 3 other people is available either on the same console or on-line. This 
 game is particularly fun with other players, young or old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grubes26
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Like I said in the headline for my review, if an action RPG that has a lot of hack and slash in 
 it, then this game is for you, lol!! The game has great graphics and environments that you move 
 your team of 4 super heroes through facing all sort of enemies. I've only put in only a little 
 less than 10 hours on the game and it was fun at first but it just got boring to me because it 
 was the same thing each level but to be fair RPG's are really not my cup of tea. Within the game 
 are extra levels that are inspired by individual super heroes, which if I remember right, they 
 are titled as comic series but not a 100% on that due to the fact that I haven't played the game 
 for at least a month. Only reason that the game is in my collection is because it came with my 
 Xbox 360 Elite, but it was a fun game at first even though I do not care for RPG's, more of a FPS, 
 sports, and racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yorkshire_14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  This game is a must have for MARVEL fans and a fun game for everyone else.
  The 1st and 2nd levels bored me because it was basically pressing A over and over again but when 
 you get onto the 3rd level you get the chance to create your own MARVEL team and your team mates 
 get even stronger. You unlock amazing new powers for them and you get a thrill killing everyone. 
 In the middle of the game your team really begins to feel like a family and once it's all over 
 you feel sad. : ( Your Family left you behind. So you start a new game and start a new family. Then 
 it goes on and on and on until you go crazy and want MUA 2: Fusion to come out. I would have rated 
 it 10/10 but because of the graphics, the 1st and 2nd level and it starts getting a bit boring 
 the 5th game completed. I rated it 9.5/10!
  Also your game is always different depending on who you pick in your team. MUST BUY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkfrost282
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This is THE BEST Marvel game i've ever played. Wonderful upgrading technique. Combat doesn't get 
 boring. Love the ability to change suits (not in mid combat though hope they change that, but it 
 kinda makes sense.) I especially love co-op with 1 other friend. I wouldn't play it with 2 (making 
 total of 3) but i would play with 3 friends (making 4, one character for each) . Love that you can 
 have a team of 4 or greater even though only 4 can fight at once. Some of the coolest superhero 
 games ever and immersive/long story. Took me about 20+ hours to beat it the first time. (not counting 
 training simulator.) Also love that you can play through once then start over but with your characters 
 at the same level as you ended your last game. (optional of course)
  If you just like one superhero then BUY THIS GAME, NOT RENT BUY. that's an order.
  - Hawkfrost282 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodazombie
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Fun, Fast, Don't have to really think, good ol' button mashing kind of game. The story is kind 
 of crazy and you do a lot of meaningless mini side quests, but it is still fun. The trivia games 
 are pretty accurate and true to the history of Marvel and there respective characters. The RPG 
 aspect of the game could be a little better as far as leveling and usage of XP. The way you can 
 only use one piece "gear" at a time is also a little frustrating. I am a huge fan of the Marvel 
 universe so with the little inconveniences aside I thought it was a great 
 
  
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChuckE_Cheese
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  like i said if you're a marvel fan then this is obviously a game for you. there are plenty characters 
 to choose from and to be unlocked. fans of this genre will enjoy and get the luxury of playing 
 their favorite heroes; such as ironman, spiderman, elektra, torch, etc... all and all its a great 
 game. fun gameplay, plenty achievement, eyecatching,.. yup thats preety much it. boss fights are 
 fun, regarding that you have 4 heroes at hand, and you can switch anytime according to their respective 
 abilities
  
  Bad:
  the 360 version have 2 additional character, and that the gold addition even add more, like venom, 
 magneto, sabertooth. but actually the 360 graphics is a little bit corny. it's too shiny and well 
 rounded all of a sudden. 
  
  Overall:
  if you want a good headstart, try using human torch, iceman and spiderman. torch inferno will preety 
 much blast off and intantly kill any anemies, while iceman and spiderman will later prove usefull 
 in the end boss battle. spiderman's spider senses will slow time and use iceman to kill those fantastic 
 four clones. iceman is aparantly usefull against the thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostSoul1974
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 8.0
  Sound: 9.0
  Gameplay: 10.0
  Difficulty: 9.0
  Fun Factor: 10.0
  
  The good: 
  Enthralling storyline
  Accurate controls
  Extremely fun
  Being able to use 
 all your favorite Marvel characters Being able to play with 3 others at a time.
  
  The bad (well, sorta) : 
  Thought the graphics could have been cleaner, more polished. 
  Where's 
 MARVEL: ULTIMATE ALLIANCE 2?
  
  Hands down, this is one of the most fun games I've ever had the pleasure of playing. Like most 
 games that I can't get enough of, I hate when they are over (thus the notion that it's "too short 
 of a game", when it really was not. My only thing is I really thought the graphics would have been 
 better, but the gameplay more than makes up for it. I bought this game on a whim, since I needed 
 something new to play, had some Best Buy gift cards & wanted an action based game..... I'm glad 
 I did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a game I previously owned on the Wii, my Wii version got screwed up 
 somehow so I bought the 360 version, and I love this version more than I did the Wii version (and 
 yes I reviewed it) . Ok now on to the review. Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a fantastic RPG. The storyline 
 is quite nice, but it plays a big role in the game, so I'm not gonna spoil it. The gameplay is 
 fantastic. A button does your fast attacks, B button is the strong attacks, X button interacts 
 with objects such as doors and NPC's, the Y button jumps, The right trigger brings up your power 
 menu, and a certain power is given to the 4 face buttons, and the D-Pad swaps out your team of 
 4 characters (my team kicked ass!!) . The graphics looked quite nice for when they came around back 
 in 2006, they still look pretty good, but there are some infrequent glitches and the level design 
 is quite nice. The sound is amazing, the voice acting is fantastic, the sound effects are great, 
 and the music is wonderful. If your a Marvel fan you probably already own this game, if you don't 
 you've missed out on the best Comic game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spideroman126
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  A great game with the best marvel heros. Its got a good smash action and some nice team up action. 
 they just made spiderman suck. DC needs to step up there game. The online play is fun but lacks 
 that special something. some of the characters are awesome but a few are worthless (see spiderman) 
 boss battles are good but not that challenging the team up attacks are the best part of the game 
 plus it got that old school streets of rage type vibe when playing co-op mode with a friend the 
 upgrade features are decent but nothing special but it they do work and add to the game and this 
 game reaches deep in to the marvel comic book world and pulls out some of the best parts so comic 
 book nerds come one come all so buy it rent it whatever just play it you will like it and dont 
 forget to vote and blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cantius
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 29, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I don't know if it's just me, but the game wasn't as thrilling as I hoped it to be. The character 
 cast wasn't that great, the bosses were ridiculous, if you didn't have the right party, and the 
 story was pretty bland. But, there are some pretty cool stuff about this game aswell. It has Co 
 Op, which makes the game more fun, and there are comic sim discs (which are hard) , for each character.
 
  
  Anyway, let's move on to the review..
  
  Story [5.0]
  For some reason, I'm very harsh against stories for video games now. But anyway, the story is about 
 the Masters of Evil, plotting to take over the world, and you have to stop them. You take command 
 of over 20 heroes, and fight against Dr. Doom, the leader. Even though you get to meet some of 
 your favourite comic book characters, the story is just really bland. They could've been more original.
 
  
  Gameplay [7.5]
  Hmmm, I'm not gonna lie to you guys, but the game can be pretty intense when you have a lot of 
 enemies on screen, and you have friends playing with you. With the right team and characters, you 
 can expect to have a lot of fun. For example, you can have a Crow clearer, a power character, buff 
 character, and whatever you want. (of course, those aren't really what they're called.)
  Besides that, the gameplay is mainly about controlling one of the heroes, and using thier specials. 
 You can switch on the fly between four of your selected party members, and instead of using potions 
 like in the X-men legends games, you pick up health orbs, and energy orbs. That makes the game 
 more balanced, and a little bit easier. The bad thing about the gameplay are some of the bosses. 
 Seriously. One time, I was fighting against a boss, and the boss repeatedly attacked me, and I 
 couldn't get out of his way. They deplete your hp in a matter of seconds, and there aren't much 
 strageties here. Without Wolverine, I don't think I would've beaten this game. Overall, the gameplay 
 is fun, but the bosses has got be more balanced. One thing I forgot to mention, is that when you 
 uppercut the enemy, they should make it where you jump in the air again, and combo them mid-air, 
 instead of the stupid charge attack.
  
  Graphics [8.0]
  The graphics are awesome, and the visuals are pretty good. I had a few tears there and there, but 
 not too amazing. Since Marvel Ultimate Alliance isn't a real next-gen game, I gave the score a 
 bit higher than what I wanted.
  
  Sound/Music [7.0]
  The voice acting is superb, and the sound is top notch. There are no bad voice acting, and some 
 of them fit perfect with the characters. The sounds, as you hear, can be the crackling of your 
 fire, or the sound of your stomp. The music, is okay, nothing I'm too fond of. Overall, it's okay.
 
  
  Final Word -
  My review may be a little harsh at first, but you'll understand, when you play through the game. 
 I didn't play most of the game with Co-Op, but the game is way better with Co op. I don't know 
 if it's just me, but if you have Xbox live and some friends with this game, I suggest you buy this 
 game, and play Co op, cause this game delivers the Co Op experience you need for your gaming pleasure.
 
  
  Overall [7.0] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persian_knight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  you cant help but to have fun on this game its incredible and a great multiplayer game and with 
 alot of superheroes your bond to like atleast one of them its also fun to play by yourself just 
 training your perfect team and it has a nice story and a good way to link in all the different 
 characters
  
  there is alot of fun to be had with this game and you can play it online if you have no one ele 
 to play with and if you like more then one hero then thats good becuase you have ateam of four 
 different characters and each one can learn different powers making it feel like a completly diff 
 experience every time you play which keeps it fun
  
  the game has great cinematics but its a shame the ordinary graphics are that great but if you dont 
 really mind graphics you will like this game
  
  itsalso very long and lots of diffucultys and lots of stuff to unlock like diff costumes and new 
 powers making it even more fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ2015
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 1:00 am PT
Review:  very good game liked it 4 ps2 and 360 liked how u could play as blade (best charactor ever) and 
 other charactor's very good didn't really like the graphics to much i thought it could have been 
 better but other than that this game deserves a good 9.5 out of 10 really good game oh all most 
 4got the multiplayer is good but choosing the charactor could have been better because when your 
 playing and 2 people want 2 be the same person all hell brakes loose they should have made it were 
 every body could be the same person but it still deserves a 9.5 out of 10 seeing how i cant post 
 this little paragraph like this i will talk more about marvel: ultimate alliance charactors are 
 alot better on the 360 version than ps2 i cant name them all woored 4 word but i do think 1 of 
 them on 360 that would be silver moon not sure correct me if im wrong (sorry if i got it wrong) 
 but i couldnt tell u cause my 360 is out so untill then i just got to live with what i got but 
 great game i think im going to be able to rap this up finally and if u like this reveiw private 
 message me and ill do more reveiws hope this works out 4 u if u havent bought it yet then use that 
 money under the couch and go out and buy this so u dont feel left out when all your friends are 
 playing marvel: ultimate alliance and u are getting game invites but theres 1 problem u dont have 
 the game so well worth the money and befor i leave u lets recap greate game play 4 both ps2 and 
 360 cool charactor's but if u wont the most heros u can get and u own both a 360 and ps2 buy the 
 360 version 4 the ultimate aresenalln of super heros good multiplayer now on the down side graphics 
 could have been better multiplayer when people wont 2 be the same hero its a living hell so from 
 here on out please 4 god sake marvel make it were u can be the same person so untill next time 
 this is dj2015 coming from my moms laptop just kidding 
  P. S. not relly lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jediknight52501
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Activision does it again. Raven Software brings us the greatest Super-Hero since X-Men Legends 
 II: Rise Of Apocalypse and adds some new features not seen in the last 2 games. the game takes 
 place in the Marvel Universe as Doctor Doom tries to rule the world with the help of The Masters 
 Of Evil. Loki, Ultron and a few other Marvel Villians help him as you control over 20 different 
 Heroes such as Wolverine, Captain America, Spider-Man and Iron Man, the game has some great graphics 
 and beautiful areas to play on. the diffuculty is not to hard to adjust to and the enemies are 
 fun to beat down as you gain Levels to make your character even better.
  the game also has a 8 new characters you can download from X-Box Live Marketplace for 800 points 
 and they include Hawkeye, Cyclops, Magneto and Sabretooth. the new characters add some depth to 
 the game. you can also unlock other characters in the game as you play through and unlocking most 
 of them is not hard expect for Silver Surfer, who is the hardest character to unlock.
  Each Character also has Special moves and you can Level them up to gain new powers that help you 
 advance in the game. each Character also has up to 4 different outfits and each one has unique 
 abilities that can help you advance in the game.
  the best part about this game is that you can form your own Team and have 4 characters and add 
 up to 8 more as you progress in the game and there are also popular Teams in the game like the 
 X-Men, Avengers, New Avengers, Fantastic Four, New Fantastic Four, and Marvel Knights. the Teams 
 are fun to put together and each Team has different strengths that help you as you play the game.
 
  overall, this is a fun game to play and will keep you interested for a a while . i suggest that 
 you try this game and you will enjoy it. the online is not bad, but it seems that there are not 
 enough people playing this on Live as there used to be so if you have a friend over, the multi-player 
 is not bad at all and is fun at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truckcapt
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  This is my first review, so bear with me if it is lame. But a game that defiantly isn't lame is 
 Marvel Ultimate alliance. If you're a fan of the old x-men legend games on the GameCube you should 
 defiantly pick this up, if u haven't already.
  If you know a lot about Marvel comic or very little, this game full you in on a lot of the origins 
 on most of the heroes. Player go through 5 acts each taking you to big locations in the Marvel 
 Universe, these places include: Starks Tower, Asgard, Attilan, And many more. This game also has 
 a big list of hero, and if you get the villains pack in the marketplace you get villains as well, 
 some of them are popular enough to recognize and some you can recognize if you're a fan. My favorite 
 characters are Deadpool and Nick Fury, when unlocked, also if you purchased the hero pack, the 
 Hulk is very fun to play.
  Gameplay is really good, sometime repetitive if you like using same power for your hero. Sound 
 is really good no problem there. And the graphic are pretty neat, the cut scenes between Act are 
 really cool.
  This game is a must have if you're a fan to Marvel Comics, if not its now a cheap new game to have 
 in your collection. If you should chose any console to pick from it should hands-down should be 
 for the xbox360, just cause of the achievement points and the DLC, hero and villain packs. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zfreak1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultmate Alliance is very addictive and fun. You will spend all of your time beating up bad 
 guys with various moves and attacks. No platforming, and hardly any puzzles, just strict buttkicking. 
 And thats the way it works. It does have some glaring problems though but these shud not stop any 
 fans of Marvel from getting this.
  
  The Gameplay-
  The gameplay of Ultimate Alliance is very simple. You have 4 heros in your part and you use the 
 face buttons to attack, jump, and fly. To use your super powers you hold down the trigger button 
 and tap the corresponding face button. The system works very well and its responsive. The difficulty 
 can vary at times. Sometimes rly easy, and sometimes rly hard. Characters not being used are automatically 
 leveled up to keep up with your stronger characters. You will also die more frequently than if 
 u had played the previous X-Men games. The a. i controlled characters are mostly smart and they 
 wont jump off a cliff or stand still. You can also give commands to them, like fighting more aggressively 
 or to assist you if you need help.
  
  The Graphics-
  The graphics are well average. Since the camera is pulled back you wont really have any need to 
 get down to some real detail. However when you are talking to someone the camera pulls in and you 
 can see how ugly some people are. The characters mouths dont move either. The environments however 
 are quite nice. Sometimes they look like backdrop but the immediate level looks quite nice with 
 nice lighting and detail. There are cinematics that divide the 5 acts that all look extremely impressive. 
 There almost movie quality and they are beautiful to watch. 
  
  The Sound-
  The sound is usually top notch. The music is usually good, and the voice acting is superb. Everyone 
 has personality and nothing sounds uninspired. There are times when the characters your playing 
 as can say annoying things. And its not the fact that there stupid but they repeat it frequently. 
 Some stuff is funny or clever but most of the time you will shake your head at the bad puns or 
 jokes. The sound effects are also good and great whenever your beating up characters you get nice 
 satisfying hits. And things in the environment explode with much satisfaction. 
  
  The Length/Value
  The game is about 20-25 hours long. Its lengthy but not as long as the X-Men 
 games which is a downer since its so much fun. But 20 hours is sitll a long time. You can also 
 replay it with the same stats and unlocked characters on the same or harder difficulty which can 
 be really fun. The game also has online play which works pretty well and its fun to fight alongside 
 a friend. 
  
  Extras
  The game has a handful of extras. You can watch the unlocked FMV's and look at concept art and 
 character models. You can also play through simulation disks that are available for every character 
 and comic missions that reenact comic books the best they can. So theres a hefty amount of goodies.
 
  
  Overall Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a superb action game. You will get to play as your favorite 
 super hero in superb scenarios. If you love these characters you owe it to yourself to at least 
 give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I had so many problems with this game. First there was alot of bugs and glitches. One instance 
 I was playing as the Thing and Rhino trapped me in a wall, and I couldn't move. Another instance 
 I was playing as Ghost Rider and I some how was thrown off of a ledge by a glitch. Another time 
 I was playing as Blade but the Vision thought I was wolverine, and the Blade started talking as 
 Wolverine. The biggest glitch of all is when I reached Act 5 in the game, I saved it the night 
 before, and went to play it again the next day. When I opened that save, I found that all the players 
 that I unlocked through out the game were now re-locked. I had to replay through a previous save 
 point to get those characters back. 
  
  Besides the glitches, the graphics were ugly as hell. The character models during the in-game cutscenes 
 were janky, the editing between sceens are poorly made. The suits your character wears don't transfer 
 over to the in-game cutscenes (I can forgive the pre-rendered CGI scenes though) . The game felt 
 short, the levels were tiny and linear. The boss fights were dumb minigames half of the time. The 
 story had terrible pacing, which forgetting plots. I felt most of the game the developers were 
 throwing darts at a dartboard figuring out which boss you should meet in which area, most of them 
 seemed random and worthless.
  
  I was not a fan of the menu set up either. Why is it when I hit start it takes me to the menu, 
 but when I hit start again it takes me to whatever icon it's on? Usually when I hit start again, 
 it means I didn't mean to hit it in the first place, and sometimes when the menu opens it's on 
 the "Quit Game" or "Load Game" Option. I never want to hit those on purpose! Another one is when 
 you go into the character menu, you hit A to do it, but to look at your characters stats you have 
 to hit Y. 
  
  There's also alot of loading in this game. You would think the 360 could handle a glorified PS2 
 game without much loading, but oh well. I tried dozens of times to play online, but the most people 
 I've ever seen online was 2. 
  
  While I think Marvel Ultimate Alliance is miles ahead of the Dark Alliance or Champions of Norrath 
 games, this was still a step down for me from X-Men Legends II. 
  
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is an action RPG aka top-down Dungeonhack. 
 You can make up to a four party team, including yourself. You'll have a huge list of party members 
 to choose from right from the get-go. You characters gain experience for each kill and quests completed. 
 I think you even get experience for bashing boxes and crates. Not only does your party members 
 share the experience but so do the characters in the reserve, so if you ever want to switch them 
 in, they're never underpowered. 
  
  When you gain a level you get 1 point to distribute among your special powers, but the game has 
 this set on an auto-setting by default, but since leveling up doesn't mean as much as it did in 
 the previous X-Men Legends games, then you might as well keep it on auto-set. Another way to boost 
 your stats is to buy your stats. When you gain enough money from bashing crates and enemies, you 
 can then go through your character menu and buy your skills if you can afford it or stats. Each 
 character has 4 suits they can wear, and each suit has 3 stats they can boost. For example, Wolverine 
 starts with his "Modern" suit, with it he can upgrade his Defense, Environment Damage and Energy. 
 If he switches to his Classic suit he can then upgrade his Defense, Claw Damage and Critical. He 
 would lose all that stats he gained from his Modern suit though. Each boost in the stat costs $1,000 
 more than the previous node, so maxing out or even trying to get everyone a bunch of stat boosts 
 is a long process that you probably won't even get close to doing by the end of the game. You can 
 equip only 1 accessory in the game. The whole upgrade system in Marvel Ultimate Alliance seems 
 weaker than the X-Men Legends and really hurts the overall single player game. 
  
  Dungeons are very basic linear paths which hordes of enemies in your way. Sometimes you'll run 
 into a "puzzle" which requires you to hit a switch with two characters at the same time. This can 
 be kinda difficult because when you switch between characters, the other one will sometimes move. 
 Speaking of stupid AI, I've never been more frustrated with the AI in a game like this so much 
 in my life. Sometimes your AI controlled characters will just commit suicide by jumping off of 
 a ledge, other times they won't follow you. Sometimes while you're being attacked, they're just 
 stand there and watch. You can change their behaviors by asking them to "Assist" or "Be Aggressive" 
 but the computer will often change what you set, sometimes mere seconds after you've set it. It's 
 completely frustrating to deal with.
  
  One new feature in the game are the God of War style boss battles. Most of the bigger boss battles 
 require stupid Quick-Time Events. Another feature that might be new is the ability to grab an enemies 
 weapon and use it against them. One last feature that might be new is the ability to unleash a 
 massive special attack. You can build this attack by killing enemies, and when your avatar starts 
 flashing you can then unleash it. If any of your teammates currently have their powers maxed out, 
 then they can unleash theirs in a chain attack.
  
  There's no healing potions or mana potions in the game, which is a let down. When one of your characters 
 dies, you have to wait 5 minutes before you're able to revive them again. Even then, you'll have 
 to find a save point to revive them. 
  
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  Ok, the story is simple, so I'll give you a simple rundown. Dr. Doom has gathered a group of supervillans 
 to take over the world. Nick Fury and SHIELD retaliated by gathering a group of Superheroes to 
 take on Dr. Doom, and that's it. 
  
  The story is not good at all, the dialog is laughable at times as well. I really hate the pacing 
 and the sheer amounts of randomness of the game or storyline. It just seems like the developers 
 made a bunch of random levels, and then tossed in a bunch of random bosses like Rhino or Shocker 
 for no reason and gave them a few lines of dialog. There's just to many characters in the game. 
 
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  Mixed bag on this one. In X-Men Legends, they used celshading for their character designs, and 
 I liked that quite a bit, it had character. Marvel Ultimate Alliance dropped that and now everything 
 is CGI. I don't like it as much, because in X-Men Legends the characters and enemies were celshaded 
 while the backgrounds were CGI, it made a nice contrast that was easy on the eyes, and you could 
 see enemies and characters alot better. In MUA the characters are dark, the backgrounds are dark, 
 the enemies are dark, the items are dark. It can get confusing at times. 
  
  The level designs seem really lazy. I'm not talking the puzzles, which seem more prevalent in this 
 game than the previous ones, but rather just the lay out. The whole game just feels like one linear 
 path, and the dungeons just seem so much smaller. X-Men Legends offered such bigger areas and much 
 more non-linearity where you actually felt like you're crawling through a puzzle dungeon finding 
 new things. 
  
  Full blown CGI cutscenes look great, but you'll only see about one per-Act. The cutscenes that 
 use the in-game engine look good to an extent. There's good character movement, but the camera 
 direction is terrible, the character models can be spotty at times. Sometimes pixels will flicker, 
 sometimes an arm looks blocky, some faces look screwed up. It's just very last gen if you know 
 what I'm talking about. One very early scene really cracked me up, which was a rocket flying threw 
 the air and blew up. This scene looked straight out of a Saturn game from 1996. 
  
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  The voice acting is good, there's really nothing to complain about. 
 The music is forgettable for the most part. Alot of the music is just background noise you probably 
 won't even notice, sometimes the music will even kick off. There was only one song in the entire 
 game that was good or rememberable and that was the track in Murderworld which sounded like something 
 in a Tim Burton movie. 
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  The world map is basically exactly the same as X-Men Legends II. The game is separated in 5 Acts, 
 and in each Act your group of super heroes will travel to a new base set up before venturing into 
 a new quest. Within each base you'll find 3 recurring machines. One is a trivia mini-game, another 
 is a review machine that can show you all your stats and various amounts of info. The final one 
 is a Simulator, this allows you to fight through levels with one character to achieve high scores 
 and to get bonus', or with a group of characters with no bonus'.
  
  Each base has 2 areas you can visit, with a bunch of characters you can chat with if you want. 
 You can sometimes find optional quests if you chat with them, but there isn't much reward for doing 
 them. When you're ready to set out on your quest, you'll usually find one person or thing that 
 will teleport you to the destination. The levels are extremely linear, and seem much smaller compared 
 to X-Men Legends II. 
  
  When you find a save point in the game, this also will be activated into a portal of sorts. If 
 you want, you can "Extract" your team and travel back and forth to any previous save spot. Most 
 areas you visited can be backtracked, although some can be locked out. On the save spot you can 
 also change your team mates and change your team mates suits. 
  
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ----------
  ??:??
  
  No idea how long I played this since 
 they don't record your overall time. I hate when games do this. It's atleast 10-15 hours long, 
 it seemed much shorter than either X-Men Legend games. Anyways, after you beat the game you unlock 
 a new character, hard mode and get treated with a fairly long ending.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 8, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  My expectations were very high for this game, since it was getting such good reviews from both 
 critics and gamers alike. Don't be angry with me, but I didn't think this game was that great. 
 I have no idea how anyone could say this game is an 8.5/10, because it just isn't. Let me start 
 off by saying the story sucks in this game. Dr. Doom (from the Fantastic Four movies) wants to 
 take over the world or something, and it's your job to stop it. Despite the poorly designed plot, 
 it isn't the worst part of the game, because I usually don't expect much of a story. Visually, 
 the game looks fair at best. The super-heroes look generally good, though some could use some work 
 ( like the Hulk) . The environments mostly look bland and also look kind of the same, sometimes 
 making you backtrack. There isn't much enemy variety either. The audio, though, is pretty good. 
 Both the in-game sound and voice acting are solid. However, the gameplay is flat out boring. You 
 run around levels with three other super-heroes, and you can also play co-op, which is nice. However, 
 the combat is bad. It's basically just a button masher, with a few special team moves and so on. 
 It gets boring after the first 10-15 minutes you play the game. I personally don't know why everyone 
 was so hyped up about this boring game.
  
  Story: 5/10 -- average story, since developers don't really pay much attention the the plot
  
 
  Graphics: 6/10 -- they're alright but the environments look bland and there isn't much enemy variety
 
  
  Sound: 7.5/10 -- solid voice acting along with the in-game sound
  
  Gameplay: 4.5/10 -- way too boring and basic, even with co-op
  
  Enjoyment: 5.5/10 -- I didn't 
 get too much enjoyment out of this game, but most people somehow did
  
  Final Thoughts: If you're a fan of any Marvel character then consider renting this game. The sound 
 in the game is good, but the visuals, plot and the gameplay ruin the entire game in my opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  M: UA is a super-hero beat'em up game that features nothing but Marvel based characters and villains. 
 The game's story is that Dr. Doom and his band of well-known villains are trying to take over the 
 world. You basically get to pick out your team of four of anyone you want. There are about 5 or 
 6 characters that need to be unlocked but for the most part, they are all there. The game will 
 take you through some familiar locations if you know a lot about the Marvel universe. The game's 
 length is roughly around 10 or 12 hours so it's pretty lengthy and worth playing a second time. 
 The only really bad thing about the game is that all the playable characters have not so much depth 
 to them. The game basically has a 3-hit combo system in which the most amount of attacks you land 
 in a combo is three. It would be nice if they would have extended and made it different for every 
 character giving the game's combat more depth. Every character also has a wide variety of super 
 moves, helpful moves that support your team as well as an ultimate move. Also, the game has an 
 rpg element that allows you to earn experience points for every enemy you kill and level up to 
 get stronger. Overall, M: UA is a great super-hero game that basically reins supreme above all other 
 super-hero based games. A must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whipassmt
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 30, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Well I started playing this game after I got it on Christmas 2007 and finally beat it on July 2008. 
 It gives me mixed emotions really. The good: Good storyline with a lot of twists and turns, a variety 
 of villains to beat up, a variety of superheroes. Interesting Environments for the levels. The 
 Bad: Could get repetitive, wasn't too thrilled with the graphics. Anyway, who am I to complain, 
 it came free with my Xbox 360. I'll give a short recap to the story, without giving too much away. 
 Basically Doctor Doom assembles this group of supervillains to aid in his sinister plan. SHIELD 
 hears of the plan, but doesn't know exactly what the plan is and summons it's own alliance of superheroes- 
 the Ultimate Alliance. You Play as a group of four heroes ( you start out with Thor, Spider-Man, 
 Wolverine, and Captain America, I believe) . Eventually you can switch the heroes on your team, 
 I replaced Thor with Thing, for instance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  
  
  This game is great in that appeals to those who are avid comic book fans and those who may not 
 be familiar with all of Marvels Characters.
  
  The graphics on the game are very good. The flame affects look very realistic.
  
  The Cut-scene 
 animations are amazing. There are about 5 throughout the game, that are Movie quality good. It 
 makes you want more.
  
  This game has a high replay ability. There are many items during each mission that are requested 
 to get but not required, and they can affect the ending of the game. The comic missions, though 
 difficult, are fun and challenging.
  
  There are about 20 Playable characters and they all have different powers. Its cool to see that 
 each character has several outfits, and each with different powers.
  
  The game provides a lot of Marvel history as well. You learn a lot of the back story of characters 
 from Iron-Man, Captain America, and Ghost-Rider to name a few. It provides great insight on all 
 the characters. The trivia in the game adds even more information.
  
  The achievements are great in that, you will eventually get all 58 if you play your way through 
 the game and all the Comic missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Imagine a culture that relies on comic books being turned into an amazing video game but never 
 happening. Imagine Marvel fans around the globe playing X-Men Legends 1 & 2 down to the tooth and 
 nail only wishing for more variety and a massive Marvel game that explodes worlds of many Marvel 
 heroes and villains into one chock full o NUTS game. Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you Marvel: 
 Ultimate Alliance.
  
  Gameplay:
  The first thing those or most of you will notice if you've played the X-Men Legends games at all 
 is the gameplay is almosy identical in most aspects. You play as 1 of 4 characters you choose from 
 and there are a sleuth of Marvel heroes at your whim ranging from Captain America to Iron Man and 
 hell even the new packs include the Hulk and Venom. Your attacks range and vary between each individual 
 character and can be offset by a variety of different power ups you obtain by leveling up and so 
 on and so forth. The story is thick and juicy as well as the FMV's which really tie the story together 
 and are amazing to watch as this game is to play. The locales are memorable and surprisingly well 
 designed ranging from Asguard to Mephisto's lair. In and out the gameplay aspects are solid and 
 deliver a well balanced action and adventure game with co-op support and online play.
  
  Graphics:
  Thankfully this game is not a direct port of the PS2 or Xbox versions like Gun and 
 there is plenty of eye candy here to look at. From the smooth textures on the character models 
 and the vibrant portray of environments alike the graphics are indeed next-gen worthy on the 360. 
 Character animations are smooth and the framerate is constant although a little drop here and there 
 in the framerate may have people shaking their controllers and hitting them sideways like an 5 
 year old red-headed stepchild, but other than that the game looks up to par with the standards 
 of an HD next-gen title.
  
  Sound:
  The sound effects in the game compiled with pretty decent voice acting and little hiccups regarding 
 voiceover work it pretty much feels as good if not better than the dialogue being used in X-Men 
 Legends. The music from area to are varies and can set the mood for the time being. Hearing the 
 appropriate voices for specific Marvel heroes such as Spider-Man and Wolverine is a treat to endure 
 as well.
  
  Control:
  For the most part of the game the control is similar to that of X-Men Legends. For those not familiar 
 with that game I will elaborate. You control 1 of the 4 characters you choose from to go into battle 
 and venture with, and move them around and pressing the X and B buttons for generic punch and kicking 
 attacks and Y for your special attack and A of course it to jump. It works very nicely and you 
 can tell Activision went by the golden gaming rule "If it ain't broke, DON'T fix it" in this area.
 
  
  Overall:
  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance delivers tenfold in every aspect by offering nearly half of what an MMO 
 type Marvel game would ensue and present itself to be. The gameplay is fast paced and addictive 
 as well as the 12+ hour story and online co-op mode with up to 4 players will help expand the life 
 of this game even more. With also new downloadable content and hero and villain packs to utilize 
 and new achievements web-swinging your way you'll find a lot to look for in this game and the sequel 
 that is to come in the next year or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craggylotus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I first got MUA on the X-Box, but since getting my 360, one of the first things I did was 
 get this game and download the additional characters from X-Box Live. 
  Hulk was originally missing due to a licensing conflict, but now he's here, along with Hawkeye, 
 some X-Men and a couple bad-guys thrown in for good measure.
  The game itself is nothing more than your standard hack and slash (although in this case it's more 
 "blast and smash") adventure game. Something like an update of Golden Axe or Double Dragon, but 
 with a Marvel Universe setting and characters. Naturally this makes it much better, if you're into 
 that sort of thing.
  There's a decent variety of levels and tons of characters to play about with as you go on. Everyone 
 will have their own favourites, but it's always worth trying out the other characters just in case. 
 I'd never have thought I'd love playing as Doctor Strange so much, but he can turn people into 
 item crates and it is hilarious! 
  Those with more of a knowledge of the Marvel comics will be entertained by some of the easter eggs 
 hidden about in the game, but even if you've only seen the Spider-man and X-Men films I'd expect 
 you'd still find the story and cut-scenes interesting. The various combinations of teams and costumes 
 (which allow extra bonuses to the characters) are fun to play about with and you have the option 
 to create your own team and make them more powerful as you go through the game. This encourages 
 some replaying the game, but really, the almost mindless destruction I'm able to engage these 4-colour 
 heroes in is what brings me back to this game again and again.
  The X-Box Live downloadable characters are mostly re-worked versions of existing ones, in as much 
 as the way they play, but for a comics fan, it's always cool to have the Hulk and the Thing on 
 a team or Doctor Doom helping save the world. Plus, unlocking the extra costumes for these downloaded 
 characters is not hard at all, and gives the ol' Gamerscore a nice wee boost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  I never got a chance to play Xmen Legends back on the regular Xbox but now after playing Marvel 
 Ultimate Alliance I am quite sad that I never did. Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a great game. The 
 great thing about the game is that although it is an RPG you can play through the game without 
 having to deal with upgrading and leveling up your character. While learning to do this is helpful 
 it is not essential to beating the game, although the RPG elements are quite light so it would 
 not hurt to give them a try. If I were to have one gripe with the game it is that two of my favorite 
 Marvel characters are missing: The Punisher is no where to be fonud and The Hulk is available as 
 an Xbox Live download but you have to pay for it, which I think is quite rediculous. Bruce Banner 
 does make a cameo however but as himself and not his big, green counterpart.
  
  The story of Ultimate Alliance isn't the greatest thing about the game, in fact it may be the weakest. 
 Dr. Doom has banded all the Marvel baddies together to form the Masters of Evil and S. H. I. E. L. D 
 must stop them. This is about the extent of the story that made sense to me. If you follow all 
 of the Marvel characters and you know all of their enemies than I'm guessing that this game will 
 make more sense to you than it did to me. Throughout the game you will run across simulation discs 
 where you will explore more the backgrounds of each character in the game.
  
  The gameplay of Ultimate Alliance is that you are in control of four Marvel heroes whom you can 
 pick and choose to create your own team as long as you have unlocked them or purchased a character 
 pack on Xbox Live Arcade. The best part is that your friends can join into the action anytime whether 
 it be on Xbox Live or with friends in the same room. Playing the game single player is an absolute 
 blast, and as soon as you start playing the game with other people it gets even more fun. This 
 game is filled to the brim with replay value, which is good considering the small amount of good 
 comic book games available for the Xbox 360.
  
  The games graphics are not the greatest and even though the back cover boasts about next gen graphics, 
 the game doesn't totally look next gen, although it does have a real comic book feel to the game 
 without being cel-shaded. The voice overs in the game are quite good, some of the characters are 
 a little annoying like Spiderman whines a lot but other than that all the characters sound like 
 they should and say things that they would most likely say.
  
  Marvel: Ultimate- Alliance is a must own for 360 owners. Whether you are a huge Marvel fan or you 
 just know a couple heroes you will have fun creating your own team and bringing down the Masters 
 of Doom. The RPG elements of the game are easy enough that non RPG fan will not feel overwhelmed 
 but not so simple that RPG fans will be disappointed. The multiplayer is a blast and so is the 
 single player. Do yourself a favor and get this game.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Value: 10/10
  Tilt: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightblade252
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 16, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  How is this game getting such good reviews?!? It came with my 360 so basically Microsoft said
 It looks like the console will wigle around in there......" "oh here just put some usless s**t 
 in their" "uh lets see some card board, styro foam, plastic, oh and this copy of Marvel Ultimate 
 Alliance" Thats exactly what was going through their head when they were making the 360! there 
 is absolutley no point to this game, the story line sucks, the game play sucks, the only thing 
 that dosent suck is the price...... FREE. every character is the same! they can punch and kick..... 
 oh but here comes a doozy the occasional character can fly! OMG OMG OMG I ALMOST S**T MY PANTS. 
 cmon! flash runs as fast as freaking thor!. the only way that they can do something remotley cool 
 is if you use there special ability. and heres the story line (get ready this ones gonna knock 
 you off your rocker) ....... HEADLINE NEWS DR. DOOM IS TRYING TO TAKE OVER EARTH.... NEXT UP BARNEY!. 
 the only way youll like this game is if you had half your brain removed and then replaced with 
 a squished mango. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOC48
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Now I must say that the graphics are not top notch but this game has some of the best movies i 
 have seen recently. at first i had some doubts because it is comic characters, but it is a fun 
 action adventure game with some rpg type substance. Slowly but surely temple it grows on you. you 
 like it more and more as you play through the imerse enviorments and battle tons of bosses. This 
 game has soooo many bosses it's crazy and every one drops a special item so if you are playing 
 co op then you will find yourself fighting over everything you find. It has a good length too. 
 I have yet to beat it as i lost interest from being stuck but then got back into it now. It is 
 pretty easy on normal but some bosses still are pretty hard. I would say get this if you like these 
 games. It is pretty fun so you must go and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 100th_bullet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  In the annals of comic book lore, readers seek out a hero to whom an attachment may be formed. 
 Oftentimes we come to like the heroes so much that we almost wish we could be them. In one form 
 of media aside from the ink and paper of these beloved superheroes, Activision strides to bring 
 them to life in pixelated glory. The company has a bit of history of creating enjoyable team based 
 superhero games (look to the X-Men Legends series) as well as numerous outings with good ol' Spider-Man. 
 The most remarkable offering, however, takes form in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance (MUA) . The game 
 is a feast for those interested in the Marvel Universe and comic book regalia.
  
  From the outset, we learn that Dr. Doom is up to no good and has assembled one of the largest teams 
 of supervillains known to man - the Masters of Evil. It has become the task of S. H. I. E. L. D. (Supreme 
 Headquarters, International Espionage and Logistics Directorate) to determine what Doom's plans 
 are and stop the Masters of Evil before the world falls into madness. It seems like somewhat of 
 a clichd proposition, but it plays out quite well, especially in terms of comic book storytelling.
 
  
  The task force created by S. H. I. E. L. D. and charged to handle the situation consists of four superheroes 
 (or less, depending on player preference) . The default setting includes Captain America, Spider-Man, 
 Thor and Wolverine, but you don't have to keep this configuration. One of the best parts of MUA 
 is the selection of characters. 16 are available to choose from the upstart, with others acquired 
 by playing through various levels or completing other tasks such as simulator missions, which are 
 attained throughout the game. Another strong point of the game lies in the exploration of the Marvel 
 universe. We are taken from the bottom of the ocean in Atlantis, where Namor rules as king. We 
 see the stars and great battleships of the Shi'ar Empire, where the Empress rules her people justly. 
 We are even granted access to the sacred land of Valhalla amongst Thor and the gods of Asgard.
 
  
  Anyone familiar with the X-Men Legends games will find the gameplay in MUA comparable. The game 
 plays much like a brawler with characters able to acquire and upgrade special moves and take out 
 enemies with special combos. The team play dynamic is modified by incorporating bonus stats for 
 certain team configurations. For example, the Fantastic Four altogether would receive a health 
 regeneration bonus. If something like that doesn't quite meet your interest, though, you can always 
 create your own team and add bonus stats as the game progresses. MUA sports very simple mechanics 
 and is easy to pick. The game itself is also not very difficult. There are a few instances where 
 some baddies may gang up on the superhero team and failure might seem imminent, but that's when 
 health and energy orbs appear and all is well. It also helps that, if say the character you're 
 playing as is on his way out, you can switch to another team member. There is a "Hard" mode, but 
 chances are you'll have saved game stats from a "Normal" session where your characters are leveled 
 up and fairly powerful, which sort of mitigates the difficulty setting.
  
  Graphically speaking, MUA looks pretty decent for a multiplatform title. The pre-rendered cinematic 
 sequences look top notch, while the in-game sequences leave a little something to be desired. It's 
 only when the camera gets up close and personal that one starts to notice flaws in the design, 
 whether they be in general character design with some blockiness or some slightly odd texturing. 
 The character models otherwise look fine. The game features a variety of environments, as previously 
 mentioned, and coupled with some really nice lighting effects, they're very well done.
  
  While visuals are important, the sound of Marvel is something that should be taken heavily into 
 account as well. And, for the most part, MUA achieves a great balance in sound design. The voice 
 acting is great and, while some of the dialog comes off as cheesy, the actors deliver their lines 
 like they really mean it. Clive Revill (voice of the Emperor in The Empire Strikes Back) , for instance, 
 does a fantastic job as Dr. Doom while much of the cast comes as close to a realization of the 
 Marvel characters as could be hoped for. Some of the battle phrases become repetitive, but at least 
 they fit the mood set by the game. Quite a bit of the game's music score is good as well, with 
 composers such as Mark Griskey (Knights of the Old Republic II) onboard.
  
  Xbox Live matches can be pretty fun. There are two modes: Co-op and Arcade. In both modes, players 
 move through the game's campaign. The main difference is that in Arcade mode, players essentially 
 compete for kills, credits that can be spent on power upgrades and the satisfaction that accompanies 
 winning. It's somewhat unfortunate that players may only go through the story mode. There are simulator 
 missions that can be accessed through terminals in the game, but many aren't unlocked until later 
 stages. This can present a quandry to those who have played through the story mode numerous times. 
 There are a few reasons why the game has such a high replay value, however, and why players may 
 choose to go through the story more than once. For one, characters may reach a maximum level of 
 99, receiving massive power boosts along the way. Making characters more powerful enables the player 
 to achieve simulator missions far more easily than otherwise. It's pretty satisfying to have some 
 powerful characters and many may find it amusing enough to play through as teams comprised of different 
 characters.
  
  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is simply a game made for the comic book fan in all of us. While it doesn't 
 entirely soar past its predecessors in terms of gameplay, it more than picks up the slack with 
 character selection, exploration of the Marvel Universe and online play. As Stan Lee would say: 
 Excelsior! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leeman911
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  This game came with my 360 and I fought it was ok but than I played it more and I love it. The graphics 
 are amazind and you can have four heros to a team and my favorite charecter to be is Captin America 
 and my leas t favorite is nobody because there all fun to play with. I havent beat the game but 
 I have played it enough to review it with solid gameplay and awesome controls. Ther is alot of charecters 
 to be like spider man, captin  thing, and much more charecters 
 to play with. There are boss batells like scorpion and more that I cant name and there fun to beat 
 so bye a 360 and it comes with it. o o o o o oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo oo o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o o oo oooo o ooooo oo oo oooo o ooo ooo oooo oooooo ooo 
 oo ooo oo oo ooo ooo o oooo ooo oo ooo oooo oo oooo oo oooo oooo oooo ooo ooo o ooo oo oo ooo ooooo 
 o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colmusterd28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  I feel compelled to review this game for a few reasons. One, the game offers a very rewarding combat 
 system were each of the 20+ playable characters have truly unique abilities that make you want 
 to choose them all. Two, RPG elements along with detailed and rich "connections" of backstories 
 make you learn all about the characters history and adds a sence of care to a universe that the 
 casual gamer/comic book reader may know nothing about. Three, I'm giddy to write this, it HAS an 
 ending!!! Folks, the game has an honest to goodness, real thought out conclussion. Its not the 
 best ending I've ever seen but its satisfying. The game creators did a nice job making you feel 
 like the choices you made durring the game had meaning at the conclussion of the game. What an 
 excellent choice to bring you one by one through the consequences of all your actions. I had forgotten 
 that I had done so much through the campaign. This was a very nice touch and again, very satisfying, 
 as it should be.
  
  The fighting was good fun and rarely do you feel like your button mashing while encountering numerous 
 baddies (albeit with zero slowdown or frame dips) I think one of the games strongest attributes 
 may infact be its attention to character abilities. Everytime I unlocked a new character I wanted 
 to see what type of moves they had. The moves are infact so fluid and controls move so effortlessly 
 that you are able to easily approach a group of enemies and use all 4 squade mates in a matter 
 of seconds. Very cool...
  
  The game is not without its flaws however. The presentation is a little, "last gen" They could've 
 done more with NPC interactions, maybe not as much as say Mass Effect, but for an action RPG, I 
 expect a little more than NPC speaking his lines, me reading mine. It's a little obvious that they 
 created this game with last gen consoles in mind. 
  
  I thought the game was a tad on the easy side and also maybe a little short in the main campaign 
 (8-10 hours) If you choose to go through the solo "training modes" (which are very cool, allowing 
 you to play the backstory of eash character) as well as collect every "action figure" and "sketch 
 book"You could maybe stretch the full experience out to say 15-20 hours. I am also still trying 
 to play one online match. The community is dead unless you can set something up with a friend. 
 I can imagine that playing the game with 3 other friends would be very cool.
  
  In closing, I'd like to add that this is an incredibly strong game. It adds a great start to the 
 eventual sequal and by fully developing the sequal for currant gen systems will allow the creators 
 to fluff the presentation a bit more. It has a winning formula and all gamers should give it a 
 shot. If you don't know too much about the Marvel Universe (like me) you may chuckle at a few of 
 the side stories but if your a fan this game is a must. *SNIKT* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_FUNK_93
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is repetitive and has some very lame voice overs. Gamer score on 360 is easy to get so 
 I would rent this one. Combat is boring and tiresome. All you do is click two buttons the whole 
 time. I did like the amount of playable characters though. There are lots. There are quite a few 
 missions and bonus content such as hidden artwork, concepts, and costumes. There are 5 acts with 
 many missions. So you will get your money's worth. Oh and did I tell you it's repetitive! I just 
 really can't get over how boring and repetitive this game is so I had to mention it again. This 
 game would probably entertain the odd comic book fan but I think the main audience that would enjoy 
 this game would be kids because the game play can really seem childish at times. If you really, 
 really love Marvel rent it first to see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zyllus_
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance was extremely boring to me. I know there are some fans of this title 
 that really like this game, but me I just couldn't get into it. I really like the Marvel Universe, 
 and I thought this game was gonna pit me behind the controls of my favorite super hero, but all 
 I got to control was sloppy and repetitive moves. The environments and maps were laid out very 
 nicely, but that's all this game seemed to have. 
  
  THE GOOD
  - Nice environments, nice map layouts.
  - A very wide variety of super hero's and villains. 
 
  - The ability to customize your character.
  - New characters can be purchased via Xbox Live Marketplace .
  
  THE BAD
  - Character graphics 
 aren't next gen.
  - Very repetitive moves.
  - It seems like you see the same enemy over and over.
  - Camera positioning is very frustrating.
 
  - Very boring, not so fun.
  
  I recommend this title for younger audiences and the die hard Marvel fans.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zfiftyfives
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  This installment of a marvel soaked universe is amazingly fun. The story mode is great, which has 
 several modes or missions that branch out from the main setting, stopping the Masters of Evil. 
 If you are a Marvel fanatic or just someone that likes the on screen adaptions of the comics this 
 will provide you with a enjoyable time while educating u on the Marvel superheroes. The only problem 
 is the graphics and sometime the level background music. The graphic are not up to the 360 potentional, 
 but this a game did come out close to the 360s launch date, however, graphics are made up by the 
 great gameplay. Then the comes the sound or music issue, which really is much of an issue since 
 u can turn it off, but it likes depth and game related sound feedback, such as, not many changes 
 in the music when advancing through levels and finally making it to the bosses of each level.
 
  The gameplay is really simply and u can pick it up relatively easy, the only problem is putting 
 it down, which equals a great time for u even after beating the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonic91
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Super hero games have their ups and downs. Only a few games can make you feel like your using your 
 superhero the way he/she should be. This game shows you what the whole team of superheros can really 
 do.
  
  Story 8/10: It starts off right into the action, Nick Fury has called for the 4 superheros ( or 
 superhumans they are sometimed referred as in the game) to help save his ship from being destroyed. 
 Dr. Doom is the culprit behind the attack and plays the main enemy in the game. You will travel 
 across the universe taking on missions helping or destroying all in your way. It covers almost 
 every corner of the Marvel universe from Mephesto's realm to Asgard. Its plot stays true to all 
 the marvel fans out there but is interesting enough to call in those who received this when they 
 bought their 360.
  
  Gameplay 8.5/10: Starting off with just the main 4 heroes, you will be able to unlock alot of content 
 along the way. Youll find the main combat can be considered a button masher but you are also given 
 special movies which will bring out the better in the heros. Spiderman uses his web, wolverine 
 uses his claws, captain america uses his sheild, and so on. You can level up your character by 
 beating enemies and even upgrade the specail moves if used enough times. Youll find the main idea 
 stays the same, run along beating up enemies till you reach the next checkpoint and then beating 
 up some more once you get there. There are a few unique missions but even so they all can suffer 
 from a few problems. You may find that enemies are too strong or that there was a few enemies to 
 many. It doesnt happen to often and overcoming it will make you proud. Extra features include finding 
 various items such as action figures or sketches of the marvel characters. Some items like simulation 
 disk alow you to upgrade your character a little more by taking on his own personal mission. Youll 
 find an enjoyable amount of content and missions, just be aware youll be tapping the A button alot.
 
  
  Graphics 7.5/10: Its an early 360 game that was also on other platforms, It looks like just the 
 most polished version of them all. It has a few nice colors and effects but some moments dont feel 
 like that its an xbox 360 game. One moment you may look at a well detailed area while the next 
 you see a certian taxi drive out while the wheels dont actually move. Its what you may expect from 
 a multi-system title.
  
  For many the game came with their system and it becomes worth playing, For the rest it certianly 
 is a worthy title to pic up for a gamer or the most dedicated Marvel geek 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  This game is the best Action RPG available on the 360. It takes the X-Men Legends formula and improves 
 every aspect of it. You have access to a huge roster of Marvel superheroes in which you can build 
 your own team for added bonuses. 
  
  The graphics are excellent and there's rarely any slowdowns even with all the carnage that can 
 happen. The locations you'll be visiting are varied and are all interesting. 
  
  The sound is excellent with good ambiance music that picks up whenever there's a big confrontation 
 going on. The voice-overs are great as well and there's a lot of it.
  
  The controls work just like the X-Men Legends games but they are more refined this time around. 
 It's easier and more fun to string up small combinations and unleash special powers. The way you 
 level up has been streamlined and you can have it so the game automatically assigns new powers 
 and equipment if you don't like that kind of stuff. 
  
  The story is decent and offers at least 20 hrs of game time. I wish the multiplayer would of been 
 better. I had a hard time getting a game with 3 other persons that didn't had any lag.
  
  This is a great game and there's a sequel in the works. I will check out the sequel for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrPepper124
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  I got an xbox 360 early and it didnt have this game that came with it. But my friend recently got 
 one and his came with 2 ultimate aliances so he let me have one. I thought it was going to be like 
 every other boring superhero game button mashing frenzy but when i startd playing it it grew on 
 me. ITs ok RPG wise but still fun if your looking for a cheap game i have been playing it on and 
 off since i got it just give it a chance. Sure its not going to be a top of the line awesome RPG 
 but it has some goods to it. If your looking for a Great RPG for the 360 I Highly reccomend you 
 get Oblivion. The Only thing i didnt like about this game is that if you play it too much at once 
 it gets repetitive and the levels are waay too long and its save points are too far away fom each 
 other. Other Than That its a pretty decent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben399
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 7, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  the only reason MUA doesn't crash and burn is because of your ability to assemble a team of superhero's, 
 choose who you want to play as and upgrade your characters powers, suit, etc. the AI doesn't go 
 much farther past,"if you see a good guy, try to kill him" which makes anything that isn't a boss 
 very easy to kill. the boss fights are good for the most part, exept for the occasional lapse in 
 graphics (which are good but not great.) the multi player is the same thing as the normal game 
 (why they even bothered putting it in I have no idea) . the plot is your typical "there is a very 
 evil dude trying to take over the world. you are a really good guy with super powers, so get out 
 there and kill the bad guy." this of course means that true-blue comic fans will die for the plot, 
 and the rest of us will just skip through the cut-scenes and get to beating people up already. 
 the environments are fairly diverse, but their good looks are spoiled by the gods eye camera. In 
 all, if you're a die-hard comic fan, buy the game. If you aren't, don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spydersvenom7
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 23, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  I remember when this game was released and the overall hype was that it was "pretty good" and that 
 comic fans loved it. I purchased the game immediately, but sadly, since life caught up with me, 
 I haven't been able to beat and review this game until now. Having the passage of a decent amount 
 of time initially scared me. How will this hold up? The answer is simple: much better than most 
 other games in its genres.
  
  Marvel is a powerhouse, especially nowadays with many more blockbuster hits in the theaters and 
 subsequent licensed video games. Unfortunately none of these games were any good. Spider-Man 3 
 was so-so, Iron Man was putrid, and all others recently released aren't even worth mentioning. 
 
  
  Additionally, the beat-em-up "brawler" (or hack-n-slash) genre has not seen a decent game, probably, 
 since this one. Viking was pathetic, Conan was bad, and I'm sure I can name a bunch of others (including 
 Spider-Man 3) that didn't offer anything useful. Mostly because there's no CUSTOMIZATION. In order 
 to prevent repetition, you need to switch it up, have the enemies get tougher, and also allow your 
 characters to rank up and get new powers. Luckily, this game has all that, so if you're into these 
 types of games, you need to check out M: UA.
  
  With a vast list of characters at your disposal, its great to finally get the opportunity to play 
 as all of your favorite characters at once. I love Spider-Man but I'm also an avid Hulk fan, so 
 only in this game can I have both and randomly switch between them. Please note: I downloaded the 
 "Hero Pack" on XBL, which you need to do if you're a comic fan (800 pts, adds many popular heroes 
 and villains as playable characters, and 250 extra achievement points) . You get 4 slots to build 
 your own "team" and if you make a classic team (or known team) , they get benefits from each other 
 (make an x-men team or the Fantastic Four to see what I mean) . Each "slot" (not necessarily a specific 
 character) levels up, a la RPG, up to level 50. You also collect "coins", which allow you to soup 
 up a specific character with specific powers and each character earns new costumes for specific 
 tasks, kills, etc. All in all it's a decently customizable RPG-based beat-em-up.
  
  The level design is pretty solid. The levels are short enough, have enough enemies, and are diverse 
 enough that you don't feel you're doing the same thing twice. Comic fans will love the large number 
 of characters, enemies, scenery (or settings) , and even a trivia portion! There are also pretty 
 difficult "comic" challenges, which reenact certain plotlines from classic comics. All in all, 
 you've got a solid 15-20 hours to boost your characters, and easily 40 hours for all the achievements 
 (if you so desire) . The biggest problem is that you need to do a decent amount of grinding (RPG 
 term for senseless killing of many enemies for XP and bonuses) to pass all the comic challenges 
 and unlock all the costumes. As a result, the game can get pretty repetitive. I still found it 
 enjoyable and highly recommend it to all brawler and comic fans. This is so low priced right now 
 and worth it, I'd even recommend skipping the rental. Demo it in the used game store (or online 
 if still available) and pick it up if you're impressed, you won't be upset that you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panther023
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 10, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is good enough where I am having fun with it (age 32) but my son (age 6) is able to play 
 and enjoying it. It's been something fun for he and I to do together. I would recommend this to 
 anyone who enjoys a good arcade style game. 
  
  Having said that, every once in a while the camera angle gets annoying, but this is a usual problem 
 to me with top view games. You want to be able to look down a hallway to see what's coming but 
 can't because of the camera angle. This leaves you feeling vulnerable, but then you realize the 
 bad guys aren't that hard to deal with anyway.
  
  Really, this is the only negative I have found with the game, as long as you don't take it too 
 seriously. Remember, you're playing an arcade style game that is just shy of being a button mashing 
 fest. The story isn't too in depth, but is interesting enough to want you to find out what's happening 
 next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffripper
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 7, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I had really only bought the game because I actually had $30 to blow on. But I was surprised to 
 see that this "Gold" Edition was only that much and like $26 used. So I bought it. Apparently the 
 gold edition adds 8 new characters 4 good guys and 4 bad guys: Nightcrawler, Nighthawk, Hulk, Venom, 
 Magneto, Sabertooth, Cyclops, and Dr. Doom. This marvel game features over 170 characters in the 
 Marvel universe. It started out repetitive at first but then I eventually unlocked all the characters 
 and started to have a lot more fun. You can make a mixture of teams from all the ones you can play. 
 Like if you make the X-Men out of wolverine, cyclops, nightcrawler, and iceman. Or the avengers. 
 And all the real comic book teams you make on here will give you something extra. Like better health 
 or better offence, etc. Anyway the graphics are terrific. There are a lot of extras. Marvel comic 
 fans will especially like the extras. It's great. This game is too good for it's own price. Only 
 thirty dollars for the gold edition. You should really get this game. The only problem I had with 
 this game was the achievements.
  It's not they were hard to get, it's just that they wouldn't activate. But I'm sure they fixed 
 this problem. so all in all it was great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rutulno1
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 7, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  The Ultimate Alliance game is an RPG with a selection of 4 super heroes that you can choose by 
 yourself. This is a point that allows the game to be recognized as a good game. There are many 
 other good points that I will be more than glad to talk about. Firstly, the controls of this game 
 for the Xbox 360 is as easy as using a mouse on the computer. It flows perfectly and the characters 
 do exactly as you order them to do. Another excellent pro of this game is that the graphics and 
 the soundtrack are amazing. They make it sound and look like the game is actually a science fiction 
 movie that is controlled by you. Also, Ultimate Alliance gives you the opportunity to just run 
 around as a superhero with all your other superhero friends and destroy many objects laying around 
 in the mise-en-scene (scene) . Lastly, you can change the character from your team of four to exactly 
 who you choose to be with the push of a single button. This makes it a whole lot easier to change 
 between superheroes according to their powers which you require for a particular level.
  
  However, as there is in almost every other game, there are some disadvantages, or bad points of 
 the game. For instance, one of the bad points about this game is that there are not many S. H. I. E. L. D 
 points (checkpoints in this game) , to save your game and to revive your team, as you would wish 
 there were. Another bad point is that the game can get very repetitive after a few hours of playing. 
 I got really bored of it after playing it for around 7-8 hours in 3-4 days, so I took a break of 
 it for a couple of weeks and then started again. That was the only way I could continue the game 
 without boring myself to death. Well, that is all the bad points I can think of, so now if you 
 read this please rate it. Thank you and below is a more detailed score for every aspect of the 
 game:
  
  Story: 7.5/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Amount of fun: 6/10
  Sound effects: 7/10
  Overall: 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  INTRO
  As a comic book fan especially X-Men and Spider-Man, I looked forward to playing this game. This 
 review does not include any downloadable content available because I didnt download them 
 yet, I am waiting to complete 1000/1000.
  
  Story and Content:
  I was pleasantly surprised on how the storyline is woven together to bring together the sheer amount 
 of super heroes and villains within one game. The main mission in each chapter is supplemented 
 my optional goals or mission. These optional goals do twist the main storyline a little that enhances 
 the re-playability of the game. Speaking to people in your headquarters is sometimes not necessary 
 but fills in a lot of comic book history. While speaking to certain NPC characters I got some tidbits 
 on heroes and villains I wasnt aware of. The simulator missions alone require you to play 
 over thirty different characters. 
  
  Game play:
  You control one super hero at time in a group of four. While you can mix and match which characters 
 you want in your group, some get certain bonuses if chosen along side each other. As you play the 
 game your group levels with the amount of bad guys they take care of. I wouldnt say kill 
 because in some instances the same villains come back to fight again. All heroes have basic attack 
 moves you can use but each hero has special moves available that you can use. Some of these special 
 moves become available with costumes you equip on the hero. Along the way you might be able to 
 find items that can enhance the super heroes. Some all the heroes can use while others are specific 
 to the certain heroes. You can also gain levels by playing simulator missions. Completing these 
 missions under certain conditions unlock different suits, skills or items. While fighting in most 
 areas you will be able to find coins, these coins can be used to upgrade the heros costumes. 
 Some areas or villains requires some special moves by following button sequences to pass or defeat 
 the villains. With multi-player modes you can do missions together on the same console or online. 
 This option is great as your team mates AI is above average.
  
  Graphics: 
  Excellent graphics. Each super hero move is showcased and distinctive, you really get to see Spider-Man 
 use his web shooters or Wolverine slice up the bad guys. The backgrounds are done well as they 
 are sometimes breakable. Just in the opening sequences you do see in great detail the Shield Heli-Carrier 
 on fire and under attack while you maneuver along the top of its hull. While the camera angle are 
 great as it automatically rotates and zooms in and out. Only in a few area it remains stationary 
 and takes getting used to. The cut scenes are well like a CGI animated TV show, they are placed 
 in a way they dont get in the way of playing the game.
  
  Sound and Music:
  Music score is decent and chances with different stages and levels. The sound effects are detailed 
 as you hear Wolverine take out his blades or Thor hitting bad guys with his hammer. One thing I 
 like is some of the foot soldiers call for backup or the sayings each hero has after disposing 
 of a bad guy.
  
  Difficulty:
  You initially have two settings. Once you are used to playing the game and finish it once on normal, 
 you can choose a harder setting. Overall this is not a hard game once you know what you are doing. 
 I found that if your game style is weak against any villain you have a few choices. Use the simulator 
 to level your characters or change the team to suit your needs. Also you can change the costume 
 the super hero has use certain skills that you might require.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  The main story line is great and in-depth. It keeps you interested and looking forward to how the 
 story progresses. One thing I did like and was disappointed there wasnt more of them is 
 puzzles. I like that your have to use intelligence or sheer strength in certain instances. Having 
 a great depth of usable heroes and online play makes the replay value very high. I dont 
 know if there is anything big component missing from this game. Only thing I didnt like 
 was the AI can be improved in the foot soldiers where as the bosses are intelligent. I enjoyed 
 playing this game and would recommend it to anyone looking for a solid adventure game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatalmagic46
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game its got a whole bunch of marvel characters like wolverine, ghost rider, iron 
 man, and thor. gameplay is pretty good definently a must for marvel and rpg fans. the only down 
 side about this game is loading screens. there everywere. after starting a new game it shows a 
 loading screen with a cool picture with a character. to make the matter even worse when you press 
 start or go use the quick link to the hero management section a little bar at the bottom says loading! 
 it gets really annoying if you play the game alot. but other then that the games got tons of action. 
 also on your missions you collect S. H. E. I. L. D simulators which are comic books of the characters 
 when you pick these up you dont have to do them but if you do you play through the comic books 
 mission. this version gives you 2 extra characters + downloadable characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryTipper86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance follows the X-men Legends series. People who have played X-men Legends 
 games will be famiar with the game play. This game's story is similar to Fantastic Four: Rise of 
 the Silver Surfer. Doctor Doom has assembled the Marvel Universe's villains and plan the rule the 
 world. S. H. IE. L. D. has assembled the world's heros to stop him. S. H. I. E. L. D.'s team will go on 
 a journey to stop Doom. You have a variety of characters. You could add skill points to powers 
 and equip items. I just don't like the fact that some characters have been overestimated or underestimated. 
 Some characters are stronger than they should be, or weaker than they should be. My main problem 
 is that this game isn't fun unless you have some people to play with you. This is more of a multiplayer 
 game. On the other hand, some cutscenes' graphics are amazing. However, some cutscenes aren't so 
 amazing. Another problem is that there isn't a vs. mode and most sim. missions are only one player. 
 Sure a friend can tag in, but they will be against you. Other than that, everything is perfect. 
 The story, graphics, and the game play.
  
  
  Story: 10
  Graphics: 8.
  Game Play: 9
  Enjoyment: 10.
  Final Score: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster62
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 29, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I really really had fun with this game. There are a ton of playable characters to start with, and 
 even more that you can unlock and also download on Xbox live. There is so much variety in the characters 
 that it never gets boring. The game also incorporates almost every known character into the story 
 in some way, so that was really cool to see lesser known villains and such make appearances in 
 the story. The story was pretty cool, very fitting for a comic book game. The control is pretty 
 straightforward and simple, perfect for a button masher like this. The audio was pretty good, although 
 after a while, hearing the characters say the same thing over and over again gets kinda old. the 
 multiplayer was fantastic, we had a blast with it. Even my wife enjoyed grabbing a controller and 
 knocking around some bad guys with me, and she hates video games usually. Playing online was pretty 
 cool as well. All in all, this is a fun game for anyone who ejoys a good button masher or any fan 
 of the Marvel universe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 2, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:5/10
  Yeah.... This game is DEFINITELY suited for Marvel fans. For a regular gamer you either like it 
 or dont. I got this game for free with my 360, and you know what? Its boring. I dont even know where 
 to go next. It gives me an objective, but from my perspective the game certainly gives me no indication 
 of where to go next. Combat system to me is very simplistic, almost like a beat um up with small 
 RPG elements. Dont flame me Marvel fans, because i specifically said that this game is suited for 
 YOU guys. And maybe some other people. As i was saying, combat system is a bit weak. Puzzles are 
 uninteresting at best, and i tried to get into this game many many times... It just... Doesent interest 
 me! Thats all i have to say about gameplay... Oh and some of my favorite marvel characters from 
 when i was like 6 are here, so thats a small plus.
  
  Graphics:6/10
  This game is graphically underwhelming. Its on the 360... and the graphics certainly dont look THAT 
 good... It has its good points, but the graphics certainly arent using the 360's potential. 
  
  Sound:7/10
  Cool, All the marvel superheroes voices! Sound effects are nice, and really.. Voice 
 acting i think is.. Top notch? I dont know...
  
  Overall: Really. If you love marvel, get this game. IF you're a regular gamer, Just make sure you 
 look around for other games besides this. Really.... This game may look promising, but at its best 
 if you want to try it out without buying, its worth a rental. The game isnt bad, its just in my opinion 
 uninteresting and a bit boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TNTeenSpirit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  Ultimate Alliance has a lengthy storyline, a good number of customizable characters and plenty 
 of other stuff to keep you entertained. You basically have a group of 4 superheroes (or supervillains) 
 and you use them to fight the Masters of Evil (yes it is a corny name) . You can switch between 
 one of the four characters you choose whenever you want and this allows players to use strategy 
 and complex mechanics instead of just bashing the A button over and over again. For example, my 
 team consisted of Dr. Doom, Silver Surfer, Deadpool and The Hulk so for hard mode I'd always use 
 Doom for long range attacks, Deadpool and Hulk for short range attacks and Surfer for healing. 
 Marvel fans will love this game because of the extremely large number of marvel characters and 
 diverse environments throughout the game. 
  
  The few down sides to the game are the PS2 looking graphics and the fact that if your characters 
 are leveled high enough, you can get through the game with simple button mashing. However, Marvel 
 offers an entertaining and long storyline and has great replayability because of the ability to 
 use different characters for different combinations of teams and because of achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FMunro3251
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance takes the XMen: Legends experience and makes great improvements on it. 
 Ultimate Alliance is a beat 'em up style game with role-playing elements for added depth. The game 
 offers many characters from the Marvel universe, including well known heroes such as Spider-Man 
 and Captain America to some lesser known characters including Moon Knight and Doctor Strange. All 
 of these characters have their own unique costumes to unlock, as well as their own set of powers 
 and moves that you can upgrade.
  
  The game's plot is right out of the Marvel comics. Dr. Doom has created a master plan to take over 
 the world, where he is the absolute ruler. As a result the forces behind SHIELD have called upon 
 the heroes of the Marvel universe to fight against this threat. Here you are introduced to the 
 heroes available to play. The game begins as you controlling Spider-Man, Thor, Wolverine, and Captain 
 America. You must fight your way through Doom's forces of evil.
  
  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is not only a simple beat 'em up game, there are role-playing elements 
 for every character in the game. You can level up each character by earning experience points (like 
 most role-playing games)
  by defeating enemies throughout the game. While you defeat more and more enemies and super villains 
 you will also unlock hidden costumes. Every character has four of their own costumes that are unlocked 
 by defeating a certain number of enemies and completing that character's comic mission. These comic 
 missions, known as Stimulator Discs, are scattered throughout the game's five acts. By earning 
 the listed amount of points during these missions you will unlock the character's costume, as well 
 as some added power-ups.
  
  The game play in Ultimate Alliance is based around your four hero team. Anytime you come across 
 a save point during the game you may change your team. You can create a random team of heroes if 
 you would like and be unique or you can create set Marvel teams, such as the X-Men or the Avengers. 
 While the teams are set to four heroes, you can remove these settings if you would like to play 
 as just one or two characters. You have the ability to switch between characters of the fly by 
 pressing the D-Pad, which will replace your current hero with an AI bot. You can only control one 
 hero at a time, but the AI works well enough that you will have plenty of support.
  
  The game offers cooperative multiplayer so that you and up to three friends, either on one console 
 or through Xbox Live, can team up and save the universe. This is where the most fun is in Marvel: 
 Ultimate Alliance because playing with actual people is better than playing with three other AI 
 controlled bots. Although playing with friends through the Xbox Live service is enjoyable, I have 
 encountered a few hang ups. For example when I loaded my save file to play with my friend the data 
 seemed to be missing. I did not have the unlocked characters or costumes that I had before. This 
 seems to be solved by loading a previous game save and then loading your current file. Another 
 issue is that when there is a hint of lag the game can be very annoying. While playing I once had 
 a characters begin floating out of the level the rest of the players could not move as a result. 
 Glitches such as these should not have been included in the retail version of this game. 
  
  The single-player portion of the game however is not free of game play hang ups. While playing 
 the game characters can often become caught on the game's environment. For example while playing 
 you may experience you AI allies getting stuck in a wall and not being able to progress until it 
 is back to normal. These glitches do not happen often, but do stand out over the course of the 
 game.
  
  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance offers new character downloads through Xbox Live. These hero packs offer 
 a total of eight new playable characters for use during the game. You may purchase these heroes 
 in a bundle pack for 800 MS points, which includes all of the heroes or you may purchase them in 
 the seperate packs. One pack offers four new Marvel heroes to play as including The Hulk, Cyclops, 
 Nightcrawler, and Hawkeye. The other pack offers four new Marvel villians to play as including 
 Magneto, Sabertooth, Venom, and Dr. Doom. These packs also add 250 more achievement points to the 
 game which can be obtained by unlocking each hero's costume sets and by having certain characters 
 interact with each other. For example at the end of the game before you face Dr. Doom, you can 
 unlock an achievement for having Dr. Doom have a conversation with himself. These packs offer a 
 great new addition to the game for anyone who is looking for more content.
  
  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a great addition to the Marvel franchise's list of video games. The 
 game offers many characters in the Marvel universe which everyone is familiar with, like Spider-Man, 
 and some characters who comic fans will recognize. The game features many options for upgrading 
 characters and keeps the game fresh. Although the game has it's share of hang ups, the game is 
 worth playing. Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a great addition to any Xbox 360 owner's collection 
 who is looking for a different kind of game play experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mearik
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance, I recived this in the 07 Holiday bundle and just disregarded the game 
 at first. When xbox live went down and i was feeling bored i popped it in. This game at first is 
 incredibly easy, but towards the end it take alot of teamwork and switching between characters 
 to complete objective. You begin by just walking around and smashing stuff and it becomes pretty 
 tideous, but after the first 30 minuits the game really picks up. Weapons come into play and most 
 of the time you need to disarm your enemys to last the fight. This game is a gem through and through, 
 you wont be dissipointed.
  
  Game - Easy, button masher, guilty pleasure
  
  Characters - Over 20 and all your favourits are there, 
  
  Replay Value - To recive all the 
 costumes and moves, a few times through the game is neccessary. (dont worry you can raise the difficulty)
 
  
  Replay Value X2 - Solo Missions designed for each character, as well as aditional boss fights
 
  
  For all Ages - Button Masher without mature content, good for all ages
  
  Story - Traditional Comicbook, Complete with a storyline created by you at the end based on your 
 decisions throughout the game.
  
  for more look through gamespots video review but it is a must have if you can find it at a platnum 
 hits rate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doglipstik
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the many games to come out of the Marvel comic saga and they are rarely this 
 good, the game has many characters to play and has bonus characters to download. The open game 
 play lets you go in and out of levels when you want and customise your favourite characters so 
 every time you play it's a different experience. There are also things to find in the world of 
 Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, like simulation disc's not only do you find and collect, they give every 
 character individual levels to be played by themselves. This has a four player multiplayer co-op 
 which has a jump in, drop out feature which means completing levels and bosses that you are stuck 
 on is much easier and fun. Overall this is a must buy even if you are not into the Marvel this 
 is still a great game to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrillyum
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is an awesome arcade game. Its no "TMNT turtles in time", but it gets 
 the job done. Especially if you are a huge marvel fan. If you have never played this game before 
 and are looking for a great new game, this may or may not be that right game for you. If you like 
 adventure games and rpg's then you will feel right at home with this game. If you like nonstop 
 action shooting games, then this game might piss you off. And lastly if you are just and all around 
 gamer then this is a fun game to play with a small family member or some babes or something. The 
 graphics are pretty good for what the designers were trying to achieve. The sound is pretty awesome 
 but at some parts SUPER nerdy (its a given) If you are thinking about buying this game, rent it 
 or borrow it. I am sure you will know someone who has is (it came with the xbox) and if the gameplay 
 style suits you, then go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Storyline: 8 - Interesting story, not one you would typically not see from Marvel.
  Graphics/Physics: 8.5 - Graphics were very good for this style of game, shading and lighting were 
 tip top.
  Sound: 7.5 - Alright sound, some of the commentary by characters is somewhat lame but sometimes 
 very comical.
  Environment/Maps: 7 - Maps were alright throughout the game, nothing too difficult to figure out 
 puzzle wise. It was annoying that the tips would re-appear everytime you walked by the area they 
 were assigned too, this should have been fixed.
  Game Engine/Scripting: 8.5 - Development did a great job on this game and I could find very few 
 flaws in the scripting. I will definately play the next game that this development team makes.
 
  Interface: 9 - Default controls are very confusing on the PC, but with a little tweaking it's 
 very easy. Other systems controls were much easier to learn. Huge selection of heroes to play from 
 and many many villians to fight. Leveling was a cool feature due to the powers you advance or gain.
 
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 8 - Huge selection of heroes and with each lots of different gainable powers. I'm not 
 a big fan of this style of game but It proved to be fun for hours. Definately worth playing or 
 at least trying out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msdd9
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Like I said this is THE GAME for Marvel fans. If you like the characters and stories (even if you've 
 only seen and enjoyed a few movies) you will find something to enjoy in this game. 
  
  The list of characters is vast and includes almost every (sadly no Punisher) .
  
  The combat 
 is pretty button mashy, but it is still fun. 
  
  The RPG elements work quite nice. You'll have a fair amount of things to customize in your characters 
 and your team. 
  
  The team building mechanic is a lot of fun. You can either play as your favorite team of heroes 
 (Marvel Knights, The Avengers, The Fantastic Four) or you can create your own custom team with 
 your favorite characters.
  
  My team consist of Moon Knight, Nick Fury, Deadpool, and Wolverine.
  
  The story is actually 
 pretty good and the game does a good job of bringing all of the heroes together for one big, series 
 crossing battle.
  
  Now for the final verdict:
  
  I've really enjoyed this game, but I am a Marvel fan. That said even if you're not a Marvel fan 
 you may still enjoy this game, but chances are the people who really like it are going to be the 
 fans.
  
  Give this game a shot even if you don't think you'll like it. 
  
  Rent if you still have doubts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smalls5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  ok this game came with my 360 console. i enjoyed it for 5 minutes then it just became the same 
 thing.
  
  PROS.
  
  1. you can be almost any superhero ever invented. which is really cool because i hae games where 
 can only be one or two characters. (my favorite is iron man)
  
  2. story. it includes about every villain. which makes it a fairly lengthy game which is good. i 
 hate short, quick games.
  
  3. levelling up system. this is cool how you unlock new powers and crap after you do so much. its 
 one of the few reasons youre still playing the game
  
  CONS.
  
  1. gameplay. sure flying around blasting evil villain robots is fun.. for 5 minutes. but once you 
 get an acheivment for killing 5000 of them in the same way. the game gets old REAL quick.
  
  2. level design. i dont know whats up with it but it is messed up. you can see over the walls 
 which makes it really dumb. you cant fly over rils either. and everyithing blows up in the same 
 way
  
  3. spiderman. for those of you spiderman fans out there im sorry. but in this game spiderman was 
 a real let-down. one he cant shoot fire, two he always dies, three he cant shoot fire. plus the 
 thing is more fun to pick up people at throw them. so there is an alternative.
  
  yea thats about it. any questions or comments gimme a shout 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 22, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a waste of money. Well, not really because it was bundled with XBOX 
 360s this holiday so at worst its a colossal waste of time. Between the horrid square level designs 
 and glitchy button mash friendly game play MUA was a chore to not only pick up and play but also 
 to enjoy. 
  
  "Hey look there's another enemy, what am I going to do? I think I might just press A a bunch of 
 times then I'll press B. Now rinse and repeat." You are givin an army of characters to use and 
 if you want to be able to use all of them throughout the game (rather than sticking with 4-7 of 
 the characters you better be ready to spend alot of time with this game....... I mean ALOT. Leveling 
 up the characters individually and buying upgrades is supposed to add enjoyment to the game. Instead 
 it adds boredom. I really felt like the South Park kids in the episode where the got to the forest 
 to kill millions of boars in World of Warcraft. 
  
  The Marvel universe is vast and interesting but somehow MUA only touches upon back stories that 
 no one cares about (example Thor, Doctor Strange) What no X-Men, Spider-man, Hulk, Daredevil, or 
 Captain America. Yes there is plenty of content from side quests to character stories and unlockable 
 artwork, but if you add more crap to a pile of crap all you get is a bigger pile of crap. The graphics 
 are nice and the character designs and costumes are interesting but that will only keep you coming 
 back for a little while. Ultimatly Marvel Alliance isn't so ultimate... so if you don't get this 
 game free, please don't buy it... you will never forgive yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darklaer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is an excellent successor to the X-Men Legends series. The graphics were great, fun just 
 murdering the weaker enemies, and tryng out different characters and unlocking the well, un-lockable 
 characters. The customisation system was easy to use, and coming with it is a typical great Marvel 
 storyline. The only fault I found was that there wasn't a dueling mode in it, at least not offline. My 
 favourite character was Moon Knight, with his Nunchuks, or Wolverine. The game is more than worthy 
 of replaying, even if you've got all the achievements. This is one of the best games I've played, even 
 though I don't have a lot. It deserves more than the (still deservable) 8.3 on Gamespot. How the developer 
 managed to produce such a good game, I don't know, but I will recommend this game to anyone who liked 
 the X-Men Legends games, and probably those who didn't. The achievements also give a reason to try 
 out moves you normally wouldn't, and to get the unlockable characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kronic23
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't great I mean come on the camers is at an angle where most of these types of games 
 are at. The gameplay is too easy not even a challenge. You can't even make out the graphics while 
 playing too me they look the same as the other versions for the other consoles. There are so many 
 games that are just like this one but they hardly even tweak it to try to make it original. Like 
 X-Men apocalypse, its basically the exact same thing but for a console that has better graphics. 
 They could have put the camera at an angle where you can see the characters details and how good 
 they look. Like I said this game is way too easy you can pass it like nothing. Also when you try 
 to upgrade your characters its kind of confusing to understand how to do it. This game is good 
 but I think it is not worth buying because you can buy a better game than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinkyfoo
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I haven't written a review for a while, and I've never written one to argue with a gamespot score. 
 Until now. This game is awful. 8.5?!!?!?!?!?! The graphics are awful. I mean , I would be calling 
 them awful if they were on the ps2. The story is god awful and never entertains you, and the gameplay 
 is stupidly simple. Yeah it offers over twenty characters, but none of them are fun to play as. 
 This game came with my 360. It was free, and I still won't play it. Next time Microsoft releases 
 a game with a system, they should make sure it doesn't suck. Just awful awful awful awful awful 
 awful awful awful awful awful awful awful awful awful awful awful awful awful awful awful awful 
 awful awful awful awful awful awful awful awful awful awful awful awful awful awful awful awful 
 awful awful awful awful awful awful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best comic-book based RPG yet. Marvel UA is from the makers of the "X-Men 
 Legends" and could easily be considered a sequel of sorts to the those two. The action plays the 
 same, the story and dialogue are played out in a similar way and so is the ability to customize 
 your character's strengths and attacks. The best part is how the game feels like a love you letter 
 to the comics and as an introduction to the newbies to the Marvel world. You're constantly learning 
 all sorts of cool tidbits and the graphics are superb. Forget the cartoony visuals of the last 
 gen versions, the 360 shows off amazing character models.
  
  As far as the main gameplay, I feel it never gets boring. Like "Assassin's Creed" and "Devil May 
 Cry 4", the action is fast and satisying. If you're a fan of the franchise, than you'll love it. 
 And if you're not a fan, than you will be after playing "Marvel Ultimate Alliance". If you can, 
 buy the Gold Edition for the Live upgrades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rimcdonald
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  The mission is just the right difficulty to have fun but not frustrate you. The simulator disc 
 missions are a little harder which does give you that challenge and make the game more interesing. 
 The simulator disc missions and achievements keep me coming back again and again. The harder achievements 
 make you keep coming back for more without getting bored. I do wish the mission was a little longer. 
 I also wish there were more people online playing because I think is is fun with three other people. 
 It is hard to keep a full group for more than one or two levels. The graphics and sound are not 
 groundbreaking, but they get the job done. I got this game for free with my xbox so I was not expecting 
 much but am pleasantly surprised. I would recommend this game to anyone just wanting to spend a 
 weekend playing and see if they get wrapped up in it like I have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  This game is just another one of the superhero group beat 'em ups. You pick your team of heroes, 
 have them destroy their simplistic enemies, and level up their abilities. That is actually a good 
 formula, and this game is great!.... Or at least that's what I'd be saying if this wasn't the tenth 
 installment of the same formula! Really, Fantastic 4 games, X-Men games, they're all the same. 
 It's repulsive and AgRiVaTiNg. And tiring. Anyhow, god only knows what the story is for this game, 
 so it's basically just 4 random heroes killing robot automotons until you get a simple boss. Not 
 to tear into this game much, because, say, God of War had some tedius fighting. But it was executed 
 nicely so it didn't tire you to submission. This game's fighting was nice, but the real gem was 
 multi-player. In truth, multiplayer was what made it so good. Not to say much, since I have NO, 
 I repeat NO friends, so, whatever. Better for me...*tears*.... whatever the great arbiter's judgement 
 is RENT this... supposing your friends are really BORED or BORING people.
  -skally 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdwolf260
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  If you've enjoyed playing any of the X-Men: Legends titles then this is a no brainer, you will 
 absolutely love Ultimate Alliance. This game takes the familiar formula of Legends and improves 
 on it with better graphics, sound, and content, though the gameplay is pretty much the same. It's 
 a standard action-rpg with a top down view. Using combination of light, heavy, and combo attacks 
 you can dispatch foes as you see fit, as well as with throws and jumping attacks. You can also 
 pick up objects to use as weapons or even pry weapons out of your enemies' hands to use on them. 
 Each hero also has unique special powers that can be called upon to inflict some serious damage 
 or give a boost to the stats of your entire team. There's plenty of things to unlock including 
 but not limited to additional characters, costumes, and side missions. The game is not ugly to 
 look at, really fun and easy to pick up and play, and offers a ton of content for the Marvel hardcore 
 fans to wade through. However, that last bit might be the one thing that might not help the casual 
 players to get into this game. There are some very obscure references to events in the Marvel Universe 
 involving some of the heroes. In fact there are so many of these references that for those who 
 are not really familiar with history of Marvel will find it overwhelming to keep track of all the 
 information and details. Still, that shouldn't keep anyone away from diving in and exploring Ultimate 
 Alliance, especially since you can do it with up to four of your buddies online or off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nster81
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  A Great Marvel Experience! Enjoy one of the most immersive storylines in a game, battle foes of 
 the Comic Book world, and stop Dr. Doom in time to save the universe! You start off as Captain 
 America, Thor, Spider-Man, and Wolverine, who are all very good characters, but building your own 
 team is very satisfying for the player and every character is cool in this game. Still, Thor does 
 have a huge hammer. The graphics are probably among the best on the XBOX 360. Just looking at the 
 game will hook you on to playing it. Of course, what's a game without gameplay. The fighting system 
 in this game is simple, but once you buy new moves and combos, unique to every player, fighting 
 becomes dynamic and your character gets even more powerful. The comic book missions and unlockable 
 content adds depth to the game and should keep you busy. The music in the game complements it very 
 well. The voice acting is just excellent. Both, fans of comics, or seasoned gamers will enjoy this 
 game. I easily recommend it to anyone!
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Voice Acting: 10/10
  Replay Value: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobNY12380
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I recently purchased Marvel Ultimate Alliance for $25 and I have to say it was worth every penny. 
 Me and my buddies were looking for a game that all three of us could play together and this was 
 the one. We all grew up reading the comic books and now that we are older it was a perfect way 
 for us to relive our youths of so long ago, lol. The many characters are great, the enemies are 
 challenging but not over difficult, and the levels are very nice to look at. One of the best features 
 is the team option where you can choose characters from Xmen, Fantastic Four, etc. and you will 
 get extra skills because you made up the team. I would def recommend this game to anyone that is 
 looking for a bargain and something that a bunch of friends could play together. Go out and get 
 your copy for $29.99 or less today. Brand new or used it is definetly worth every penny. Enjoy!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Released: October 24, 2006
  Publisher: Activision
  Developer: Raven Software
  Game Genre: Action Role-Playing
  ESRB Rating: T for Teen
  ESRB Description: Mild Language, 
 Violence
  
  Story: 20%
  Gameplay: 40%
  Graphics: 30%
  Durability: 10%
  
  Story (9/10)
  For a game that comes with the Xbox 360 console, it wouldn't be expected to have 
 a great storyline. The game blew that out the window. I'll start by saying that I've never seen 
 a better ending to any game. All the choices that you make during the game have a direct consequence 
 to the future, and they are all described in great detail at the end.
  
  Alright, the story starts with Nick Fury's spaceship being attacked by Dr. Doom. Spider-Man, Wolverine, 
 Captain America and Thor appear to help. After this opening level it is discovered that Dr. Doom 
 has some sort of ultimate plan that he will use to take over the world (that's original, isn't 
 it?) .
  
  Halfway through the first level, the player will have the choice of switching up their party of 
 4. There are dozens of superheroes to choose from, and 8 more are available via downloadable content. 
 Dr. Strange, Iceman, Storm, all 4 members of the Fantastic Four (Thing, Invisible Woman, Human 
 Torch, Mr. Fantastic) , Colossus, Iron Man, Silver Surfer, Nick Fury, Deadpool, Elektra, Daredevil 
 and the Black Panther are available, among others.
  
  There are 5 acts in the storyline, each having the heroes located at a different base. Aside from 
 the main story, there are simulator missions that you can pick up along the way that let you control 
 a hero and play through a comic book mission. That is the story's only downfall. The simulator 
 missions prove to be boring, repetitive and just completely unexciting.
  
  Gameplay (9/10)
  The main reason that the gameplay surprised me was the variety of characters 
 and attacks for those characters. Each character has a widespread range of attacks. Spider-Man, 
 for instance, has an attack in which he slings webs at enemies and throws them. Colossus can grab 
 enemies and use them as bludgeoning weapons. The most unique is Wolverine's rage meter. As Wolverine 
 takes damage, his rage meter increases. When full, his attacks do more damage and he takes less. 
 He is the only character with the rage meter.
  
  The game is a smash 'em up in which you control 4 characters at a time. Characters are chosen with 
 the directional pad and spells are used with the right trigger. Attacks are split between combinations 
 of A and B buttons.
  
  Graphics (8/10)
  The in-game graphics are average, but the cinematics make up for some of the lack. There are 6 
 cinematics overall, and they all have brilliant graphics (very movie-like) .
  
  Durability (8/10)
  The game is fairly long, especially with the additions of simulator missions. 
 Add on top of that the ability to unlock new characters and you have a well-lasting game.
  
  Overall Score (8.6/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  Very decent game. Worth picking up if you 
 can get it for 20 bucks or less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkinvasion25
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  This game has alot of cool heroes that you can pick from like wolverine and irom man from the campaign, 
 you do alot of different missions, like for example saying some person from something, and do different 
 side quests but it's pretty easy and it's not way too deep, but like with all the heroes you can 
 get new powers for them by leveling them up like freezing people with ice, blast a guy with fire, 
 web sling with spider man and more... and when you go and fight a boss it's a little challenging 
 at times and you can command all your heroes to fight it and switch between all your team mates 
 to use different kinds of powers against it, but yeah it's still pretty sweet!!! and also there's 
 the xbox live you can you do like co-op online and you can host your own server and load your saved 
 game in it for people to come into and even that was pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sleepysmoo2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Having played the X-men Legends games, I'd have to say I find this game to be very enjoyable, if 
 not better, than the X-men games. 
  
  That's not to say the game isn't similar. You run around with 4 team members, with a very similar 
 camera view, and wreck damage on your enemies with a combination of button taps for attacking, 
 and your special powers. 
  
  The game differs with the unique customization you can do with who you pick to be your team, (and 
 the bonuses for picking pre-defined team members) , and the items and stats you pick to increase 
 your heroes' skills. I had fun running around with the New Avengers, and then changing to the X-men 
 later on in the game. 
  
  As an avid comic book fan, I also am enjoying the story-line so far, as it's a big broader than 
 the X-men games. Also the fighting seems a bit more flashy; each hero has a finishing move that 
 you can do that's fun to watch, (and tied to achivements) . 
  
  Graphically, the game is way better than the X-men games, as you can expect from a next-gen game. 
 Some of the characters are a bit choppy up-close, but otherwise I had no problem with the way the 
 game looks. 
  
  Sound's okay. I haven't heard anything outstanding, but the voice-acting isn't terrible. 
  
 
  Over-all, I'd have to say this game has grown on me the more I play it. I definitely recommend 
 it to anyone who likes comics, and even to people who don't. It's not a terribly deep rpg, but 
 it's good for those you just like running around with heroes. 
  
  Definitely a good game to rent. I would only buy it if you're hard-core about comics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suliman-Uchia
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  I am having an absolute blast with this game. It combines old-school arcade beat-em-up madness 
 with RPGish character advancement, a fantastic story, and let us not forget a roster of some 140 
 classic Marvel comics characters, 24 or so playable. Then, of course, there is the much-hyped option 
 of creating and naming your own superhero dream team. You start out with four heroes of your choice 
 and the more you team these characters up on missions, the more experience and prestige your team 
 gains. This leads you to upgrade your mighty force with great stat bonuses and an expanded roster. 
 Cool, cool stuff if you're a fan of comics or superheroes in general. If you're a wise gamer, you 
 can send any of several Avengers line-ups, the X-men, or the Fantastic Four along with a few other 
 "secret" combos into battle together and receive special team bonuses as a reward. There are also 
 some awesome sequences where your team all use their "extreme" powers at once. Picture this: Blade 
 throws several vials of his serum into the air, shooting them so they explode into a deadly mist 
 that damages the enemies, Spiderman then swings across the screen blasting every foe with webbing 
 and ensnaring them as they are still recoiling from Blade's assault, Deadpool leaps into the air, 
 flipping sideways in slow motion as he sprays the villains (now ensnared in webbing) with twin 
 SMG's just as the Human Torch starts raining fire and Brimstone over the whole screen. That, my 
 friends, is some hardcore superhero a**-kicking.
  The story will take you throughout the Marvel Universe to other galaxies, under the sea, to the 
 realm of the gods fo Asgard, and even to the depths of Mephisto's hellish underworld as you battle 
 the Masters of Evil, an ambitious coalition of supervillains headed by Dr. Doom himself. The extra 
 missions you complete (or don't) during the course of your journeys will all affect the game's 
 ending; so though you may have saved the universe, depending on what side missions you did or didn't 
 complete you are shown the future that has been created by your actions or lack thereof. My first 
 time through, for example, I did much good and brought peace between some former enemies of humanity 
 and helped defeat many future threats, but the combination of events that came about because of 
 some details I neglected during gameplay doomed some of my favorite heroes of all in the end. I've 
 never seen a story mode handled quite like this and it's very rewarding and really adds to the 
 replay value of the game. All right, on to the characters. It would have been nice to play as the 
 Namor, the Vision, or [insert your favorite obscure Marvel hero here] , but the playable roster 
 is an impressive combination of legendary mainstays like Spiderman, Wolverine, and Iron Man and 
 hardcore fan-pleasers like Dr. Strange, Moon Knight, and the aforementioned merc with the mouth, 
 Deadpool. Heck, even the cosmic power of the Silver Surfer is yours to command so who's to complain? 
 Furthermore, you now have the option of downloading even more characters from xbox live including 
 Venom, Magneto, and the Hulk as well as 5 others. There are tons of legendary Marvel villains and 
 heroes that are MIA (no Punisher? Doh!) , and some minor fanboy complaints about the upgradeable 
 uniforms (why is Spidey's symbiote costume less powerful than his original cloth one?) , but that 
 just means that there is still room for this awesome franchise to get even better next time around.
 
  Fans of the "X-men Legends" games will find the gameplay more than a little familiar (see: nearly 
 identical) and will find some favorite characters from those games playable as well, but with some 
 new tricks. You gotta love Colossus picking up enemies and using them to club their comrades; that's 
 just good times all around. There are also interactive segments, mini-games if you will, that are 
 pretty fun and look cool as hell. Running over psychotic clowns in a bumper car springs immediately 
 to mind; and several of the larger boss battles and other situations have button sequences that 
 need to be pushed as they appear to perform context-sensitive moves that look cool as hell. Then 
 there's those games of old-school "Pitfall", and "Arkanoid" you play in Murderworld... Plenty to 
 do in this game. You'll also earn several unlockable (and upgradeable!) alternate costumes for 
 each hero and solo (or "comic") training missions for the playable heroes in the game if you can 
 hunt down their discs. These missions are a godsend and allow you to learn each individual hero's 
 abilities outside of the chaotic team battles and engage in some memorable duels with classic villains 
 (Elektra vs Bullseye: round 2? You know you want it!) . I only wish that each character's missions 
 were a little more customized; they all consist of one of the same four or five levels with different 
 bosses at the end.
  Some of the cutscenes in the game look unbelievable (there is a Nightcrawler sequence that rivals 
 the one in the 2nd X-Men film) while others are rather unpolished. The voice acting is spotty at 
 best, but several of the character's voices closely resemble their animated counterparts and it's 
 fun to hear your heroes banter during battle (Deadpool, unsuprisingly, even has wisecracking as 
 one of his special powers) and the graphics during gameplay are a massive improvement over "X-Men 
 Legends", so there's really very little to complain about.
  Online multiplayer also looks to be a big draw this time out. I haven't tried it out yet, but from 
 what I've heard there is 4-player cooperative where everyone shares and shares alike, and competitive 
 where your baddie-stomping statistics are tracked for bragging rights and to the winners go the 
 spoils. You can even play the comic missions with one player as the fearless hero and the rest 
 of the players controlling the hordes of enemies. The fun just keeps on coming.
  This is one of those games where, even after you've beaten it, you simply can't wait to start it 
 over and play through it in a different way. Personally, I'm relishing every action-packed second 
 and whether you're an average gamer who loves to mash buttons and kick tail, a hardcore comic geek 
 looking for an epic adventure featuring your favorite heroes, an RPG fan who enjoys lots of customization, 
 or just a person looking for a game you pick up and play with your friends at home or online this 
 is that game. Buy it, own it, love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huggy12345
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 9, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty cool, but my opinion is it sucks. I played it for half an hour and went back 
 to playing Need For Speed Hot Pursuits. This is how much this game really sucks. For the entire 
 game, I had no idea what I was doing, I didn't know what my tasks were and where to go. I was so 
 confused. I thought I was going around in circles. The super heroes in this game are all cool and 
 original, but they don't have full powers. In the game its not first person, the camera is like 
 ontop of your head and pointed down which makes it so F**Kin confusing, and sometimes give you 
 a bad headache. I'm glad I didn't pay for this game and it came free with the Xbox. Now I know 
 why it was free. This game sucks, but I know some people out there thinks its pretty cool, if your 
 a fan of spider man, which you couldn't use all of his powers ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moleman666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  Following a familiar formula from the x-men legends games, Marvel Ultimate Alliance delivers a 
 fun-packed punch that will keep most comic book fans happy. The graphics are decent, although they 
 could use a little more work. It seems that most of the graphical work went into the cutscenes 
 which are fantastic. The voice overs are believeable and sound how you think heroes would. Most 
 of the different character costumes are detailed and interesting, although you will find the odd 
 bland one. The only bad quality about this game is that playing through a level more then once 
 can be labourious instead of enjoyable, especially if you have a lot of sim discs and comic books 
 to retrieve. The multiplayer is great and playing along each level with friends is good fun. One 
 of my favourite features of this game is how specific heroes interact with each other and villians, 
 my favourites always being with Deadpool! Overall, this is a fantastic game that is well worth 
 any money and time you spend on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kombatmaster12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Oh yeah. I have finally gotten some time into the game and got some far into it. Now I'm gonna 
 wright this review for it. Must tell ya though. Ya gotta play past the first 3 levels to really 
 get the feel for the game. 
  
  Plot: Well the plot of Ultimate Alliance is that Dr. Doom (a very cool Marvel vilian) has formed 
 a HUGE army of some of the most evil and strange villains ever! I mean HUGE!!!!! I'm talking like 
 M. O. D. O. K, Black heart, Rhino, and really a huge list of some I've killed so far. Basically the 
 Marvel Comic Characters have joined forces to fight off Doom's army. Now how many characters to 
 choose from? Over 30+ downloadable online from LIVE. Yeah. Read on for more about this.
  
  Game play: UA is very good at presenting a good RPG feel to the game with the all time favorites 
 like, upgrading your attacks, health, gear you earn, getting money, sort of free roaming style 
 game play, team based game play, and of course Leveling Up! OH YEAH! Now unlike being a hugely 
 complicated RPG it controls very good. You can grapple, do air combat, and your strong attacks 
 and combos. Some characters however have more complex specials like Mr. Fantastic can stretch long 
 distances for taking out dudes, Iron Man can fly and shoot beams safely from the air, Captain America 
 (my current main guy I use since I started) can use his shield, well, like a shield. Wow. That 
 sounded redundant. lol. dundant. huh huh. Also you get to spend your easily earned bling on upgrades 
 and new skills. Plus you unlock 3 different suits for each character you get. Each may change your 
 looks but hey they give you special abilities your character can only use with that suit like upgraded 
 me lee damage or body skills. Plus you can make money by killing enemies, doing training fight 
 simulators against bosses, breaking stuff, and selling gear you earn from killing bosses like Charger 
 and stuff like that. But with all these characters to choose from you get to also make 2 teams. 
 Your campaign team and your own special team. These really do effect how you play the game making 
 it easier or harder on yourself. Like you also have to gain reputation in your special team to 
 get more stuff and bonuses and lose it by changing a dude or girl in your roster. But speaking 
 of both, you also get little team bonuses from creating special comic teams like the Fantastic 
 4, Avengers, X Men, etc. These are kinda handy since you also can transfer your current game data 
 when you finished it on easy or normal and get your beefed out dudes and stuff for the hard mode. 
 yeah. Complete fun. The game only has problems with good places to save and sorta to easy bosses. 
 
  
  Audio: The music in UA is very good and intriguing like in Atlantis and the strange random and 
 funny "Well when your done yelling lady get real." Thing in Murderland. Now that is very annoying 
 though. Overall it's pretty good and sometimes catchy.
  
  Sound: The noises like Wolverine using his claws to the crunches and smashes of enemies getting 
 killed or making their random noises is pretty good and sometimes seems like HD would be something 
 good for gaming with surround sound like me. I wish I had HD though.
  
  Graphics: The games graphics are really good from the distance the camera is set up in on it's 
 default area but up close the characters and enemies are really good and some are kinda ugly and 
 look like action figures or PS2 graphics kinda. Their still pretty good but could be better.
  
  Conclusion: In my weeks of segmented sessions of this game I have played and have gotten to 
 on the game I'd say that if you thought that it was just a dumb game that came with your 360 than 
 your seriously mistaken. Any marvel fan (which has trivia machines in the game) or RPG fan should 
 play Marvel Ultimate Alliance. A good buy for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yogizilla
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  I was very pleasantly surprised when I played this game. I expected a simple hack-and-slash game 
 but was greeted by some deep gameplay. Well, perhaps it's not THAT deep but the role-playing elements 
 are definitely there. For me, the real fun lies in being able to customize your heroes and create 
 your own team, complete with logo and team perks. YAY!
  
  You run around beating up baddies and collecting loots all for the sake of your team's reputation. 
 It's great. Each hero has tons of stats and abilities that can be adjusted to fit your own unique 
 strategy.
  
  I do feel that some of the heroes are over-powered while others feel vastly under-powered but that 
 depends on what sort of party you assemble. Teamwork is key. I find that the heroes with life-boosting 
 abilities last longer during battles. It's absolutely crucial to have a tank or two in your team, 
 plus a character that provides good team buffs.
  
  My only real gripe is that the online play is laggy. You get some weird delayed responses to the 
 otherwise great controls. It almost feels like your characters are controlling themselves. It can 
 all be attributed to the sync issues that seem to exist in all versions of the game though, from 
 what I understand, the PC version is probably the least laggy.
  
  You can run through this game fairly quickly or take your time exploring every nook and cranny. 
 I love destroying everything I can to uncover all the phat loots. Replay value is very high on 
 this one because there are countless side missions and many possible hero combinations. I just 
 wish they made the hero expansion packs more affordable. $10 for just two or three heroes seems 
 a little silly to me... *shrug*
  
  Anywho, as expected, Wolverine is virtually unstoppable. They also seem to favor Thor a lot. So 
 far, it feels like the heroes you start off with are pretty much the strongest ones but that shouldn't 
 stop you from experimenting and trying out the others. I really enjoy messing around with Deadpool 
 and Blade, myself. w00t!
  
  Yup, the comic book geek in me definitely loves this title. In fact, my little brother, who is 
 not a gamer by any means, is always up to play this game whenever he's around. It's just the sort 
 of game that anyone can get into. There's still strategy involved but the learning curve is very 
 reasonable.
  
  w3rd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsman92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Raven Software has returned to the marvel universe. After 2 successful X-Men Titles, the next step 
 was obvious, get as many marvel heroes and put them together in one game. It another success, a 
 game that will please both games and comic book fans. The story starts with an attack on the S. H. E. I. L. D 
 helacarrior, by Dr. Doom. It seems that he's created a team of villains called the Master's of 
 Evil. In order to defeat them, Colonel Nick furry has assembled some of Marvels greatest super 
 Heroes. You start with Captain America, Spider-Man, Wolverine, and Thor, but you have a dozen heroes 
 to choose form, with unlockable character, which you'll have, more than 20. The story is original 
 and fresh with more than 100 characters to interact with. Along with that, you'll get a good 20 
 hours of gameplay crammed into it. The gameplay has gotten an upgrade. 1st of, fighting is much 
 better. You can now link attack. You can also grab enemies and pieces of the envirments. You no 
 longer have to mange health, now you get heath and Magic orbs. From the start, you have more than 
 a dozen Marvel characters. While the gameplay is fun, the game has the same problems as the last 
 game. The characters are unbalanced. For every Captain America and Thor, There's a Spider-Women 
 or Ms. Marvel. Characters attacks that aren't as uninteresting or Flashy as others. Also, the gameplay 
 can get repeative. The dezein is still the same as the last game. You always going forward, beating 
 different enemies to level up. There is also a Puzzle element, but it's forgettable and pointless. 
 The puzzles aren't interesting or difficult. There basic ones like putting something here and there 
 or just destroying them. For Bosses, you have quick time events like Resident Evil 4 and God of 
 War which can help make them epic. Graphically, the game looks good on the 360. But there can be 
 an unbanlncement. There's always a great place with good effects, but you can also get in game 
 cut-scene that looks like it was from the last gen version of the game. The levels are interesting 
 as you got to different places like Dr. Dooms Lair, and Arcades carnival of doom. The voice acting 
 solid with the X-Men voices returning to their roles and others that will be enjoyable to here. 
 Despite its short comings, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is an enjoyable game for commix book fans 
 and RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulletsword
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  You know, there are a lot of comic book fans out there. You see little kids dressing up as Spiderman, 
 you see bored classmates whipping out comics to read instead of books, maybe they're not as popular 
 as they were in the past. But lets face it. Now that gaming is the biggest thing, there are lots 
 of comic fans that just beg for a video game adaptation. Marvel: Ultimate Alliance does justice 
 to not one, but many Marcel comic series. And boy, does it deliver.
  
  To be honest, other than Spiderman and Xmen and such, I really don't know much about the various 
 Marvel series. What I can tell you, though, is that the story involves Dr. Doom and the Masters 
 of Evil plotting something bad. Very bad. And apparently it involves LOTS of characters, locations, 
 and elements from almost every noteworthy Marvel series out there. Even if you're not much of a 
 Marvel fanatic, the thing that comes almost immediately is the immersion into the Marvel universe. 
 You'll be surprised at just how many things were pulled from the various comic series.
  
  So anyways, to stop Dr. Doom, S. H. I. E. L. D. has enlisted the help of various superheroes to combat 
 this threat. This is where we get into the rediculously huge roster of playable characters. From 
 the start, you have a ton of characters with some more that you can unlock (or if you're playing 
 the 360 version, some you can purchas off XBL) . These characters range from Spiderman, Wolverine, 
 Capt. America, Iron Man, Luke Cage, Storm, every member of the Fantastic 4, Deadpool, the list 
 goes on. Even Ghost Rider and Blade are playable later in the game. Holy crap. For an action game 
 like this, it is just totally badass.
  
  The actual gameplay is like your standard 3D beat-em-up, but it's much more than just that. So 
 you will have four players pretty much throughout the whole game. You'll fight as a team and you'll 
 get to control one of them at a time, being able to switch between any of the four characters that 
 you have chosen. Some people might think that having four superheroes at a time would make the 
 game too easy, but considering the huge odds you might be against as well as hard bosses, the difficulty 
 scales well for the most part. Going solo can just be plain suicide, but not impossible.
  
  While your basic combat moves just consist of some punches and combo attacks, they're all pretty 
 much the same for each character. Differences like attack speed, damage, and range or even the 
 spread of attacks will depend on the character (Ghost Rider's chains can allow him to hit multiple 
 enemies at one, Deadpool's standard attack combo has 4 hits instead of 3, etc) .
  
  But that's not really the point. You'll be spending a lot of time using your basic moves, but obviously 
 each character has their own superpowers. This is where the variety starts kicing in. If you hold 
 the right trigger, you can press the A, B, or X to use a power assigned to that button. This can 
 range from having Spiderman shooting webs or having Iron Man lay the smackdown with a powerful 
 uppercut. Some of these powers take advantage of holding down a button to charge the attack or 
 rapidly tapping the button to send out a stream of attacks. They don't even have to be attacks, 
 either. Some other special powers can buff up your team's defense, weaken enemies, or slow down 
 time.
  
  The depth doesn't end there. Characters will level up as enemies are defeated. You can gain new 
 powers and upgrade existing ones. You can even downgrade powers to add points to a different one. 
 Keep in mind that you have a crapload of characters that can be changed at save points. Also keep 
 in mind that you'll most likely have 4 characters out on the field, so you'll be managing each 
 one as you progress through the game. This certainly makes Ultimate Alliance an Action-RPG, and 
 it works flawlessly. I never expected much depth to be in a game like this.
  
  One of the best aspects of the game is that it supports four player co-op, meaning that if you 
 have 3 friends to play with, you're in for one of the most exciting games for a group of people. 
 Otherwise, the AI is decent enough. Even so, the game still feels too easy when all four players 
 are on the field. There will be times that you'll get all four of your characters killed, but that 
 won't happen too much. Even on the hardest difficulty, it's not that bad. It also feels strange 
 when you're at a boss fight and your other three AI teammates are just pounding the boss with weak 
 attacks with you laying down your elite powers on them. Your AI teammates don't seem to use powers 
 as much as you do, but if they did the game would be way too easy. The difficulty will still fit 
 in with anyone's playing style. Just don't expect it to be perfectly balanced, yet don't let it 
 get in the way of enjoying it.
  
  Overall, the combat in the game is very enjoyable. The huge roster of characters as well as their 
 unique abilities is what makes it special, but there are some things that bother me as well. It 
 is true that some characters have powers that are basically just like someone else's. There's still 
 enough to distinguish those two as two totally unique characters, but otherwise it's still just 
 a small bother.
  
  Another thing I really don't like is how there is downloadable content. More content is cool and 
 all, but I'm surprised that they would have 8 full-fledged characters for download and not just 
 put them in the game. Dr. Doom is the main villain in the game and it would have been cool to unlock 
 him, but instead you'll have to shell out some money for someone that would have been just fine 
 in the game from the start. I mean, sure you already have a heap of characters, but it just bothers 
 me when a little luxury like that isn't in here.
  
  But anyways, the gameplay is just spectacular and addicting. One of the stronger points in the 
 game is just the immersion in the Marvel universe. It's just brought to life in this game. No other 
 game has done something like this. It's just amazing being able to check out the various things 
 pulled from Marvel comics. Before you're through with the game, you'll probably learn a lot about 
 the many Marvel series put into this game.
  
  Ultimate Alliance excels in more than just gameplay as the game looks beautiful. Graphics certainly 
 take advantage of the 360. It's just crisp and spot-on. There may be times where the framerate 
 lowers slightly, but you can get by fine with or without it. Not only that, but I enjoyed the music 
 in the game. It totally fits in with the whole superhero theme, not to mention that there are some 
 epic tunes. Oh, and you have to appreciate the dialogue that fully express the personalities of 
 every character you'll see in the game. And there are LOTS of characters you'll be hearing and 
 seeing, playable or not.
  
  As you can see, Ultimate Alliance is a perfect example of bringing an entire universe together 
 into one giant and awesome game. That is probably the best part of the whole thing. It just manages 
 to capture the elements of the Marvel comics and in the end, it's one of the most unique experiences 
 in gaming to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -White_Knight-
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Once again, I was suckered into buying a game for one purpose..... telekinesis... 
  
  It's a good long game with an average storyline... Lotsa characters, but most of 'em are losers. 
 The only thing that you really do here is beat the crap out of bunches and bunches and bunches 
 of bad guys... with the average boss fight here or there. There is a place where you can play a 
 little bumper-car minigame, a minigame of Pit Fall, and a minigame of... uhhh... I forgot the name... oh 
 well.
  
  The powers make the game last a little longer. I love Dr. Strange's telekinesis, and his ability 
 to turn enemies into crates. I wish I could've played Dr. Doom though..... my brother really wanted 
 Night Crawler.
  
  Anyway, I promised myself to only buy games with replay value. This game sadly has none. Yes, it 
 does have a multiplayer vs. mode, but one player gets to be the hero while the other players must 
 be the villians. If you are a villian then you get a nice feeling of how the AI feels when you 
 play games like this. It would've been good if it was hero vs. hero, (or maybe not... it didn't 
 work too well in X-Men Legends, did it ?)
  
  Unless your crazy about Marvel, then don't buy it. After you get all of the achievements, I doubt 
 anyone will come up to you and say, "Hey wanna play Marvel?"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike599
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Marvel is a 1-4 player butting mashing adventure, it is pure fun. There are so many bosses in this 
 game that if you have at least a vague understanding of the Marvel universe you will enjoy seeing 
 at least one of them. This game is best played with friends, you can combine your spells for more 
 damage simpler to do with a real person, and in general the computer AI for your team is a bit 
 too defensive.
  Gameplay is solid, you have a hand full of combos each with unique effects, although most are basicly 
 "disable enemy." Spells are easy to get to and use although it seems like the game forces "boost" 
 type spells on X and will be stubborn if you try to go against it. The button pressing reflex events 
 are put to use for boss fights and some during combat. For example rapidly tapping A to get an 
 enemies weapon from him. the cutsence "Press B not to die" events are rare enough to where you 
 wont get tired of them, although it can be repetitive to steal enemies shields by rapidly tapping 
 A. Overall its a good game that can give hours of button mashing fun to you and friends.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agent93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a good game but I wouldn't call it a great game. I have been a Marvel 
 fan since I was a kid and this game takes the familiar and not so familiar heros and villians and 
 does a decent job of bring them to life. 
  
  The environments are good and varied both in the Marvel Universe and in the way they are represented 
 graphically I wouldn't call them beautiful, but they are better than average. The story line is 
 decent and keeps you involved, but it is "comic" so there are situations where a charater will 
 tell you that "she has the only knowldege on how to defeat Galactous", but she won't give you the 
 information until you help her open the hanger bay doors. . . are you kidding me??? SO if you can 
 over look that kind of story line you are ok, if not it probably will be a headache for you.
  
  Which brings me to the bad stuff. Game play can get repeatative and your "special powers" don't 
 really have any special effect on bosses. So, at the time you want to see Spiderman web pull the 
 Rhino into the air slamming him into a wall. . . you aren't going to be able to do it. It only 
 works on henchman. Some of the camera angles are just HORRIBLE and they don't seem to be a mistake 
 because you will have to play entire levels with them. Heros that have ranged attacks can be tricky 
 when aiming at any distance. 
  
  These negatives while taking away from the greatness of the game don't ruin it. There are a lot 
 of unlockables and plenty of Marvel history for a fan who likes the history and wants to be Thor 
 and wield his mighty hammer, or any number of other Marvel heros, but it is a good game, not a 
 great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arbiter1237
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  When i bought my Xbox 360 and beat Halo 3, I had Forza 2 and M. L. U. to play. I wasn't into racers 
 so I tried MUL, thinking that this game was a waste of time, i was quite surprized. At first, when 
 i played the game, I still wasn't gonna go on. However, when I got past the the first part, the 
 game started to really suck me in. Lets take a look:
  
  Graphics: 8/10: For a Xbox 360 port, what do you expect. Well I didn't expect anything anyways.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10: I have to admit: at frist the controls were difficult for, but once the games sucks 
 you in to the awesome world of Marvel super heroes (I'm no comic-book geek but I do know little) 
 with an orginal storyline featuring every super hero you know, its a pretty awesome experiance. 
 Here's the thing: you choose your own team of 4 super heroes and they are "upgradable". It works 
 really like a rpg. You even choose you ending depending on what side missions you do.
  
  Music: 8.5/10: I was upset to find out i didn't hear some traditional marvel music, but hey i have 
 my own soundtrack.
  
  Value/replay value: 9/10: Again, when you 1st play this game, you won't think much of it untill 
 you get deeper into it. The replay value is awesome. you could go back into the game and play several 
 times over again.
  
  Overall:8.5/10: Here's the deal, shockingly, I found this game more fun and more entertaining than 
 Halo 3. I don't know why. Should you pick this game up alone if you bought a 360 earily, the anwser 
 is no. There are just too many awesome games on the 360. However Microsoft was smart to bundle 
 this game with the 360 pro/elite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l1lb01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok I love this game, but they didn't have to use the same engine as X-Men Legends. It's still very 
 good although they left out some very good super heroes like The Hulk, Cyclops, Gambit, Sabretooth, 
 Nightcrawler, and Beast. I know that they are in the game at some point but why can't we play as 
 them! And I was expecting that after beating the game that you can play as the evil heroes like 
 Magneto or something. I also think that they put some heroes in this that the game would've done 
 better off without like Deadpool, Luke Cage, Black Panther, and Moonnight. But maybe I'm just saying 
 that because I never heard of any of these heroes before playing this game. What's the deal with 
 the Silver Surfer being in this game? I thought he was a villain! Well it might seem like I have 
 more negative things to say about this game but I don't, these are just minor issues to me but 
 still overall, this is a "super" game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarKLink26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a really great gam for the Xbox360. It is a great RPG/ Action game. 
 The great selection of characters is a really a fascinating option of the game. The game is basically 
 focused on the marvel universe. There is a great story that focuses on the Masters of Evil. A group 
 of villains gathered up by Dr. Doom... and then the game begins!
  
  Graphics: That game's graphics are fantastic. There is great detail added to the 3D universe. 
 
  Sound FX: The sound effects are average, but realistic. There isn't annoying little songs looping 
 over and over again.
  Gameplay: I have to admit the gameplay isn't fantastic... The camera becomes very annoying. The 
 bosses don't require certain strategies to kill. Except for a few. It is simple button mashing 
 and that's it.
  
  But, it is still very fun!
  I reccommend getting this game! It also come free with the Xbox360!
  OVERALL: A REALLY GOOD GAME 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingmoonraiser
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 3, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  What a stinker this game is. I could not even play it for 10 mintes. I feel ripped off and it came 
 free with my XBOX.
  
  If you take the X-Men Legends engine and wrap it around the entire Marvel universe, you end up 
 with Marvel Ultimate Alliance. A Marvel Comics fan's dream come true. With over 140 unique characters 
 entwined in the story, this is one of the most comprehensive comic book games every created. Over 
 20 of those are actually playable and the list varies depending on your system of choice. 
  
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance supports up to four players co-op, which makes for a great party game. 
 This is amplified by the fact that the learning curve is very shallow, and the gameplay is fairly 
 simplistic. The good news is this makes it easier to get a group of people together to play, but 
 it's bad for someone like me that wants a deeper experience when playing solo.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sim_genius
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  Ultimate Alliance starts with Dr. Doom trying to take over the world . Nick Fury is the commander 
 of S. H. I. E. L. D. who joins forces with the heroes of the Marvel universe to stop Dr. Doom into different 
 places. What I liked about the story is that you get to go to many places of the Marvel Universe 
 you'll think how developers made it possible to do it in an excellent way.
  
  Many of the superheroes you'll get to control are varied and while you start with few of them, 
 as you progress through the game you'll be able to encounter many others to join your team. You 
 can choose from heroes such as the X-Men, Fantastic Four, Iron Man, Spider-Man and many more from 
 the comics.
  
  Now if you have played the X-Men Legends games you'll pretty much know how the gameplay works: 
 you get to choose four heroes to be on your team, as they level up, you'll get skill points, you 
 will use them to choose which abilities you want them to master or you can just let it on automatic. 
 Something that is different from the Legends games is that you now don't have power over the stats 
 of you party like health, only of their abilities, though in some way is better so your character 
 grows even, it takes away the level of customization from the previous games. You can also equip 
 you hero with gear that will improve their abilities or stats.
  
  Since you can choose from 20+ characters in this game you'd think that the heroes that are not 
 on your active team don't level up. Well they do, which is great if you feel like switching between 
 your favorite characters over and over.
  
  One particular aspect of this game is that now you can build different teams of heroes you like 
 and customize them with your own emblem and name. You can choose four characters at first, and 
 as you play, you'll gain reputation points which you can use to improve only the stats of your 
 chosen team of heroes. I stayed with only one team the whole game and I was fine.
  
  The boss battles are some the best, you get a sequence in which you have to press buttons to damage 
 your enemies like in Resident Evil 4, and it makes it very memorable.
  
  The best aspect of the game os the co-op mode. Sure, you get three character controlled by the 
 computer but it gets repetitive. It's really easy for someone to pick up the second controller 
 and play with and you'll get fun of it. That's how you play one of these games.
  
  The Xbox 360 is the best out of all the consoles. Solid framerate, quality sound and detailed animations 
 plus the option to play it over XBOX LIVE with your friends, which really adds more fun to the 
 experience.
  
  If you like to play Action-RPGs with a superhero theme, specially with the heroes from Marvel, 
 then what are you waiting for? Go play Marvel Ultimate Alliance now and get the most amazing superhero 
 experience with it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fosterscheese
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a great game, and I think that it would be even more fun, if the downloadable 
 characters were made for PC or PS2, or even PS3 as well. It; s fun to play, and overall, it's a 
 good RPG Action game. I really enjoy playing it, even though some of the levels get really boring 
 after playing them a lot of times (like Atlantis or Murderworld) . I also don't like the fact that 
 some conversations are made very weirdly, like Nick Fury, talking to Nick Fury. Like I said, it's 
 fun, and slightly disappointing, as some characters (like Spider-Man or Ghost Rider) were really 
 weak, and it was hard to play with them. The game is also slightly too hard (I am talking about 
 the simulator disks) and it is really long. The story however, is really good, and I enjoyed playing 
 it. The secrets and the new characters that you get during the game are good, and I would suggest 
 this game to all X-Box 360, PS2, PS3 and PC owners. It also features the bonus teams, and some 
 downloadable characters (for X-Box 360 and PC) and it works really nice. I also didn't like the 
 fact that the PC characters looked really weird and the game didn't run perfectly - unlike on the 
 Next Generation Consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isual
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Its not one of the best nor the worst, rather its one of those RPG's thats in the middle that you 
 could play when all other RPGs you've played and finished are done with. reminiscent of the diablo 
 series, Marvel Ult. All. is not as gory or dark as Diablo yet it still attains its action feel.
 
  
  one of the first RPGs for xbox, most JRPG fans may be turned off but it still is one of the very 
 few, and better sub RPG genres out there. 
  
  achievement wise like most rpgs for the 360 all you got to do is beat through the games various 
 bosses and for sure you'll be able to grab more or so 500/1000 of the points.
  
  replay wise you MUST play it on normal since after beating the game you can go on and take on Hard 
 in which you can carry over your characters and gain more GS, YAY!. 
  
  other than that MUA is okae. depending on your difficulty, skill level and if you go for everything 
 it may take you more that 20 hours plus. 
  
  recommened for those who bought the new Pro 360's that bundle up with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llSapphyrell
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  This game holds the biggest collection of super heroes and super villains ever. It has a great 
 story. I really was astonished when there was appearances of the 2 most powerful characters Marvel 
 has to offer. In this game you can control your selected characters as you chase Dr. Doom and end 
 his evil plans. It has also features in which you can customize the outfits of your super heroes 
 and also build the skills you favor.
  
  One of the streangths of this game is that you are incharge of developing the skills of your super 
 heroes which you prefer. You get points used to charge these skills as you level up or you can 
 purchase them. This game will give you the chance to change how your heroes would look like because 
 as you use your characters, outfits are unlocked. The outfits not only go for style but also has 
 different attributes that you could use to your advantage.
  
  This will be fun game because you can play it with your friends or with the AI. With friends, you 
 could have someone to designated to attack and others for buffing. There are alot of buff spells 
 which when casted to allies could make the party even more powerful. Playing single could be a 
 challenge because you will have the chance to take care of the AIs, being a good leader will prove 
 advantages to your party because you really need each other and work as a team.
  
  Overall, this game will improve your teamwork, decision making, and you will have the greatest 
 time of your life playing the many super heroes and super villains in this game...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guard12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is great. Nuf said.. But, since I have to write 100 words I will be more descriptive.
 
  
  The game puts a team of Marvel heroes that you choose to fight a plan by Doctor Doom to take over 
 the world and the cosmos. 
  
  The fact you actually get a chance to put your favorite heroes on the same team made me jump to 
 joy. Whether it be Spider-man, Wolverine, Human Torch, Ice Man, Captain America, Dare Devil, Electra, 
 and you should get the point.. there are alot of heroes to choose from. 
  
  The 360 version is definently the best way to go since there is now a bonus pack that includes 
 even more heroes and even villians. (But no Carnage : ( ) Not only for that but also the superior 
 graphics and the Xbox Live capability. The voice acting is top notch and the sounds are terrific. 
 
  
  I would recommend this game for any Marvel freak out there like me or if you are just in the need 
 for a great RPG game that has a great storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgstiffy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  This game is fun to play with a group of people, but the shallow button mashing style of controls 
 makes it a very repetitive experience. The exp upgrades and character level tree is shallow, unrewarding, 
 and very clunky in terms of GUI. Don't look to this game if you expect to use tactic to fight your 
 way through the story.
  
  Even on the hardest setting, this game is a breeze.
  I would recommend buying this game if you have a group of people that you will be playing with 
 throughout the entire story. All of the enjoyment comes from the hilarity that ensues while gaming 
 with your buddies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Ivanski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  One of the games Ive always been wanting to play is Marvel Ultimate Alliance and before I saw this 
 game on the store shelves, I just thought its another Marvel action game like Spider-Man, X-Men, 
 Hulk, etc. but then I saw this game around and it happens to be an Action RPG game and I was pretty 
 surprised. I didnt expect an RPG approach for a Marvel video game.
  
  I wouldnt really call this exactly an RPG like Oblivion, Fable, or Final Fantasy but it does have 
 RPG ish moments.... you first play as Captain America, Thor, Spider-Man, and Wolverine and you fight 
 Doctor Doom's helpers and then eventually you get to the shield point where you can save the game 
 and change characters of four... I really like how you can select over many different Marvel characters 
 and you also gotta be smart on picking them too because if you can pick the right team, you will 
 be on the top. There are also groups that can give you bonuses, most notably well known super hero 
 groups like Avengers, Fantastic Four, X-Men, etc... oh and this might probably be the only good 
 game that you can play the Fantastic Four and if you are a fan of them, definitely try this out, 
 they're a great team to play on this game too.
  
  The graphics on this game dont really look like next gen material but at the same time, I didnt 
 they were all that bad either. To be honest, I wasnt really looking forward to the graphical asset 
 of this game so Im pretty happy with it.
  
  This game is also very entertaining if you play with friends at your house or on xbox live. I love 
 playing co-op with my friends on xbox live on this and we would always think of new teams and strategies 
 to defeat our next enemies.
  
  To conclude this... this is a very great Action RPG game that you have a various selection of Marvel 
 heroes, villains, anti-heroes, etc. to play as and its a great single player or co-op game to own. 
 If you are a fan of Marvel, then this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanzigThrall
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  its alot like the first x men legends and not more like the second one
  its pretty easy not challenging in any way when it should be
  the dlc of the heros and villians 
 was a nice addition
  but the game seemed too short as well
  it needed to be longer i thought
  
  overall fun game
  just too short and easy
  and
  
 
  
  
  
  not as fun or hard as X Men Legends 2 but fun none the less
  
  hopefully the second will be way better but this is fun 
  
  but give it a try if you are fan 
 of marvel
  give it a try if you like beat em up games
  overall give it a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinoadr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Lots of people have this game, since its now coming along with the purchase of a 360. And I must 
 say, people who got it, should be happy with it.
  
  Marvel Ulltimate Alliance is basically a clone of X-men Legends except instead of just the Xmen. 
 They have the whole freakin Marvel Heroes\Villians!!! Any hereo you can name of Marvel, they have 
 it. When you first start out they have a reasonable amount of Selection you can choose from. Much 
 like Legends you can customize your team. But whats different about it is you can now Name your 
 team. Which is I guess pretty cool if a Bud is playing but not anymore. The updated graphics are 
 just brilliant, if that was a movie, espiaclly in the cut scenes, I would watch it anyday! By the 
 way the story is great too! Dr. Doom has gathered all the villians and is planning to take over 
 the world! Although not much thought put into the story it has its twists and turns.
  
  The new controls go well with it, much like legens, you have Light attack, heavy attack, more combos, 
 special atttacks, all around its good.
  All the multiplayer functions are good, not that I have played them all but they look entertaining. 
 Achievements for the game are Pretty easy, but are all good enough. Once you beat a boss or lv 
 you get an ach., much like another games, its balanced well.
  
  Replay valvue, not very high but once in awhile its nice to kick some baddy butt. In conclusion, 
 if your a marvel fan or anykind of hereo fan to be exact. Go right now, and get it. Although this 
 game has its flaws its a nice game to add to your collection....
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ilija_True_Game
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a straight forward action-fighting game with many characters from the 
 Marvel world and surprisingly thought me a little on the Marvel world itself. This game features 
 many different features that will make you want to achieve such as finding all the concept art, 
 finding all the upgrades and finding all of the simulation disks.
  
  Some of my thoughts are forwarded towards the simulator discs, or the comic missions, which show 
 us some very brief battles certain characters had during one of their missions in that specified 
 comic. Although I like the idea, it was not executed very well for within many comics, the area 
 in which you fight in is repetitive, you tend to do a comic mission for another character in the 
 same sort of level, and the only thing that changes is the boss battle at the end of the comic 
 mission. I like the concept but the execution wasnt really the best way to go
  
  Combat is fun and easy, receptivity isnt too annoying, but the spawn points the enemies 
 have are not very next generation. This is a complaint because Im expecting to see enemies 
 rush in from an area unseen, to make it look like theyre back-up, but they tend to spawn 
 right in front of your characters, they just fade in. And the poor AI, fun as it is to bash away 
 at the creeps, is too simplistic even at higher difficulty. This goes for the boss battles as well. 
 I like the idea of pressing buttons at the right time to finish them off but the simplicity in 
 all of it make it seem like the boss is easier than the normal enemies.
  
  The effects are alright but the in-game cut-scenes are not very good to look at or even consider 
 calling next generation. The effects for fights and battling enemies are solid, the webs from Spider-Man 
 and the power shots from Spider-Women look good but the cut-scenes when done in-game are disastrous, 
 they look like cheap little explosions, the 2d background doesnt help make them feel very 
 true to the next generation, and the pure idea of having these flashes come up instead of explosions 
 are pretty bad. Although, you wont really have anything against seeing them all that much 
 but the first couple of times will probably throw you off. The graphics for the game are also not 
 top notch, considering its an Xbox 360 game, and it just doesnt look good from up 
 close. The super hero models are better then the model for the bad guys and the normal civilians, 
 but its acceptable.
  
  The music and value is rock solid. Good music going in the background with okay sound effects make 
 it average enough to play with and enjoy. The voice acting sounds great but sometimes feels like 
 the voice actors are just trying to get their roles over with. Other than that, the music overall 
 is okay and will keep you good the whole way through. As for the value, you will be playing this 
 game in and out, the achievements might help, so the value might be better for bigger fans to the 
 Marvel universe or the action-fighting type of genre, otherwise you might have a hard time adapting 
 to the game.
  
  So my synopsis on the game is that its worth trying, not a bad game. Solid gameplay and 
 it really works the whole way through. Some bosses are disappointing and the simulation disks could 
 have been more fleshed out but it still feels like an alright game with okay graphics and sounds.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  MUA is a great game that alot of people were looking forward to and for the most part it succeeded 
 but theres one thing that hurts this game depending on who you ask. Which I'll get to at the end 
 of the review.
  
  The gameplay is like that of any RPG/Action game. You make a team of 4 heros (more unlock later 
 to use, you can switch after missions) and you go through out various lands (ground and sky) battling 
 enemies and bosses. You can only control one of the team members at a time while the others help 
 out. Each character has unique powers that you can upgrade as you fight on in typical RPG style. 
 Some powers and moves are useful while other are just plain useless. More on this at the bottom.
 
  
  They do have an cool feature where instead of picking whatever team members you want you can pick 
 already picked teams like "X-men", "Fantastic Four"... etc. I found out after returning the game 
 that this actually improves stats or something for the team. Pretty cool. 
  
  With most game today you can also have COOP going (I think up to 4 player coop) . So at any time 
 someone can join in and play as whoever you have selected until you change team members. The AI 
 isn't bad but its funner when you have your friends with you!
  
  Graphically the game is amazing. Theres so much detail you never get sick of it and with 20+ characters 
 the detail is never crappy on them either. And each hero (or villain) has extra costumes you can 
 unlock!
  
  The controls might take awhile to grasp but they are easy once you get used to them. 
  
  The 
 music and sound is better then normal. Every character has unique sounds that really make you enjoy 
 your favorite guy so its not just "the same blast" sound and what not. And of course the music 
 isn't boring put together music either.
  
  The online play was fun but people quit to much, rushed through it or took the strongest players 
 which means you usually get crappy guys if your slower to pick.
  
  As with any game there are some negatives. This game it seems the negatives really vary from person 
 to person. 
  
  One thing that really kills the game is there may be alot of characters but some of them have such 
 useless powers that as cool as the character is they are horrid in game! They should have tried 
 to at least balance the powers so no matter who you are everything felt fun and not so crappy on 
 some guys (and girls) .
  
  Another big problem is while I understand you spend experience points to unlock better powers or 
 stronger versions.... if the power ends up being crappy like I said your stuck. So you just waisted 
 those points. Its to bad you can't preview the power or something.
  
  Perhaps the biggest problem is the story's length and the amount of characters. Well if you want 
 to play the game with everyone and enjoy everyone maxed out you have to play the same story OVER 
 and OVER and OVER. Thats right. No matter who you pick you still get the same story. Its fun the 
 first time through but after playing it, its not something you want to go through again, its not 
 compelling.
  
  But thats just me. 
  
  Overall its a good game with its weak points being what are suppose to be its strong points! Defiantly 
 worth the rental or buying if you can stomach beating a few times. Defiantly worth buying if you 
 play with friends though. And with downloadable content with new guys added it could be worth it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bokkie13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I got this game via the special deal with the new 360 system. Overall this is a good game, the 
 selection of characters is good, and the graphics although they're pretty simple get the job done. 
 Gameplay is pretty straightforward, with a nice RPG element to it, but some combos can be hard 
 to figure out at first. It probably doesn't help that the game only came with French instructions. 
 The game can get a little boring, so overall it's not quite good enough to keep me playing continuously... 
 I will probably keep coming back to this game while in transition between new releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPstyle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  OK so everyone wants to be a superhero right? well this is your best shot. I havent played many 
 of the other super hero games other than spider man (which is also fun) but this one was very enjoyable. 
 Basically you get to pick a superhero or a team of upto four superheros and fight through all the 
 classic bad guys from way back when. If thats not enough the graphics are amazing, and some of 
 the video in this looks like it came from a movie. The game plays out as an action RPG... you fight, 
 earn experience, level up, and unlock the best of your heroes powers! not to mention there are 
 like 20+ heroes including, Spiderman, Captain America, Blade, The Fantastic 4, Wolverine :) :) 
 and many many more unlockable characters. This game is great for kids but probably better for teens 
 and adult since we grew up with these comics and cartoons. All in all this is a great game, thats 
 loads of fun, this is a must have for any comic fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord20
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty cool. There are so many characters to choose from but you have to play through 
 a few stages to unlock them first and the more you play the more characters are made available 
 to you. Its the same for the characters different moves and the different suits they wear. The 
 more you play that particular character the more thing you unlock for them. The graphics were good. 
 Not realistic good but lets face it... they are not supposed to be. The sound effects are good also. 
 Playing this game in co-op was a blast. And if you ever have a bad day just play this game and 
 kick some a$$. lol. Its a good way to pass some time and if you are really into marvel characters 
 then this is the game for you. Give it a try and you might just like it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinguin14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance
  
  I bought this game for PSP a long time ago. It was okay, but too hard to see. So, once I got my 
 360, I gave it another try, and I'm glad, cuz this is one of my favorites for 360. The movie graphics 
 are awesome, the gameplay fun, and there are tons of characters.
  
  
  Pinguin
  (Ping)
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  I had already played the PC version which oddly enough looks much better than the 360 version if 
 you have a PC of sufficient speed and choose the highest graphical options. Since this game came 
 free with the recent 360 I bought, I tried it out on this platform. The biggest issue with Ultimate 
 Alliance is that there is little concern at any time about your team because the game is so easy 
 at normal difficulty. There is a hard mode but you have to play through once at normal to get that 
 mode. Basically the game makers wanted to make sure you wouldnt be frustrated by player death, 
 so you really have to do something dumb to kill your whole team. You can portal out to revive your 
 team as long as any one of them is alive. The only real threats come from the bosses and all that 
 you have to do there is block occasionally. In spite of this glaring problem, the game is fun and 
 the heroes' moves always looks great. The game seems to have some RPG depth to it, but it becomes 
 apparent over time that these options dont matter a huge amount in actual gameplay. Pick any hero 
 and any team and you'll fly through the game without notable effort. Personally I would have enjoyed 
 this game more if the enemy AI actually put up a fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderfist
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  This game has a large character selection and most of them are playable characters. You start the 
 game with the same four characters but are given the choice of a lot more after your first mission. 
 As you complete missions and training scenarios you unlock more characters and options. As you 
 go through the game you locate CD icons and are given the option to use that CD to do that training 
 scenario at the time, or you can wait until you get back to your headquarters and do the training 
 there at one of the terminals. Its great to take advantage of these training quests because it 
 helps level you up, and that experience counts towards your current mission if you choose to access 
 the training during a current mission, and death in training does not because lost of progress 
 in current mission. Not to go on about the training aspect of the game but it also gives you an 
 idea of who the best person to pick when having to face a particular enemy boss. Another cool aspect 
 of this game is that when picking your team you can get additional bonuses towards that team if 
 that teams fall into certain categories. When a bonus is applicable it is indicated by a loud voice; 
 e. g. if you choose all X-Men characters you will hear the voice over indicate the X-Men bonus 
 for that current team selection. In addition to unlocking your heroes special powers and moves 
 by gaining experience there is also the ability to get cool outfits for your unlockable characters 
 and other such game-oriented extras. The role-player aspect of this game makes it by far the most 
 enjoyable of Raven series of the Marvel Comics games for me. This game is worth playing and if 
 you can pick it up for less than full price, well then you got a bargain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beutlich99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a game that satisfies any player looking for an action based RPG with 
 a heavy emphasis on the action and slightly less on the RPG than most. While it is not necessarily 
 the third game in the X-Men Legends series it definitely takes the same formula and improves it. 
 Besides being next-gen and having better graphics and more playable characters, the game is much 
 more accessible to those players who don't necessarily like the RPG formula of having to pick and 
 choose which skill goes where. It is true that you have to do that in MUA, but the game is very 
 forgiving when it comes to placing points in certain skills. For example, you can redistribute 
 points without any penalty and you can do it as often and as much as you like. Similar games lock 
 you into your choice, even if you later come to thinking it was a bad choice. MUA doesn't do that 
 because you can constantly change your point placement. Also, a big improvement over the X-Men 
 Legends II game is that there are way FEWER mutant powers to choose from for each mutant. In the 
 legends games it was a daunting task to figure out which skill was actually worthwhile, and then 
 on top of that you had to keep putting points in passive skills that you didn't actually get to 
 use. MUA does away with having to spend your hard earned points on passive skills. Instead, every 
 point you earn goes straight to a mutant power, so you can put the hurt on the bad guys that much 
 sooner. There still are some passive power abilities, but they can be upgraded through an entirely 
 different system, separate from your points. The game looks beautiful and is very easy to learn 
 and jump right in to. Controlling your squad of mutants is a piece of cake and you can switch characters 
 at any time in the game. If you were a fan at all of either X-Men Legends games or anything like 
 Baldur's Gate, then you are going to like Marvel Ultimate Alliance even more. A definite buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinWinthrop
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 25, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Maybe this is not fair and maybe I am just too old for this game. Maybe playing War Craft ruined 
 games for me. In War Craft, you could pan the screen down into the action and then tilt the camera 
 angle in such away that you felt like you were right there in the action. Not in this game. You 
 could only pan so close and then it was a top down view. I had to sit real close to the game to 
 be able to see all the stuff. So I could not get past that part of it. The other thing that made 
 it poor for me was that, once you saw the character's fighting moves, then you have seen the moves. 
 Nothing else to it. Then it was just halls after halls and you were again limited so as to what 
 you could see as far as camera angles. After a while, I felt like I was playing a graduated two 
 D arcade game which was not cool. I also got lost in the story meaning that I could not tell what 
 was happening or where the save points were. Or when I returned to a game, I could not remember 
 what in the story had happened. Then I was just lost in halls roming around trying to remember 
 what on earth I was supposed to be doing. It was a poor game for me. I give it a 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryo_Kensen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a take on the game X-Men Legends, except you get to play as many different 
 characters in the Marvel universe, rather than just in the X-Men universe. At first glance, it 
 might look like a game that isnt very fun, but once you step inside and play the game, youll 
 like what youre playing.
  
  The gameplay in Marvel Ultimate Alliance gives you 4 powers for each character, 3 special attacks 
 and one major attack that can sometimes be combined with the other major attack with the other 
 3 characters in your party. You can also switch between the 4 Marvel characters to your liking, 
 allowing you to switch anytime between characters helps out a lot. There are plenty of great Marvel 
 superheroes to choose from, some more fun to use than others. A fan favorite is Wolverine, and 
 most seem to use him during their play through of the game, other fun characters to use are of 
 course Spider-Man and Captain America. Some other characters you wouldnt expect to be as fun are 
 characters like Blade, Colossus, and Deadpool. The character with the best moves is probably Wolverine; 
 he can move fast and take down a lot of damage from an enemy very quickly. During boss battles, 
 Wolverine is still your best bet at taking down the boss at a quick rate, though youll still need 
 to switch to the other characters to keep everyone alive and in the battle. The most unforgiving 
 thing about Marvel Ultimate Alliance is when your character dies, it takes several minutes for 
 you to be able to get them back, and even then youll have to get to an S. H. I. E. L. D. access point 
 to revive them. Sometimes youre so focused on battling with one character that you wont even 
 notice that the others are about to die, and then all of a sudden youll hear them say something 
 to the likes of Im out. All in all though, as long as you play carefully, you should be fine. 
 Another complaint is the repeated level designs, every level youre going through a door and some 
 hallways to get to where you need to go. It would have been nice if theyd work on a more detailed 
 layout
  
  The graphics are nothing to get excited about, the fully rendered cut scenes look pretty good; 
 it would have been nice if they had worked on all new Next-Gen character models for the Xbox 360. 
 The characters are all blocky, and some of them just look horrible altogether. The most impressive 
 parts of the game are how good the fires look, or some of the lighting effects. Other then the 
 lighting and the fire, you wont see too many impressive graphic details in the game.
  
  The sound is probably the most impressive part of the game; the voice acting is really good for 
 the most part, even though I was a tad bit annoyed by Thors overenthusiastic God-like voice. The 
 best voice actors are the people who did Wolverine, Spider-Man, and Nick Fury in my opinion. Some 
 of the lines in the game were pretty stupid, such as Spider-Mans comments about wanting to have 
 a mission that involves Supermodels. The music in the game was really good, and even had some good 
 rock music in there, no words thank God, but the music in the game kept the levels interesting. 
 There were a few levels that had strange music, or even near the end there was a level where the 
 music didnt fit with the level whatsoever. I was also annoyed by Bobby Drakes voice, but then 
 again his character has annoyed me always.
  Youll definitely be getting your moneys worth for purchasing the game, especially now with the 
 Platinum Hits edition which is the Gold Version of the game for $30. Youll get the extra Heroes 
 and Villains pack with that, which includes some interesting run-ins with characters, such as Dr. 
 Doom meeting himself, Cyclops and Jean Grey talking to each other, and Wolverine and Sabertooth 
 getting mixed up, each of those encounters even give you achievements. Once youre done with the 
 game, youll probably want to dive into some Online Co-Op and take on the game with some friends. 
 Marvel Ultimate Alliance is probably a game that youll want to beat a few times, and then relive 
 the experience years later.
  
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a great game, and one that is worth the purchase. Although, somebody 
 needs to explain to me what the heck is up with Mysterio. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barnthepirate
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Good graphics, great variety, plenty of extras and just plain fun. The Gold edition is where its 
 at. With 8 more characters, you can make some very cool teams and that adds to the replay value.
 
  
  Although you'll find alot of the hero's are really similar. You got a couple of different catagories 
 to choose from, but its basically pick your favorite hero or villan. Like you can pick hulk , thor, 
 thing, or collosus for a strong guy, then pick captain america, wolverine or electra for your fighter. 
 There are also Energy type heros, and others who might be a mix of 2 giving you a great roster 
 and variety.
  
  This game is a steal for 29.95$, at most places and it should be the gold edition. I highly recomend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greatcook42020
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  So I didnt like playing the X-men games all that much. I felt they were just to repetitive. I got 
 bored way to fast. This game I thought was better. I liked that the story was better. I also liked 
 that there were more characters. Also that they wernt all X-Men. I loved playing with the silver 
 surfer. He was just awesome. This is one of the few games I used a cheat code with. I unlocked 
 all the characters, and used the money cheat. I still havent beat it yet but it has kept me intrested, 
 which is more then I can say about the X-Men games before it. Like I said it wasnt my favorite 
 game but was worth playing. I thought for a mutiplayer game it rocked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  Marvel ultimate alliance is fun if you enjoy simple hack and slash action. the game is well done 
 and the extra content is worth getting if you have x-box live. Im a big marvel fan so I enjoyed 
 all the usable characters, and characters downloaded from x-box live, but it is a little redundant 
 when one of the characters you download is the main villain for the movie. (Dr. Doom)
  
  the story line is kind of weak, though you can see where it is going and it is fairly predictable. 
 another downside is that all the enemys are pretty much the same, even though they change from 
 level to level, there only maybe 5 different enemys, just redone over and over.
  
  otherwise the gameplay is fun and easy to get used to. Having the wide character choice is also 
 fun to have so if one of your characters gets knocked out you can switch them out with a new one.
 
  
  another unique feture of the game is the team feature. you can create and name your own team. Starting 
 with 4 characters, you earn points by completing missions and spending attribute points on status 
 upgrades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is by far the biggest disappointment to come out of Raven Software. I 
 couldn't believe what I was playing; its as if Raven took two steps backwards from X-men Legends 
 2 in comparison to RPG mechanics. First off, I absolutely hated X-men legends; it was a generic 
 action adventure RPG with a cookie cut-out sense of gameplay. The difference being that the characters 
 were x-men. On the opposite side of the spectrum, X-men legends 2 is one of my favorite games for 
 Xbox. It provided a deep level of customization in both character development and the ability to 
 power up specific moves at any level. This allowed the user to completely customize characters 
 as they saw fit. For example, if you wanted colossus to be a tank; you would spend all your experience 
 points on his striking and HP. If you wanted to work on Cyclops' vision attacks, than you could 
 spend all your points on those abilities. If you wanted to upgrade wolverines ability to regenerate 
 life, great go for it. Each character fit a playing style perfectly.
  
  Let me get my nerdy beefs out of the way quickly. First and foremost, I was a huge comic book fan 
 when I was a wee lad. When I think of Marvel a couple of characters should stand out pretty easily. 
 Hulk, Captain America, Iron Man, Spider man, Venom, Magneto, the X-men and the Fantastic Four. 
 Now, usually I wouldn't attack a game for their choice in characters but this issue can't be avoided 
 in this game. Who the hell though that it was a good idea to have Blade or Daredevil over Hulk 
 or Venom. I mean if your going to leave out characters shouldn't you leave out characters that 
 nobody would miss like Electra and Daredevil and blade and Bullseye. I mean the only villain that 
 I saw in the game from the Spider-man series was Mysterio!! Mysterio is pretty decent but I would 
 think that maybe Venom or Doc OcK or even Green Goblin would have been better choices. For the 
 most part, this game has just about every cool character but they did initially miss some big ones 
 but thankfully they fixed that problem with those pack downloads. 
  
  Story~ The story in Marvel ultimate alliance is the only decent aspect of the game. In classic 
 comic book fashion, an evil super villain like Dr. Doom is able to gather a bunch of villains and 
 create the Masters of Evil. Whats the plan tonight.... the same as always.... to try and take over 
 the world!! ( If you don't remember that either you're way to young or you didn't watch the Animaniacs. 
 ) Like all great comic book stories, the heroes completely mess everything up until the very end 
 were they magically come out on top. Personally, I've always loved Dr. Doom and as I stated before, 
 the selection of Villains in the Masters of Evil is pretty lame in most cases. I mean they couldn't 
 come up with better villains than Bullseye or Arcade or Mysterio. For what its worth, the story 
 is perfect and would fit into any comic book. 
  
  Graphics~Visually this game is a joke; X-men legends 2 for Xbox looks more impressive. This is 
 an obvious case of making a generic game for all the systems and not trying to take advantage of 
 the next gen hardware. Hell, some of the cut scenes look like they were pulled straight out of 
 the ps2 version no joke. Honestly, its not so much that everything looks bad, it's that you can 
 see how lazy Raven was when it came to porting the game to the Xbox 360. 
  
  Gameplay~ The combat mechanics are essentially identical to X-men Legends 2. The difference being 
 that in this game your strong punch is actually a charge which is pretty annoying since it proves 
 to be completely useless. The biggest change comes in the structure of the "RPG elements". I use 
 those words loosely since the only reason this game should ever be mistaken for an RPG is because 
 of the experience you get for killing enemies. Yet, that really isn't what makes a RPG, its the 
 ability to construct your character as you progress through the game. Unfortunately, Raven must 
 have forgotten this aspect because everything is automated for you. The abilities are automatically 
 updated as well as what gear the hero wears and his attributes. The gear and abilities can be set 
 to manual but the attributes can't which is super lame and boring in my opinion. This is basically, 
 another crappy Jade empire causal game that tries to appeal to an audience that wants nothing to 
 do with RPS. When are developers going to understand that mainstream casual gamers don't play RPGs; 
 no matter how retardedly easy you make the game; casual gamers are not going to buy it. Heres an 
 idea,.. Marvel Ultimate Alliance hmmmmm... I'm guessing thats going to appeal to RPG fans or Marvel 
 fans, or maybe both!!
  
  Sound~ The sound is just as generic and lifeless as the game.
  
  Conclusion: In the end, this game is nothing but a huge disappointment that really feels like 
 Raven has finally lost its mind when it comes to the action RPG genre. It's to simple and overly 
 stupid and doesn't provide enough enjoyment to last a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  Since the first time i bought my Xbox 360's, this was the first game i'll played on my beloved 
 console. before i bought the system, i'll played this game on my PS2 but the graphic was bad compared 
 to the 360's version, and then i'll realised the differences between next gen consoles and old 
 gen consoles. Firstly, the game graphic was greatly improved from the PS2 version, secondly its 
 still great game to play eventhough the gameplay is still the same as PS2 version and the most 
 important the feel u get when u played this game on next gen consoles. But besides the good, it 
 also had a bad site of it's personalities. When i'll played this game over and over, i feel a little 
 boring and the storyline are not interesting at all. So for user outhere, to prevent boring, i'll 
 suggest you to play with your friends. In conclusion, this game is worth to play if u like action 
 role playing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: druid318
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, it improves on the Xmen legends games in many ways. The character selection 
 is very wide and is sure to have a few favorites for the hard core comic book fan and the average 
 gamer alike. The game includes big names like Spiderman, and Thor, as well as Xmen like Wolverine 
 and Storm. The Gold edition added some fan favorites that were missing like Nightcrawler and Hulk, 
 but there are still a few that would be nice to have, Punisher and Juggernaut to name a few.
  
  The graphics are much improved. The characters models are well done and the stages look great. 
 While most of the costumes look pretty good a few of the characters colors are a bit drab.
  
  The AI in this game is bad, there is no other way to describe it. Enemies will sometimes do 
 something smart such as throw objects at you, but the party AI often runs off or gets between you 
 and your target. Your party members will often wander off out of sight or jump off cliffs, even 
 those who can fly.
  
  The characters movesets are decent. Some of the moves are similar across the board and other whole 
 characters seem to be simple copies of each other with minor things changed. The character leveling 
 is much changed from the Xmen Legends games. Characters now gain attributes on their own. You still 
 assign them powers and items, but the systems are simpler. You can now remove points from a power 
 on the fly and assign them to another power, but you cannot take the first point off a power or 
 disable them. Once you buy a power you are stuck with it.
  
  Overall this game is a great buy for anyone who enjoys a beat em up type game or anyone who likes 
 a good coop experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hermitkermit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game is a Beat em up/Role playing game also it has 4 player co-op, online or off 
 line great party game!! Now this game is just like X-men Legends you have the control of a team 
 of super heroes, and you must bash and smash and crush all you stand in your way.... The game itself 
 is pretty long if you take the time to explore and do side quest. The main point in the game is 
 that you have the ability to name your team and create and choose who is in it...
  (My team - Spider man, Dead pool, Iron man, Moon knight) The game is very linear but loads of fun 
 and will keep you busy for a good couple if not weeks....
  
  Graphics: Can't say much, but it does look shiny and clear... good over all.
  
  Sound: Music 
 is alright but the voice acting is great, well written lines and even some witty and funny lines 
 thrown in....
  
  Replay Value: There are many armors and costumes, characters, pictures, comics to uncover as well 
 as powers, so really this has a high replay value...
  
  The bad side: Different versions have different content, Xbox 360 requires you to pay to have extra 
 heroes, (Hulk, Venom, Magneto etc..) Gameplay is very simple bash and smash, also the game has 
 some glitches where your character can get stuck and die..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScaryMoviefan
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is revolutionary sweet. I reminds me of all the Marvel Characters like Spidey, Hulk, 
 X-Men, Fantastic Four, and Iron Man. This is a must have for Marvel fans. The story mode is challenging 
 and that's what I like. Since I had a couple of friends on Xbox Live to help me in co-op on xbox 
 live so I could improve and I got some friends like CountryL Dawg. This game is also great for 
 kids from 7 years old to any age that has Xbox Live. This is a great game for anyone and especially 
 for Marvel fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMalice
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot like X-men legends. Fans of that series should love this game. There are a few 
 differences, such as the extra costumes grant different power ups that you customize by spending 
 exp. A vast selection of playable characters, recently added to through the expansion, keeps the 
 game fresh through multiple playthroughs. The PC's use standard tactics, i. e. Tank, Ranged, Balanced, 
 but each P. C. is different enough that they dont seem repetitive. Even P. C. s with similar powers, 
 such as Spiderman and Venom, are unique. This game is of course more fun with multiple players. 
 Most Gameplay is still linear, although there are a few avenues to explore that can affect the 
 ending sequence. This game is definetly worth playing. Hopefully, a sequel is'nt far behind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownthrilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is basically an addition to the X- Men series. This game, however, surpasses 
 the ones before by far. You will in so many places in the Marvel Universe that it's awesome. You 
 will battle many of Marvels great super villeins. From Bulls Eye to the mighty Galactus, you truly 
 find fun in every enemy. There are also many new additions in the game that makes the game so fun.
 
  
  You start out as Thor, Captain America, Spider-man, and Wolverine. You eventually are given the 
 option to switch the characters in your team at checkpoints. This is one of the many new additions 
 to the game. You of course unlock many more characters as you go along. I highly suggest buying 
 the hero/villains pack. This purchase will cost you about $10 (it's included in the new Gold Edition 
 which is now available.) Another great addition in the option of online co-op. This is a very fun 
 feature, but not many play this game nowadays seeing as it is 1+ years sine this review. This game 
 also introduces a rpg feel to the game. You are now leveling up you 20+ characters and finding 
 equipment to equip you characters with. Also, you don't have to worry about having unequal levels 
 within your characters seeing as you can only have 4 at a time. Whenever your current character 
 levels, the characters that are not in your team stay about 1 level behind so you're not stuck 
 using one powerful team the whole time. Along with the wide new variety of attributes, you can 
 now buy more points to your attributes as you collect money from enemies. You can also unlock different 
 costumes, comics, and concept art as you play through the levels.
  
  Apart from the new features this game is good for anyone who like rpg's, beat 'em ups, or just 
 likes super heroes. This game is a must buy game, and is worth your money (especially since its 
 cheaper) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xunhallowed
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I rented Marvel: Ultimate Alliance a few days ago, and I just beat it. I was happy with the gameplay, 
 and some great FMV's, but overall, the graphics were below 360 standards. Some graphics looked 
 like they should have been on the Xbox, but sometimes they look great. The game runs smoothly, 
 with few frame rate slowdowns, if any. Superpowers are easy and fun to use, and with so many playable 
 heroes, there are many different powers that you can use. The bosses are far too easy, and the 
 game, even thought it's fun, requires little if any skill. While I suppose that's a good thing 
 for younger gamers, such as people who actually like comic books and stuff, it's annoying for teenagers. 
 Still, this game delivers, and I'm glad I rented it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance For Xbox 360
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ===========================================================
  GOOD : Awesome Gameplay, The Sound 
 Is Great, Level Design Is Awesome, GHOST RIDER, SPIDERMAN AND DEADPOOL IN THE SAME GAME!!!!!!!!
 
  ===========================================================
  BAD : Graphics Are Sometimes Choppy, Frame Rate can drop Sometimes. Blue Screen Of death LOL!!!, 
 Repeation of Sounds and Gameplay Is Annoying.
  ===========================================================
  
  I will say, that if you're a 
 Marvel fan, this is a must buy. If you're frugal and need comic book money, it's still a must buy, 
 but maybe wait for a 20 dollar price drop or a platinum collection release. If you're a fan of 
 battle/action/rpg titles (think Xmen Legends, Diablo 2, etc.) , read on to determine whether this 
 one is worth a rent or a buy. I'm a bit wordy here, so if you want the overall just skip to the 
 bottom.
  
  Gameplay : This game can be very repetative depending on who you play as and what powers you label 
 them with. For example, Ghost Rider, and Elektra. Two very different characters in the Marvel universe, 
 right? In terms of gameplay, to some, not much different. See, Ghost Rider can opt to use a projectile 
 attack where he makes his chains burst and fly into enemies in several sharp projectiles. Elektra 
 can throw several ninja stars. Same basic attacks, and damage. Iron Man can use a radial nanoblast, 
 Spider Woman can do something very similliar using radioactive bursts. The animations even look 
 fairly similliar. My point is that several heroes in the Alliance can use radial, projectile, and 
 up close attacks. Also buffs (to aid the team in several ways) or debuffs (to hinder baddies) are 
 similliar. Many of the playables can use a buff that slows time, or one that makes the team stronger 
 against types of elements. But, if you skillfully apply abilities and powers to your group, you 
 can easily make the experience much more diverse. In fact, now for the positives. There are SO 
 many characters to play as, especially with downloadable content or the gold edition. There's a 
 wide range of powers to be combined out there, and combo powers as well. There are also ultimate, 
 legendary attacks unique to each hero (though some are similliar in terms of damage done and buffs 
 gained) . You basically take in a team of four heroes of your choosing, and you can switch in between 
 them on the fly. You assign the powers. Your characters all have access to several, but can use 
 only two attack powers, one buff/debuff skill, and the single Legendary power. You can cycle through 
 these powers too, but the four I listed are types assigned to on the fly command buttons. You storm 
 fairly large maps in top down type view, and use your inherent fighting skill (combos) and barrage 
 of super powers and unique ablities to slam through hundreds of foes until you reach a mini-boss 
 supervillian, or main boss supervillian. There are a few varied goals in between, such as find 
 the items, and extra quests, where in again you must find items scattered over the map, but mostly 
 it's a grind of fighting baddies, gaining experience to gain powers you assign via points, and 
 upgrades. There plenty of hidden things to find on the maps too, that always give you more power 
 and storyline. If you're a completionist, it offers marginal challenge, with great rewards. There 
 are also huge sections set up for training missions, both as a group and singular character (with 
 mini story!) . The combos are good, varied but similliar enough not to be very hard to master, the 
 powers can also be comboed together, and the ultimate powers can as well. On easy and normal, the 
 game has a fair learning curve, and if you've played this kind of game before, you'll have no trouble.
 
  
  Overall, the replayability is high for any Marvel fan. Several powers to be mastered, unlimited 
 team combo possibilities, a unique super team rep system, and several hidden things (comic mission 
 disks for sim, black panther and daredevil dolls to unlock those named, costumes to upgrade and 
 wear, the other hidden characters unlocked in interesting ways, and the downloadable content) keep 
 it fresh and fairly new, as far the genre goes. Also, there is a Hard mode, and several acheivements 
 that will take some time to get (throw 500 foes off ledges, defeat 4000 bad guys over all, get 
 150 comic triva questions right, etc.) . In the end, getting all characters, upgrading all costumes 
 (four per each character usually) , seeing all the dialouge exchanges, and mastering every skill 
 is also very time consuming, but fun. If you're a casual action/rpg fan, this one is more than 
 worth a rent. It's pretty long, even for a quick easy mode playtrhough. There are five acts with 
 several maps in between one act and the next. Near the end, most are pretty large. If you upgrade 
 your characters right though, pretty much any foursome combo can beat the entire game. For a five 
 day rental, you'll beat the game on easy/normal. If you're a big comic fan like me, you'll take 
 Hard mode and most all the single player achievements within two weeks. There is also an online 
 mode, that while a little bugy, is a fun option for those of us without one to three other friends 
 that want to play this type of game. Plus, a handful of achievements are online as well.
  
  This game shines in the story department. Decent character development, great overall plot, great 
 side stories and comic missions with background that mostly makes sense, and a host of allies and 
 enemies throughout. Dr. Doom is the main villian, and he's stealing some powerful technology as 
 well as some strong magical artifacts. What does he want to do with them? He's also resurfaced 
 with several strong villians at his side, dubbing them the newest incarnation of the Masters of 
 Evil. Loki, Enchantress, Ultimo, Count Mordo, and several other high tier villians abound, and 
 that's just the inner circle. Bullseye, Mephisto, Ulik, Scorpion, and many, many, MANY more villians 
 stand in your path, as well as an army of soldiers and robots (and some demons!) . S. H. E. I. L. D.'s 
 leader Nick Fury gets in the middle of this, and calls all meta-humans in to help take down Doom 
 and his Masters of Evil. This includes people like Spider-Man, Thor, Captain America, Wolverine, 
 Deadpool, Blade, Daredevil, Black Panther, Magneto, Moon Knight, Venom, Nightcrawler, Hulk, Silver 
 Surfer, every member of the Fantastic Four, and TONS more playable characters, both good and bad. 
 A strong alliance forms to topple the Masters of Evil and their dark empire, as Doom races to aquire 
 ultimate powers beyond comprehension of even the strongest heroes around.
  
  
  Graphics : Good, good stuff here. From skin texture (Venom, Silver Surfer) , to environment, to 
 super powered abilities, the graphics are very good for this title. Some may find it hard to see 
 certain things here, especially on a standard t. v., but it won't hinder the gameplay one bit. If 
 you aren't used to this type of camera angle (sort of diagnal top down) , don't fret, you'll have 
 it within an hour. Everything from clothing material to slick skin (if you're Venom, for example) 
 is rendered nicely, and flame effects (Human Torch, Ghostrider) , as well as ice, radiation, mystic 
 stuff, and super powered might all looks more than great. Wonderful light sourcing, FANTASTIC character 
 animations, and pretty innovative maps too (so many cool places to throw baddies over a cliff or 
 three!) . Though some new to the genre, or against it, may find a handful of maps (especially comic 
 missions) a bit repetitive. There are average sized characters, smaller characters, and really 
 big characters (Hulk with super buffs to get bigger, Galactus, Mephisto's fire beasties, etc.) 
 on screen, with no slow down or any problems of that ilk as well.
  
  Sound : Doing well here also. The voice clips from bad and good guys are pretty spot on. There 
 are also several clips for each character. Sometimes dialouge changes depending on which characters 
 you have meet up with whoever (Sabertooth and Gladiator, for instance, Inhumans meeting any Fantastic 
 Four members, in stuff comic fans would find cool or funny) . Sounds of fighting and powers are 
 fantastic. Also, the voice acting borders on top notch for this type of game. There's even new 
 stuff added via downloadable content (Cyclops meating Dark Phoenix for one, etc etc) . Overall, 
 pretty good, but it does get very repetitive after extended play sessions.
  
  
  All in all, if you're new to comics but want to learn about heroes and villians, this is a very 
 good place to start. Combine playing this title with wikipedia searches, and you'll learn alot 
 quickly. If you just love action rpg gaming, you will more than get your fill. And if you're a 
 big Marvel fan, you'll be VERY pleasantly suprised by this gem.
  
  Only the repetitive nature of gameplay and sounds marrs this wonderful title. And I only say repetitive 
 for the casual gamers, or those new to the genre. For anyone that's played this type before, or 
 loves the comics, you'll have a blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is an RPG in the same style as Champions of Norrath featuring characters 
 from all of the comics of the Marvel Universe, such as Wolverine, Spiderman, Thor, Iron Man, Storm, 
 Electra, the Fantastic Four and more. For those un-initiated into the world of the X-Men, Avengers 
 and other super heroes, now would be a great time to get involved.
  
  Gameplay :
  
  Simply put this game is a lot like Champions of Norrath (for the PS2) , it's an action RPG. The 
 base gameplay is very simple. You have the option of using regular and heavy attacks for up to 
 a 3 attack combo. Mixing light and heavy attacks can result in a plain damage attack, a stun attack, 
 a trip attack and a knock up air attack. Follow by that you can pound an enemy on the ground for 
 extra damage. Grab attacks are also a possibility where once you grab the enemy you can pummel 
 it in the head for about 5 punches, then a throw, or you can toss the enemy immediately (which 
 is quite handy to throw them off the edge and dispatch them quickly when you are in a rush in certain 
 spots) . Hitting heavy attack results in you slamming the enemy into the ground, which suprisingly 
 doesn't do a lot of damage, maybe only 1.5 times the damage of one light attack punch. This isn't 
 to say you can't punch the guy a couple of times followed by a heavy attack to end it.
  
  Also you have a jump button, and double jump tapping it twice. The interesting thing though is 
 that certain characters such as Thor, Storm, The Human Torch, Ms. Marvel etc can fly when they 
 double jump. This has a very good strategic value of being able to move quicker, scale some obstacles 
 that most characters can't pass (I. E. in one level there is a rotating circular bridge or over 
 a flame jet) . Also you can attack from the sky too while flying, although you can't regenerate 
 your energy (Mana/MP/Ability to cast spells) .
  You can either use your powers from above, or attack from the sky with a flaming fist (oddly all 
 characters attack the EXACT same way doing a jumping attack) .
  
  The powers of all characters are generally a straight up attack like a beam of energy, a bolt of 
 lightning, a fireball, etc. Other powers are Boost type where they increase your character's and 
 teammate's powers. For instance Electra can increase your teams damage, Ms. Marvel increases your 
 energy damage output and resistance, Captain America reduces damage taken, etc. Other moves are 
 area attacks that do less damage but hit way more enemies, and finally at level 10 you get an Ultimate 
 Attack, which is like a super powerful area attack, that if your characters have enough energy 
 and their momentum gauge is filled, your team can all launch them at once for devastating results. 
 Some weaker bosses have been killed all by me pressing the R trigger and Y button. Super Powers 
 indeed.
  
  A good thing to note is that beyond the first point you add to a power, you can remove them and 
 switch around to play with what is best, rather than being locked in permanently like in Champions 
 of Norrath.
  
  Other few things to note about gameplay include:
  
  1.) You can make your own superhero team which can get specific bonuses when they level up. Like 
 increased damage, increased health, increased XP gain etc. You get team exp (Reputation) for completing 
 tasks (these also influence your ending, so beware) .
  
  2.) You get random coins (Credits) which are used to purchase upgrades for your character. These 
 upgrades are dependent upon your characters outfit. Each character has 3 outfits that are easily 
 obtainable. Their original starting one, and 2 from defeating enemies. The final one requires completing 
 a simulator (practice) mission by themselves to get it. Sometimes, their final outfit is the best, 
 sometimes, not so much, you just have to play to figure out which armor is the best for you and 
 your play style and how it affects your stats (which are very self explanatory. Press the L button 
 to see what a stat means and does) .
  
  3.) Accessories are gained from beating bosses and opening chests. They increase your powers, defense, 
 life etc. They can be sold for more credits.
  
  4.) The L button issues orders like follow, attack, etc. I personally never used this button once.
 
  
  5.) There are a LOT of destructible environments and giant objects to toss at enemies. Sometimes 
 it's fun to pick up a giant piece of machinery with a strong hero and crush an enemy with it. A 
 lot of weapons are found through out this game and they do significant damage with one swing. They 
 can be picked up from racks, off the ground or stolen from enemies.
  
  6.) Some bosses aren't duke it out type of bosses, but ones you have to let attack you and dodge 
 it in order to go into fighting them with a set of timed button presses to have them miss and for 
 instance, smack themselves on the head. Often you don't even have to press the attack button to 
 beat some enemies, but don't think you don't have to get your hands dirty either.
  
  7.) You can play single player or cooperative (your allies can join in at any given time in the 
 story) . Very nice to have multiplayer gaming still alive with this.
  
  That's pretty much it. I'd give it higher than an 8 if anything revolutionary was added to the 
 game, but it's nothing but solid game mechanics that have been well traveled though.
  
  Graphics : The graphics in this game are not mindblowing. They are a multiplat level of graphics, 
 but with a much higher resolution and texture quality than you'd see on a last gen system The environments 
 are somewhat repetitive but very diverse in each area you go, ranging from a helicarrier, to underwater 
 to a frozen wasteland to a twisted theme park. Like I said though, a lot of what you see is destructible 
 and it's very fun to smash things just because. The destruction isn't grand scale very often, but 
 lots of particles go flying and walls break and it's just pleasing to cause so much collateral 
 damage.
  
  The character are pretty well modeled and faithful to their comic counterpart. Each different outfit 
 is an accurate representation of one of their costumes from a given Marvel source. Yes, for those 
 who are still on the Spiderman 3 trip, you can be the Black Suit Spiderman. The ingame cutscenes 
 are sometimes done in realtime, sometimes in prerendered. The prerendered cutscenes aren't necessarily 
 mindblowing, but I must say aren't grainy and pixelated as a certain other game involving ninjas 
 was. The loading scenes are kind of frequent, but last maybe 5 seconds, but you are treated to 
 a high resolution illustration or concept art during each one, so at least the loading screen isn't 
 ugly. The animations are good, but not fantastic. The attacks are the same repetitive attacks over 
 and over again, but they are smoothly animated. The slowdown in this game is nonexistant, but I'd 
 hope not for something that was simply ported up from the PS2 for instance.
  
  Sound: The sound here scores a 9 simply due to the amazing cast of voiceovers. Quinton Flynn, John 
 Dimaggio, Phil Lamarr to name a few do some of the voicework, and it is all very well done. Most 
 of it is right in line with a corny Yes sir, you can count on us super hero attitude, and other 
 times it's very heartfelt when *bleep* dies in the game or just downright irreverant. One conversation 
 with Spiderman lead to your character's response saying With great power comes... and Spiderman 
 interjects sourly Don't you DARE finish that line or you'll have so much webbing in your hair you'd 
 have to shave yourself bald . Genuine humor and care was placed into this game from both the actors 
 and the developers.
  
  In the end during the credits, all of the actors still take up their various superhero personas 
 and call into Raven Studios as if they were phoning in dialogs and you hear the outtakes. Some 
 were laugh out loud funny, in fact most were and it was worth beating the game to just hear that. 
 The music is melodious and fitting of the atmosphere. The music when you are fighting Galactus, 
 the destroyer of worlds is ominous full of drums and clashes, while the home base music is a very 
 simple and peaceful fare. The music itself isn't all that memorable but is simply good .
  
  Sound effects range from explosions, to smacks to the face with a fist, to broken pottery, to whatever 
 sound a superhero's laser blast sounds like. In all the music and sound effects are good, not great, 
 but the voicework is Fantastic *wink*.
  
  Value: Playing through this game for the first time earned me 29 of 46 achievements. To get all 
 of them you have to play online, kill thousands of enemies and find all the hidden details and 
 missing statues and complete every simulator disc with a gold ranking. The game itself was a good 
 solid 20+ hours for me, and at 40 dollars (or cheaper now) , it was a great buy. Even at 60 dollars, 
 this would be a good game for any Marvel or action RPG fan.
  
  Tilt : I gave this game a 10 out of 10 for tilt for a lot of reasons:
  
  1.) The studio who 
 made it cares about the game and license. They thanked Stan Lee, and all of the other Marvel creators. 
 They thanked their families and the newborn babies during the project. These people genuinely cared 
 about the development of this game. They made the ending a very satisfactory ending. In fact let 
 me go into details why.
  
  2.) I won't ruin the story more than me telling you that your team becomes very strong for the 
 last boss fight. This takes place in a huge throne room full of barrels, statues, pillars, weapon 
 racks, furniture, etc. A punch sends enemies flying across the room crashing through each thing 
 with a thunderous thump. Your special attacks just instantly kill the swarm of underlings. EVERYTHING 
 felt very superhero like. It was like the ultimate battle. The only thing better would have been 
 if you were in the middle of Manhattan and could pick up a building and chuck it at the bad guys.
 
  I was saying the whole time, damn, this is cool .
  
  3.) The ending was great. I mentioned that your decisions in side quests affect your ending. For 
 each sidequest you accomplish, a little illustrated panel cutscene plays, detailing your heroism 
 and how it affected the fate of the earth in the future. They foreshadow some of the possibilities 
 for a sequel.
  
  4.) I mentioned this in the sound section, but the ending credit's outtakes were hilarious.
  
 
  5.) The game itself was solid and full of lots of extras and fanboy (I mean this in a good way) 
 satisfying comics and drawings and such.
  
  Everything about this game was well made, it's just a shame it wasn't devoted to the PS3 and 360 
 solely, more could have been done with the graphics, animation and overall scope of the game. Nonetheless, 
 an amazing game all the same. Play this Marvel and RPG fans, or just anyone looking for a good 
 game.
  
  Similar Suggested Games :
  
  Champions of Norrath (PS2) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drago709
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  The game opens up to one of the many breathtaking cut scenes that play as you progress through 
 the game. You begin with a starting team of Captain America, Thor, Spiderman and ofcourse the forever 
 loved Wolverine though as the game progresses a huge array of other marvel characters become under 
 your control such as the fantastic four, other x-men, other avengers, ghost rider, the silver surfer, 
 the black panther and many more. you can change around your team at either the many different safe 
 houses or at the save points that you find during levels. As the game progresses you will eventually 
 recieve the ability to create your own team with its own name and own bonuses. You can call it 
 what you want, give it a unique symbol and even have a roster of 10 different heroes. The fighting 
 controls are simple to master, which pretty much consist of a variety of punches and kicks with 
 the ability to grab and either punch continually or throw in any direction. then ofcourse there 
 is the special abilities. you can only assign three of the abilities to A B and X while Y is reserved 
 for the super special move. As you progress through the game you will be able to unlock more abilities 
 and use ure experience points to upgrade them and make them stronger. Each level has a few bosses 
 to defeat which aren't normally too difficult but the last boss at the end of each level will be 
 a tad more challenging. The game moves quite quickly and is enjoyable to play and watch as the 
 story unfolds. Overall i think that marvel ultimate alliance is a stunning game and i personally 
 can't wait for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zimrules
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I originally started playing this on the original Xbox and found it to be quite enjoyable. Recently, 
 I bought it for the 360, and now I'm reviewing it! Look at that.
  
  First, I suppose I'll start with the graphics. They. Are. Amazing. They may not seem that way for 
 everyone, but when I play games, I like to walk around and look at the environmental textures, 
 and how beautiful they are. The character models for the heroes and enemies are for the most part 
 easy on the eyes, but don't harness the full power of the 360's processing power. my favorite part 
 of this game's graphics (and any game on the 360) is the lighting. It's unbelievable how accurate 
 the lighting is to real life. The way light reflects off of bump mapped textures, and around corners. 
 The sound is pretty good too. With super-duper techno beats among other things. The voice acting 
 is very good, although the dialogue can be a bit corny now and then.
  
  Now for the most important part of any game, the gameplay! The controls are tight, so your character 
 will never do anything that you didn't tell them to do. It's also very fun to be able to level 
 up and buy new abilities with points you get from defeated enemies. The only real problem that 
 I have with this game is that it gets pretty repetitive. It's hard to keep playing it even for 
 me, and I love these kinds of games. It doesn't help that it's a very long game either, but that's 
 really just my opinion. The large roster of playable heroes helps to offset the mindless hack 'n 
 slash, and the heroes/villains pack totally owns.
  
  Besides some slight problems I have with this game, I would definitely recommend it to anyone who 
 likes Marvel, and beat 'em ups.
  
  Peace out, your Hamster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  For those who never played x-men legends, this game takes a formula of squad-base action and fighting 
 with some RPG elements, which was known as a fair success. Marvel: Ultimate alliance takes you 
 into a story visiting a ginormous amount of characters from the marvel universe, all intertwined 
 in a story about a secret evil plot (oh noes!) to basicallyconquer the world. Not necessarily that 
 original, but it's sure a marvel story. Other than the usual hack and slash from x-legends, you'll 
 also get some side quests with very nice benefits in the long term. The AI isn't necessarily brilliant 
 but it's still quite a rush to play speed style. The bosses are pretty interesting to fight, adding 
 some  
 Action.
  
  The graphics are a little more like xbox than anything else, but it doesn't hurt the game too bad, 
 you'll still find yourself rushing through.
  
  The main quest takes somewhere around 12+ hours, and there's a ton of side content in unlockables 
 in both characters, abilties, and everything else under the sun. I was hoping for better graphics 
 than what it had, but it remains a solid X-men legends tribute and stand-alone game for the marvel 
 fans, or someone looking for some Dungeon crawling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Its not just the scope of the battle that has expanded. The shape of the game itself has taken 
 on a much different shape. The X-Men games followed the hack n slash convention fairly closely. 
 While these rules worked well, it always seemed strange that Cyclops would have to sneak off to 
 drink a blue potion to recharge his optical blast. In this game, you no longer need to stock potions. 
 When an enemy is slain, theres a chance that the fallen will gift you with a cluster of healing 
 orbs that automatically zoom to your character. This change not only removes the clunky system 
 of healing, it makes you feel more like a hero. Your focus is always on the battlefield, not a 
 meter.
  
  As much of a rush as it is to tear apart a legion of robots in seconds flat, the mindless and repetitive 
 grind that accompanies dungeon crawlers isnt necessarily the best fit for those adorned in tights, 
 either. Amid the brawl, Raven has dispersed a number of minigames that act as tests of strength, 
 speed, and skill. You may be tasked with jamming on a button to lift a heavy object, or tapping 
 the correct sequence of buttons to defuse a bomb. The level designs and environments are also far 
 more dynamic. In one stage, youll find yourself running along a side-scrolling path. In another, 
 youll find yourself trolling the great seas in search of dear ol Namor. Having a greater variety 
 in both the levels and interaction you have within keeps you on your toes and removes the dungeon 
 crawling trance that many usually fall into while playing these games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlfolkman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Basically, your typical button-mashing action-rpg, similar to baldur's gate type games. The more 
 stuff you kill the better powers you get, etc. However, unlike most action rpg's I have played, 
 this one has some measure of replay value. At a certain point, you basically have to decide on 
 a 'team' that you will more or less stick with, and straying from it is not wise because you will 
 end up facing higher difficulties with less able characters. I myself am not much of a comic book 
 fan, never have been, so don't buy into the 'its only fun if you're a comic nerd' type of reviews 
 that seem to be out there. Comic fan or not, it's interesting to see what leveling up Thor will 
 do vs. what Moon Knight or Wolverine will do. That said, many of the powers, while particular to 
 the individual character, are different only visually. For example, plenty of characters have a 
 power that hurts enemies in a close area around the character, as well as a ranged power. The results 
 are pretty much identical, but the visual effects accompanything them are different. In a way this 
 trivializes your choice in characters, but also provides variety, something lacking in most action 
 rpg's. Also, you can find alternate costumes, and have to get to certain points or accomplish certain 
 objectives to unlock certain characters, so you might not get to play your favorite character right 
 away.
  
  Another strong point in favor of the game is the settings are varied and interesting, from underwater 
 to an asian-themed temple, to a castle. While you will fight many of the same thing over and over 
 again until you get to an end boss (a downside typical to action RPG's) , it gives you enough bad 
 guys to try out your different powers on.
  
  Overall, this will be good entertainment for just about any action video game fan, but if you're 
 not a big xmen fan, it's probably better for you to just rent it. I rented it and it was fun for 
 the 5 days I had it, but not being a die-hard xmen or comic fan, i probably wouldn't have messed 
 with it much more than a couple of more days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 15, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  If you ever played either of the 'X-Men Legends' or the console 'Baldur's Gate' games, then you 
 will know what to expect from 'Marvel: Ultimate Alliance'. It's just that everything is bigger 
 and better this time around. Using so many different characters from the Marvel comics universe 
 was a blast the simple, but addictive, gameplay hooks you in almost instantly.
  
  The graphics certainly won't blow you away &amp; some of the voice acting is lame. If you can look 
 past those two faults, you will find a very fun game that will keep you busy for many hours. Especially 
 if you download the content available over Xbox Live. Even the achievements are very fun to try 
 for.
  
  Any comic fan who owns a Xbox 360, owes it to themselves to go out and get this game. If you have 
 any doubt in your mind, give it a rent and see for yourself. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmazoLK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is ultimately the sequel to the very fun series - X-Men Legends. Marvel 
 Ultimate Alliance is a classic-style beatem up with a little bit of RPG mixed in here and there. 
 Ultimate Alliance is truly better than its predecessors because of the ability to use more than 
 just the X-Men - and the Brotherhood in X-Men Legends II. You can play as - pretty much - all of 
 your favorite Marvel characters. They arrange from Wolverine to Spiderman, and from Captain America 
 to Ironman. Theres Elektra, all of the Fantastic Four, Deadpool, Ms. Marvel, Thor, and lots more. 
 You can be pretty much all of them at the start of the game - besides the first mission. Marvel 
 Ultimate Alliance may not look totally awesome, or it might not sound amazing, but its seriously 
 an outstanding game, and its really fun no matter what super hero you are.
  
  Dr. Doom is assaulting the SHIELD Helicarrier, so all of the Super Heroes across the Marvel Universe 
 is called upon to try and stop the villain from destroying it. Dr. Doom has created an evil team 
 named the Masters of Evil. What does Dr. Doom and the Masters of Evil want to accomplish? They 
 want to take over the world, and rule the universe, like all super villains. Not only do you see 
 and fight Doom and the Masters of Evil, but you can see other famous Marvel characters not only 
 all over the world, but the universe also. The villains arrange from MODOK to Gladiator, Loki to 
 Ultron, and from Super Skrull to Galactus. Most of the super villains in the marvel universe you 
 can think of are here, and are awesome.
  
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance plays exactly the same as X-Men Legends I &amp; II. You walk around in 
 areas with a map on the side of the screen attacking enemies that come into view. You try and go 
 to the red parts of the map to unlock more areas and finding new enemies and paths. You get to 
 the mini boss at the middle of the stage, then fight a main boss at the end of each stage. Some 
 are hard, some are easy, it all depends on if you know how to defeat each boss or not. Usually 
 the second play through is simple because you know how to defeat each and every enemy and boss. 
 You can turn the camera with the opposite joystick in order to see the area easier. You have strong 
 attacks, and weak attacks. Weak attacks are quicker though, so its usually better to use them 
 instead. But, you can hold in the strong attack to increase the damage on each enemy. You can also 
 use combinations of attacks like A + B + A to do a simple trip or stun.
  
  All of the Super Heroes also have their own unique special moves. You can perform these moves easily 
 be holding in the Right-Trigger and pressing either A, B, or X. Each super hero has a wide variety 
 of powers, but you can only use 3 at a time. Your Y button is your Xtreme attack which is a massive 
 attack that can take out all enemies in the area, and take a chunk out of a bosses health. If all 
 of your characters have one stored, you can all use it at one time. There are different kinds of 
 powers arranging from Melee to Projectile, and from Radial to Boost. Melee are simple attacks that 
 usually only hurt one enemy. You can sometimes hold it in to do more damage, but doing it quickly 
 usually does it justice. Projectile attacks are exactly what they sound like. You can hurt an enemy 
 but you can be almost any distance away from them. The farther they are though, the harder it is 
 to hit them. Radial attacks are attacks that hit all of the enemies around you. Sometimes it can 
 knock them all to the ground, and it can sometimes stun all of them. Radial are usually good because 
 they can hit more than one enemy at a time. Then theres Boosts which just boosts a characters 
 stat for a time being like damage or defense.
  
  This is where the RPG style of game kicks in. All of the super heroes have powers that they can 
 upgrade. The more its powered up, the better the attack is. You can also equip items you find 
 around the universe. Some items are only for certain characters, which can be a pain when you have 
 no items are you find one. All super heroes also have 4 suits and you unlock them but killing a 
 certain amount of enemies. Each suit has 3 powers which can upgrade your character. Every suit 
 has defense, most have a power that relates to each character. For example, one of Captain Americas 
 suits has a power called Shield Strength which is exactly what it sounds like. You also find 
 money hiding in different places like barrels, boxes, and all sorts of things. With this money 
 you can buy upgrades for your powers, and your suits. All characters also have a mini-power like 
 Might, Healing, or Flight which can be used to your advantage. Most heroes also have a certain 
 double-jump, like flying, or warping. You also collect health and energy bottles from every enemy 
 and item you destroy. These heal your health and energy over time. Your health runs out when you 
 get hit by enemies, and your energy runs out when you use your powers. All of it heals pretty fast, 
 so you never get mad because you have no health or energy.
  
  Visually, Ultimate Alliance may be great, but compared to last generation, its not next-gen, especially 
 being on the Xbox 360. Still, every hero is detailed as could ever be. Wolverine still looks like 
 a beast like he always has. Captain America still looks like he loves America, and Spiderman is 
 still that colourful bucket of webs. Each environment in Ultimate Alliance also looks outstanding, 
 but not next-gen like some might think. Each area is detailed and looks exactly how they are supposed 
 to look. Ultimate Alliance also doesnt have the best sound in the industry, but it still sounds 
 pretty good. Each area has an epic feel to it with the great orchestrated music in the background. 
 It feels like youre actually fighting in the area youre in.
  
  Theres tons to Marvel Ultimate Alliance then just the main quest. In each stage you can find discs 
 that are certain missions you have to complete. You dont have to do each of the discs, but its 
 good if you want to level up your heroes faster. There are lots of discs to find, so playing the 
 main quest over to find these are fun to do. You can also unlock a character if you get a bronze 
 medal or higher on each disc. You can also unlock 3 more characters. One character you unlock by 
 beating the game once on easy or normal. The other 2 characters are unlocked by collecting 5 action 
 figures of each hero. These characters add a lot of depth to the game, and making playing it over 
 again fun as hell. You also have to consider that the Xbox 360 version has 58 achievements to unlock, 
 which some are easy and some are difficult. Then theres online play. All of the online modes are 
 multi-player co-op, so you wont be fighting against other Super Heroes if thats what you were 
 thinking of. Instead you play any mission in the game with at least one other player and up to 
 3 other players. Marvel Ultimate Alliance is basically a great game. Its so fun when playing with 
 friends, youll wonder how playing it by yourself is even fun. Ultimate Alliance is more than just 
 a game with the most super heroes and villains in a super hero game yet, its a co-op multiplayer 
 beast with tons of things to do, youll want to play the main quest over and over again. Even playing 
 the game for the sake of achievements is fun, even if you dont like Marvel, or even super heroes 
 for that matter. But overall, Marvel Ultimate Alliance is the best Super Hero game to ever hit 
 the market, and should not be missed by anyone that likes Marvel Comics, and by anyone that has 
 an Xbox 360, or PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LosDaddie
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  Very solid game. Great if you have some buds to play with online or offiline. Seemless co-op and 
 should not be missed by any co-op fan, especially if they enjoy Marvel characters. I played about 
 80% of this game offline, but when I did play online, lag was not an issue.
  
  My only complaint is that I could tell this was a last-gen port. Sure, the HD resolution cleaned 
 the graphics up, but the character models and animations looked last gen. MUA looks like an HD 
 version ofXmen Legends2 but with slightly better character models. I can't wait to see a true next-gen 
 version of this game.
  
  Overall, I thoroughly enjoyed this game. I believe I got just under 600GamerPoints just with one 
 play-through, which is nice. I recommend this game to anyone looking for a good co-op game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihaveadreamcast
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game alot. It's really unique and I've never played anything like this. I like going 
 through the game with my favorite super heroes. The visuals are as good as they can get with a 
 game like this. The audio is really nice. They play rock music through some of the levels. The 
 selection of super heroes is great. You get everyone from Captain America to Ice man. And Spider 
 man to Thor. Each Character has 4 really great specials. It's just a fun game to play. And keep 
 Spiderman on your team. I like him the most in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  This game is full of action, I played for while but it tends to get a little confusing, the maps 
 are big and if you don't have a guide you will get very frustrated. The characters are all there 
 plus you will unlock more if you progress in the game. Graphically it is ok and the online gaming 
 is fun. If you like Marvel characters this is a game you must have no matter what. There is allot 
 od mission, most of the maps are huge laberinth they are special coins and powers while you discover 
 enemies in almost every corner.
  
  Overall is a fun game but is not for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superradchad13
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This game I loved. It was exactly like X-Men Legends 1 and 2. It has pretty much all of the marvel 
 characters in it, whether they are playable or appear as NPC's (Jean Grey and Nightcrawler) , they 
 are packed somewhere in here. They have combination moves, like in X-Men 3 when Colossus lifts 
 and throws Wolverine. You can play as Silver Surfer and beat Galactus. This game is loads of fun 
 for everyone no matter what age you are. It will introduce you to Marvel characters if you are 
 young. If you are older, it will bring back all the great memories of Marvel Comics. This game 
 even packed in Comic Missions in which you play as a specific character through a mission which 
 was vital in the comic book series of that character. The cut-scenes have such amazing graphics 
 that you feel that it really is happening and that Captain America really is there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TP_Juggernaut
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  Whether youre a fan of the Marvel Universe of comic books or looking for a solid Action Roleplaying 
 Game, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance wont disappoint. Raven Software, teamed with Activision, has produced 
 yet another Marvel-themed RPG following the success of the X-Men Legends series. While one would 
 assume that a game covering the entire Marvel Universe would end up being somewhat convoluted, 
 Raven did a superlative job of making an almost epic experience which covers every corner (and 
 dimension) of the universe. Needless to say, this isnt your average Action RPG.
  
  Those who have played the previously released X-Men Legends series or other series such as Diablo 
 will find the game play and interfaces familiar and should pick up the mechanics of the game almost 
 immediately. Those not used to Action RPGs will also find it relatively easy to pick up within 
 about half an hour of playing time. The most difficult part is figuring out how to navigate through 
 the various menus of the game due to the menu controls being somewhat counter-intuitive, especially 
 in your Hero Details menu (for instance, the Y button brings up details instead of the A button 
 like you would normally assume) . However, after a few waves of trial and error, the menus became 
 navigable.
  
  The system for distributing experience points is easy and intuitive, although it will be difficult 
 if youre just starting out in the game to decide which powers are most effective or best tailored 
 to your playing methodology. Hence, finding the right powers for each of your heroes is a matter 
 of trial and error. All is not lost when you assign experience points to powers, though, because 
 you can always redistribute points to other powers if you find another power to be more effective 
 in swatting down those pesky AIM Troopers or Doom Bots. Each hero has his/her own strengths and 
 weaknesses and nearly all of them are capable of mowing down swaths of AIM Troopers and Doom Bots. 
 In addition, there are special superpowers called Team Xtreme powers which can be activated after 
 at least one of your heroes have filled their momentum meters, indicated by a swirling concentric 
 circle around your heros status bubble. These Team Xtreme attacks do considerable damage to both 
 bosses and hordes of villains alike.
  
  A unique aspect of the game is the ability to create a superhero team. Not only do certain configurations 
 of heroes grant various bonuses, such as the Fantastic Four or the Avengers, but as you complete 
 quests with your team, you receive reputation points. After every hundred reputation points, your 
 team levels up and youre given the choice of several attribute boosts. While only members of your 
 team will benefit from these bonuses, you can add as many as ten of your favorite characters to 
 your team after sufficient leveling up.
  
  The game itself is extremely easy to play. The easy-to-use movement and camera controls make it 
 very easy to find a preferable camera angle. At times, though, the camera does tend to have its 
 hiccups, but only in certain areas of the various levels and nothing that cannot be corrected by 
 changing the camera angle. Some of the boss battles have a fixed-point camera, reminiscent of 
 actual comic book panels. These single vanishing point angles (for those of you who are artists) 
 can be cumbersome to work with, but after a couple of such battles, the controls become tolerable. 
 Attacks, combinations of attacks, and superpowers are very simple to execute and consist of easily 
 accessible button combinations. The game gives you two basic attacks, three combination attacks, 
 two aerial attacks, and four assigned superpower attacks.
  
  Of course, what superhero video game would be complete without flying? Heroes capable of flight 
 or other means of aerial transportation have their own special advantages and disadvantages. Flyers 
 have the unique advantage of being to retreat from a fight quickly and have the ability to access 
 some areas normal heroes arent capable of getting to. While flight-capable heroes have the ability 
 to dodge some attacks, they cannot recharge their energy levels while in flight which prevents 
 players from raining a steady stream of destruction from above unchecked. There are also varying 
 types of flying heroes including traditional flyers (i. e. Iron-Man, Human Torch) , web-slingers 
 (e. g. Spider-Man and Spider Woman) , and teleporters (e. g. Deadpool and Dr. Strange) . Thus, the 
 flight aspect of the game is sufficiently balanced such that it doesnt grant too much of an advantage.
 
  
  In addition to the main game quests, there are also plenty of secondary quests, secret areas, unlockables, 
 and collectables. Most notable are the comic book missions, some of which may be played with your 
 team while most focus on a single hero. These missions come with their own unlockables, such as 
 alternate skins or attribute buffs. Comic missions can also be used to gather extra experience 
 points outside of the mainstream game. This is useful if you are stuck in a particular area and 
 need some experience point boosts. In addition, simply playing with a particular hero enough will 
 unlock extra skins, which give their own unique stat boosts or bonuses for a certain credit investment. 
 Most importantly, there are several unlockable heroes, such as Ghost Rider, Blade, and the Silver 
 Surfer, as well as purchasable hero packs on the Xbox Marketplace.
  
  The multiplayer modes are fun and easy on both Xbox Live and on a single console. It is extremely 
 easy for anyone to jump in and out of a game in single console mode. However, it is frustrating 
 to play at times on Xbox Live with players randomly disconnecting or leaving. Arcade mode presents 
 a different twist on the game, allowing for a sort of cooperative competition. Standard campaign 
 mode is equally as entertaining in multiplayer mode, but can tend to get repetitive over time. 
 While M: UAs primary strengths lie in its single player mode, multiplayer has its own unique feel 
 and doesnt feel like it was tacked on as an afterthought.
  
  Graphically, the game takes decent advantage of the capabilities of the Xbox 360. Individual characters 
 are well-rendered with seamless movement. The movies interspersed throughout the game are well 
 done and very realistic, taking full advantage of the Xbox 360s capabilities. The games environments, 
 while middle of the range compared to graphically powerful games such as PGR3, work well enough 
 to immerse you in the Marvel Universe. The environments have some destructibility and many objects 
 can be destroyed or used as weapons. The lighting is at times not quite on par with many recent 
 Xbox 360 games, but most areas are given the proper lighting for the situation, adding to the immersive 
 nature of the games varying environments. Some particularly memorable touches are the visibility 
 of the chain-mail on Captain Americas suit and the detail work done on Deadpools blades. Those 
 of you with HDTVs will be happy to know that the widescreen version looks proportional and clear.
 
  
  Overall, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance offers a well-balanced, almost epic ARPG experience for both 
 hardcore fans of the Marvel Universe of comics and casual gamers. While it has limited replay value, 
 there are just enough Xbox 360 achievements and unlockables to make it worth at least four or five 
 replays in single player mode. The multiplayer modes offer the most replayability, requiring a 
 decent amount of dedication to unlock multiplayer achievements. To sum it up, M: UA is an excellent 
 Xbox 360 game which is well worth the attention of any dedicated gamer, comic book fan or not. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HCMF-
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 25, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  Every now and then you find a game that reminds you of why you play these little time waster to 
 begin with. When I started playing, I was almost instant taken back to a dirty arcade in the underbelly 
 of Astroworld, where my brother, a friend, and myself found a shiny nugget of fun called Gauntlet. 
 They even pay homage to Gauntlet in subtle ways: I cant stop thinking Blue warrior is about to 
 die every time I hear Captain America say, I need Heath badly.
  
  Graphically the game is OK. The lighting effects are nice, the animations are good, the only complaint 
 that I have is that the view has to be so far away from the action. (Well, that and the exploding 
 missile  man that animation was bad.) Now you can zoom it in, but if you do so, you will have 
 no idea where you are going or what you are doing. The sound is great, and is so Cheesy that 
 it feels just right. The explosions boom, the voices are good, and the music is so bad its perfect. 
 Controls are tight, and are easy to pick up  although you may want to re-map a button or two. 
 Game play wise the game is gauntlet, this is good and bad. On the good side the game plays well 
 and is just dumb fun. Hulk smash, Spidey swings, and blah blah blah. It is just fun to play as 
 all your favorite heroes in one tight package. On the bad side, there is just so much going on 
 that you eyes will feel like they want to explode after an hour or two. Bottom line is that this 
 is a fun deep game, which anyone can pick up and play. The depth is nice, and there are many mini 
 games to keep this disc in your box for quite some time. Now the only thing left to address is 
 the empty barrel that Activison and Marvel used. Sure you have some top dwelling fish like Captain 
 America, Hulk, etc., but there is also a ton of filth from the bottom of the barrel of Marvels 
 drug induced past. Fin Fan Foom anyone? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris_Potter
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 23, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  What happens when you force all of Marvels characters to fight side by side to save the world? 
 You get a formula for an awesome game, thats what! Marvel: Ultimate Alliance took me completely 
 by surprise, let me tell you the whys and hows.
  
  Story:
  Something bad is happening, a S. H. I. E. L. D. helicarrier has just been attacked by Dr. Dooms forces 
 and Nick Fury has sent a distress call. Spider-Man, Thor, Captain America and Wolverine answer 
 the call and arrive at the helicarrier to help Colonel Fury get the situation under control. After 
 a few minutes of exploring you meet Scorpion who tells you that Doom has gathered some of the Earths 
 most diabolical men to form a group called the Masters of Evil, so you naturally have to figure 
 out what Dr. Doom and his companions are planning and how far the plan spans. Along the way you 
 will encounter loads of famous Marvel heroes and villains and you will get to visit some of the 
 best Marvel places ever created.
  Overall the story in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance feels very genuine, it manages to keep you going 
 with interest all through out, and feel like a real comic book story. In many ways Ultimate Alliance 
 reminds me of the classic Secret Wars where all the villains teamed up to battle the heroes, 
 because thats pretty much what happens here. Other than that the story is kind of hard to describe, 
 I dont want to spoil it too much so Ill tell you that it takes some very nice twists and turns 
 and Im not going to say anything more to spoil it!
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is one of the games weak spots, because except for the 
 super powers it feels pretty standard. You punch and kick by combining the A and B-buttons and 
 press the right trigger plus one of the four main buttons to use special character abilities when 
 needed. However its the combining of abilities that make the game really interesting, because 
 Raven Software have obviously put a lot of thought behind the powers to make them feel unique and 
 balanced, and in most cases that is true. However some powers are just plain unbalanced and feel 
 either too weak or too strong for that particular character. This being said the game still manages 
 to keep its character feel really good; some characters are faster than others whilst others are 
 slower and more tank-like in their movement.
  The games camera works pretty well and maintains a pretty good view point from above the characters. 
 This works all right throughout the entire adventure and never really gets on your nerves.
  Beside the fact that all the heroes have their unique attacks, you can receive team bonuses by 
 choosing characters that interact especially well to each other. For example if you choose to have 
 four X-Men as your team they will get a bonus, and if you choose Spider-Man, Venom (this combo 
 requires the expansion pack) , Mr. Fantastic and Dr. Doom (again, expansion) you will get an arch 
 rival bonus. This mechanic works really well and testing all the combos is really entertaining, 
 unless you end up with a team you completely cant stand in which case you probably will just ignore 
 that combination completely. Overall the team bonuses add a level of depth to the games fighting 
 system.
  Other than that, the game has a few minor things to try and make it seem new, for example in certain 
 parts of the game there are quick time events that interrupt the fighting to allow you to deal 
 damage to certain characters, get out of the way of traps, etc.
  The game also has some puzzles, however the puzzles never really come off as anything special and 
 usually just depend on you pushing a box into a certain position, putting 2 of your characters 
 on different panels or something else like that. So the puzzles never really come off as anything 
 special.
  In general Marvel: Ultimate Alliance plays pretty well and reminds more than a little of Raven 
 softwares two previous X-Men games, however this is certainly nothing bad and if you are new to 
 it the formula can easily be learned by playing through the game on easy before upping the difficulty.
 
  
  Visuals:
  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance suffers a tad in this department, mainly I think this is because its 
 a game made mainly for last generation that found its way onto the 360 and PS3. The games visual 
 are decent, but never really make it above that line, but then again they never go below the line 
 to poor either so the game is pretty much decent all through out.
  What makes it all feel all right though is that the environments in the game are pretty colourful 
 compared to those in the X-Men Legends-games, which makes you a little more engaged as to where 
 you are going and what you are doing. That being said doesnt mean that the environments couldnt 
 have been better, because they hardly ever strike you as next generation so even though they are 
 colorful they could have looked a lot better on the 360.
  Other than the environments the main focus of your Marvel-experience is of course the characters, 
 which honestly could have looked better in most cases. The characters are often so very shiny and 
 look more like action figures than actual humans, now this could be intentional but with the quality 
 of the pre-rendered cutscenes I doubt it. However most of the characters look decent and the character 
 models never go below what feel acceptable. Other than that the game is pretty much a decent game 
 visually and even though it feels all right you cant shake the feeling that it could have been 
 a lot better looking on the 360.
  
  Audio:
  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance has a lot of voice actors and music that help add to the experience, 
 and even though some of the less important ones come off as sort of stale and wooden most characters 
 deliver their lines pretty well. If the voice actors have any problems it probably is that their 
 catchphrases get used too much, after playing the game for about ten minutes with the same character 
 you will have heard the same phrases probably two to three times each all ready, and even though 
 it doesnt really hurt the overall audio, some more clever remarks would have made it seem a little 
 more natural.
  The dialogue in the game is really good though, it gets the comic book feel just right with dialogue 
 that feels kind of cheesy but only in a good way. The game is full of references to old Marvel-moments, 
 and certain characters interact differently to each other so for example if you bring in Elektra 
 to the fight with Bullseye he will comment on how he remembers killing her and wonders how she 
 has come back to life. All this dialogue helps add to the atmosphere and can in some cases even 
 help justify a second play through.
  The music in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is also pretty good, its a classic sort of action music 
 that is pretty expected of a game of this type, it gets the tone of the game done pretty well but 
 sometimes feels a little over the top. In some scenes the music can get so loud that you cant 
 even hear what the characters are saying, this really makes you appreciate that the game has all 
 the dialogue in text at the bottom of the screen. Other than that the music is doesnt really have 
 any problems and mostly works in the games favour.
  
  Overall:
  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance takes the formula that Raven Software used in the X. Men: Legends-games 
 and makes it even better by adding a much greater cast of characters, more depth into the Marvel-universe 
 and better environments. The game basically takes all the stuff that the X-Men: Legends-games were 
 known for and improve it in almost all aspects. The gameplay is good, with loads of abilities that 
 are sure to fit everyones taste in one way or another, and even though some power ups are confusing 
 and contradict some of the other stuff that you might already have upped the game has a surprising 
 depth in its equipment and gameplay.
  The game is also filled with clever dialogue that any Marvel-fan will love, and most of the characters 
 personalities are pretty much intact in the game. Basically if you love Marvel you will probably 
 love this game as well, if only because of its charm. That being said the game itself is hardly 
 a masterpiece and for non-comic book fans, this game wont really do anything since it lives for 
 its license. So if you loved the X-Men: Legends games, love Marvel and can look past some last 
 generation drawbacks, this game is great and should provide you with loads of fun filled hours! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game really tears me in different directions. I'm a big fan of Marvel and all of the superheroes 
 and villians featured in this game. And to it's credit, the game's story seems to be well put together. 
 My problem is I personally cannot stand to play a game like this ( a top down beat-um-up) for very 
 long before it gets repetitive. So, if you love these kinds of games, you'll probably love this 
 game. But for me, I played this game for a week and was through with it. I mean, you go around 
 beating up the same enemies over and over again. And the biggest problem is because of the top 
 down view, graphics really don't matter, because you can't appreciate them anyway. Still, a good 
 game for its genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 21, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Raven Software has always been faithful to the comic book fans throughout the years. After their 
 two smash hits X-Men Legends and Rise of the Apocalypse came out a few years back, which ultimately 
 enough became two of the top-selling comic-based games of all time, the developer put everything 
 they learned from the X-Men series and branched it even further into the Marvel universe by giving 
 players more than 20 playable characters and complete customization in battle. Marvel: Ultimate 
 Alliance utilizes what was set down in the Legends series before it and makes it every comic lovers 
 dream come true.
  
  Ultimate Alliance starts out with Dr. Doom apparently mad at the world and vows to take out his 
 anger at everyone else. Being followed by some of Marvels most ruthless villains, he forms a group 
 known as the Masters of Evil. Minding their own business and saving the world on the other side 
 of the spectrum is S. H. I. E. L. D., the all-avenging group of superheroes led by Nick Fury. It isnt 
 long before Dr. Doom attacks S. H. I. E. L. D. and both sides are ultimately pulled into a giant battle 
 between good and evil, with the fate of the world resting in the balance.
  
  What makes Ultimate Alliance such a grand adventure for all comic book fans is the huge assortment 
 of characters available throughout the game. From the start you can choose from up to 15 different 
 heroes to mix and match to form a party of four. All of the favorites are available to choose, 
 from Captain America, Spider-Man, and the Fantastic Four to well discreet characters that only 
 the most diehard of fans will recognize, such as Nick Fury, Black Widow, and Luke Cage. Any of 
 the unlocked characters can be combined together to form a group of four, which will be used to 
 battle in each level. Grouping characters of the same class or feats together will unlock special 
 abilities. For example putting the entire Fantastic Four in your party will give you 25% more health 
 while using the X-Men will increase strength.
  
  Every character has their basic range of melee attacks, which can be used by pressing the corresponding 
 A and B buttons. The main form of fighting throughout Ultimate Alliance will be restricted to hand-to-hand 
 combat, with a little mix of powers thrown in for good measure. Most of the characters will have 
 special abilities which can than be used in battle alongside the melee attacks for massive combos. 
 Utilizing these special attacks requires holding down the shoulder button and pressing any of the 
 buttons mapped to the controller. Certain characters learn powers faster than others, so it is 
 always a good idea to give everyone a test drive to find the best possible party. But even with 
 the cool mutant powers and nifty attacks the combat may come off a bit repetitive at times. As 
 mentioned before, most of the combat is restricted to hand-to-hand combat, which means there will 
 be plenty of button mashing to withstand. While in sense you could unleash your characters mutant 
 powers at any time in battle, the power meter depletes rather quickly and the only way to gain 
 more energy is to finish off enemies or stay clear of battle, but what is the point in that?
  
  The longer you battle enemies the more your stats will eventually increase. Stats such as strength, 
 speed, and team attacks will eventually become stronger as time goes by. While you do not have 
 too much control over any specific characters health or magic attributes, upgrading certain traits 
 can ultimately make certain characters almost indestructible near the later levels. Needless to 
 say, there are a few characters that once updated can fend off any enemy in the game, which makes 
 keeping them in your party a huge necessity. This sort of minor fault can make teams seem old and 
 boring after a while, which means many of the characters may never be used at all.
  
  But the repetitive combat is overlooked by the vast and impressive looking locales. While on the 
 tracks to hunt down Dr. Doom and his Masters of Evil, S. H. I. E. L. D. will travel to some of the best 
 comic-inspired levels in any game to date. Each level represents to another characters own specific 
 world from the comics, so Thor will feel at home on Valhalla while the twisted psycho circus will 
 see Arcade wreaking havoc. The amount of detail in each world is astounding, encapsulating the 
 exact feel and depth of the comics. To make things feel even more accurate, if a certain character 
 is grouped together on his matching world, his stats will increase and change (perhaps making him 
 more agile) , as well as make dialogue open to more options as well.
  
  The new downloadable content for Ultimate Alliance helps make playing through the campaign a little 
 more enjoyable the second time through on the 360 due to the fact that the Hulk and Magneto are 
 playable characters. However once the campaign is finished there is little or no need to go back 
 and play again unless you are looking for certain goodies or trying to get those hard-earned achievement 
 points. Many of the unlockable features in the game are dedicated to diehard fans that just have 
 to obtain those secret characters. The Silver Surfer is without a doubt one of the hardest characters 
 in the game to obtain, so good luck in your quest to hunt him down.
  
  In the overall scope of things, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a great thrill-ride through the world 
 of comics great heroes. Dont let the somewhat shallow combat system drive you away from a truly 
 epic adventure. Raven Software has managed to take everything learned from the past games and up 
 the ante to make the most complete and fulfilling comic-based game to date. If anything else, it 
 is better than any superhero game released in the last few months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshdrew
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 20, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  if your a marvel comic book fan of the old super heros and new supers or if you just love coopertive 
 mode GET THIS GAME!!!! this is a really good and i mean really good game with so many unlockable 
 characters and different endings you'll never get tired or bored in this game. the graphics are 
 good and the story mode is awesome the online multiplayer is not bad either but the game is worth 
 60 bucks with super heros like  knight, iron man, caption 
 america, wolverine, collosus and many more marval comic book super heroes it also has a little twist 
 that makes it seem like an rpg with upgrading and changing your super heros costumes. all in all 
 marval ultimate alliance is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oogieboogie8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a great game where you can play as over twenty of Marvel's comic characters, 
 like Spider-Man, Fantastic Four, X-Men, and more (but not the Hulk) . You start off with a good 
 selection of characters, but more are unlocked later in the game. You can also customize your characters 
 outfits, which can also be unlocked.
  
  When you play, you have four heroes you can alternate at once, but the other three are computers. 
 Each hero has its on special abilities and powers, which they can use other than your usual kick 
 and punch, but they also take up the power meter . The a button is just kick and punch, while the 
 b button is a power attack which you can charge up. To use power moves, you must hold RT and press 
 y, x, a, or b to activate the hero's special moves. You can also hold LT to command your hero's to 
 do things like help you out, be aggressive, or regroup. Overall the control schemes and camera 
 angles are pretty good and easy to get used to.
  
  Ultimate Aliiance stars many of Marvel's heroes, but there are also many of the villians, including 
 the evil mastermind, Victor Van Doom (Docter Doom) . Apparently he has got together almost all of 
 the Marvel villians in a team, which he calls the Masters of Evil (which I think isn't very creative) 
 and has a plan to gain ultimate domination. On the good side, all the Marvel heroes has also teamed 
 up to stop Dr. Doom and the Masters of Evil. You work for S. H. I. E. L. D. to stop them. You also have 
 a base of operations, which is Stark Tower, owned by billionare The Iron Man (which you can also 
 play as) . Together you and your team of heroes work to stop evil again. In all of the levels, you 
 will bump into several puzzles. Sometimes it can be very confusing on how to solve the puzzles 
 as the game usually doesn't give you hints how. You may spend several minutes running around searching 
 for a way to continue. When you do find the answer though, you may find that it was rather obvious, 
 but you just overlooked it.
  
  There are also a large array of enemies, some with special abilities such as shields and energy 
 drains. There are also bosses, which are the villians themselves, like Mysterio, Scorpian, Winter 
 Soldier, and more like that. They also have even bigger bosses, like dragons and other huge monsters. 
 An interesting easter egg is that if you have two Marvel heroes from the same comic have dialog, 
 then they will talk a little bit and you will learn a little about their past. Marvel: Ultimate 
 Alliance has fair visuals, nothing that would surprise you. There is also online play, but there 
 isn't any sort of VS mode where you can vs other heroes online, only a cooperative mode.
  
  Overall, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a great Marvel game that will appeal to anyone, Marvel fan 
 or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-money4000
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  this is by far the best 360 game out there forget condemned and gears of war and dead rising this 
 game is da bomb. u choose from over 20 marvel character on your hunt to stop doctor doom. its not 
 like x-men legends with the gay potion thing u get health for killing the guys and u also restore 
 power easier. the graphics are great for this style of game play and the powers are awsome u dont 
 have to add points for an hour anymore like in x-men legends u just get points by your self and 
 u basically only get one or u can put it on auto were they just give u the powers and the points. 
 all in all this game is the best side scrolling rpg to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tidalkr4ken
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks. It is definately worth your 50 bucks.
  I am not a real comic fan, but i still enjoy this wonderful game. Great graphics, gameplay, and 
 a huge variety. This will keep you busy for hours and hours. The skills are fun and the controls 
 are unbelievably easy. There is a wide character variety which have different moves and techniques. 
 One of my favorites is Colasus. His uber powerful punches and his ability to grab the foe and swing 
 him around and u sing him as a weapon.. it is just great! THIS game is excellent! this is worth 
 every single penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jejh1971
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is truly the Ultimate.... for fans of comic books. Personally, I'm a medium-level 
 fan of comics and their related universes, so i feel a little bit lost in all the lore and inter-personal 
 relationships between the characters, but for those who know them inside and out this game will 
 be a real treat. Yes, the gameplay is repetetive and hasn't changed much over the years for hack 
 n' slash games with some RPG elements sprinkled in, but it's done well and you get the feeling 
 of just one more level when you play. The voice-work is also repetetive and removes the player 
 from the experience because the same things are being blurted out by the current on-screen player-controlled 
 characters over and over while beating on literally thousands of baddies. However the same voice 
 work is well done in the cut-scenes.... okay, so it's a little hammy and corny, but that's comic-dom 
 for ya. All in all this is a great game with near-perfect polish. I say near-perfect because the 
 camera is stiff and can be problematic in some spots... but it doesn't ruin the fun overall. This 
 is a very good title, but probably not enjoyable if you don't like comics... but then, if you don't 
 like comics you probably aren't even reading this review right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 10, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I recentely owned this game for the original xbox, but when I found out that the xbox 360 version 
 has two other characters-Moon Knight, and Colossus- Along with 5 new villain missions and better 
 graphics, I was bought. But than I also found out that for about $10.00 (USD) you could buy 10 NEW 
 CHARACTERS-The Hulk, Hawkeye, Nightcrawler, Cyclops, Magneto, Venom, Dr. Doom, and Sabretooth- 
 and I went out and bought the game and than the characters on xbox live after that. The extra 10 
 characters along with being able to get achievements, and new missions are all DEFINETELY worth 
 upgrading if you have a 360 and you have this game on a loder system. You can get this game for 
 around $30.00 now or days online and its definetly worth that price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  When I got MUA, I wasn't really sure how I would like it. I had heard good reviews and people had 
 told me it was really good so I got it. As soon as I started playing, I thought, man this is a 
 rip-off of X-Men Legends (I know now that it is made by the same people) . Legends was okay but 
 too repetitive. Once it started going I realised it was a really good game. There is more variety 
 because it isn't just limited to X-Men heroes and villains but to the whole Marvel Universe. Some 
 of my favorite characters are here and that makes it great. The game is an action/rpg game which 
 makes it really fulfilling when you see Ghost Rider leveled up! The only reason my time spent playing 
 is so low is because I just got it tonight and decided to write a review so don't pay attention 
 to that. This is a great game for people to come over and have some fun on co-op. The graphics 
 are really well done even though I'm not on an HD TV, so the visuals aren't at their peak I guess 
 you could say. Otherwise, the characters are really smooth looking and the environments, though 
 a little repetitive, are nicely done too. One of my only small regrets about this game is the repetitive 
 enemies and, stated above, the environments. If you're a comic book nerd and enjoy having a good 
 time, pick this one up. In fact, you don't even have to be into comic books that much and I bet 
 you would still like this game if not love it. What other game would let you beat up Scorpion with 
 your best buds in the first 10 minutes. Buy this game have fuun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kantana_man85
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  First things first, the graphics are stunning on the 360. The cutscenes are amazing and the voice 
 acting is excellent, espacially when you have over 50 unique marvel heros and villans. This is 
 an RPG, but unlike the conventional wait for the computer to move every is in real time. The RPg 
 elements are pretty basic, only consisting of leveling up and equipting gear to even changing the 
 heros costume. The computer can do every thing but choose the characters castume, thats up to you. 
 The A. I. in this game is challenging, but not to hard. Overall this is a great game for anyone 
 and the hardcore marvel geek. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayervorge3000
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is an extremely fun game, developed by Raven Software and published by 
 Activision based on Marvels comic books and an epic tale to save the universe from Dr. Doom. You 
 have a four-man team and at the beginning you start out with Walverine, Captain America, Thor and 
 Spider-man. Just like to tell you that Spider-man is pretty fun in this game. When you get farther 
 into the game you can change your team, you can chose any of the Marvel made characters.
  
  The graphics on most of the cinematic films are pretty dull, they kind of look like Xbox graphics 
 but it's still fun to watch. On the other hand some of the other cinematic movies in the game have 
 all the cool graphics for the next-gen system, looks real to me.
  
  The gameplay is alright, but I kinda hate the over-view like feature, you really cannot see whats 
 around you. The gameplay graphics are like Xbox (it looks like X-Men Legends) but with a little 
 more advances.
  
  Like I said the game is really, really fun and I recommend that you play it. If you already played 
 it that cool. If you own that even cooler, I only rented it so I haven't bought it yet and might, 
 but then again I'd like to keep checking out more games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndyWilliams24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  Over the years many superhero games hit the market. As they come and go they seem to just be another 
 attempt to advertise there latest movie. With not much ambition actually coming forth in the games; 
 this time its different though, there back, with the ultimate alliance.
  
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a hard hitting superhero RPG. You assemble your team of up to four 
 superheros from a series of Marvel franchises. Then take the action to the extreme. You can switch 
 between your selected four heroes at any time in the game, just by hitting a direction on the D-pad. 
 Certain battles call for different heroes to put there best foot forward. So dont think you will 
 be keeping the same formation for the entire game. The game begins as your onboard the S. H. I. E. L. D 
 hellicarrier as it begins to get attacked by Dr Doom and his minions. But before you have much 
 time to do anything the game throws you straight into the action. You begin to fight of the waves 
 of minion as you reach the control room to see Nick Fury and find out what is happening on board. 
 Before long the plot unveils and you make you way through the world uncovering secrets, traps, 
 boss battles, unlock new heroes and find the true meaning behind Dr Dooms evil plan.
  
  Activision really hit a long awaited homerun with this title. You begin with the team of Spider-Man, 
 Wolverine, Captain America and Thor. As you progress through the opening battle you reach an S. H. I. E. L. D 
 Access Point. These allow you to change you team, save game and Extract yourself to base. There 
 are several of these throughout each level. So no needs to worry about what team you pick at the 
 beginning of each segment; you have plenty of opportunities to change your team as you progress.
 
  
  You will have a fair selection of heroes to choose for your team, so you shouldnt have any trouble 
 forming the team that mostly suits your style of play. There are 20 heroes to choose from. Heroes 
 such as Wolverine, Captain America, Spider-Man, Hulk, Cyclops, Venom, Storm, Thing, Iron-man, Dr 
 Doom, Spiderwoman and much more. When your team consists of certain heroes it triggers a team bonus. 
 For instance if you have all members of the X-Men in your team you will get a bonus, these bonuss 
 can be anything from 10% extra damage to coin multiplier. Coins are another way to power up your 
 hero. You can exchange your coins to power up attacks etc.
  
  At first glimpse this game wouldnt come across as a RPG game. But as you play you realise your 
 characters level up as you gain Experience points (XP) . You can gain XP from enemies you have defeated 
 or answering Trivia questions at your head quarters. The higher your level the easier and less 
 shots it will take to kill a enemy or defeat a boss. So levelling up is key to success. But as 
 you alter your team you may change youre levelled up hero for a hero which hasnt been levelled 
 up at all. Thus making level progression harder; so remember to plan ahead.
  
  Once the story mode ends in this game, it is by no means the end of the game. You go back to main 
 headquarters and then have access to go to any mission again and play through it again. Or play 
 through some training simulators to unlock some more outfits, scavenge for coins and find unlockables 
 such as action figures which can unlock more heroes to use at your desire. This game is also a 
 very online friendly game. This allows you and 1-3 other players to team up online and go through 
 and tackle story mode together. You can also help each other level up and go through the training 
 missions together to unlock more outfits for your characters.
  
  Overall this is a very enjoyable game and should not be underestimated by any Xbox360 owner. It 
 has so much potential for a sequel and has superb graphical limits. The replay value is also the 
 very attractive/compelling thing about Marvel it is great value for money. Which modern day games 
 seem to lack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance lets us all our favorite heroes into one game, a solid story and gameplay 
 and lots of characters to choose from makes this a worthy title to bear the name Marvel.
  
  Gameplay:
  If people are familiar with other games by Raven software, you'll see the controls 
 haven't changed much, the game is the typical fight game which has a wide variety of close and 
 range attacks, and with a share of combination attacks.
  
  Tho, the gameplay is nothing new, you can play as any Marvel character you want (not counting in 
 some keycharacters of any comic or cartoon) that range from Spiderman to the Iron man, the only 
 thing I hate about this game that you aren't able to swing around like Spiderman, I would've loved 
 the game to have a world that Spiderman 3 had, and then Spiderman could swing away like The Hulk 
 and X-men can take on groundwork.
  
  Apart from wide character-variety, you can custimize any character with certain outfits that all 
 give different boosts, like if you want Captain American with a striped shirt on, there you have 
 it.
  
  Tho, in multiplayer you won't have any boosts tho, which seems fair that its about technique and 
 skill that way.
  
  Tho, their are alot of overpowered classes in the game, like one is weak in both close and range, 
 while other classes can pack demolishing punches in both ways and in range, despite that, the game 
 does succeed in bringing a punch right this time, thank you Raven Software!
  
  Tho, fighting enemies can be abit buttonmashing, but you'll do the most damage with combination 
 attacks and just wellaimed shots.
  
  Graphics:
  Cutscenes and cinematics look abit rough on the edges, but they do with sharp dialogue.
  
  
 The game itself looks great, from attacks to magic, you'll be able to see who is who if you know 
 the Marvel comics and cartoons, the maps vary alot and the camera is perfect, it works like the 
 cinematic camera from GTA but won't ruin gameplay.
  
  Story:
  This guy creates a union completely filled with evil villains from Marvel, so what do you do? Make 
 you're own union filled with the most powerfull superhero's ever! The story progresses with sharp 
 dialogue in cutscenes that ties the game together abit.
  
  Is it a good fighting game:
  If you still have a few bucks over and have no idea what to buy, buy the game, this also counts 
 for the Wii-users out there, this game is worthy enough to take part of you're collection.
  
  Other: the game has alot of content and is pretty long, you'll be busy unlocking characters 
 to play and who all have different attacks, it'll keep you busy for a while, online play is okay 
 and is just hectic chaos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarantula878
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 27, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  This game is a solid Hack'n'Slash Dungeon crawler. Activision did a nice job with this one. The 
 Graphics were a downfall though since they weren't that pretty up close. The gameplay is simple 
 almost exsactly plays like it's cousin franchise Xmen Legends. The character upgrades and managing 
 takes a while to learn, but Once your learn how to fully play it it is a ton of fun.
  the wide variety of Characters made have to find one that fits you perfectly. The other thing I 
 liked was that if you put together teams of Marvel's past You get bonus that gives a advantage. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 23, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Want to play as Spiderman or some of the other Marvel super heroes but you don't want to buy their 
 lackluster games. Then you should buy Marvel Ultimate Alliance. Or you could just rent it because 
 it is short and somewhat fairly easy. Here is my review of Marvel Ultimate Alliance.
  
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance
  P: Activision
  D: Raven Software
  RD: Oct 24th, '06
  Gamespot 
 Score 8.3
  
  Gameplay: MUA's gameplay is like the other Marvel games that Raven has worked on. You choose 4 
 characters to go around with you. (You can switch at save points) . The 4 character thing is like 
 that of Fantastic Four but the gameplay is whole lot better. You can buy costumes and upgrade you're 
 characters so it is an action game with RPG elements sort of like Crackdown only this game has 
 more RPG-ish elements to it. The gameplay is very fun but kinda easy. The boss battles are fun 
 and most are worth 15 gamerscore points so if u want to boost your GSCORE this is a good game to 
 do it with. The online co-op is fun too. Arcade is ok nothig that they should brag about at least 
 not IMO. The boss battles are fun but easy in a way. The replay value is very low you can back 
 through the levels to get more coins but that's about it. Plus there is a whole lot of unlockables 
 to get... 8 out of 10
  Pros: Fun- good story- RPG elements-co-op-fun boss battles-unlockables
  Cons: Short-easy boss 
 battles-no replay value
  
  Graphics: Very colurful graphics is kinda of a theme on the 360 now while when it was released 
 it was about realistic graphics now they've got comic book style to them (Crackdown, GRAW, MUA) . 
 The graphics are light and pretty... :D :D :D 10 out of 10
  
  Sound: This is where the game gets hurt. The voice-acting reminds me of an old Castelvania game. 
 Just not good at all. This is usually my favorite part of the game on any game but not here.
  5 out of 10
  
  So overall Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a pretty darn good game. 8.2 is a good 
 score IMO. Its a .1 less than the gspot score and .6 less than the avg of us users. I would rent 
 this game for 3 reasons its short, fun, u might not like it.
  
  8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TCisGod
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 22, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is an action RPG set in the Marvel universe. In it you can choose four 
 super heroes out of a large lineup like Spider-Man, Wolverine, Captain America, Thor, Iron Man 
 and many more. The game will take you to many locations to fight villains from the Marvel universe 
 like Dr. Doom, Galactus, Loki and others. The game takes about 20 hours to finish. The characters 
 in the game look pretty good but the backgrounds look flat and ugly. For the most part the voice 
 overs are good and the music is pretty good too. So if you are a fan of Marvel you should pick 
 this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdaddy9
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 21, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome! Ok so first off if you do not like to spend ALOT of time on one game than 
 this game is not for you it seems like it is an eternal game but it really is not that long its 
 just that sometimes you get stuck for a little while but even the hardest part for me took about 
 45 minutes so it really is not to bad. I was so excited the whole way though because it was a great 
 story line so every time i would beat a level i would want to keep going. It is also really kool 
 how you can have almost all of the Marvel Characters ( My favorites were Wolverine, Thor, Thing, 
 and Spider Man ) so if you have not figured it out yet i completely think that everyone should 
 have a copy of this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  If you like videogames and superheroes, this game is made for you. It takes virtually everyone 
 from the Marvel universe and puts them into one of the best games ever made! You take your 4 favorite 
 Marvel characters and you go through huge environments killing robots and enemies using your super 
 powers and strength. The gameplay is excellent. You have many attacks and beating up foes never 
 gets boring. The pace is perfect. My best character is Deadpool and he kicks serious butt. Other 
 than his powerful quick ninja kicks, punches, and his air dash, he can slice foes up with his twin 
 ninja swords, or he can shoot enemies from afar by using his duel pistols. These arent even all 
 his attacks, and he is only one of the 15+ characters you can play as. You can throw people, throw 
 vases into people, and you can throw people into vases. The possibilities are endless. 360 achievements 
 add an incentive to fight baddies. Other than the fighting and intense action, there are RPG elements. 
 Dont worry, action fans, the RPG stuff does no slow the pace- you can upgrade attacks and put 
 your heroes into different costumes, like Spidermans neat black costume. The sound is perfect, 
 and if you do not like the great music, you can play the songs that are saved on your hard drive 
 during gameplay which is sweet. The graphics are super, but not the best the 360 has to offer. 
 Thats not to say theyre not good though. The environments NEVER get boring or repetitive, and 
 they look stunning. There is Co-Op which makes the game even more fun. You will have fun playing 
 this game, no matter what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Argan919
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 16, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is easy, accessible, and above all else fun. The graphics are nothing special, but 
 they get the job done. Playing online is fun, but should only be played with people you trust not 
 to be jerks. All the heroes are worthwhile in their own way and each are special.
  
  The achievements are perfect. No other way to put it. They make you play in ways that you normally 
 wouldn't, which is the point of achievements. Such achievements are: throw 500 enemies off a ledge, 
 beat a certain level without killing anybody, win 100 arcade games, and get gold on all comic missions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wildtigerrei
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 15, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a great concept in it's own respect! When I first heard about the title 
 I was freaking out because I am big Marvel fan! Then I say it was developed by Raven software and 
 I kind of lost interest because I thought the X-Men Legends games were simply sub-par.
  
  Graphics: Well this game has some decent visuals at best. You really can't expect too much out 
 of games anymore that are Multi-platform. The game looks kind of sloppy and too dark on a standard 
 tube TV, however it does look pretty slick and polished on a HDTV on 720P. Not to say that the 
 graphics are bad, they just are not eye candy. The in game movies are pretty bland and boring, 
 the CG movies are pretty impressive, I really did enjoy watching night crawler toy with enemies 
 in one of the CG's. Sound: The definition of standard shines here! Your genaric UH! OW! HELP! you 
 get the picture. The music is a mix of rock, techno and uhh..... epic musical score.... You do the 
 math. The voice overs are actually pretty good! Sounds like all the actors who did the cartoon 
 shows came back to do the voices of their respected characters, I really liked it! I really liked 
 all of spiderman, wolverine and deadpool's lines. Story: I was pretty excited about the story, 
 but at the same time I knew Raven would blow it, and boy..... did they. It is pretty much all more 
 Famous Marvel hero's over all these years unite together to fight off The Masters of Evil which 
 is lead by Dr. Doom, and few of his lesser villains, all of which were all the ones I never liked 
 to begin with. Lets leave it at this, the story wasn't their to keep you going on in the game. 
 Gameplay: This is where people tend to enjoy this game the most. If you have ever played any of 
 the X-Men Legends game, you will know how to play the game within the first couple mins. It is 
 pretty simple, pick a character, press the attack button and press one of your four hot-keyed special 
 attack buttons and on rare moments, block. Really in all actuality the enemies don't really put 
 up much of a fight, even on hard, they just kind of sit there and wait for you to kill them in 
 however you see fit. It does have unique boss fights after the end of each level but again.... it 
 will not even present 1/4 of a challenge to you, even on hard mode. Much like the Legends games, 
 as you level up you get new skills that you can use. between the characters signature power moves 
 to special boost that help you and your team, also after you melee enough baddies you can use a 
 SUPER ATTACK that will pretty much clear the screen of baddies, nothing that special though since 
 you can clear the screen of them in about the same amount of time just pressing the 'A button over 
 and over. Also after you kill a certain amount of enemies your characters get new outfits that 
 have different skills that can further boost your stats and make you even more uber powerful, you 
 have to buy all the power ups, with the plenty of gold you get just through killing people and 
 smashing stuff. Now where this game does get most of it's fun out of is from it's multiplayer. 
 You can have a 2-4 player multiplayer and you can play through the campain from the start or you 
 can load one of your old single player saves and play with your buddies right where you left off. 
 Also if you have Xbox Live you can play with people over the net in either co-op campaign or compete 
 in a kill count arcade style gameplay where they tally who gets the most kills, knockdowns, coins 
 and at the end of that certain area they will declare a winner and you can play the whole game 
 like that, kind of a good change. I do enjoy it.
  
  Re-playablity: If you have alot of people to play with all the time it can be pretty addicting, 
 However if it is just you, You will probably play through it for you Achievements then never touch 
 it again. It does have a pretty solid list of Achievement points. Standard kill this boss, clear 
 this level. Then they have ones that will require you putting some time into the game, such as 
 throw 500 enemies off a ledge or get 4000 kills, beat all comic book missions, unlock this secrete 
 character (THE SILVER SURFER IS A SILVER GOD IN THIS GAME but he is pretty hard to unlock) . It 
 also has a couple online Achievements.
  
  Overall: Really standard game! If you liked the legends games, check this game out. If need a good 
 multiplayer game for you and all your RPG or Marvel junkie friends, check it out, however I can't 
 recommend this game to buy to anyone. It is good but after about a week you will be bored out of 
 your mind with this game and will see the same animation over and over you will start to see it 
 in your sleep! Oh did I mention it isn't even a challenge at all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whirlbat
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a humble game that shouldnt be. This game got, and still gets, not 
 much hype at all, and surprisingly, I think that does it well. Activision didnt force this game 
 down out throats with commercials and advertisements all over the place. Rather, it seems they 
 put this beauty out there and are just going to let its popularity grow by word-of-mouth (as evidenced 
 by todays release of their Gold Edition, about 8 months after the games original release) .
 
  
  Pros: There is a nice selection of characters that can appeal to pretty much any superhero fan, 
 from the modern (clich&eacute;) Hollywood heroes like Spiderman and the Fantastic 4, to classic 
 heroes like Ironman and Captain America, and even a few hardcore dudes that I wasnt expecting 
 like Blade, Ghost Rider and Luke Cage. There are also a lot of familiar faces in the realm of villains, 
 too, that adds a nice variety to your fights. (For the record: Fin Fang Foom is the coolest of 
 all super villains.) Another nice touch is the leveling system in the game. You can rank up different 
 abilities for each character (and every character has a couple alternate costumes, with even more 
 abilities) , giving you a unique character, tailored to your style of fighting. This also creates 
 some fun rivalries, if youre playing with friends, as you race to collect the coins that allow 
 you to buy your upgrades. Unlockables galore! XBox Marketplace has updates offering extra characters.
 
  
  Neutrals: Where is the Punisher?
  
  Cons: The gameplay can get a little repetitive. With every level, youre basically running around 
 and smacking up enemies and solving fairly easy puzzles. Some challenges are also thrown into the 
 mix to break the monotony. [I feel the need to note that I have yet to get bored playing this game. 
 Its always my friends that seem to tucker out before me. If youve ever spent five hours, straight, 
 completing the Thieves Guild quests in Oblivion (or done five straight hours of gameplay for just 
 about any game, really) , this game is probably a safe investment for you.] Graphically, this game 
 is nothing super special, but its based on comic-books, for cryin-out-loud! Its graphics are 
 more than what you would expect for a game like this, but its not going to revolutionize anything.
 
  
  Conclusion: This game was very understated in its promotion, which made sure that gamers arent 
 disappointed with anything, but rather, impressed by all that it accomplishes, as a top-down, classic, 
 beat-em-up style game, that did relatively little to announce its own arrival. If you enjoyed Gauntlet 
 Legends, even a little, Im willing to bet youd enjoy this game. Get the Gold Edition if youre 
 a collector (or looking for better retail value) . Otherwise, buy the original edition and spend 
 the $10 to get the new characters off of XBox Marketplace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 14, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  If you've played either of the X-Men Legends games, than you're basically looking at the same game 
 but with a wider variety of Marvel characters other than the X-Men.
  
  I really enjoyed the XML games and I also really enjoyed this game. Many of the not as common Marvel 
 characters make an appearance in this game such as Ghost Rider, Blade, Miss Marvel, Dr. Strange, 
 and my favorite, Deadpool.
  
  One great feature of this game is that the moves list for each character is surprisingly very unique 
 and runs pretty deep. Each character has many different types of moves they can perform and I actually 
 found it more fun to upgrade my skills manually as opposed to XML where I chose to have the computer 
 do it for me.
  
  There's an excellent selection of Marvel villains to fight in this game, and the worlds in which 
 you fight are straight out of the comics which I loved. The enemies you fight throughout the levels 
 are a bit more varied than in previous iterations which keeps things a bit more fresh. Even the 
 story is very intriguing and keeps things flowing smoothly.
  
  My only real gripes with this game are that some of the characters thrown in seemed like filler 
 characters and/or didn't get developed very well i. e. Colossus, Mr. Fantastic, Elektra, Blade. 
 Marvel Ultimate Alliance is definitely worth playing through especially if you're a Marvel fan. 
 The story keeps the game interesting, and there's more than enough characters to change things 
 up a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mice16
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 12, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Raven software's Marvel Ultimate Alliance, is, in it's own right, a large PS2 game... That said, 
 it's port to the 360 was not pulled off that well. With the addition of a few villain missions 
 being pretty much all that defines the next-gen edition of the game from the last-gen incarnations; 
 it hurts the eyes.
  The movies, the biggest incentive to continue the journey are sparse. And although the voice-acting 
 is impressive, and delightfully riddled with marvel universe tie-ins; the script is filled with 
 clich&eacute; s and overall boring writing. The animations are non-existent in the talking scenes, 
 which also adds to a removing experience. The game could've used a closer and more intense third-person 
 [split-screen] experience, with more environment interactions... Like the spider man games. (Just 
 as an example of the bigger landscapes and exiting viewpoints.)
  They could also do away with the subtitles as well as missing animation and camera angles in the 
 talking scenes.
  
  Oh yeah and more of the movies.
  
  And not those cheap ones in the mission briefings.
  
  I know this is a 'the glass is half empty' 
 review... And it is a pretty good game... Just not next-gen material. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alfredo_Sauce
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 12, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This is gonna have to be one of the best Co-Op games I've played. I always have fun playing this 
 game with my friends. The one thing is I can never pick who I want to be theres to many choices 
 but thats good. Theres a lot of hero's you can pick from. If you like the hack and slash people 
 pick Wolverine or Black Panther. If you like the cast long range roll pick The Human Torch (my 
 favorite) or tuns of another guys. Theres tuns of story behind this game. Always keeping you wondering. 
 Another cool this is you can pick teams of heroes that gives you an extra bonus. For example if 
 you pick The Fantastic Four (which consists of Mr. Fantastic, Invisible Woman, Human Torch, and 
 The Thing) you get 20 Health per KO. You can make your own teams to. Consisting of any hero you 
 want. Game play is fun. Theres cool moves you can do. Theres a decent amount of moves you get. 
 The special move you get is not to only cool looking but good damage. Theres good amount of puzzle. 
 You would really like this game if you really enjoy playing with other people by your side and 
 beating up bad guys. All and all awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sickness87th
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 9, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Feeling like kick the S*%T out of someone then gear is the way, but if you would like to travel 
 to the days when you still believed that one day you would be able to fly, then this is a fun game 
 full adventure and cheesy lines and good old boys winning then marvel is a game that you wont be 
 able to put down this will be around for years to come RPG's maybe not the standard but story: 
 Well done. two thums up. Graphics it falls short but it makes up, characters sound is light score 
 but decent advice Keep human torch around he is very useful when playing in hard mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbird991
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 6, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is one of those games that doesn't have a ton of faults, yet isn't among 
 the true classics of gaming. Despite a few welcome wrinkles to combat and character customization, 
 this is pretty much the same game we have seen before. The level design and puzzles are a snooze, 
 lacking any innovation. But who cares? This game is about gathering a few friends and laying the 
 smack down on some villains. MUA is not a brilliant game, but it's fun. And that's all that really 
 matters. If you love the pitter-patter of fingers on buttons, grab this game. It will satisfy the 
 comic-book geek buried deep in your soul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solideagle13
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 15, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  When I got MUA, I wasn't really sure how I would like it. I had heard good reviews and people had 
 told me it was really good so I got it. As soon as I started playing, I thought, man this is a 
 rip-off of X-Men Legends (I know now that it is made by the same people) . Legends was okay but 
 too repetitive. Once it started going I realised it was a really good game. There is more variety 
 because it isn't just limited to X-Men heroes and villains but to the whole Marvel Universe. Some 
 of my favorite characters are here and that makes it great. The game is an action/rpg game which 
 makes it really fulfilling when you see Ghost Rider leveled up! The only reason my time spent playing 
 is so low is because I just got it tonight and decided to write a review so don't pay attention 
 to that. This is a great game for people to come over and have some fun on co-op. The graphics 
 are really well done even though I'm not on an HD TV, so the visuals aren't at their peak I guess 
 you could say. Otherwise, the characters are really smooth looking and the environments, though 
 a little repetitive, are nicely done too. One of my only small regrets about this game is the repetitive 
 enemies and, stated above, the environments. If you're a comic book nerd and enjoy having a good 
 time, pick this one up. In fact, you don't even have to be into comic books that much and I bet 
 you would still like this game if not love it. What other game would let you beat up Scorpion with 
 your best buds in the first 10 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mongolkhan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 26, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Fighting sequences don't require a lot of thinking, neither do the puzzles. Nevertheless this game 
 draws me in as I get to play with the various powers of my favorite super heroes. The Human Torch 
 rocks!!
  
  Certain challenges like collecting all of DareDevil's or Black Panther's statuettes to unlock the 
 character help you pay attention to the finer details of the game to not miss them.
  
  Simulation discs also provide a variety of challenges so that you are not just using one character 
 throughout the whole game. Also driven to further unlock the Silver Surfer!
  
  Looking forward to the additional characters!!
  
  A very enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raidafan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  its not the best game, but it is full of fun, and enjoyable playing as all of your favorite marvel 
 comics superheros! One of the most disappointing things left out of this game, is the fact that 
 your superheros don't have a wide range of attacks, and changing your special powers can be annoying 
 at times, but it grows on you, i wouldn't say its a game to purchase at your local game stop, only 
 because the length of the game is not really worth the 60$ for the cost of the game. Fun alone, 
 even funner with more than one person! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heretrix
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 24, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a action RPG set in Marvels Ultimate universe.. Sort of. There is clearly 
 some spill over in terms of characterization with the regular Marvel universe. Some of the characters 
 are snatched from the ultimate universe, some from the regular. Its fine as it all meshes well. 
 What makes Marvel Ultimate Alliance work is the same thing that made the Xmen games successful, 
 the sheer number of characters stuffed in the game. Some are playable some arent. It really doesnt 
 matter here as the game plays like one big interactive comic. The storyline is that Doctor Doom 
 has stolen the power of Odin with the help of a huge assortment of villains. In an attempt to stop 
 Doom from completely taking everything over Nick Fury of S. H. I. E. L. D. has assorted his own group 
 to stop him. You play the game by controlling four characters from the marvel universe (s) . Throughout 
 the games five acts you will encounter wave after wave of cannon fodder, mini bosses, bosses and 
 ultimately Doom himself. As you bash your way through these enemies you gain experience points 
 as with your standard RPG. Your heroes all have basic attacks in which you can do combos (A, A, B 
 or A, B, A, etc) which in turn get you skill points to power up your characters superpowers, which 
 are activated by holding down the right trigger then hitting a face button. You can also get bonuses 
 by unlocking the several extra costumes/identities you recieve by beating the crap out of Doom's 
 minions.. On top of this, each character has an extreme attack which is a bit more powerful than 
 the super powers. Alone they turn out to be sort of hit or miss. What improves this is when all 
 of your heroes power up their extreme attacks and unleash them one after another in a chain-like 
 fashion. The only bad thing about this is that once all extreme attacks are powered up there is 
 no way to do them separately. Its all or nothing.
  
  Overall, the gameplay can be a bit repetitious. It tends to fall into the smash, level, smash, 
 repeat RPG category, with a couple of switch hitting, block pushing puzzles .. If you are a fan 
 of the comics this wont deter you at all. In fact you will want to see how your favorite heroes 
 handle themselves in the heated battles. Speaking of battles, while not very hard, they can be 
 a bit frustrating as bugs and a camera that just goes crazy sometimes make battles harder than 
 they need to be. Also bosses can be very cheap.. the multiplayer is what puts this over the top 
 for me as playing with your friends eliminates the moronic AI.. For added value there are comic 
 book missions, extra costumes and characters and lots of bonus materials to find..
  
  Marvel: UA is a fun but buggy game. It's one of those games that while having some annoying bugs 
 it doesn't really kill your desire to play it. Here's hoping that Raven or Activision's QA gets 
 their act together for the sequel.. It has the potential to be a truly great game for comic fans 
 looking for a great adventure with their favorite heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheFozan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 24, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  First of all, let's say this: The bottom line is, if you like Marvel, and you like action/adventure 
 games, you won't be disappointed. Ultimate Alliance delivers on every level imaginable and will 
 not disappoint, even though some things might cause an annoyance.
  
  As soon as you push that button to start story mode, if you were excited, prepare to be more excited. 
 The intro cut scene is definitely one to remember, and totally psyches the player up for the game. 
 The game is over-all pretty easy, and you get the hang of punch kick punch and using your special 
 abilities pretty quick. Thing is, before you play, it would help to know the flaws in this game, 
 because some are avoidable.
  
  When you start the game, all your characters are set to automatically spend their earned experienced 
 points, and also quip stuff as they please. As one of the most fun aspects about the game is to 
 choose the skills and equipment you want, this can get annoying. You can turn this option off right 
 off the bat, but what some people won't realize is that once you first get the chance to change 
 team members, you must turn it off for every character individually, or you'll come back later 
 to find your experience points already spent by the game on skills you didn't choose. That's one 
 thing. The other thing, is that whenever in the character info screen, one wrong click of the Y 
 button will spend all your points right away, as it turns that option back on, which can force 
 some people to have to load game. Pretty sucky if you haven't saved in a while. Another thing is, 
 many of the skills aren't described right by the game, and some are even just useless. It can be 
 a little misleading sometimes.
  
  The graphics are good, and rarely a little glitchy, you sometimes get stuck in places you shouldn't 
 be, but the game fixes it pretty fast (ex: behind an object, or your teammates not being able/fast 
 enough to follow you) . The levels also tend to be a little repetitive in the way they look. The 
 voice overs are great, but could be even better. Controls are easy and very responsive to most 
 attacks and skills if not all, and game play is just plain fun.
  
  The game also has a lot of fun extras, from trivia questions to a hilarious video of rejected voice 
 over auditions. In cosing, I'll simply say, it's great game with lots of room to improve in future 
 installments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  It's pretty good for a ame inspired by hack and slashers. Well first off, the story is just dumb 
 but with this type of game it doesn't really matter. This game is very fun. My personaly favorite 
 is, The Thing lol. This game is all the better with friends, online co-op and such.
  
  Gameplay, nice set of skills, moves, and armor upgrades and stuff to make it feel like an rpg but 
 also very fun gameplay when u and ur team work together and use ur difrent powers. It could get 
 repetetive at times.
  
  Graphics, The Graphics are just well great I guess this is not one of those games trying to be 
 innovative or anything it's goal was fun and succeded. but the graphics are bad so don't exspect 
 some xbox graphics.
  
  Sound, meh I don't care much for the sound. The sound is actually annoying specialy when u have 
 spiderman making terrible jokes every time hey kills somebody!! Probobly mute sometimes.
  
  Value, fun hack and slasher can be repetitive but its one of those games you can play with your 
 friends and have a blast for hours!
  
  Tilt
  
  The Good, Fun and better with friends good unlockables and rpg feel.
  
  The Bad, Spiderman... 
 SHUT... UP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodbore8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  I just couldn't think of a way to start this review other than saying it's just plain fun. And, 
 yes, it is. It does feel very familiar (like you're playing an edited X-Men Legends level) so it's 
 not an innovative classic but that doesn't mean it's bad. The action rpg gameplay is still a blast 
 to play. The story mode may not be innovative but the multiplayer makes up for that as you shall 
 find out in the next few paragraphs.
  
  So, well, the gameplay is pretty simple most of the game. If you try playing the earlier levels 
 on the easier difficulty level, you'll find out that you can beat the levels by just playing the 
 A and B buttons. However, if you hold down the right trigger, you'll be able to select one of four 
 special attacks. You just have to press one of the face buttons to activate the attack. The four 
 attacks are displayed on the screen with the Y button attack being on top of the rest, the B button 
 attack on the right, and so on. The attacks are represented by images so it can sometimes be tricky 
 to tell which button goes with which attack until you try it. This isn't a problem though because 
 you'll probably memorize the attacks after just playing with the same character for a short period 
 of time. The reason I said same character is because each character has a different type of special 
 attack and powers (duh!) . It's cool to try every single power you can. Flying as the Human Torch 
 or Thor is awesome compared to many other character's double jumps.
  
  The story would make any comic book geek drool. You play as one of dozens of characters trying 
 to stop Dr. Doom from carrying out his most dangerous plan ever. (Spoiler Alert: skip to the next 
 paragraph if you don't want to read this.) Dr. Doom has brought together a group of the most powerful 
 supervillains who became the Masters of Evil. You have to stop the Masters of Evil from carrying 
 out their plan of giving Dr. Doom the strongest thing in the galaxy by zapping away Odin's powers 
 giving the powers of a god.
  
  In the multiplayer aspect of the game, you can play co-op with up to 3 other people over Xbox Live 
 or on the same screen. However, the real fun of the multplayer mode is when player compete for 
 points in Arcade Mode by defeating more enemies. It's a ton of fun and does feel arcadish deep 
 down.
  
  The graphics are superb during gameplay but turn more bland and dull during certain cutscenes. 
 I said certain cutscenes because a few of the cutscenes contain the best graphics on the 360. The 
 sound department is pretty awesome too but could use a little more variety. There's only one track 
 per level. The game costs either $50 or $60 (I forgot) and it's worth that price. The game takes 
 about 25 hours to beat on the normal difficulty if you take the time to do most side quests and 
 try to collect bonus items to unlock certain characters and get achievement points. I got about 
 half the points my first play through. The controls are easy to pick up and play which is pretty 
 good for new players.
  
  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a game that's begging for your $. So why don't you listen to what 
 it's saying? You know you want it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackguy87
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance Review for the Xbox 360 By, Blackguy87
  
  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is an action RPG game that brings together the greatest and largest group 
 of superheroes from the Marvel universe. In the game, you command four heroes to combat the coalition 
 of super villains known as the Masters of Evil, lead by Dr. Doom, arch-enemy of the Fantastic Four. 
 You begin the game on a heli-carrier that is under attack with the pre-set team of some of Marvels 
 most famous heroes, Captain America, Thor, Spider-Man, and Wolverine. You can later change these 
 heroes out with other superheroes to make a combination that better suits you. There are over 20 
 playable characters and over 140 NPCs from the Marvel world that you will encounter throughout 
 the game. Some of the heroes you can choose from are: The entire Fantastic Four, Ms. Marvel, Storm, 
 Iceman, etc. You unlock six new Heroes as you progress through the game; those heroes are Dr. Strange, 
 Ghost Rider, Silver Surfer, Daredevil, Black Panther, and Nick Fury. And as a bonus to those who 
 have the Xbox 360 version, two exclusive heroes have been added, Colossus and Moon Knight. You 
 play through five acts, visiting some of the fantastic worlds only found in the Marvel universe, 
 such as Asgard, Valley of Spirits, and Atlantis.
  
  As far as hero-based games go, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is by far one of the best. If you played 
 and enjoyed the X-Men Legend games, this is a must have. It has something for everybody, for people 
 who have just started playing; the action of the game will be enough to hook you in, and for those 
 of us who have grown up with these heroes being our idols, you will instantly recognize the different 
 levels throughout the game. I thank you for reading my very first review on a game and please be 
 honest with any and all feed back you give me so that I can improve on my next one. Until next 
 time, thanks again for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  If you ever played X men legends you know what your going to get in this game. a fun RPG style 
 game that is very fun and it features your favorite Marvel Super heroes. Unlike the other 2 this 
 game features the entire Marvel universe in this game. This game features characters like Captain 
 America, Iron man, Spiderman, Thor, The Thing, Wolverine and many other mavel characters. Now they 
 have a whole new mission and storyline where Dr. Doom is the biggest threat and has taken powers 
 from the gods. The storyline is not a big deal and its not that important to the game but it does 
 give you a somewhat reason why you are in the areas fighting. This game has so many faces from 
 the Marvel Universe and its a Comic Book fan boys dream game. This game also has leveling ups like 
 in the first 2 games. You can get new moves and costumes every so often. It adds some strategy 
 to the mix and you need to pick what moves to equip and what moves to leave behind. There is also 
 power ups if you pick certain characters like the fantastic four and the Avengers. Overall this 
 game is a lot like the first 2 games and it adds new kick ass marvel guys that you can't help to 
 enjoy and play this game a lot of times to see and play as some of the best marvel characters
 
  
  Breakdown
  
  Gameplay: its very fun but sometimes get repetitive when you get to the end of the game
  Graphics: 
 Some of the CGs look great but the in game stuff looks like a high end last gen game. could def. 
 use some work Sound: The characters have voices and it uses it very well but some of the voices 
 could use some work
  Value: This game is fun while it last and should be able to finish the game in a few days
  Overall: 
 My favorite of the X men Legend series it features some of my favorite characters and this game 
 is really fun to play and teaming up America, Iron, Thing, Thor is sweet too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -hypnotixx-
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I must say as a huge comic fan this game was pleasing on many levels. It was made by the same company 
 of the x-men legends games so the controls and gameplay feel familiar, but the game is in no way 
 the same as x-men legends. The more in-depth rpg elements and character development really make 
 you feel like your playing a true action-rpg game. The story and plot is pretty much standard comic 
 book stuff so its pretty good if your into that kind of thing. As far as the action goes, the game 
 is just awesome. Each character has standard melee attacks and jumping abilities but nobody plays 
 it for that crap. Its all about each characters trademark powers, and each character has at least 
 10 or so. I recommend this game to anyone who likes games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R-LeBeau
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, this review will be presented in the sense that you've play the first two X-Men 
 Legends before for a decent amount of time (beat the campaign) .
  
  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance takes everything that was great about X-Men Legends and expands it across 
 the Marvel Universe giving you what feels like a complete package. and it is. although not without 
 its flaws however.
  
  Story: This is by far the best story of the three games. I won't tell you anything but there is 
 more than just one story going on a once and you really don't know the why's or what's until the 
 VERY end. Excellent!
  
  Graphics: The cell shaded look is gone!!!!! not that that's a bad thing but it's nice to see realistic-looking 
 versions of our Marvel heroes fighting the good fight for a change. Every little details is presented 
 in every hero, down to the stitching in Spider-man's costume or the silencer and scope on Deadpool's 
 guns. The pre-rendered cut-scenes cound NOT be any better! They look as close to the real thing 
 as possible!
  
  Gameplay/Controls: Major flaw. This is one thing everyone else fails to tell you. The many combos 
 from X-Men Legends (Triple Hit, Pop-Up, Knockback, Stun, Trip, 6-Hit, Double Hit) are gone except 
 for four (Triple Hit, Pop-Up, Stun and Trip) and they are all simplified to three button combinations. 
 THis means you'll be using the same four combos over and over again, although it's not a bad as 
 it sound but it does hurt the game. However we do get a new upgrade in fighting, Grapple moves. 
 Once u grab someone you can either punch 'em senseless or do a cool super throw.
  
  Music:
  Same good stuff like in XML. All-in-all, Yes it DOES live up to the standard of XML2. 
 Lets hope Raven and Activision keep giving us more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FearSniper
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 16, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game thinking that it was going to be the generic X-Men/Super Hero game that we've 
 all played for about fifteen minutes and decided that it was a bad choice. I was mistaken... a 
 little.
  
  I've played the X-Men titles before this and it seemed a little regurgitated. Of course there are 
 new heroes and new abilities and I still love the item and skill system. But, I have a few problems 
 with all of this. The automation system where the game picks your skills and items for you is a 
 little off. Of course Wolverine loves his +to fire damage... and the automation for picking skills 
 leaves you buffing your unhelpful AI partners.
  
  There are redeeming qualities such as the plethora of choices of character and the competitive 
 Arcade mode. Silver Surfer is much better than looking for Jubilee in the previous games. The intricate 
 story line also helps the game and doesn't make it progress like most games here's a boss, kill 
 it, move on to the next boss. I loved the fact that there were consequences for not completing 
 the side quests as well. Good touch.
  
  Overall with graphics, RPG style elements, story, sound (which like most games I play was turned 
 off after the first level) , replayability, and the cooperative features I give M: UA a 6.4 out of 
 10 (due to repetitiveness and the other aforementioned qualms) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinosha
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  Avengers assemble! This is like a treat for me, since I was an avid comic collector back during 
 the school days. Although I used to only buy X-men or X-Factor comics whenever I had the chance, 
 I wished I could read every issue from every single Marvel heroes back then. That's not possible 
 since I could only afford back dated issues from the mama shop with my own pocket money!
  
  If this title were to be released 10 years ago, it would have been a smashing side scroller. Innovative 
 beat-em ups style accompanied with upgradable special powers on every hero makes this a delicious 
 reason to gather your friends over the weekend. Variable combos, melee weapons and multiplayer 
 just add to the punch.
  
  The game hold a load of playable characters - heroes and villains alike. However, some of the characters 
 will have to be unlocked, as well as bonus power upgrades and extra comic missions, which are something 
 I really admire. You get to play a hero on a single mission based on the original comic storyline 
 and battle the arch enemy. I've had a hard time defeating Winter Soldier in Captain America's comic 
 mission.
  
  Every character is upgradable, and you can unlock outfits and a number of gears after some time. 
 Every outfit has different bonuses that can be upgraded, I especially love Iron Man's War Machine 
 and Cap's U. S. Agent outfit.
  
  Among the dozens of characters, you can create your own team of Superheroes. Pick Thor, Iron Man, 
 Ms Marvel and Captain America and you'll get The Avengers. I suppose you know who's in the team 
 of Fantastic Four too. Gain team reputation and unlock bonus upgrades when you play the story mode 
 with your team, however should you need to replace a hero then it'll cost you 50 points.
  
  This is probably the most playable game I've ever owned on the platform, and downloadable content 
 on Live Marketplace makes this game a treasure to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johndoelling
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Best way to describe this game is stevie wonder meets an action game and special olympics meets 
 an rpg game!
  
  -CONS! -the camera angles are soooo bad at times that a blind man could control his character just 
 as well as i could -RPG? really? the makers of this game probally have never played one... the gear 
 system is horrible, the rpg part of this game is soooo very very limited that i wouldn't even use 
 that as part of its genre.. -the massive amount of characters? yeah there are a bunch of characters 
 but there are alot more u can be that u need to buy after u have already spent a bundle on this 
 game in the first place... so instead of taking care of the fans who purchased your game your finding 
 more ways to stick it to them...
  
  -PROS -its superheroes -everyone likes superheroes?! -sorry not much can be said for pros.... the 
 game feels like legends, it plays like legends, well i'm sorry but technology and game design has 
 moved light years since than... i think we need to act like it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaddenBowler10
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  If there was any game where you'd like to play with Marvel Superheroes such as spiderman, wolverine, 
 and even captain america, then this would be it. very very fun rpg style beat em up. you can level 
 up and earn new upgrades and attacks for your heroes and u can even unlock new heroes. the way 
 the game plays is that the camera is in kind of a birds eye view but much much closer to your character 
 and you are always fighting along side 3 other heroes (where you can switch to them at any given 
 moment by simply pressing one of the 4 arrow buttons they are assigned to) this is a beat em up 
 type game and it is very fun to use all the powers they got and to kill bad guys. i have not beaten 
 the game yet but from what i know, it's got a lengthy single play campaign. what's kool about this 
 game is that it can even play cooperative (offline, and online) and up to 4 players. invite some 
 fr iends over and you'll have a great time playing this. graphics are good, but not next gen and 
 the presentation is really really uneven and can be quite annoying at times. gameplaywise is definetely 
 fun and the value of this game is pretty high considering the replay value and the lengthy campaign 
 and online play. i definetely recommend getting this game and although i think $60 is expensive 
 for this game, i still think if you got the money then get it. (see ifthey got it used first) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BREITENBUCHER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  it already was a game i could not put down, even thow i passed it long before. all the charcters 
 left to play with and upgrade. and now with this downloadable 8 players makes the game a must have! 
 (you have to have cyclopes !) i wish they also had gambit. but mybe they will later on. but i wish 
 you could download more levels and traning courses as well. it would be good indeed. i think that 
 this game has all the charc ters will love from the comics and movies. a good mix. maybe new fans 
 of the movies and comics can see the legends and real heros that made comics so good. like captain 
 america! he needs no movie! hes the cap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertipopp
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 6, 2007 2:22 am PT
Review:  Marvel ultimate alliance is the third game in the X-men legends series which reinvented the hack 
 and slash genre. With a wide array of heroes and villains the game packs in trivia for the diehard 
 fans and newcomers might just walk away knowing more about the marvel world.
  
  Gameplay- there a two basic attacks, heavy and light, but these can be chained together to create 
 a variety of different combos and effects. You also have around ten super powers which cost energy 
 to use but can boost stats (or decrease your enemies) , damage enemies, destroy whole environments 
 and even turn enemies into crates. By killing enemies you get experience and you can level up to 
 receive points to strengthen your stats and powers. The level up system will be familiar to anyone 
 who's played an rpg before. You can also equip certain gear but this isn't a major feature. Heroes- 
 Marvel ultimate alliance has a respectable roster of heroes with familiar faces, spiderman, wolverine 
 and Colossus, with some less familiar faces, spider woman, Elektra and doctor strange. There's 
 also some unlockable heroes up for grabs and overall creates a good selection of heroes
  
  Villains- As they say a hero is only as good as his villain and the villains in this game are great. 
 They cover not only the well known ones, Doctor doom, Scorpion and shocker, but also has some less 
 well known villains like arcade and loki. There's a great amount of boss fights and several involve 
 action sequences where you have to press buttons at the right time to avoid failure, like the wildly 
 popular resident evil series
  
  Graphics- MUA employs an odd comic style of graphic which will be no surprise to fans of the series 
 but can be offputting to newcomers. However the game also employs FMV movies, the type that takes 
 a long time to get right. Needless to say they look amazing an tell the plot in a quick overview 
 for people who don't want to trawl though the game talking to every character they meet.
  
  Graphics, artistic- Artistically the level designs are great and there's a huge variety to them, 
 from the halls of asgard to a moonbase to a giant pinball machine to doom's castle. The levels 
 are all quite large, often offering several paths and there's a myriad of secrets to find in them.
 
  
  Sound- the voice acting is solid and each character sounds like the should, although many off the 
 side characters sound a bit odd. Particular praise should go to arcade though as he sounds every 
 bit as mad as he is. The powers all sound good although none really stand out. The music is good 
 on the whole, suitably atmospheric, and the main tune sounds excellent, similar to something in 
 the KOTOR soundtrack.
  
  Misc.- . You can get three extra costumes by leveling up and each alters the characters appearance 
 and strengths. As well as that you can unlock special danger discs which put in a scenario with 
 only one character and a set of objectives. Still perhaps my favourite part of the character customisation 
 is the ability to create your team of superheros, name them and get extra bonuses for your team. 
 It helps make the whole experience more immersive and combined with the games clever and well thought 
 out achievements there's enough here to last a long time
  
  Conclusion-Many of the games greatest strengths are in the subtleties, how certain combinations 
 of hero's gain bonuses, how stronger characters can pick up smaller enemies and user them as weapons, 
 how theres a great variety of objects to pick up and throw, how you can grapple with an enemy for 
 his weapon It all improves the overall game and creates an impression that a lot of time was spent 
 working on improving the smaller parts of the game and it really shines through 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Review: Marvel Ultimate Alliance (360)
  
  I am a huge fan of the X-men Legends series of games, and when I heard that the next installment 
 was not going to feature the X-men, I was sad, but when I heard that it was going to feature the 
 greatest heroes of the Marvel Universe I got psyched! Will this game live up to my expectations 
 or will it be a chink of the armor of Raven Software?
  
  Story:
  Dr Doom has attacked the S. H. I. E. L. D. Helicarrier and it is up to the world's greatest superheroes 
 to stop him and his plot from taking place or it is the end of life as we know it on Earth. But 
 wait he has enlisted some of the greatest villains to stop you before you can stop him. Can our 
 heroes prevail against such overwhelming odds? Or will Doom rule the Earth again?
  
  Graphics:
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance looks great on the 360, and drops the cell shaded look that 
 was predominant in the X-men legends games, opting for a more realistic look for Ultimate Alliance, 
 the stages are rich with detail, and look extremely good. The heroes look great and stay true to 
 their comic book looks, each character has at least 4 outfits, depicting different points in the 
 heroes career, which reminds of how far some of our favorites have come.
  
  Music:
  Well the music in Marvel Ultimate Alliance gets the job done, but as with the X-men Legends games, 
 they are far from amazing. That being the music starts to grind its way into your head with all 
 the subtlety of blunt force trauma if you stick around in a stage for too long. And what is worse 
 is that it still cuts out during some boss fights. Come on guys this is the next generation of 
 gaming, I understand that you are on a deadline, and all but I am sure that you could have at least 
 fixed this problem with a patch by now. Well at least the voice acting is still spot on when it 
 come to the characters, and the sound affects sound like what you would think they would sound 
 like. These two things combined make the music bearable, and are what really draw you into the 
 game.
  
  Control:
  If you loved how everything played in the X-men Legends series than you now know what to expect, 
 and are more than happy to take off and start running with the control scheme that we are all accustomed 
 to by now. But there are a few changes that vets should be made aware of. First and for most flying 
 characters can now fly indefinitely and are not limited by the leveling up aspects like they were 
 in the original game, however this is now mostly pointless unless you are a long range fighter 
 like Storm (from the X-Men) , or Iron Man. Second gone are the life potions, and energy potions 
 that we were used in X-men Legends, and now we must pluck health and energy from our enemies as 
 we defeat them, or knock a boss down a quarter of their health, this proves both nice and annoying, 
 since I saved those for the boss fights, but it was nice not having to worry about your health 
 and your comrades health most of the time. The AI is improved, but it is still not smart enough 
 to help you out in some boss fights, but that is remedied thanks to allowing you to do Co-Op with 
 others over Xbox Live. And finally Cheap over the edge deaths still apply but are far less frequent 
 than they used to be. So to be blunt, there is more control over your party than ever before in 
 Ultimate Alliance.
  
  Design:
  Once again Raven Software has done a great job with this game, and with the exception of some flaws 
 they have made another quality product with Marvel Ultimate Alliance. They have done what they 
 needed to and fixed some of the problems with the game, and made the game better. And one of the 
 things I like the most about this game is that they included more puzzles into this game, and made 
 it a challenge to figure out. Brilliant, it is about time that you started incorporation more puzzles 
 into these games. But here are some things that might make the next game (and there will be one 
 better) . Most of us know our Favorite hero's background story, so why are we forced to relive it 
 in every conversation out of a stage? More heroes! Unlocking characters is cool and all but when 
 the characters that I have to unlock are my favorites, it tends to lead to frustration (especially 
 when the one you really want to play may never be unlocked unless you complete a series of missions 
 that you have to find in every stage in the game and then beat these extra missions, or use a cheat 
 code which renders your achievements unattainable) , and finally purchasing power ups for characters 
 is a must in this game, but why oh why do we have to also purchase extra powers depending on the 
 costume that a character is wearing? But I gripe because I love because all in all they did a good 
 job despite my gripes, and I really enjoy this game.
  
  This is a game that 360 owners should check out, and Marvel fans will lust after. Be sure to at 
 least rent this game, it will appeal to most but it may not appeal to all.
  
  Graphics
  9/10
  
  Game play
  8/10
  
  Sound
  7/10
  
  Fun factor
  10/10
  
  Tilt
  9/10
 
  
  Average score
  8.6
  
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance (360) :
  
  Pros:
  More characters you actually want to play (sorry Bishop)
  Xbox Live Co-op
  More puzzles
  
 The same game play we know and love
  All the fun we know and love
  
  Cons:
  Cheap deaths still exist
  Computer AI is improved, but still needs work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  This may not look like a great game to many people who don't like super hero games, but really 
 it is a great game. It is really fun and you can choose from many super heroes from MARVELS best 
 comics. You can fight many of the villians from previous comic adventures. Every hero has a super 
 ability like Deadpool's Merc's Revenge that can clear hordes of enemies extremely fast turning 
 the battle to your favor very quickly. You may want to try all the heroes to see the best combo 
 is for you. The game can be really easy once you start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raton
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  The core game play is simple and uniform across all of the characters in the game but the visual 
 effects of the special attacks and the team play makes this game fun all the time. After spending 
 days of play with my son we have begun to pick up on using each characters skills together to get 
 past the tougher sections of the game and have of course found our favorite players. With so many 
 heroes to choose from and the mystery of who is still to be unlocked, I'm keeping it interesting 
 by not looking it up, we have turned the game into our own weekly pit-stop of father/son video 
 gaming nirvana. The ability to drop in and out and any time and save at virtually any point in 
 the game has made it our favorite pick up and play/drop it when we need to game of the day. Aiming 
 with ranged weapons could be tightened up and some varied animations through the standard attacks 
 would make a world of difference to the game play but all in all, enjoyable for what it is.. button 
 mashing mayhem!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-cubano
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  The characters in the gam are all different and have their own special ability and is very good 
 for everyne who like superheroes. You can play online together and beat the game with a friend 
 from another country. It's agame where you can just sit back and relax, it's ot that game that 
 makes you have to jump out your seat and scream COME ON PLEASE!! all day. It's a great game and 
 makes play for fun and not competition. Special powers never looked so cool, this is not a game 
 only for children grown p fans can get addicted to it aswell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iamryohasuki
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  This game made me proud to be a Marvel fan boy. Marvel Ultimate Alliance is an extraordinary action 
 RPG made by Raven Studios, the previous creators of the X-Men legends series. The game brings every 
 corner of the Marvel Universe into one storyline; hell of a job too.
  
  In this RPG you get the opportunity to choose between a wide cast of memorable Marvel heroes and 
 level them throughout the story. You can create a team of four heroes and also level the team as 
 a group. The new feature My Team allows you to create a team of superheroes, from the name all 
 the way to the roster. While the team levels, you get reputation points which allow you to give 
 bonus to the team.
  
  The game play itself is solid. There are three attack buttons, a block/dodge button, and a spell 
 button. Pressing the A button allows for a quick strike attack, the B button is a powerful charge 
 attack, and the X is your grapple attack. Combining the buttons allows for some sick combos for 
 maximum damage. Holding the right trigger pulls up your spells list; you can have up to three spells 
 out with your extreme. Each hero has a wide verity of spells to use and upgrade, so you can have 
 a brute or a ranger. The enemies can bring a challenge at times, but the boss battles are what 
 make this game fun. You fight countless memorable villains in this game; each bringing a new sense 
 of difficulty.
  
  The graphics are stunning, especially the cut scenes. Raven does a nice job of turning the famous 
 2-D world into a 3-D masterpiece. From Stark tower to the Skrull planet, you feel as if you are 
 in the comics. The lighting is great; making the surroundings feel creepy to energetic.
  
  The sound is another good aspect of the game. The voice overs are well done, and the cheesy lines 
 from the heroes make you laugh. You can hear Deadpool when he is out of manna quoting, Im out of 
 power, but Im rich in vitamin C The sound effects make your pulse pound and you can feel the hits 
 the heroes lay out on the enemy.
  
  The Co-Op and multiplayer is a blast. You can play with four heroes or go in Arcade Mode and just 
 play with one friend. Over Xbox live you can load your single player game and have people join 
 in and help.
  
  There are a ton of solid achievements to get in this game and they bring a challenge to the game 
 itself.
  
  Overall Marvel Ultimate Alliance of one hell of a game, and if your a Marvel Fan Boy like myself; 
 you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njdss4
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  I find writing Pros and Cons reviews get the points across easier and faster, so here they are.
 
  
  Pros
  1. Incredible amount of superheroes to choose from and every one of them has their uses. No worthless 
 characters.
  2. Each superhero's powers relate perfectly to the character and any team of 4 can beat the game.
 
  3. Training simulator lets you build up your levels whenever you want. Finding the discs throughout 
 the levels to unlock new training missions is fun and rewarding. Missions that are Hero specific 
 (aka Storm only or Luke Cage only) give rewards to that character for completing them like stat 
 bonuses, hero skins, and free talent points.
  4. Graphics look better than X-Men Legends, but still keep that comic book character look.
  5. 
 Voice-overs are incredibly well done. Although it's not Tobey Maguire doing Spider-Man or Patrick 
 Stewart doing Professor X, they still sound great.
  6. Environments have lots of destructible parts. Using area effect powers won't just kill your 
 enemies, they'll take out some walls, too!
  7. Boss battles are varied and never boring. It's almost never a case of just beating the boss 
 down, it's having to do it in a unique way that makes sense to the weakness of the villain you're 
 fighting.
  8. Resurrecting fallen teammates is free in this game, unlike XML. You just have to wait 5 minutes.
 
  9. My Team feature is really well done. Being able to put together your own team of heroes and 
 give them earned stat bonuses of your choosing throughout the game is a nice addition.
  10. Being able to take back skill points you've used and put them into other skills whenever you 
 want is great. Lets you experiment with other abilities without wasting points.
  
  Cons
  1. Your teammates' AI is abysmal. It takes all 3 of them to take out one enemy, and it takes 3 
 or 4 times longer than it would for you to do it by yourself. They'll also randomly walk themselves 
 off of cliffs and die for no reason. Good thing you can resurrect them for free. Team Commands 
 (using the D-Pad) work completely at random. Sometimes your teammates will listen to your calls 
 for help or to follow, and other times they'll stand around and do nothing during a boss battle.
 
  
  If you don't believe me, stand back and watch them fight for a minute. You'll see what I mean.
 
  
  2. Having to break every single jar, box, and piece of the environment looking for S. H. I. E. L. D. 
 credits gets really tiresome after a while.
  3. Your teammates don't need to follow you around when you're back at base. More often than not, 
 they'll get in your way. They don't move if you run into them, and sometimes all 3 of them surround 
 you forcing you to switch control to a different hero just so you can move.
  4. Jumping is glitchy. I've gotten stuck in mid-air, stuck in walls, or on top of enemies/allies. 
 Also, you can't jump up stairs. If you try to, you'll get all the way to the top before sliding 
 all the way back down to the bottom.
  5. Health percentage bonuses increase your max, but don't bring up your current total to match. 
 This means every time you load into a different area your heroes will be missing a chunk of their 
 life (the game recalculates the +% bonuses every zone change) . When you have upwards of +40% health 
 like I do, losing that much of your health every time you change areas is a pain in the ass. Especially 
 when you're entering an area with a boss in it.
  
  OKAY, obviously the Pros outweigh the Cons heavily, but the Cons could have been worked out before 
 this game came out. These problems have existed since the first XML and should have been fixed 
 by now. Worth a purchase if you can find it for less than retail, otherwise just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Filaki
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 1, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  First, the good: this is the most immersive superhero game, period. Being able to choose from a 
 large roster of superheroes and creating your own team is just bliss. There are a whole bunch of 
 characters who are all represented properly. The gameplay is identical to xmen legends, but that's 
 not a bad thing. The only innovation is interactive cutscenes, like in God of War, where you have 
 to press a sequence of buttons to defeat certain bosses. The sound is amazing. There are so many 
 combinations of heroes and so many ways to approach battles, that it will keep you occupied for 
 some time. This also means that there is lots of replay value and that's not considering the already 
 long duration of the game.
  
  The bad: although the roster is large, there is nowhere near as many characters as they were promised. 
 about 20 rather than 140 as it was advertised. The graphics look like a shinier version of xmen 
 legends, which is a shame. the rpg elements have been toned down somewhat compared to xmen legends 
 too. the game feels more like a straight-up brawler. buy this game, it really worths is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_mcguire
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 31, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is quite simply one of , if not the best, superhero games ever made. 
 It has hordes of characters to play as, gorgeous graphics, deep gameplay, and a story that takes 
 you to the best-of in the Marvel universe. There must be upwards of 20 characters to playas, including 
 the people you woudl expect (Spider-Man, Wolverine, Captain America) , and some you wouldn't expect 
 (Moon Knight, Spider Woman) . Although the gameplay boils down to palin old beat 'um up, there are 
 loads of special moves, and several combos, whihc although they may sounds boring, aren't. Anyone 
 that likes Marvel MUST pick this game up. Anyone whose not interested in Marvel MUST pickthis up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeinSC2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  As a fan of the PS2 Baldur's Gate variations, the X-Men Legends titles, and Diablo for the PC, 
 I can truly appreciate a hack-and-slash.
  
  M: UA is the best hack-and-slasher I've played in a while. The graphics are outstanding and the 
 visuals are actually pretty good. The selection of characters is quite robust, with some notable 
 omissions that, thankfully, are being addressed by a content download. You even get some moderately 
 obscure characters, such as Moon Knight to play. The enemies do seem to be repetitive, but the 
 sheer chaos on screen makes it hard to notice it. The frame rate, astonishingly, stays rather consistent 
 even with tons of explosions on screen. Some characters, admittedly, do seem to be overly powerful 
 --- Captain America, with a fully powered shield attack, is nearly untouchable. While the game 
 ITSELF is not overly difficult, the bonus comic missions ARE significantly difficult. Spider-Man's 
 mission is an exercise in difficulty that is truly incredible. Mr. Fantastic's mission is hardly 
 easy, either. And the search for alternate outfits is not just a sheer waste of time as the different 
 costumes present different statistical upgrades to the character. Black Spider-Man and Red-and-blue 
 Spider-Man do not play identically. You can also mix-and-match teams, each with different benefit 
 attributes.
  
  If I had to nitpick, I'd say the multiplayer is a problem. Lag is a huge problem with the title 
 and makes co-op missions nearly unplayable. I've never NOT had lag while trying multiplayer, so 
 I'm going to have to guess it's not just my connection as it's not a problem in all games. Also, 
 the Pitfall game was bad, but it only lasted 3 minutes, so it is very nit-picky to mention it.
 
  
  You really cannot do much better than this title. It is an absolute blast to play. Highly playable. 
 I highly recommend it to anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayers228
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Spiderman, Thor, Captain America, The Thing, Deadpool, Blade, Moon Knight, Mr. Fantastic, Wolverine, 
 Colossus, Ghost Rider, Daredevil, Black Panther, and Iron Man plus more (most of which you've never 
 heard of) in one game!!!
  
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance has superheros around the globe joining forces to stop Dr. Doom from of 
 course taking over the world. But he isnt alone as he has assembled the most ruthless villians 
 the world has to offer (ud think Adolf Hitler and Charlie Manson would be in his crew) this includes 
 Loki, Galactus, Arcade and many many more. But you start out with Spiderman, Capt. America, Thor, 
 and Wolverine till you get to your first checkpoint/save spot then you have 20+ characters to chose 
 from as you battle a villian army.
  
  The game is most deffinitly a beat em up game but it has a very well done RPG side to it as you 
 level up your cast of superheros. They learn more moves gain HP and strength and well you know 
 all that good stuff. With 20+ characters your probably wondering how am i going to keep all there 
 levels moderatly close to one another in case i need a switch up, well have to fear as the game 
 automatically levels up heros not selected (usually keeps them 1 to 3 levels lower) . As you level 
 up you get points which you can use to learn new moves such as Spidermans Web Bullets or Capt. 
 Americas shield throw, after learning such moves you can then make them stronger and more useful. 
 There is an auto level feature which will distribute those hard earned points to skills an stats 
 at random but most people will want to customize their hero as they see fit, turning off the auto 
 level is easy as pie.
  
  Along side the main story there is many simulater discs you will find that can be played at the 
 safehouse these discs add a nice touch to the game as it goes further into detail about your heros 
 background and will pick one of there most memorable battles for you to play in. I think there 
 are around 36 discs each very very different.
  
  The Graphics for this game are decent but good have had a few touch ups done to them, but it runs 
 alot more smoothly than its PS2 counterpart.
  
  The game offers many involed and challenging boss fights and has several mini-games that give it 
 a change of pace.
  
  Levels are designed very well as you will be fighting in many locations such as Dr. Dooms castle 
 or Alantis's underwater city.
  
  The CO-OP is probably one of the most enjoyable and fun modes of the game as you can have up to 
 four friends play as a different hero and will gain money an exp. points individually which kinda 
 even gives it a competative feel.
  
  Not the best game out for the 360 but man it is prolly one the most enjoyable, entertaining games 
 money can buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I thought that this was a pretty good Marvel game. That said, it is not unlike the previous Marvel 
 dungeon crawls . It is very good at allowing you to select your own team, and very forgiving when 
 you are about to die, you can use the portal system to warp out and select some new team members. 
 This makes the game a little easier than it could or should have been, but it was fun. The achievements 
 were definitely the reason that I finished the game though. The story was good, but not compelling 
 enough to finish without the points. The graphics were good, but nothing awesome. One of the worst 
 things about the game was that when you mapped new powers to a button, it did not keep it. I was 
 forever going back to re-map, thinking that I had one power when I did not.
  
  This is a good game, but get it used or rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 19, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  okay it's a dungeon crawler, and yes we've seen it all before. m/u/a changes it up by appealing 
 to dorks everywhere. stat building of individuals can fast become as addictive as crack. also unlocking 
 all the playable characters costumes and abilities will contribute heavily to sleep deprivation. 
 but it's worth every subsequent workday yawn. raven did a very good job putting this game together. 
 one really has to hand it to them.
  
  the upgrades of each character's special abilities will have you brawling for days. collision could 
 use some work, and a passive lockon would have been nice... but oh well. these are minor gripes 
 in what is otherwise a stellar title... not because it does superheroes right, but because it's 
 unadulterated fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 15, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  UA is a cool game. It's great that they've included so many different playable characters. But, 
 separate the hype from the reality. This game is far from perfect.
  
  UA is not exactly innovative. It is a simple button masher. And, I mean that in the most literal 
 sense. During fights, I just mash away on the two attack buttons (occasionally throwing in a jump 
 attack for good measure,) and this technique is pretty much fool-proof.
  
  The graphics are mediocre. Aside from a few cut scenes that are done extremely well, it looks like 
 you're playing a backwards compatible X-box game, not a game for the next-gen console.
  
  Also, the writing is god-awful. This includes both the story and the dialogue. The story is a jumbled 
 mess featuring the heroes (and yes, the bad guys keep referring to you as heroes) against the Masters 
 of Evil. I mean, come on, who would call themselves evil ? They may as well have a thin mustache 
 that they pull at before bellowing a diabolical laugh. It's a caricature of comic books -- bad 
 writing that should have been left behind in the 70s. Oh, and dialogue is just as bad.
  
  That all being said, the score is the best music I've ever heard in a game. Yes, it's that good. 
 The kind of stuff you'd expect from a quality superhero film.
  
  Plus, at the end of the day, playing all the different heroes makes it worth it. I'm focusing a 
 lot on the negatives, but the game is fun to play around with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tooshay17
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 14, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  This game is most definately much better than ravens other similar productions, x-men legends 1 
 and 2. It has a much more user-friendly interface and the storyline sucks you in and makes you 
 part of it. The story begins with a stunning opening sequence as the S. H. I. E. L. D. helicarrier is 
 being attacked by the masters of evil who are being led by none other than doctor doom himself. 
 You start off with a four man team containing Captain America, Thor, Wolverine and your friendly 
 neighbourhood Spiderman. The fighting controls are easy to master and the players are easy to control 
 but the sudden drastic change in graphic quality from the opening sequence seems to lessen the 
 experience. As the game progresses, you can unlock many more characters from teams like the x-men, 
 the avengers and the fantastic four with some added surprise characters. After a few levels you 
 gain the ability to create your own team with its own bonuses. You are allowed to give it an original 
 name and then an original symbol. Then as the game progresses you can use exp points to power up 
 your teams abilities. Overall, this game is a classic and you can play it for hours on end without 
 getting bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 7, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I was very suprised with this game. So many playable characters and each with their own unique 
 moves and abilities keeps the game fresh. You can swap out characters at any time, unlock characters, 
 and unlock up to 4 different outfits for each character. The game has a great story, a great variety 
 of levels with puzzles and boss fights, and a very lengthy campaign makes this game definitly worth 
 your money. This is a rpg/action game if you didn't know already, so you gain experience and coins 
 to upgrade your character. The graphics are also superb! I highly recommend this game if you haven't 
 played so already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 5, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is the newest Marvel game by Raven stuidos which also made X-Men Legends 
 1 and 2. Like the Legends games Alliance has the same hack and slash gameplay with rpg elements. 
 Anyone who played the X-Men Legends games will feel right at home with Alliance. I was able to 
 jump right into the game and had no problems with anything. In fact all of the small improvements 
 make this game alot more refined I think. The best thing about Alliance is that your not stuck 
 with just the X-Men, they are a great team and they have cool villains but now you get 20+ playable 
 super heros and there are a ton of different super villains from different comic book lines. For 
 me this keep the game from getting old and added to the replay value.
  
  As I mentioned above the core gameplay elements in Alliance are the same as in the Legends games. 
 You build a team of four super heros and hack and slash your way through levels. As you defeat 
 enemies you will get experince which you can use to gain new mutant powers and increase the power 
 of those abilities. You can also upgrade your powers by spending S. H. I. E. L. D. credits but this 
 gets really expensive very quickly. Those credits are better spent on upgrading the three or four 
 different outfits available to each super hero. Each outfit has different bonuses like health regen, 
 increased melee attack power, increased defense, and stat boost. You unlock outfits by racking 
 up kills with a super hero and by completing their training mission at the training computer which 
 is at your HQ.
  
  By far the best improvement in this game over the Legends games is the amount of super heros you 
 can play as. I like the X-Men alot but there is only a few I would want to play as. In Alliance 
 you can play as the X-Men, Fantastic Four, Avengers, New Avengers, or create your own team. Being 
 able to create your own team is a new feature in Alliance. You pick four heros, create a name for 
 your team and select a team symbol. As you play your team will gain experince that you can spend 
 on upgrades like increased team health, energy, damage, XP bonus, or increasing the number of members 
 in your team. You can only have four heros on screen at a time but you can swap out members at 
 S. H. I. E. L. D. access points. If you swap a member for another hero that isn't a member of your created 
 team it will cost you team experince, you can swap out members of your created team with no cost 
 to experince. For example I really like Wolverine, Captain America, and Iron Man so I knew I wanted 
 to play as the New Avenger. I selected those three and then picked Luke Cage. Later I added another 
 roster slot so I could add Spider-Man to my team and rotate Luke Cage and Spider-Man as my fourth 
 on screen member. Also, you get bonuses if you play as a actual Marvel team, for example Avengers 
 get a damage bonus and New Avengers get a resistance bonus.
  
  Other changes to Alliance from the Legends games are you no longer get to store health and energy 
 units. When you kill a enemy or destroy a box or whatever health and energy orbs will come out 
 and go the hero that needs them the most. Each hero can now only be equiped with one piece of gear 
 which helps to clean up the inventory screen and makes it more simple.
  
  Alliance for the most part looks great on the 360. The levels look good, the CG cut scenes look 
 awesome, the heros on the selection screen look great but during gameplay heros and villains look 
 ok. They animate well but their costumes don't have that shine to them anymore. The picutes of 
 your heros that are displayed on the hud look like they were developed for the original XBOX.
 
  
  The sound overall is good, all the punches, kicks, and explosions sound ok. I think most if not 
 all are recycled from the Legends games. Background music is good and most of the voice acting 
 is done very well.
  
  As far as value goes, I'm not one to really replay games that often. If I do it's probably been 
 a few years between play sessions. I played Alliance three times, the first two were back to back 
 with the third not to long after the second play through. After beating the game for the first 
 time there was so many super heros I couldn't wait to start the game over with a new team. After 
 I unlocked hard mode I played through the game for a third time with my New Avengers just to get 
 the achivement points but it was starting to get a little old. One nice thing about starting a 
 new game is that you can import your stats from another save file. So when I started playing on 
 hard my New Avengers were already at level 50.
  
  Overall Marvel: Ultimate Aliance is a great game and is a must play for any Marvel comics fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is from Raven Software, the same people who brought us X - Men Legends, 
 and X - Men Legends 2. Those games were great, but they had flaws. Ultimate Alliance builds on 
 the good qualities of those games, and the end result is just plain fun.
  
  The game sports a large army of Heroes form the Marvel universe. Just about everyone is here, from 
 Spider Man to Luke Cage. You basically have your team of 4 heroes to create, and level up accordingly. 
 The leveling up system is fairly simple, you fight, gain exp, and level up. Once you've leveled 
 up you upgrade your teams individual moves, or buy new ones. It's not a timley process and makes 
 the game feel less like an RPG and more like an action game, which is good because when you think 
 Marvel you think action.
  
  The cool part about having all of these heroes is that you can choose your team. Certain teams 
 though get bonuses. For example, if you choose the Fantastic 4, you'll get a bonus. Or if you choose 
 all X - Men, you'll get a bonus. A lot of hidden things like that are involved, like using Spider 
 Man and Wolverine, you'll get a bonus.
  
  While the game has a large variety of heroes, it also has a large variety of villians to fight. 
 Basically Dr. Doom is trying to take over the universe and he's recruited some of Marvels nastiest 
 villians ranging from Loki to Blackheart. It's nice to see to the classic good vs evil here so 
 clearly. The games story isn't anything spectacular, but it moves you along at a steady pace that 
 isn't exactly boring. You'll find some of the dialogue cheesy, but with Dr. Doom always monologing 
 it isn't anything new. The unique thing about the story however is that it's fairly written. Through 
 certain parts of the game you'll be forced to make decisions which will make parts of the ending 
 different. It gives the game a slight replay value. Another unique part of the story is that you'll 
 be taken all of the place. You'll go into outer space, visit the Norse lands, and even Atlantis. 
 It's nice to not be dungeon crawling anymore. The game sports 4 players co-op online, and 4 players 
 co-op on one system. It's a great game to sit down with some friends and save the world. Online 
 play is excellent. And co-op on one unit is great. Just like Legends, it's a lot of fun. If you 
 have no friends, you'll still enjoy the game, the AI controls the other 3 heroes, and you switch 
 between them on the fly.
  
  Overall, this game is great. Any marvel fan will appreciate it because it brings some of our favorite 
 heroes in one package. The locations, stories, and characters make it a must play for any marvel 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zahpod42
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a great game for anyone, but it is exceptionally great for anyone who 
 is, or has been, a fan of Marvel comics or the string of hit movies that have been released in 
 the last ten years.
  
  First off, the graphics are fantastic! There are only about five CGI cut-scenes in the game, mostly 
 in the latter half, but they are all fantastic. The last three are especially moving for any long-time 
 fan of Marvel. The in-game graphics are also top notch. The bulk of what passes for cut-scenes 
 though, mostly dialogue scenes between characters, are not CGI, and they unfortunately look like 
 pretty bad, which is strange considering the effort that was obviously put into every other aspect 
 of the game.
  
  The gameplay is fantastic, with so many variations of so many characters that each have unique 
 combat moves and powers. Speaking of the powers, they are faithful to the characters from the comics, 
 and give the game immense replay value as youll want to try the game with most if not each of 
 the characters.
  
  As for storyline and plot: for the first half of the game I didnt really give too much importance 
 to it. But as the last half of the game played out, I was really caught up in the epic events that 
 were unfolding as I played.
  
  The game is just chock full of Marvel trivia and history. There are plenty of moments of comic 
 relief if you pay attention as well. Make sure you stick around for the credits, as there is a 
 really funny five minute or so audio-play that takes place at the end.
  
  All in all, this was just a really great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madditude
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  To start my first judgement may have been a little smeared by the fact that the first time i played 
 the game i was in hospital, suffering from a serious lung condition so forgive me if u dont agree. 
 At first pick up i found the game boring, repetitive and overly limiting, with virtually no options 
 by ways of attack and confusing camera angles, especially when playing co-op play. However, once 
 i gave this game a chance i was sorely mistaken. The gameplay becomes incredibly addictive once 
 u begin to accumulate new powers and abilities, and in a strange twist i found myself going from 
 cant pick it up to cant put it down. As far as the gameplay is concerned it does get slightly repetitive, 
 but the array of characters and powers, not to mention the odd urge to destroy all who stand in 
 ur way simply because theyre evil make up for this. This is especially true when playing with the 
 likes of Thor and Cap America who can throw a weapon thatll dispose of five guys in seconds. The 
 fighting is also very open compared to the XML titles, which can be both good and bad. The good 
 comes from the sheer number of villains that can be onscreen and the abilities that can be pulled 
 off thanks to a great, open distance like cap's shield throw. However the bad comes when playing 
 co-op or fighting bosses in single player, and the screen is so stretched ur unknowingly beating 
 up a defenseless wall. Altogether these events should be few and far between but they can be annoying. 
 I am only a recent venturer in the comics world and so are unfamiliar with many of the characters 
 backstories and powers. I know the basics like Thor, Cap America, Wolverine etc... but the likes 
 of Electra, Dr Strange and Luke Cage have an odd inconspicuous quality in this game that makes 
 u (me anyway) not just not use them, but actually makes u hate them. I used all three briefly and 
 i found not one cud put up a fight against most standard villains. This applies especially to Electra 
 whose attacks are all melee based, yet are so weak, she ends up being easily double teamed and 
 left on the floor. Other characters surprised me however, such as Moon Knight and Spider-Woman. 
 Both seemed to be hopeless throw ins to me, but i quickly discovered both are excellent in combat 
 and definite members of my team. Others walk the line like Human Torch, Colossus and Thing. All 
 have decent powers but lack the refinement to use them as effectively as they shud be. Colossus 
 in particular is supposed to be a hard hitter, yet his best abilities are when fighting individuals 
 and are useless against bosses. You will quickly find yourself leaning towards a select few characters 
 and freezing out the others you dislike or simply dont use. Everyone will be different but to me 
 the best team tended to be Wolverine, Captain America, Spider-Woman and Iron Man. Reserves were 
 Thor, Moon Knight and Spider-Man. Unlockables are decent enuff, with Black Panther, Daredevil and 
 Silver Surfer all making good editions tour roster, however theyll likely be the last thing you'll 
 do, before putting the game away for good. An unfortunate truth, but after completing it the first 
 time, and maybe the second its unlikely ull wanna pick it up again. Graphics and sound are fine. 
 Graphics wise its a vast improvement compared to even the current gen versions. The soundtrack 
 is fine, no Halo but it fits with the surroundings and so few wil have a problem with it. Altogether 
 its quite a good game, above average, but lacking that final element that makes it superb. Perhaps 
 a few better characters, or at least more evenly matched ones cud have made it better, but its 
 still worthy any game fan's time, particularly a marvel comic's fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TuneSeeker
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  I played this entire game with two of my friends. The way co-operative mode is set up in Marvel 
 Ultimate Alliance (MUA) , it is easy and fun to play non-stop with multiple players.
  
  With dozens of characters from the Marvel Universe, I never grew bored of the same old characters. 
 Each character can be deeply customized and chosen by each individual player. Letting you choose 
 your favorite (s) in order to beef them up.
  
  The levels were constantly adventurous, and changing at a good pace. The game was challenging enough 
 at times with bosses and mini bosses, helping because beating up hords and hords of enemies just 
 can get annoying.
  
  The game was incredibly fun, but the game didn't go out with a giant bang. The game was kind of 
 the same throughout the entire five acts, and this is why I gave the gameplay an 8.
  
  Graphics: 8
  The graphics were decent to fairly good for the Diablo type of play. Never bad graphics 
 indeed. And the cut scenes definatly used what the 360 is made out of. Sound: 8
  Some of the lines were a bit cheesey, but hell. It is comic book characters haha. The voicing was 
 good, and sound effects were okay. Nothing too fantastic though.
  
  Value: 9
  This game has rightfully earned it's nine in Value. I can come back and play this game a few times, 
 especially if a few of the guys are over and we have nothing else or new to play. The game is fun 
 for all ages, and Raven has rightfully earned my respect. Great Game :)
  
  Tilt: 9
  9 out of 10 on TuneSeeker's game scale 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dupe576
Rating: 2.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game from blockbuster. Worst 8 dollars i ever spent in my life. This game is so boring 
 it made me want to puke. All you do is run up to enemies and button mash. No challenge whatsoever. 
 I thought maybe if I played it long enough that i'd develop a taste for it. Nope. I don't know 
 who they bribed at gamespot to give it the review that it got, but this game just sucks. If this 
 game was summed up with one question I think it would be: how fast can you press your A button? 
 Well, I got a better question: who cares? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enginwolf04
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 22, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  Tired of hack and slash games? So am I.... from Baldur's Gate console games to poor quality games 
 like Legion of Excalibur, or whatever it was called, I almost gave up on the repetitive games, 
 all in similar settings. While Marvel: Ultimate Alliance may not completely change your mind about 
 this tried and true formula for this genre of games, it provides a great (read: different) setting, 
 a large cast of Marvel Superheroes, NPCs, and Supervillains, and a lengthy fun campaign with a 
 very interesting  plot. Overall, this game delivers on 
 action, story, and interesting extras. What else would you want in a game?
  
  The story in this game is the best one I've experienced since playing a certain role playing game 
 called Oblivion. That's almost a year.... regardless, the addition of alternate situations embedded 
 within an fictional-factional plot makes for very interesting moments in a game that you would 
 expect would focus on action. With so many characters in a game, supposedly a claim of 130+ Marvel 
 characters within the game, you can't expect the boys and girls at Raven Software to construct 
 a decent and deep plot. The mish-mash of simultaneous plots works to the game's advantage, providing 
 hours of entertainment and WOW moments. Far above an average plot, especially nowadays, when plot 
 is eschewed for action. I'm not going to spoil it for anyone....
  
  The graphics are by and large pleasant at the default scale of the game. Everyone wants to see 
 their favorite superhero at a life-size scale, but this game doesn't deliver in this sense. During 
 the cutscenes, the characters look a little too stiff up close, though the costumes chosen look 
 great on each character. At the default scale, though, the game looks great. The movies that, at 
 first glance seem to be using in-engine graphics, look far better than the cutscenes. Not the best 
 graphics, but also not a port of a last-generation console either. Explosions look great, the orbs 
 of energy floating around never outstay their welcome, and auras emitted during rage-like situations 
 or boosts that supplement your characters look great, even at the game's scale.
  
  The sound is the most annoying thing about this game. The developers must have known how terrible 
 the music and its scripting was because they provide an option to entirely shut off the combat 
 music. Not only is it wearisome, but it clashes with the background music for each level. Not sure 
 how this happened, especially with the technology nowadays... there's no excuse for music tracks 
 to fight with each other. The music itself is appropriate for a game like this, but it still doesn't 
 come off as being memorable. Certain levels are better than others, such as Mandarin's level with 
 voices whispering in the background, and Doom Castle also exhibits some pleasant sounds. What fares 
 well in this department, surprisingly, is the voicing. Not sure if the cast were amateurs or not, 
 but it sounds amazing. The pauses during dialogue between characters sounds hokey and too long, 
 but the voicing is still excellent. Sound remains a little less than average.
  
  The characters througout this game instill a desire to find out about the myriad comics you may 
 never have heard about. That's no small feat for a game to accomplish. Deadpool's annoying personality 
 aside, there's a certain need to read his comics after playing this game. That being said, it's 
 also not a small task to make each character unique, specifically the ones you can play as. Each 
 character has a distinct feeling to them, with most of the moves in their repertoire simply making 
 sense. From Spiderman's Spidey Sense and Web Attacks to Wolverine's rage-enduced specials, and 
 Thor's lightning-based brutal moves, the developers obviously enjoyed making (and probably playing) 
 this work of art. Making sure not to make the game overtly complex, nor too simple, just the right 
 amount of moves have been included for each superhero. This makes switching characters desirable, 
 although the game does limit how often you can change based on a reputation score. Still, you won't 
 want to play the entire game with the same character (s) over and over. That's a good balance to 
 have in a game that throws so many playable characters at you. The villians in this game do an 
 excellent job of being, well, evil, mostly due to excellent voice casting. I can't reiterate how 
 amazing, and just slightly overwhelming, the inclusion of so many characters in this game truly 
 is.
  
  The game play, as all hack-andslahes tend to be, is repetitve, but it's actually enjoyable this 
 time around. Though you've only got a handful of combos to execute, each character looks great 
 and feels powerful performing them. You have you basic weak attack, chargeable strong attack, block, 
 and jumping, as well as an aerial charging move and, while underwater or flying, aerial attack 
 moves. Blocking is only useful against bosses. Next up, the special moves are so unique to each 
 character that, as stated before, you'll want to switch your characters on the fly frequently or 
 at least every level. Some characters, particularly Dr. Strange, feel quite useless by the time 
 you acquire them, that leaving these characters alone may be good the first time around, but then 
 the replay value goes up for those that enjoy that in a game, as it's a challenge to bring those 
 characters up to speed with the difficulty of the game a second time around. Which bears mentioning; 
 the difficulty is adjusted to how well you are doing in the game. This can be offputting for new 
 characters, but for the ones you've busted your butt to level up, it's great that complacency won't 
 be a problem. Though button mashing will get you through the game, you'll miss out on some sweet 
 combos, and have a tough time with certain enemies that are weak to specific combos. Also, the 
 supermoves that each character can perform are quite powerful, and as expected, must be built up 
 prior to being unleashed. The balance on this aspect at the beginning of the game will seem a little 
 unfair, but as your team acquires points to distribute, you can increase your momentum to change 
 that. Each character has stat points that can be increased to improve a special move or special 
 attribute boost, all at the player's discretion, which makes for some excellent modifiying of how 
 you want the hero to evolve (or be limited) . You may use the points you've acquired from leveling 
 up or you may spend a costly amount of SHIELD credits, the game's currency, to purchase upgrades, 
 although it is not encouraged. Furthermore, you can upgrade certain attributes depending on the 
 costume your superheroes are wearing, by spending SHIELD credits. Accessories are a subpar addition 
 to the game, limiting the amount of equippable items to one per character. These vary from boosting 
 attributes to increasing health regeneration when collecting health orbs. You'll find many are 
 quite useless, but you can sell these within the status screen by pressing one button, eliminating 
 the necessity for a shop or market of sorts.
  
  At a point in the game, you will have to assemble a team. Keeping this team active will ensure 
 that you acquire stat points for the team attributes, as well as acquire reputation points. Exchanging 
 a team member for a non-team member seems to limit the points you obtain, although beyond that, 
 I'm not sure. Team attributes, such as roster numbers, energy, health, momentum, defense, damage, 
 and others all can be improved. It's a nice spin to the already robust leveling system.
  
  The bosses in this game can either be ridiculously easy, or brutally hard. The latter is most certainly 
 true in Acts 4 &amp; 5, where more often than not, you may find your lone superhero fending off 
 two brute forces with no hope of winning. Still, the game is never unfairly difficult, but in some 
 of the earlier levels, it can be too easy.
  
  Multiplayer is more of an obligatory addition than a true counterpart. Though it's fun to play 
 with your friend (s) who lives several states away or just to do it because you can be online, the 
 game has a serious latency issue with commands when online. Expect to just mash away at the buttons 
 while playing, as timing combos is near impossible due to the lag. No great connection can improve 
 this situation. Still, there are fun parts to be had when only two to four superheroes are up against 
 the same enemies you encountered in the single-player campaign. It doesn't seem to be too difficult 
 to find people either, though sometimes you are forced to start over when one player is saving 
 while the other player is at the status screen, and one player is never Ready no matter how many 
 times they try to return to the action. Other than that, it's serviceable because you can save 
 your game and you can load up any save you have, even a single player one, and play with someone 
 online. Pretty interesting, to say the least, but not a great mode of play.
  
  Extras are so abundant in this game that you may just give up after getting just enough. The comics 
 and game art hidden throughout this game are a great addition, but should be easy to find, though 
 few are truly hard to find. Each of the comics found provides a playable mission scenario specific 
 to the superhero it is highlighting. The developers were even nice enough to include some at the 
 beginning of the game. You can unlock hero costumes, or skins, as well as other goodies, by performing 
 well during these comic missions, though GOLD ones can be hard to get.
  
  The Trivia Games spattered throughout the game at each new headquarters is especially a nice extra 
 for the dorkiness in you Marvel freaks out there. Receiving experience points for each one correct 
 also doesn't hurt if you've got a good knowledge of the Marvel folklore or if you just talk to 
 most NPCs in the game and retain the info.
  
  A healthy amount of hidden attribute increasers are present in each level of the game and these 
 are among the hardest extras to find every last one of.
  
  If you ever played the X-Men counterparts of this game, this game will not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonzreaper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Really great game..... wonderful graphics, great gameplay, allround controls and sweet story line. 
 Grreatfor fans and people who dont know what marvel is. I dont read or watchmarvel but this game 
 has made me do so. The multiplayer is great but i still hope they would have a versus mode instead 
 of just plain co-oprative and arcad mode . (arcade mode is simply just playing with a mate but 
 you gotta have more points to win)
  
  Overall its great but if you have live you will be dissapointed because of lag and diffrent modes....... 
 Note only co-op and arcade available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orakk
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  The first time you complete this game it is an awesome experience. You choose your own unique hero 
 and then you kick some villain butt. After a while you can make your own hero team and gain team 
 XP. When your team level's up you can upgrade different things. When your hero level's up you can 
 choose to upgrade or get a new skill. Then if you have enough money you can upgrade your armor.
 
  
  This game's AI suck's as hell. It is hard to explain but, when you play the game you will for sure 
 think the games AI suck's. The boss fight's are fun because you have to make a controller combo. 
 If you miss you lose health and you have to do it over agian.
  
  Graphics: 7
  Gameplay: 9
  Sound: 7
  Overall: 8
  
  -Orakk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 15, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  Raven Soft has done a fantastic job with the previous X-men titles they have worked on, and MUA 
 is no exception to that. They found a winning formula, and are keeping with it. Lots of characters, 
 a decent storyline (not quite Stan Lee Standards, but that's asking a lot) and room for a follow 
 up (or 3) . An amazing variety of characters to play with, including some of my personal favorites 
 (Deadpool, Ghostrider and Moonknight) and many that I haven't seen in previous games (Black Panther 
 anyone)
  
  Gameplay - Each character plays a very different, and some are much better to different gameplay 
 styles. The initial 4 you start with (Wolverine, Cpt America, Thor and Spidey) are impressive, 
 but wait till you meet some of the others. Even with each character you have a great amount of 
 customization with up to 3 addiional outfits (the 360 exclusives only have 2) and each outfit granting 
 different bonuses. The controls are pretty simple, and you should really set your prefered powers 
 to the quick keys.
  
  Multiplayer - In single console MP there is the drawback of both players needing to be on the same 
 screen, but aside from that no problems.
  
  Graphics - The most disappointing part of this game is probably the graphics. While not bad in 
 the cut scenes and the like, the 3rd person overhead view doesn't always give you the greatest 
 view of the scenes. Also many of the stages are a bit dark and cluttered, making things look kind 
 of muddy.
  
  Sound - Nice soundbits from each character, even if they do get repeatative. The soundtrack is 
 subtle, but adds a nice bit to each area.
  
  Value - Since the Xmen games aren't on the 360, this game is a must for a series comic book fan. 
 A solid game with a nice story and good fun gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygamer1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 14, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong I'm a huge Marvel fan and I think the game is great... however it's kinda too 
 easy and seems to go by too quickly. The plot was decent, kept me entertained anyways. The biggest 
 problems I had with the game was the overwhelming easiness of the game, well I guess you can't 
 expect too much from a Hack N' Slash game. Button mashers will be pleased anyway. I went through 
 the whole game as Wolverine without dying or even coming close to it. While I'm a big fan of Wolverine 
 (One of my favorite heroes ever.) he just seems too powerful in the game. I fought so many bosses 
 with just one attack, any life I lost I quickly regenerated or the bosses dropped health orbs and 
 it just seemed well easy. The other complaint I have is the lack of my favorite Marvel hero... The 
 Incredible Hulk. I mean how do you make a Marvel game without the Hulk? How do you include Bruce 
 Banner in one of the in-game meetings and yet not include the Hulk as a playable hero? How do you 
 have the Hulk in one of the game's cutscenes, but not playable at any time? Hulk has got to be 
 a bigger fan fave than say Moon Knight or Deadpool ( Both of which I enjoyed playing as but Hulk 
 would've been better IMO.) Hey I can't complain too much about the game however because I just 
 rented it and it's kept me busy the last couple of days. However I believe that's what it'll stay 
 as... just a rental... I was hoping it'd be more worthwhile than it was so that it'd warrant a purchase 
 but oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armadragon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  marvel is awesome! this game rocked my world the minute i played it. think im lying?
  
  graphics:9. bestgraphics ever put in acomic book game.
  
  gameplay:9. gameplay is simly amazing.
 
  
  sound:9. good for the most part.
  
  value:10. unlockable characters, costumes, team combos, this game will keep you going for hours..... and 
 hours..... and hours....
  
  overall:8.9. this is the best comic book game ever made. ever. the plot is badass and you have like 
 what, an entire army of super heroes to control? the best ones are here too. if you like marvel, 
 or simply need another great game in your video game library, you gotta check this one out. period. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smitticus
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 11, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  Ultimate Alliance is an ordinary hack and slash game, set in the world of Marvel super heroes (and 
 super villains) . The fate of the world is at stake (as usual) and only you can do something about 
 it. Your team has 4 characters, which you can choose from a small selection of Marvel Super Heroes.
 
  
  The game is enjoyable, but is plague by minor, annoying technicalities, like music that stops playing 
 during a fight, camera movement hiding part of the action, heroes immobilized in a corner and being 
 killed because you cannot move it, uneven presentation, etc. Frame rate is not consistent. When 
 too many characters are on the screen, the frame rate drops a little. But it's enough for you to 
 see it.
  
  The different characters have a few special moves of their own, but I rarely switch between them. 
 I usually stick with one that I like, and hope that the others will help. AI is not too bright 
 though. Twice during the game, a character was left behind because it got stuck between two objects 
 and I had to break the objects to free the poor man. There was one time that I was trying to break 
 a computer to free a princess in a very short time, and the only thing my companions did was looking 
 at the main character doing all the work ( maybe the union did not want them to work at that time 
 ) .
  
  Sub-mission are found throughout the game (they are referred as simulation) , but after doing one, 
 I never felt compelled to do the others. The benefits of doing these missions are somewhat obscure. 
 So I concentrated on the main story for most of the game.
  
  Gameplay is quite repetitive, and aside from certain bosses, the combat is the same throughout 
 the game (that's a hack and slash after all) . In fact, I was really glad to get to the end because 
 I simply had enough (I played for about 24 hours, according to the save game info) .
  
  Graphics and sounds are okay, but not great. I expect more than that from a next-gen console game. 
 There are time when music really puts you into the spirit of the fight, and some other time, you 
 just wish to die just to make the music stops.
  
  There are no memorable moments in this game. Story is what you can expect from a Super Heroes story. 
 But when you have finished it, I doubt that you will replay it. Note that my review only concerns 
 the single player mode of the game. I did not try the multi-player mode, which may gives a second 
 life to it.
  
  Conclusion, this is a good hack and slash, not very original, with some small annoyance, an uneven 
 presentation and low replay value for single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguy182
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  i played both of the xmen ledgend games for the ps2 and i have to say this isnt that mutch of a 
 nexed gen inprovment.
  i realy wish i could say i like this game but it realy is the same thing over and over, there is 
 a kick ass story for thous comic fans and alot of realy cool characters to play as inclouding the 
 fantastic 4, spider-man, wolverine, daredevil, iron man, nick fury, silver surfer, and more but 
 the thing is that you dont realy have mutch to do with theys characters its moustly just the story 
 that the story that the divelipers made and the most you get from all of your favret characters 
 are boring explanations on what they did in the past to get them were they are today. the training 
 missoans are cool litl side qusts that tell alitl of the herose past adventers but get old fast.
 
  
  You start out with most of the herose and the way you unlouck the rest of them are realy stouped, 
 to get herose like docter strange and ghoust rider or blade are just to walk around in the direction 
 your going and helping or saving them and then they join your party becouse your going after meifisto 
 or arcade and they wont to get there reaveng on the vilen your going after.
  so as you can tell its not that indepth game that most people look for but they do try to change 
 that with the rpg eliments like upgrading costuoms for characters and thats about it, althou it 
 is intrasting for amoment but it just gets old.
  the game play is nothing specal but over all what keeps this game good is the action and the adventure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffdog_65
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 9, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is actually a suprisingly good game. I never have been much of a comic 
 book fan, but i really liked this game. The best part of this game is the coop mode. This game 
 probably has one of the best coop modes of any game that i have played (other than Gears of War) . 
 In Marvel you get to choose alot of the characters from the comic books and battle many places 
 to reach Dr. Doom who is taking over the world. It is up to you and your three other teammates 
 to take down Dr. Doom and save the world. For all those people who hate comic books, you should 
 still check out this game. I dont like comic books but it is a great game. This game is definitely 
 rentable, maybe even a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoov_B
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, I didn't finish this game so my review of it is pretty shallow. Then again, 
 I guess that should say something about the gameplay. I say this though because there's certainly 
 elements to this game that I missed and can't be taken into account.
  
  This also most likely isn't the fairest review as I was never really into comics, and as much as 
 I keep trying to convince myself otherwise, apparently I'm not that big on RPGs either (or rather 
 just very finicky - I mean I absolutely loved Fallout, Final Fantasy, Fable - maybe I'd like the 
 game better if it started with an F) .
  
  When I was younger I think I only had maybe four comic books. A couple issues of Spiderman, a Black 
 Panther, and one of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. Oddly enough, I still know more than the 
 average non-comic person simply because, for awhile, I collected those Marvel trading cards that 
 had the stats and history of each Marvel character. I knew enough from those little cards to fully 
 recognise nearly every character (save for the newer ones) in the X-Men and Spiderman movies.
 
  
  Even with my lackluster enthusiasm for comic books, I thought the idea behind Ultimate Alliance 
 was pretty rad. Being able to create a team of your favorite characters regardless of time or team 
 affiliation sounded like a blast. And maybe it's here that I reach my first stumbling block. Except 
 for Daredevil, there really aren't any characters that I'm attached to (and Daredevil is locked 
 to begin with) ; so right off the bat I don't have a connection with my team. The upside of this 
 is that I can freely choose characters based on their skills and abilities and build a team that 
 compliments each other.
  
  So there's the key: although you can easily just use the default team or throw together a bunch 
 of random superheros, you're not going to get much out of Ultimate Alliance if you don't spend 
 a little time getting to know it. And although there are a couple characters that you want to stay 
 away from, typically it really doesn't matter who's on your team because they'll usually do very 
 little to help you and most fights can be won through simple button mashing.
  
  Each character of course has their own unique special powers and most characters have an inherent 
 ability type that lets them heal faster or have immense strength. You'll start the game with two 
 unique powers and unlock more as you progress. The range of special powers is pretty good as well 
 so once your character is powerful enough, you'll be able to do some pretty devastating attacks.
 
  
  Characters will also gain experience points to be used on upgrading their powers as well as coins 
 that can be collected and spent on additional character upgrades. The experience points are somewhat 
 universal so although the characters you use will level up faster, the ones you don't will advance 
 as well; staying near to your main team. The coins however have to be carefully spent as they'll 
 only affect that character and in some cases, a particular costume. Luckily, coins are about as 
 common as dirt. Break something and coins pop out. (Kind of like the Lego Star Wars game but not 
 nearly as fun.)
  
  All of this is still salvagable if it weren't for the poor gameplay, story, music, and camera. 
 Right away you'll notice that the camera is very restrictive making it difficult to get a good 
 angle on the action. The music and sound is buggy, often cutting out for no reason. Controls are 
 pretty intuitive and easy to handle. It's a simple matter to use a special power or call for back-up. 
 But the gameplay is terribly repetitive, requiring pretty much no thought at all and it's not uncommon 
 to be left wondering what you're supposed to do next. There are elements of the game that feel 
 like an old 8-bit RPG or side scroller. The simple, restricted presentation and limited movement 
 at times feel like you're playing Contra - but without the ultimate coolness that is Contra of 
 course.
  
  And while the story is laughable to begin with, it's presentation makes it harder to sit through. 
 Unless you're a fan of the old-school, 8-bit RPGs. Then it might be nostalgic for you. I couldn't 
 quite get those warm and fuzzy memories going though.
  
  Graphically, Alliance is nothing to write home about. It does the job just fine but there's nothing 
 next-gen about it.
  
  I haven't played any of the other games in this series so I don't know how it compares. My impression 
 is that if you enjoyed those or love the Marvel Universe, chances are you'll get some enjoyment 
 out of this one. For my taste, it just didn't measure up or hold my attention long enough to warrant 
 really getting into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamwrath
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 6, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  First let me say that this game suffers from being slightly underrated. I think it's right on that 
 ledge where people usually make a decision whether they are interested or not. After renting this 
 game I decided to buy it.
  
  The game play is quite simple, open up a can on the bad guys. That's right, just endless beatdowns 
 in this one. It's pretty easy too since there are only 2 attack buttons there's not much to remember. 
 Special moves are used by holding the trigger button down which toggles all of your regular buttons 
 into special move buttons. It is very hard to die in this game. The only time I died was when all 
 of my guys accidently fell off a cliff. When one of your characters does go down he must wait a 
 cool down period and then is revivable from any save point. While the AI is heavy on the dumb side 
 and get in your way sometimes they actually make themselves useful and take down their share of 
 bad guys. The game is nice and long at about 20+ hours. The game also allows up to 4 player co-op 
 to take on the main story mode.
  
  The visuals look great even for an every console game. The effects are nice as well.
  
  While 
 there are a large number of playable superheros I would have liked a few more of my favorites, 
 but hey, when will there ever be enough. While there are tons of big name bad guys, there seems 
 to be a theme toward the Fantastic Four universe. Most noticably you don't see any X-Men villians. 
 Overall this game reminded me of the old X-Men arcade game which was pure fun. If you're a comic 
 fan or even if you like Final Fight/Double Dragon style games this one is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbird23
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 5, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Ultimate Alliance is a very creative game. Each time one plays this amazing game it will be different 
 from the last. The endless number of character combinations alone keep the game interesting. There 
 are multiple side missions, concept artwork, and even a nice little trivia game that will keep 
 gamers glued to this fabulous game. Ultimate Alliance has levels that are very artistic and the 
 graphics are cutting-edge. The heroes/heroines powers are unique, and fit each characters perfectly. 
 Some abilities can even be combined to make a special display of destruction. I definitely missed 
 several Marvel characters such as: Cyclops, Rogue, and Nightcrawler to name a few, but the two 
 bonus playable heroes that the 360 added, work out well. At times the dialogue can be a blur, so 
 the authors of Ultimate Alliance created a trivia game as well as narrative side missions to help 
 eliminate some confusion. The controls are very easy to understand, as most hack and slash games 
 are meant to be. This is the best game in a Marvel series that I know will continue to shine. Astonishing!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordSpam
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 5, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  I know this sounds like some sort of fanboy drivel, but this game affected me way too much. I found 
 myself thinking about this game when I wasn't playing it and I've played through it twice already 
 and am on my third go round. Right from the start I knew there was plenty to love about this game 
 being as you can play the majority of Marvel heavyweights in a sprawling action rpg made by the 
 makers of the wonderful X-Men Legends games. The game is a little odd in that it doesn't really 
 subscribe to one particular Marvel universe per se. The characters have traits and costumes ranging 
 from golden age to the Ultimate storyline, but don't let that throw you off. This is a comic fanboy 
 dream come true and a fairly solid game of the genre on its own merit. It's not perfect but then 
 few games of this length and complexity are. There are bugs where your characters can get stuck 
 and so forth, but they're few and rarely halt gameplay for more then a few moments (unlike the 
 X3 game which is the only thing worse then the movie itself) .
  
  Re-playability is definitely there as there are plenty of unlockables ranging from characters to 
 costumes to (in the case of the 360) achievement points. And I like what the game does as far as 
 the costumes are not just for show. Each costume has a different set of skills that can be improved 
 upon. Throw that in with the ability to make your own custom 4 character team (or get extra bonuses 
 for using predefined, often wacky, combos of characters) and it will take you more then one go 
 round to get everything. The nice thing is once you start over you can carry over your team and 
 characters to another game so you aren't starting from scratch. While this makes the first couple 
 of levels a cakewalk, it doesn't throw off the challenge factor too much after a while.
  
  I'm not kidding that I think about this game way too much. I've played a lot of games that I've 
 been addicted too, but this is one of the few that invaded my subconscious as well as my living 
 room. Now begins the long wait to M: UA2 and all I can say is they better have Hulk as a playable 
 character this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imfeelinpanda
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  though it has a wide varitey of sweet marvel carrecters this marvel game sucks to the fullest. 
 i couoldnt even get past the first level cause it was so terrable. the only carrecter i liked was 
 wolverien and thats it nothing else. it has a horrible story line infact i didnt even catch the 
 story line. dont even buy this game its so horrible. its just one of those games where they should 
 even have made it. well i dont have much more about this game to say so see ya and save ur money. 
 o sorry and also the human torche could even get over the little pipe thing. if u really want to 
 get a good 360 game.... get gears of war, oblivion, or saints row cause those games are so much 
 funner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cousin_eddy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  Yesterday I was ecstatic. I picked up this game for the first time, gave it a play, and it turned 
 out to be fantastic. Being a long time fan of marvel, I was expecting a great game, but... not this 
 great! Marvel Ultimate Alliance honestly, brought me back to the days playing the beat em up Captain 
 America and the avengers .
  Ultimate Alliance's story, focuses on a new orginization of super villains called the Masters Of 
 Evil, created by the infamous Victor Von Doom. The Masters Of Evil, consists of many marvel villains 
 throughout all of the company's comics such as radioactive man (who has made many appearances in 
 various comic books, but most famous for Thor) , Bullseye (From daredevil fame) Scorpion (Or scorpio 
 as once named, from the Spiderman franchsise) , Mysterio, and dozens.. and I mean dozens, of others. 
 To stop the masters of evil, Nick Fury of S. H. I. E. L. D has put together an elite team of superheroes 
 to stop them, including Captain america, Spiderman, Thor, Wolverine, and many others.
  The first thing I love about the game, is the research that was done for all of the characters. 
 When I first played the game, I was the incredible Thor, and they got him so right. The look, the 
 ability to fly, the hammer, the catch phrases... all of it so spot on. I noticed that with Spiderman 
 and Johnny Storm as well. The characters not only look fantasitc, but their powers are exact to 
 the comicboks, though expected, I liked quite a lot. I also loved the variety of differant marvel 
 characters to play as. I mean yes there are the typical ones like spiderman, mr. fantastic, etc.. but 
 you can also play as Miss Marvel, Spider Woman and Moon knight! I mean c'mon whens the last time 
 anyone talked about moonknight? I also love the variety of old school villains :D
  But now Into the gameplay. Ultimate Alliance acts as a beat em' up/RPG. Throughout the many battlefields 
 of the game, you are ina team of four, which you craft yourself from the playable characters. You 
 can switch characters with the 360's D-pad. Each character has specific powers, making it very 
 essential to switch once in a while. Some characters, have the ability to fly (such as Thor and 
 Iron Man) and others can double jump (such as the Thing) . Some characters are faster, stronger, 
 have strogner defense, etc. The variety of differant styles and attacks is uncanny however :D
 
  The games action, is straight up brawler. Pressing A will be the common light punch attack, and 
 B the heavier attack. Y is jump, and X is grabbing. The game also has an excellant combo system, 
 in which light ahnd heavy attacks can be mixed. The action is very in your face, and as you encoutner 
 large threatening bosses, you'll be glad you are in a team. You can pick up large objects and hurl 
 them at your enemies, or pick up lead pipes and beat them to a bloody (or oily in robotic cases 
 :P ) pulp. One of the coolest features the game has, is its power section. Holding down the right 
 trigger will bring forth a menu in the top left corner tellign the player which button to press. 
 Pressing that button will unleash that players unique power. As that specific hero keeps leveling 
 up, the more powers come available. There are four powers in all for each character (one per button) 
 but it takes a lot of leveling up to get there.
  As you progress through the game, defeat enemies, and break objects, you'll find little chips that 
 you can pick up and use as points. They act as a currency, so the more you can get the more you 
 have to buy upgrades for a specific hero. It takes a rather long time to get enough just for one 
 upgrade, but the time is well worth it. You can upgrade a heroes specific power, their defense, 
 etc. But as I stated before, it will take awhile, so whomever you choose to upgrade, make sure 
 it's a character you like, because it will take abloody long time for an upgrade :P Throughout 
 the battlefields, you can also find little point increasers, that can increase agility, intelligence 
 and toher attributes, which may help in the quest for making the ultimate hero. The game has many 
 cool side features as well, such as side missions youc an access in the infamous Stark tower, which 
 act as battle simulations. There is also a lot of concept art to unlock, which is of course, visually 
 stunning, but expected from amrvel. There are many other little coolf eatures like this, but I 
 named only a few.
  Overall the game is absoltuely fantasitc (no pun intended) . I was completely hooked from my first 
 timeplaying, and still am. Between the many things to unlock (such as the wicked Johnny blaze among 
 other heroes) , the fantastic fighting system and multiplayer mode (not to mention online play :D 
 ) and phoenominal grahpcis, Marvel Ultimate alliance is a fantastic game which should be a must 
 have for Marvel fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I know the game has tons of usuable characters and cameos by others, i left this game feeling 
 very last-gen . The graphics are some of the weakest I have seen since the launch title. The gameplay, 
 while solid is limited and the game can easily be beaten by simply button mashing. It is pretty 
 glitch free, so that's welcomed. But overall, I left this game feeling unfulfilled. A lot of the 
 characters feel tacked on (elektra, spider woman to name a couple) and limited.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  
  While it lacks glitches and runs very smooth, the gameplay is limited. It also 
 lacks great collision detection. Button combos are virtually the same for every character and it 
 doesn't take a great gamer to play the game. It's not the hardest game in the world and button 
 mashing can get the job done. I do like the ability to switch teams and characters real quick, 
 but the game has it's limitations leaving it a step short of outstanding, but still good. Graphics: 
 6
  
  Even on a 1080i TV this game looks very last-gen. The character models are solid but the animation 
 on some is quirky. The colors are pretty bland and collision detection is as lame graphically as 
 it is gameplay wise. Explosions look far from real. Graphically the game looks ported.
  
  Sound: 7 the sound would be a 9 or 10, but some of the phrases and language used makes me want 
 to puke. The sound also seems pretty bland for the most part. Nothing breathtaking. The action 
 sounds are dated. The sound output is spectacular but the things that these characters say are 
 just plain ridiculous.
  
  Value: 6
  
  I see the reviews of how this game renders a lot of replay value because of all the characters 
 and RPG-like level system. But I felt like I was playing Gaunlet replaced with Marvel characters. 
 The levels are virtually the same. You walk in, kill some bad guys, go to the next room. The quizzing 
 systems are comlpetely tacked on and can be frustrating. I play games to get away from college 
 tests, I don't need more quizzes.
  
  Tilt: 7
  
  Despite my feedback, I think this game is ok. If you are into comic books or marvel characters 
 you will probably like this game a lot more than me. For your average gamer, I think some will 
 be left feeling bored after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonio_hdz2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 1, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Indeed no one believe that Activision could make a respectable RPG specially after the rights acquisition 
 for the Marvel characters Exclusivity, but they deliver a solid game with Xmen Legends and the 
 critics for this game were good among the Gaming community, now with Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 
 the successful formula that make Xmen legends a solid game is renewed with some impressive and 
 fluid gameplay, the game feels just in the right time for some action, don't have to make some 
 kind of training campaign like most RPG, of course there is the option if you like to enable tips 
 during the game.
  
  Most of the time you'll find yourself battling and leveling up your favorite characters but the 
 interesting thing comes when you can assemble your own team wich carries a series of bonuses as 
 for attacking, powers, defense, energy boost, life bonuses etc, which makes very difficult to make 
 up your mind in who will be the starting lineup, this because every character has (as expected) 
 their own powers and group boosts that will be quite useful in the harder levels.
  
  However the game is not free for some serious bugs, specially with the characters that can fly, 
 it's unusual that this happens but sometimes you'll find some of your characters stuck in some 
 kind of invisible roof.
  
  The sound is perfect, the voice work is amazing some of the phrases are quite catchy and are nearly 
 perfect for every situation, indeed Activision made a great job with this one. The weak point is 
 the lack of heroes, i mean who really likes Cap Fury? or Mr Fantastic? easily could be replaced 
 with Gambit or even Cyclops but as for the game ending this and more characters can be in the probable 
 sequel.
  
  The bosses and the puzzles are in the right place, everything fits as you are progressing in the 
 game, and this makes the story mode quite enjoyable, also the achievements for this game are quiete 
 manageable and some of them will requiere that some friends join you in the action which adds some 
 more fun.
  
  Overall Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a great RPG but it's still a lot of room for improvement, 
 nonetheless Activision is making a good job with the Marvel License so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floyd0481
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 30, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  I just got through this one and I have to say that I was pleasantly surprised. I honestly didn't 
 expect much as I am not a great marvel fan but I was easily taken in and now can't stop playing 
 it. I found the graphics to be ok, not great but I have seen worse. The cinematics were quite good 
 I thought but it doesn't quite even out when we see the character cut scenes in the game. The game 
 play is a button mashy but there are some cool combos and an array of special powers to use. The 
 story line comes together quite nicely and it is cool that they show you on a graphic time line 
 what you have and haven't done and the consequences once you finish the game. You have a great 
 cast of characters to choose from and this provides ample replay value. I don't have much to say 
 about the sound or soundtrack of the game. Anyway, I recommend that you if don't buy this one, 
 at least rent it. I don't think you will be disappointed either way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  This game really does redefine the need for teamwork. The fact that you cannot defeat big monsters 
 and bosses and hordes of enemies without teamwork makes sure that turn team is a close knit one. 
 The bosses are full f surprises, but then again, so is your team. You can custom make your own 
 team, filling it with super heroes that you have hand picked from the large selection there is. 
 There is a possibility for many great laughs in this game, take for instance, luring one of your 
 team-mates onto a trap door that leads to instant death. The graphics are very well done, giving 
 the feel that you are in the comic book. The game moves smoothly along, with fun little mini games 
 dotted about between and in the levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeman87
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 29, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  Before I begin I should point out that I am a big fan of the marvel universe, love the comics, 
 love the characters, and get a kick out of super hero movies, so I was going to be fan of this 
 game just to see my favourite characters, and be able to play as them. But this game is just INSULTING. 
 The graphics are not much better than what was on the first two installments of these games on 
 Xbox1, and the same can be said for the sound.
  
  The biggest slap in the face for this game is the pure idiocy of it all. All characters in the 
 game are EXACTLY the same, they may look different but they are thats where the difference begins 
 and ends. All the characters have a melee attack, which is same for EVERY CHARACTER. The moves 
 sometimes look different, but the combos are the same for all of them, and the results are the 
 same. The special attacks are either a ranged attack of some sort , or a super melee attack, but 
 they are ALL THE SAME. Wolverines claw attack is the same as The Things super punch, Captain Americas 
 shield toos is the same as Iron Mans energy beam. Aside from the look of the characters it doesnt 
 matter which one you play as because they all do the same thing, ITS COMPLETE MADNESS!!!! This 
 is the sort of rubbish I would expect from a console in the ealry 90's, it is total rubbish and 
 should be banished from the planet, or at least kept on the shelves with a warning sticker on it 
 stating 'NOT FOR GAMERS OVER THE AGE OF 10'
  
  This is not what I spent my hard earnt cash on a Xbox360 &amp; HDTV for, it is total RUBBISH, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G0ne-P0stal
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  It took an hour or so to get into it, but now that I have, I haven't had this much fun in a top 
 down game since Diablo 2 on my PC. Great graphics for a top down, great sound, good long game play, 
 great coop mode, another player can join any time locally. (haven't tried online yet) Even my girlfriend 
 is hooked now. Character advancement options galore! Mini games, you can even create your own superhero 
 team and receive bonuses for them. If you want some button mashing, monster killing fun for all 
 ages, this is it! Well worth the bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmaster299
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 24, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the X-men Legends series then you'll need to pick up this game. The variety 
 of characters is excellent and the power up/costume system is big upgrade. The game play system 
 is a little lacking. It's mostly still just button smashing with a few combos mixed in. Other than 
 that you'll have a blast with great characters and a good story line. Make sure to take your time 
 and think before powering up. If you don't want to follow a specific path for your talents leave 
 the power ups on auto assign. If you are a new comer to the game I would recommend the walk through 
 guide. If you don't have the experience you'll have a hard time finding all the hidden items, Take 
 your time, explore EVERYWHERE and destroy EVERYTHING. Items can be in the strangest places. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 24, 2007 12:25 am PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate : Alliance is a great RPG for comicbook fans. Think the old Baldars Gate games 
 but with highly detailed models in 3-D based on the Marvel Universe. Not only that, but you can 
 tell the development team really did their research with continuity and current storylines in Marvel 
 comics. Plus each and every hero is fun to play with as each one is different and you really feel 
 like each character is correctly represented if your a fan of the comic. I'd recommend this to 
 every comic fan. On the negative side, the game can get so linear that it becomes repetative and 
 tedious but maybe thats just me and my lack of interest in the game anymore. That said, Raven Software 
 has turned out one solid game and its really worth playing if you're into comics even a little 
 bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farreg
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 23, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  This is the latest incarnation of the Xmen Legends style of game. If you enjoy it's predecessors, 
 you will appreciate what this game has to offer.
  
  The squad based gameplay is on offer online or off, and allows up to 4 players to work co-operatively 
 or in the new arcade mode.
  
  It also offers a lot to the inner comic geek, with different aspects of the Marvel Universe on 
 offer in various stages, and training stages which cover various aspects of the characters histories.
 
  
  The ground has been laid for sequels given the huge database of characters, storylines and antognistic 
 personalities on offer from Marvel, and I hope to see one soon-ish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  IT all comes down to rent, buy, or steal from a friend and blame it on that kid who just skipped 
 town. Well, if you can steal it and get away with it, then by all means what a steal! this game 
 is great fun. Just need a game to wind down with while still have all the elements of suspense, 
 intrigue, and spandex fetishes? Then this is it. All the super heroes under one roof with each 
 coming with four unlockable costumes that all have to be powered up/leveled up! That means super 
 replay mode here I come. This is a must have in your X360 library, esp if you have little underlings 
 who always go, Daddy can I play with you too! Now they can with 2-4 co-op. Or pretend your Elektra 
 in her assassin's outfit with your 35 year old beer buddy behind closed doors. Get your spandex 
 fetish on! Now! This game is awesome and I can't believe Im using the word awesome. The graphics 
 seem a bit too plastic-ky, if you know what I mean, but at least they're not as ugly as Oblivion 
 Tyco-mans. Good fun through and through. Voice overs are as expected. I'm a little pissed off that 
 Wonder Woman wasn't invited. Have a thing for those 70's hips, you know what I mean. Probably not, 
 maybe you do, but nudge, nudge, wink, wink, if you do. Cheerio! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gosey
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 23, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  then this is the game for you. Boasting an available roseter of nearly two dozen playable characters, 
 you can mix and match heroes to form nearly any combination conceivable. What's more, they are 
 all available from various periods in Marvel history, so if you want a classically-costumed team 
 of X-men you can do that, or you can rig up an Ultimate version as well. All the characters have 
 unique and appropriate-sounding voices, and their powers and special abilities are well thought-out 
 and in line with the characters' established identities. Another great feature of this game is 
 the fact that you traverse the Marvel universe from one end to the other, and then some. From a 
 flying helicarrier to Atlantis, to the halls of Asgard and, basically, Hell itself, you see it 
 all. The worlds are rich and detailed and feel immersive and expansive, even though you can basically 
 only go from point A to point B. Bosses are equally varied, and are peppered throughout the environment; 
 so, instead of only gearing up for a major boss battle at the end of a board, you might face one 
 or two smaller-scaled bosses in the middle of the level, then face a more highly-powered foe at 
 the end. Some of the bosses are huge and very formidable. I'm thinking of the frost giant monarch 
 Ymir in particular; doing battle with him involves some Resident Evil 4-style combat, in which 
 the game goes to what is almost a cinematic and, by pressing the buttons displayed on-screen correctly, 
 your character is propelled through a series of moves which cause damage to the enemy.
  Speaking of cinematics, the pre-rendered cut scenes in this game are beautiful. One scene in particular, 
 where the camera pans over a scorched and ruined cityscape to show Galactus, in the midst of wreaking 
 destruction, turn his head to look at the camera, is fantastic. And yes, you do indeed battle the 
 mighty planet-chewer.
  The game does have a few less-than-stellar aspects. One is the fact that the script is rather weak; 
 the plot is basically explained by Nick Fury in between levels, and those in-between scenes where 
 he is explaining what just happened and what is about to happen usually feel rushed and forced. 
 Another peculiar aspect of the S. H. I. E. L. D. task force running things at Stark Tower is the fact 
 that they don't seem to pay much attention to what you and your team have done. If you're about 
 to embark on a mission, and ask some characters for advice or help, they will sometimes only be 
 able to give you information about your previous couple of missions, instead of responding to the 
 situation at hand. Or, if you've just completed the mission to Mephisto's Realm and talk to, say, 
 the Black Widow, she will probably still be telling you about what to expect when you face Mephisto. 
 It's a bit awkward and shows where the writing and programming faultered a little, but it doesn't 
 really affect gameplay and is a minor distraction, at worst. All in all, this is a very fun game 
 to play, especially if you're into comic books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terraflax
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 20, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This games looked promising, but it turns out it's just mediocre the whole way around. It doesn't 
 deserve an 8.3 or even an 8.0. This game is trash, it can't manage to do anything well. I'd rather 
 play and arcade beat em' up than this trash...... 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etherealsyn
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say that this style of game is what I enjoy most. This provides an opportunity to play 
 a video game with my wife (who actually loves gaming but hates the complexity of many of todays 
 games) . The premise is simple. This is a gauntlet type game, with button mashing being the primary 
 function. The Good:
  
  Overall the graphics are OK, the cutscenes are well done. The availibility of characters, the ability 
 to change team members, the ability to create your own super hero team, all of this is wonderful 
 in a game. The replayability is HUGE and the time to complete the game is a little over 12 hours 
 (one time through) . Its also fun to replay and work back through with a higher level character. 
 The fun is multiplied the more players you add with a maximum of 4 (personally only had 3 active 
 players at one time but that was a blast!)
  
  The Bad:
  The only really negative things I can say about this game is that at times it feels a bit repetitive. 
 Levels are basically the same each time (with a few exceptions and even the enemies are pretty 
 standard (read repetitive) ) . Second even for an initial pass through the game there was little 
 challenge in the actual game. We never really completely died (killed the whole team) . The closest 
 we came to loosing was when our team went down to one member. However this one team member killed 
 the dark fantastic 4, destroyed the nodes, took on Dr Doom and finished the game all on his own 
 (wolvarine) . Overall, this is a great game that I would highly recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sostra
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 17, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Just finished MUA for the 360. This game is pretty fun to play. Tons of characters, powers and 
 outfits to unlock. Great replay value due to the fact that it may take a couple of tries through 
 this game to unlock all the goodies. I did however find it to be a bit glitchy sometimes during 
 game play. The music/sound effects would just cut our or some of my characters would get stuck 
 in a wall. The CGI movies were awesome in this game as well. The Nightcrawler scene was Hollywood 
 caliber!! I would deff. recommend this one to any Marvel fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a great game. Interesting storyline, fun gameplay, good upgrade system. 
 But, for me, it lacks the graphical advancements and beauty one would expect from an Xbox 360 game. 
 The zooming function should allow us to zoom much further in, and out, as well. The graphics are 
 decent, but the characters faces do not look real at all. They look like they could have appeared 
 in an original Xbox game. Other than those few graphical setbacks, I really like the game a lot, 
 and will continue to play it until it gets boring. I love the selection of characters as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legacyoftain
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  I am a comic nut.. there I said it. I love all things marvel and they mythos there in. However there 
 was something about this game that left a small whole in my heart. Firstly this game is based in 
 some sort of psudo-marvel Universe outside any actual timeline... which is fine but for some the 
 story may be a little hard to swallow. Some of the story elements are rather silly (such as Loki 
 taking orders from Dr. Doom) .. but still none the less its very comic-esque. The characters like 
 the other Raven games are very hit and miss. They have some really solid characters like Capt. 
 America and Thor (FINALLY!!!!!) with some surprise hits like Black Panther and Ghost Rider but then 
 they have some clearly movie success (or should I say lack their of) inspired duds such as Electra 
 and Blade. With that being said I would like to say that it was nice that they had the Fantastic 
 Four in the game but they could have did with out Reed Richards IMO. Also some MAJOR marvel characters 
 werent playable that clearly should have been... (cough HULK cough cough) Its a little nit picky 
 but hey comic fans usually are. In the next installment perhaps add some characters like Hank Pym 
 to the mix (where he could grow to the side of Ultimo or somthing) . The gameplay is the same as 
 all the Xmen Legends game so as solid as it is there is nothing new to the table. You can create 
 your own superhero team that levels the more you use them to get added bonuses so its a really 
 nice feature for What If scenarios all us comic geeks played out. One new addition however that 
 haven't decided if I like or not is the fact that Xtreme Powers are activated automatically by 
 your teammates if you activate yours. This makes for some flashy pyrotechnics but its more of a 
 waste than anything else. Another thing is character design/performance. Some characters are so 
 powerful that they can complete most of the game solo while others are barely useful even in a 
 team setting. All in all it is still alot of fun to play though and the attacks and leveling system 
 have been tweaked. I really like the implementing of the costume system. Rather than buff stats 
 you buff costumes that give different attributes. Only down side is if you personally don't like 
 a costume look you may have to wear it anyway due to the stats it gives you. Th sound is also one 
 of those parts of the game thats hit or miss. Phil LaMarr does work as token once again by providing 
 the voice for the Black Panther (and Uatu) but the other voices seem odd to me. This game i am 
 sure could have afforded the voice actors from their respected shows (like the fantastic four or 
 spiderman) .. I guess I am just miffed about Thors voice.. he sounds very whinny for the Lord of Asgard 
 in my opinion. Graphically the game looks very vibrant and colorful on a 360 with some nice ripple 
 effects for things like shockwaves and energy blasts. There are a few things that could easily 
 be fixed with a patch such as enemies popping up in front of you when you enter a room
  
  Hey bottem line is if you like comics and you live video games... get this.. We arent going to see 
 this many great marvel characters in a game anytime soon. Despite its odd quirks and flaws this 
 is a solid game to add to your 360 collection that isn't a shooter or a sports game lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumen222
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  Started off as aclaustrophobic level on board Nich Fury's ship, then onto some levels which look 
 just like the X-Men Legends game, which I played on the Game Cube and I rate it more. Went onto 
 the next levels, then onto the pointless STARK TOWER, where all you do is run around completing 
 pointless little missions, just like the annoying X-MANSION in Legends.
  My fave character in this is Captain America and when I first saw the video for game before release, 
 was really excited about his appearence, only to be let down by the pointless, monotonous missions.
 
  In X-Men Legends when I wanted them, I got them, in Ultimate Alliance, I want at least 360 graphics, 
 did'nt get them.
  To sum it up in this short review, wait until its a tenner, I'm bored with it, no new challenges, 
 same old stuff, aviod like the plague........ I'd rather watch an episode of The Bill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EndlessGame
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is simply a brilliant game. Before it was released, it didn't seem like 
 something I was going to enjoy, but I tried it out anyway. I have to say, I'm hooked. At first, 
 the graphics look like they should be bad. But if you look closely during gameplay, you will see 
 that all of the character models and backgrounds are actually animated quite well. The cutscenes 
 have astounding graphics, and greatly add to the atmosphere of the storyline.
  
  The story itself is quite involving, and as usual for Marvel adventures, it takes the world to 
 the brink of destruction. The roster of characters is huge, and there's plenty of variety so that 
 you can enjoy who you're playing as. While some teams could be called better than others, any team 
 can beat the game, so you're free to use whichever superheroes you like.
  The character customization is powerful, and if you become involved with it, your character will 
 benefit greatly. But if that isn't for you, just let the AI manage all of the character customization 
 for you.
  
  Sound effects are well done, and the voice acting is mostly very good. There are a few lines that 
 sound out of place, but nothing that ruins the feel of the game. The music, in both the cutscenes 
 and gameplay, suits the context. It creates a more vivid atmosphere, and in the few places where 
 it fades out, something seems to be missing.
  
  There are loads of extras to be found by exploring the world. Some are obvious, while others are 
 more craftily hidden. After a while you will get used to the hiding style of the items and be able 
 to predict the type of location you will find them in.
  
  The achievements are well placed throughout the game, and the unlockable characters are well-selected 
 and worth the trouble of getting them. There is a lot of replay value, and playing through on different 
 difficulties makes for a different experience.
  
  The controls work well, and are easy to pick up. By unlocking powers as you level up, but only 
 when you spend points, you can add to the number of buttons and combos you will be using as slowly 
 or quickly as you like. If you've got some friends who will play multiplayer with you, that adds 
 even further to the enjoyment of the game.
  
  Unlike most superhero games, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance doesn't only appeal to fans of the comic 
 books or movies. Anyone can enjoy this game, and I highly recommend that everyone at least try 
 it out. While it is easy compared to some other games, it's definitely loads of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystoval
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  since x men legens born a new type of super heroes game born a cooperative action adventure game 
 and for play with partners is so funny but play you alone is not funny as playing with friends, 
 the graphics are better than x men legends but the diferrence in xbox and xbox 360 are only the 
 textures its so disapointing that the only diferrence are the textures you dont feel the real diferrence 
 in the xbox and the xbox 360 console until you play gears of war but if gears of wars doesnt exist 
 the diference menas nothing except the textures and you feel is a waste of money , the game is 
 regular the variety of heroes are the best in the game but sometime you cant apreciatte the real 
 power of each one because the combos are so simple and so similar between heroes so you can play 
 with everyone and you cant note the diference jejeje, the sound its good and the videos that are 
 only five are so good if the videos extend on 100 minutes you can watch a animation movie better 
 than shreck or even final fantasy and the fans will be so satisfied on a movie like that where 
 a lot of diferent heroes involved in one history and on film but its aside of this, another thing 
 on the game its the camera its so similar x men legend and its not original and inovative and sometimes 
 you hate because you cant apreciatte the stages, the characteres the combos you only watch the 
 game like god like you ll be in heaven and watch under you ,, you feel aside of the game and dont 
 absorb you if the camera be dynamic and move whatever seem diferent sometimes in your back like 
 third person you fell more involved inside the game or more near the camera is so far taht sometimes 
 you need to stay close of the tv to have a good sight but in general terms is a good game for playing 
 a regular hours because is not large and if you are a big player hour, you will be finish the game 
 in 8 hours so you pay much money for 8 hours of playing,, the price is so high compare the game, 
 return gears of wars is cheaper than marvel and its an amazing diference between this games, only 
 for its marvel and have much heroes you need to pay more than $59.00 its crazy the team game push 
 some fans to buy piracy the price of games are high but some games are so high not every one are 
 rich people that waste money like crazy people some people think and analize a lot of products 
 and prices before buy some game and the price its a very negative point to buy tha game in compare 
 that this game real offers to you,,,, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  GOOD- Get play a roster of Marvel charactures; long cool story mode; shiny sharp graphics; great 
 voice acting
  
  BAD- A very repetative game; Fighting Gets All Over The Place; Dumb AI on both allies and enemies
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  If you've been on X-Men Legends then you already know how this game is gonna be like, you get to 
 pick 4 marvel super heroes from Spiderman, Deadpool, Captain America and many others, the Camara 
 is in a birds eye view which somtimes gets abit of annoying as you cant give full control of it, 
 apart from Zoom in and out and rotate left and right. Ultimate Alliance puts in the RPG elements 
 with a level up system and funn customize menus and giving them new abbilties, each charactures 
 has different abbities to get you out of tight situations, other than that your allies and even 
 enemies have realy dumb AI, you have team work options like, Aggressive, Defence and normal, but 
 they realy not useful as they pretty much do what they like.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Pretty cool looking graphics, there sharp, shiney and colourful and the backgrounds look brilliant, 
 the Prerenderd cutscences look allmost realistic!, the major probblem is the glitches, from walking 
 through walls, telleporting to a different location?, and the Framerate pretty much drops somtimes, 
 other than that, the visual themselfs are impressive.
  
  SOUND:
  Probbebly the best point of the game, the Voice acting is brilliant and funny and the sound effects 
 are awesome, though the music is'nt the best it has some pretty cool music, but does'nt realy engage 
 you into the battle
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall Ultimate Alliance is a great game, dispite the flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: towelie123
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  spider-man, wolverine, iron-man, andcaptain america.
  thats my team... my four favorite characters in the game.
  man this x-men lengend kinda game is 
 just of the hook
  who dosent wanna play as spider-man or iron man. they even got mister bad ass Blade. the graphics 
 are pretty nice and coop play is just fun when your four buddies with all our own hero (not only 
 from x-men) .
  its simple to play (specialy if you played one of te x-men ledgends)
  The marvel storys always keeps you comin for more ( with the exeption of the game - X-men 3 the 
 game) well i give this game two tumbs up!
  
  yours truly.... Me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxsteven
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  the good Good variety of marvel characters you can play.
  Great cinematics
  Interesting Gameplay If you are a Marvel fan you will love this game The xbox 360 version is best 
 version It takes a while to come to complete the story so you get good mileage for the buck you 
 can play multiplayer with 4 of your friend and you can also play on xbox live The Bad
  
  if a character dies it takes some time before you can get him to back into play some of the challenges 
 can be too difficult the character conversation lack cinematic interest no variation in the small 
 characters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 6, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  The GAMEPLAY is great. You can customize your heroes in many ways. Special move upgrades, suit 
 upgrades, and and equippable item for + stats. All can be handled auto or not. Always 4 heroes 
 at a time and isn't game over until all die. Can be done co-op online. The story is really cool. 
 There are some boring parts and some slight puzzles that are a little annoying but great fun overall. 
 Great combat with a normal and heavy attack, grapple with a throw or punch and a jumping attack. 
 Finishers, combos, etc. Then the special powers. The GRAPHICS are not great but passable. Up close 
 the character models are bad. Its a highly detailed when comparing to lastgens Dark Alliance or 
 D&amp; D hack and slash games. This gen, its not worthy of the numbers its been getting. (The concept 
 art and CG movies people are counting? Those are not in game but are awesome.) SOUND is decent 
 too. Music is pretty good. Voice acting is expected to be over the top for heroes but is annoying 
 at times. Standard hack and slash action noises. VALUE is high. The vast amount of unlocks and 
 character upgrade depth is great. Also the online co-op where one person can load their single 
 player campaing and the other can join and help. Both can save progress. TILT, its a good game 
 and deserves AA status atleast... can't seem to coax the meter to read 8 without lying on some of 
 the attributes. Well, you get the picture. Super hero fans must buy. The action RPG fan must buy. 
 A good rental for even the unconcerned casual. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bremsy
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, the best game of it's type since Champions of Norrath: RTA.
  The gameplay of course is similar to that of X-Men Legends and Champions. What makes this fun is 
 playing as different selectable characters with different abilities. Spider-man ain't bad to use. 
 However, the best characters seem to be the melee fighters as the ones with range attacks get screwed 
 over most of the time in multiplayer (levelling up happens much faster with melee attacks) . Towards 
 the end some of the range attacks tend to be more powerful. The missions are done well and you 
 get to fight a lot of different villains. But the game does seem pretty short if you don't look 
 for things to unlock. Training simulators will also help with some upgrades and experience if you 
 need it for some characters. It's also the only way to unlock all the suits for characters.
  The graphics on the other hand are too previous generation for the Xbox 360. You get some nice 
 cinematics every here and there but you won't seem them in the actual game. I find that to be dissapointing 
 for new gen graphics. Despite that, the graphics aren't bad either.
  The sound is sometimes awful and repetitive. Don't necessarily like hearing Deadpool scream out 
 some stupid things every time he levels up. and of course the best sounds come from the cinematics. 
 The reason for that is because of some of the humour involved.
  The game is out for almost all systems. It should be sold for a reduced price eventually seeing 
 that more games on all the systems are in higher demand compared to Marvel: UA.
  Fans of X-Men Legends and Champions should definitely rent this game at least. If you like it, 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjmiiirep
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 6, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  I am a 35-year old gamer. This game is challenging. The puzzles and bosses, however, can be beaten 
 without checking a cheat guide every 5 minutes. You can complete levels in a reasonable amount 
 of time which is great for the older gamer who gets to play for an hour before sleeping. I think 
 that this game is pretty good. The graphics are great and the environment varies from a spaceship, 
 apartment building, underwater, china, amusement park, hell, norse heaven, outerspace and castle. 
 The story is solid and although Im not into comics I found the character histories pretty interesting. 
 Multiplayer is easy to set up but there doesnt seem to be that many people online.
  
  The only complaint is that sometimes the camera gets stuck and you have to change character so 
 that you can see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndYOU
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This game just excels. I mean, think about it. You got over twenty super heroes fighting together 
 all as one heroic team. But wait, along with a great bunch of hreoes, there is also a huge group 
 of villians. And these baddies aren't people you'll just sit back and laugh at, these guys are 
 for real. Of all X-Men Legends games or Spiderman games or whatever else, you seriously need to 
 get this game. And when you get it, you need to play it as soon as you can, because you don't know 
 what you're missing out on. It may not be probable, but I'm hoping for sequel within the next year 
 or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megavideogamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I just had to get the action-RGP Marvel Alliance. The game is pretty polished. There is plenty 
 of Superheros to choose from. This game is nothing you have not seen before, if you are fan of 
 these types of games you'll enjoy this one. Being able to throw together a Non traditional Marvel 
 team is great. Teaming Blade together with Favorites like Spiderman etc. The Hero's everybody Knows 
 and lesser known Luke Cage etc. Great selection of Marvel Villians to battle. If you Don't like 
 this style of game or not a Marvel Fan then don't bother with this game. Again Nothing to different 
 here. Marvel Ulitmate Alliance is a blast anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindlessmittens
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 3, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I had this game for the wii originally. I wanted to see better graphics so i got it for xbox 360. 
 It is much better on the xbox than the nintendo. This game has so many things to unlock I find 
 myself doing more of a scavenger hunt than I am playing the game which is the only downside to 
 this game. For those who aren't into the background of the characters, there are comic missions 
 that you do for each individual character. They start out by giving the player a little bit more 
 information on that character and sometimes their main villain they have to overcome in the comic 
 books. I am looking forward to more marvel games like this with even more characters and maybe 
 instead of searching for hidden items, unlocking them by doing harder missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ottycon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  this was a game to be admired. the innovative story mode amazes all first time users. this game 
 takes the x-men legends series to the next plateau. i know, i know, it says on the box, that it 
 contains a highly advanced AI, that is affected by choices during game-play, this is true. Only 
 request to future players of the game is: to be sure that the first time around you play the game 
 to perfection, as it is hinted to with walk throughs, and suggestions from past players. when all 
 but one un-lockable is attained, this game will haunt you to go at it one more time to achieve 
 the full perfection in this marvel creation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kagublesprok
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the x-men legends games then you'll love this game. I love all the the unlockable 
 costumes which offers alot of replay value if you like to unlock everything in a game like I do. 
 Some of the best multiplayer around too. Its loads of fun to play superhero with your friends and 
 bash the hell out of bad guies. The sound is good but it dosn't really need much but the sound 
 effects for things breaking and the punches and stuff are really good. The voice acting is really 
 good to and theres a hilarious thing at the end of the game that I think is worth all the work. 
 So get this game its loads of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioRPGer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY-The gameplay found in Marvel Ultimate Alliance is basically the same as in the X-Men Legends 
 series and it is still very fluent, intuitive, and fun. You do light attacks with the A button, 
 heavy attacks with the B button, and you can perform combos by pressing them sequentially in different 
 orders. You can also pull off the super powers of the inclined super hero by pressing and holding 
 the right trigger and pressing the A, B, or X buttons. When momentum fills up from using light and 
 heavy attacks in a meter in your HUD, you can use the ultra power of your character, which can 
 be devestating to your enemies. Using these powers, in turn, causes your energy bar to wane down, 
 which can then be filled up again by killing enemies which explode and give you energy and health 
 when you kill them. When all your heros health is depleted, you get a game over, and have the choice 
 of either starting at the last checkpoint, and the checkpoints are pretty reasonable, or loading 
 up your saved game from a shield access point which are convenient and found in pretty reasonable 
 locations around the levels. There are over 24 characters to be used in the game, and they all 
 play pretty differently from eachother. Most of the characters are available from the start of 
 the game, but to unlock the remaining characters, you will have to search for hidden areas or bonus 
 objectives. The action RPG feel to this and the X-Men Legends games has always been appealing, 
 and is pretty awarding to you after earning experience by killing foes and doing certain tasks. 
 It is a surprisingly deep system that allows you to upgrade powers, equip gear for adding points 
 to attack and defence, and building up your suit. It is a pretty deep and sometimes complicated 
 system that can be liked, but if someone justs wants to beat up bad guys, it can easily be modified 
 by the computer. Although the different pawns and henchman look different, but dont have much variety 
 in terms of attacks, the boss battles are outstanding. OUTSTANDING. There is so much variety in the 
 bosses. From battling Arcade in murderworld, to Galactus on an ancient Skrull planet, you will never 
 see more enrtaining and smart boss battles. Ill wrap this up by saying the gameplay is superb. 
 I didnt explain the story because it is great and I dont want to give it away.
  
  GRAPHICS-The graphics are not the best on the 360. However, it makes up for this with great level 
 design, and awesome visual effects and player models, and sweet looking bosses. Lets hope Marvel 
 Ultimate Alliance 2 looks better though.
  
  SOUND-Amazing audio is to be found in this game. Incredible voice acting, including work from Phil 
 Lamarr, can be highly respected for the over 140 characters found in the game. It can be a little 
 cheesy at times, but you cant complain for it being a superhero game. The games sound effects are 
 also well done with great destruction sounds and blasts from the heroes. But, I think the best 
 part besides the voice acting for audio, would have to be the fantastic soundtrack. From rock, 
 to orchestral scores, to techno, these beats and tunes go perfectly with the different atmosphere 
 of each level. Great audio.
  
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance lasted me about 25 hours. This is a long and satisfying game that is filled 
 with plenty of secrets and alternate endings for playing through again, also with the fact that 
 there are over 20 characters to play with a second time through. Plenty is to found in Marvel Ultimate 
 Alliance.
  
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a great game anyone can enjoy, Marvel Fan or not. RPG fan or not. Go 
 save the universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedymouse
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy playing this game because of the amount of superheroes that are available right 
 from the start of the game. The unlockable characters, different costumes, and numerous super powers 
 are all at your disposal. This game is very addicting once you start to play it and progress through 
 the missions. Also, it's not a total hack and slash type of game, but there are puzzles when exploring 
 and during boss battles that keep you on edge. There is a sense of Zelda in this game, but with 
 Marvel characters instead. It has some replay value and is a very solid game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire555
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  positives: over 20 playable characters from the marvel sereis including spider-man, the thing, 
 the human torch, the hulk, and a bunch more superheroes. Great job giving each hero moves similar 
 to what they are, like Spiderman can spin webs etc. Plenty of enemies to beat up in many different 
 ways. Great level variety.
  
  Negatives: some bosses are a little easy to beat. Camera sometimes gets in the way. Limited online 
 mode
  
  Overall, MArvel Ultimate Alliance is a solid game and trually had the superhero look to it. It 
 is trully na worthy game to check out if you are a superhero fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killerbuu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Don't Let the Cover Fool you if your not a Marvel Fan! One of the best Classic Style RPG's For 
 360! Marvel Fan or not! You have many Heros to choose from with many different powers, it also 
 has online play. This game is very alot like Diablo, but the online does not let you battle each 
 other, but instead play together on co-op with 4 players. All in all this is a great game to buy, 
 if you are an rpg fan! The only bad thing is the cam control on multplayer modes... But like i 
 said, RPG fans will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dattylawnglaygz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 31, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  Wow... Marvel finally made an absolute masterpiece. All I have to say is this games fun factor level 
 is way above the competition. Gears of War was great but way too quick for 50 bucks. Meanwhile 
 this games graphics aren't as good but trust me... once you sit down and play for a minute you won't 
 let go of the controller. Before you know it... hours upon hours have passed and its daylight again. 
 Plus... the campaign is hella long with very unique levels that keep you interested involving most 
 of the Marvel World. They should have called this game Marvel Crack because I was addicted needing 
 my Marvel fix. Thats how good this game is. See for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reggie186
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Unlike DC super heroes, the Marvel heroes seem to have some pretty decent games (with a few exceptions, 
 of course) . The latest in Marvel's venture into gaming is Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, a game that 
 teams up (arguably) the most supreme heroes in the Marvel universe against an alliance of super 
 villians.
  
  Dr. Doom is the mastermind behind a scheme that will give him godly powers, and the Marvel super 
 heroes have to band together to stop him, as well as various other villians in the Marvel Universe. 
 The story isn't very interesting, but in this type of game (that being, essentially, a button masthing 
 beat-em-up) it doesn't really matter. The only interest of the player is to get onto the next level.
 
  
  Ultimate Alliance is a beautiful game on the Xbox 360. The cut scenes are fantastic and add a little 
 spice to the otherwise flat story. On top of the excellent character design, each character spouts 
 off his/her own catch-phrases in their own distinctive voice. That really helps every character 
 seem different, and I could see it enticing people to want to try out ALL of the playable characters 
 and not just stick to their favorites. The level design is also good, as every level looks different 
 and interesting.
  
  The gameplay in Ultimate Alliance is much like the X-Men Legends games, which is certainly not 
 a bad thing, but it feels a little bit old hat. Essentially, the game has you running around in 
 a team of four heroes, with you playing as one and the AI (or friends) playing the other three. 
 As your hero, you can do a variety of special attacks as well as the basic punches and kicks. The 
 more bad guys you kill, the more your characters leveling up, allowing you to gain more powerful 
 special attacks.
  
  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is impressive, and overall a good game worth playing. Hopefully this 
 is the last time that they try to push out a X-Men Legends clone and pass it off as a new game. 
 The Marvel universe can use a little makeover in the gameplay department, because the public will 
 get weary of seeing the same thing time and again. Luckily for them, that time has not yet come, 
 and Ultimate Alliance is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkelis
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  With a cast of some of the greatest heroes mankind has ever come to face, you would think that 
 Marvel Ultimate Alliance would be a must-have. You would be right and wrong because this game has 
 its strong points and some major weak points that make this game quite less enjoyable. While the 
 gameplay is fun and similar to X-Men RPG's, the graphics are nothing compared to games out there 
 to date. The graphics make the gamer wanting more, and wondering why they bought such a game, but 
 that opinion will quickly change when they see all the characters. From X-Men favorites to Spider-Man; 
 from Captian America to Thor; the playable character cast is extraordianry. Other than old-favorites 
 across the world like Electra, the game adds characters only known to hardcore comic fans. Learning 
 the techniques of new characters adds to the fun of this game, as well as mastering the skills 
 and abilities of your favorite characters. While playing the game, making a team of the best 4 
 superheroes is fun and can lead to a victory in a stage and a loss. The music is good and fits 
 all the backgrounds and characters, which would probably be the job of a game soundtrack, but gamers 
 could have expected better. Other than meeting and playing as all of the Marvel Universe characters, 
 the backgrounds are a tad bit dull, and the minions get a bit repetitive. The boss battles can 
 get annoying, but overall, this game is a must-have for PRG lovers and Marvel fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfCmnder
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  A great game, very addicting, a great action role playing game. If you love X-Men Legends both 
 one and two. You will love this game. I highly recommend this game if you are looking for a good 
 game for the 360 this is one to play.
  
  Good - Great selection of heroes to choose from. Graphics are good, the difficulty is just right. 
 The maps are huge with variety, and lots of hidden treasures. Great co-op play and multi-player 
 game. You and a couple of friends can just lose yourself.
  
  Bad - Some of the missions are a little tedious, the camera control makes some missions and searches 
 hard.
  
  Overall - A well-made game and is simply a must have for those that are fans of X-Men Legends, 
 the comics or action RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Super Hero games come and go. Usually, these are released to promote a movie tie-in... and they 
 also have a tendency to be very, very bad. But sometimes, amidst the stinking pile of crap, arises 
 a game that truly captures the essence of the franchise and brings it to life, surprising us all.
 
  
  This is the case for Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, a new Super Hero game by publisher Activision and 
 developer Raven Software. In this game, you don't get to play as one Hero... you get to play as 
 a whole bunch of them. A huge chunk of the Marvel universe is represented in this game, from Heroes 
 to Villains to legendary locations. Although there are some well known figures who are absent here, 
 like the Hulk and the Punisher, casual as well as hardcore fans will recognize many a face in this 
 game.
  
  The story is just as good as what you'd expect from a comic book. The game starts out as the Masters 
 of Evil, headed by the notorious Dr. Doom, are attacking the S. H. I. E. L. D. hellicarrier. Nick Fury, 
 the fearless leader, has no choice but to call for some help... and that help comes in the form 
 of Spider-Man, Wolverine, Captain America &amp; Thor. You'll save the hellicarrier without much 
 trouble, but you'll soon find out that Doom's plans extend to far worse than what you'd expect.
 
  
  As I've stated previously, you start off with Spider-Man, Wolverine, Captain America &amp; Thor, 
 but you'll be able to change that team to fit your own preferences. To do so, you need to reach 
 a S. H. I. E. L. D. Access Point, which are available at your home base or scattered across the levels 
 you'll play through. There are a wide range of Heroes here, ranging from the super popular ones 
 to the more eclectic ones. The same can be said for the Villains too.
  
  This game has been billed as an Action RPG, and that's exactly what it is. How is this an RPG? 
 Well, through the course of the game, you'll be able to Level Up your Heroes by gaining Experience 
 Points (XP) . This XP can be gained in a variety of ways, from simple combat to answering trivia 
 questions. As you might have guessed already, each Hero has his or her own set of moves and one 
 special move, or finisher . All of these can be modified by earning coins throughout the levels. 
 You get coins by smashing objects or defeating an enemy. As you play through the game, you'll also 
 unlock alternate costumes for the Heroes, which give you other types of moves and special abilities.
 
  
  The whole RPG aspect is all fine and dandy, but there's a ton of action in this game too. You have 
 2 types of melee: short and long. Naturally, both can be mixed together to offer combos, and both 
 will vary depending on which Hero you're playing as. Let's say you're playing as Spider-Man. He'll 
 have some melee attacks, but he'll also have long-ranged ones, like shooting his web. Some Heroes 
 also have the ability to fly, like Iron Man &amp; Thor, while others can only jump. So, as you 
 can see, it's a good thing to vary your party a bit.
  As you smash through enemies and objects, you'll recover health and energy orbs, just like in God 
 of War. Although health orbs are self-explanatory, I'll describe the energy orbs a bit. These orbs 
 help you fill up your energy meter. Energy is used up when you use special moves, so you'll need 
 to replenish it often, especially during boss battles.
  
  The controls are easy to master. You have your 2 basic melee attacks (A &amp; B buttons) , your 
 jump or fly button (Y button) and your grapple button (X button) . The grapple button comes in handy 
 when you want to disarm certain enemies or if you feel so inclined as to pushing them off a ledge. 
 If you press your right trigger, you'll be able to select from a range of special abilities your 
 Hero possesses. The left trigger helps you direct your team. Pressing the back button brings you 
 to the Hero screen, where you can equip your Heroes with special powers taken from downed enemies 
 or secret treasure chests. From this screen, you can also distribute your skill points or have 
 the game do it for you (which is a good idea for novices) .
  
  But what's so special about this game? What makes it stand out amongst the others? I found there 
 are several things that make this game memorable. First off, the action. The visceral, delightful 
 action that this game brings is truly awesome. As you pound through enemy after enemy, boss after 
 boss, you just want more.
  Another thing is the beauty and diversity of the areas you'll fight in. From Mephisto's Realm to 
 Asgard, from the Skrull homeworld to Doom's Castle, every place looks absolutely amazing and offers 
 something different each time. One of the coolest levels is Murderworld, where you'll be trapped 
 in a giant pinball machine and where you'll become the main character in the Pitfall game... yes, 
 the PItfall game. Thank you Activision!
  You want another reason? The sheer amount of Marvel characters, locations &amp; mythology in this 
 game is staggering. The comic books truly come to life in this game and it proves that the Marvel 
 license is alive and very well.
  
  But the game doesn't end when the main story does. Aside from having the opportunity to play the 
 game again on another difficulty (Easy, Normal &amp; Hard) , you'll also pick up CDs throughout 
 the levels which unlock comic book missions. You'll be able to play these missions from the Training 
 Simulator available at every home base throughout the game. In these missions, you'll take on the 
 role of one Hero (instead of the usual 4) and you'll have a set of objectives to complete under 
 a certain amount of time (usually 20 minutes) . If you are successful, not only will you earn extra 
 coins and XP, but you'll probably unlock new Heroes along the way.
  
  The voice work in the game is pretty good. There are very humorous cutscenes throughout the course 
 of gameplay, especially when Spider-Man comes into play. The sound effects are what you'd expect 
 from a Hero-filled game like this one. As for the soundtrack, it's a good mix of orchestral arrangements 
 with some rock and a little bit of techno thrown in for good measure.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for the XBox 360, but somewhat disappointing, especially when it comes 
 to the regular cutscenes. The lip-sync in way off and the movement of the characters is choppy. 
 On the other hand, the cinematic cutscenes are absolutely mind-blowing, especially on a good HDTV. 
 During gameplay, there is hardly no lag or clipping.
  
  If there was one thing to criticise about this game, it's the damn camera angles. I don't know 
 what it is with these types of games, but they can't seem to get the camera right in any of them. 
 Be aware that you'll sometimes get stuck with the camera during certain fight sequences, where, 
 on some occasions, it simply won't turn or, sometimes, will give you a very close image of your 
 Hero getting attacked. It's a shame that we still have to live with these types of problems.
  
  The online gameplay is without reproach. The action moves smoothly, without any noticeable 
 lag. The co-op is also extremely fun and engaging. You'll get tons of replay value with this game 
 also, as you can go through the main storyline, which will take you between 15 and 20 hours on 
 your first run through, several times, with different characters, and have different results almost 
 every time. With the inclusion of the comic book missions, the skill testing questions, and other 
 side attractions, this game's replay value is enormous.
  
  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a very surprising game that will have you craving for more and more. 
 It is, without a shadow of a doubt, one of the best Super Hero games ever made and one that digs 
 very deep into the Marvel folklore. Casual and hardcore fans alike will rejoice in this offering, 
 which cannot be overlooked. In three words: get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topher78714
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  This game is great! I have always been a comic book geek and love it that I can see all of my favorite 
 super heros in one game (even the ones that aren't so popular) . This game brings together all of 
 the great heros and many of the reconizable villians from some of the best comic books around. 
 The game play is like the X-men legends game where you pick a team of four people and then procede 
 through the story line. This game has a very high replay value because if you play it once through 
 with 4 people then quit, you are missing out on alot of the game being as there are enough characters 
 to play it through many times with out repeating. I highly recondmend this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alschlager
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  The game itself is a great leap in button mashing history. Allowing for extensive depth of many 
 characters and the ability to unlock many characters while playing through the Story more a few 
 times over. The character development is a nice touch but the story mode could use a few tweaks. 
 The story mode keeps you involved in the game, but doesn't do much to surprise you. The dialog 
 is writtein in comic form (simple and easy to understand) which can be very straightforward and 
 not written by a Acadamy award winner
  
  If you buy this game you will enjoy the story mode a few time through to see if you can find all 
 the Easter Eggs and unlockables for each of the characters. Also an excellent game for multiple 
 players. Online play can also be fun. If you are a fan of the Marvel Universe I highly recommend 
 it. If you are looking for the next best game this is not it. I would borrow, rent or steal (from 
 a friend) before buying this game. Very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBR3MN3R
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 29, 2006 3:28 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is great and very easy to learn.
  The graphics aren't spectacular but since they are coming from comics for the most part, they don't 
 have to be.
  It sounds good but hearing the same character voices over and over again get on my nerves.
  However 
 this game is worth the money since it is currently the best game you can play along with other 
 people on the same console.
  
  My biggest beef with this game is how incredibly easy it is. I have always enjoyed games like this 
 (Dark Alliance, X-Men Legends...) however I remember being challenged a bit more in those games, 
 the only challenge I have met in this game is doing the simulator challenges, other then that it 
 is very easy to walk through a level killing everything in sight... however making your ultimate 
 team is funner then ever before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metal_gear269
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Good: Great controls, graphics, use of the license, sound, plus much, much more
  
  Bad: Camera can get a little annoying at times, Spiderman sounds like an idiot
  
  Now, I'm 
 not much for superhero comics, but this game changed that. This game makes me want to read every 
 character's story that is only briefly referenced in the game. Up until now, I only knew what was 
 in the sometimes crappy big-screen movies, so I was a little embarrassed with myself for thinking 
 I knew a lot about the universe. For instance, I didn't even know Dr. Doom had a mom, but in this 
 game, they talk about him trying to save her.
  
  The gameplay is what we all know and love from the X-men legends series, so no complaints there. 
 The camera can get a little annoying, though. sometimes it'll suddenly switch from a user-controlled 
 camera to a fixed one, or randomly change angles when you're in a small area. Another high point 
 is the co-op. It's just so much fun to play with actual people instead of the sometimes retarded 
 AI
  
  The graphics are next-gen, the sound is good, and the game rocks. If there's one thing I am totally 
 sick of, it is all of Spiderman's dialog.
  
  Anyhoo, overall this is a great game and definitely worth the $60 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamlomar90210
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Okay heres the good and bad
  
  good online
  play with other people and get some real decent help.
  
  good offline
  play the story mode 
 straight forward, not in the middle of some persons online saved file.
  
  bad online
  cant join in the middle of a game making it hard to find a room.
  
  horrible lag (i have a cable 
 modem)
  
  did i mention the high chance of d/c? and u cant get back into the room
  
  bad offline
  ur teammates are IMMORTAL yes IMMORTAL as in they cant die unless u play as them, 
 so normally i just run around while my teamates do all the fighting, an if im bout to die i just 
 switch to a char with more life, i made it pretty far in the game like that..................
 
  forgot to save it.....
  game froze in loadin screen.........
  never touched it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reya10276
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  While some people might say Diablo who? this game is right up there with it and if you are a comic 
 book fan then it's the perfect game for you. As for me this game is the best I've ever seen and 
 the damn thing is sooo much fun to play, I mean I spent hours and I don't even realize it. It's 
 addictive, fun and has replay value; what more can you ask of a game!!
  
  Graphics: They are not next-gen console defining, but they are decent enough to enjoy and while 
 it might not look like Gears of war it looks pretty damn good, there is just so much details, specially 
 in the Mandarin stage that it's amazing.
  
  Sound: If you have a 5.1 DTS sound is the best but if you don't it's very nice, Deadpool is so 
 funny and spidy well he's spidy. Let's just say it does not let you down at all.
  
  Gameplay/Control: Well what can I say, It's great, no slow down, no skipping no nothing, in fact 
 it's a smooth ride and the fact that you can zoom in and out it's pretty cool. The only thing that 
 I have an issue with is that at some points the camera does not follow or maybe it could have been 
 me, but it only happen twice so that's why I say it could have been me. Overall game play is awsome, 
 if your going to own a game this would be it. Again great Game, Replay and lot's of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 24, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  this guy is great and really fun to play. First though was its gay then I played it and start to 
 like it better!!! this game has many levels and power that you need to try out. and this game is 
 also realloy long so your character have time to grow better and learned new power. the graphic 
 are not that good. the sound is alright. the gamplay is really good. this game is to buy because 
 its really long and I dont think renting it will be long enough except if plaing like 8 hours a 
 day. this game is to try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iBoxCarBobi
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  What can be said about this game, other then its just like any old arcade game. If you are playing 
 this game, you will just end up running around killing enemies that you will see. There is nothing 
 really special to this game, because of the repetition that you will encounter through out the 
 whole thing. True that there are a lot of different characters to choose from, with their own special 
 abilities, but at the end you will just end up doing the same thing over and over. Yes, this is 
 a fictional world, but there are still things that cant happen and/or impossible to do. Example: 
 an underwater mission, if you take The Thing which is a solid rock, it will not be able to freely 
 swim around like a fish. I got to say that one of the biggest problems with this game is the multi-player. 
 Since there are up to 4 real people that you can play with, the action on the screen is overwhelming. 
 With all the lights and action no the screen, it is hard to pay attention to the character that 
 you are using, and it gets me thinking, has anyone had a seizure while playing this game? But over 
 all if you are a fan of an old school arcade game, you should try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjl51869
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  When it comes to action adventure games... it sometimes is very hard to use the licensing to its 
 fullest. Even though the Xmen games were well received by the community... it always seemed that 
 something is lacking. If Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is just a preview of things to come... we are 
 in for a fantastic journey. Gameplay has a below average learning curve. It will not take long 
 for anyone to learn how to control the game. It is a hack and slash variety... but the game is mostly 
 satisfying for people who just want to press buttons and destroy everything they touch. Raven made 
 this game so that people could have fun with their favorite Marvel characters and just beat up 
 enemies.
  
  Graphics are good... but they could have been a little flashier on the 360. It looks best on this 
 console and the environments are awe inspiring. I just wish the characters looked more real than 
 instead of looking like they that came out of a comic book. Some people won't have an issue with 
 the characters... and that's okay. I love the ability to change uniforms. Very nice touch.
  
  Sound is good... music is a little repetitive... but then again... most games like this have that 
 kind of setup. The character voices are very well done however. Spider man always seems to have 
 the best lines... doesn't he?
  
  I love the value. You can play this game over again on the harder difficulty and if you do ALL 
 the side quests and missions and simulators, it will give you about 40 hours of campaign play. 
 I like taking my time with games so I will probably log more hours. With all the ways you can customize 
 teams and heroes, there are always new combinations to try out. So replaying this game does have 
 it's advantages.
  
  My final tilt is this is the best Marvel game to date. There are heroes that every comic book fan 
 can relate to and play with. Marvel is a great game and if Raven doesn't fix what is not broken 
 and they enhance what is for future installments... it'll be like being a kid in a comic book store 
 once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonstrative1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 12, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I'm usually not a fan of these top-down, OCD-style games. I never really got the Diablo games, 
 and even Raven's X-Men Legends game just flat-out didn't appeal to me. But the action and plain 
 old fun this game provides are undeniable. The gameplay is pretty static for each hero; you've 
 got a set of powers mapped to the four face buttons, and you grab and beat people up with the same 
 controls for each character. However, the variety and usage of the different super powers is more 
 than varied enough to keep things interesting. Upgrading your powers is super involved too, which 
 brings me to my next point:
  
  The upgrading of characters as a whole is really surprisingly deep system, and one that I definitely 
 got swept up in. Not only do you spend credits to make your powers better, but you also get upgrades 
 for your different outfits, each of which has 3 different abilities associated with it (Defense, 
 Resist, Melee Damage, etc.) , so it's not all about the look of your character which I really enjoyed. 
 The graphics are extremely well done and accomplish their purpose well. The environments look good 
 and are lit well, and the character models are fairly truly translated from their comic book forms.
 
  
  As far as sound goes, the voice acting is pretty well done, and the sound effects accompanying 
 your powers seem to fit very well. Captain America sounds appropriately heroic in the cutscenes, 
 and Storm's weather-controlling powers especially match up well. This isn't always the case, though; 
 Deadpool's dialogue, while HILARIOUS and well-written, was given to a voice actor who doesn't quite 
 reflect his more badass nature.
  
  MUA's got a TON of unlockables which, if you don't cheat, should take a goodly amount of time to 
 finish obtaining. It also adds to replayability, since obviously you have to know how different 
 the game will feel with a totally new party!
  
  In short, if you're looking for a new 360 game, this one is hands-down one of my favorites on any 
 console ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luciotss
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  Up to 2004, the Raven was known basically for its games of shot for PC, as the series Heretic 
 and Hexen, and Jedi Knights II: Jedi Academy. But, in the year in question, it was chosen to 
 produce X-Men Legends, one of the best games already created having the mutant celebrities of 
 the Marvel as subject. The drawn one was to catch the winning formula of Diablo and to change 
 the medieval warriors for the heroes of the quadrinhos. The continuation aparou the edges and, 
 now, with Marvel Ultimate Alliance, the universe was expanded stops beyond the mutant dom&iacute; nios. 
 As the name says, it is the last word on a superleague, as much of heroes as villainous. Legends 
 of the Marvel Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a game of action with a little of RPG. He has aerial 
 vision and the player controls a group of four heroes - one of each time, evidently -, facing diverse 
 body guards and supervillains. But, in way to much he would pancadaria, still he has space for 
 some exploration, tests of knowledge and puzzle. The plot starts banal, but if it shows complex 
 more to the measure that if develops. Here, together Dr. Destination a true election of villains, 
 including Ultron, Galactus and Mandarim, and attacks a ship of the S. H. I. E. L. D., the agency of 
 intelligence and against-terrorism of the world of the Marvel. The aid order is taken care of by 
 a meeting of heroes, formed for Captain America, Man-Spider, Thor and Wolverine. This is the premise 
 of Marvel Ultimate Alliance: to join a mount of notables to fight against the great evildoers 
 of the quadrinhos. E has personage. Between ordeiros and offenders, they are almost a hundred of 
 famous faces, and others nor in such a way. Between the heroes who the player can control they 
 are 16 initial personages. Beyond the four of the start, still it has faces of the Fantastic Quarteto, 
 the Avengers and the X-Men, without speaking in less the most known as Deadpool and Motoqueiro 
 Ghost. It still has insertions as Elektra and Blade, perhaps for having been done films on these 
 heroes. In consoles of new generation (enclosed Wii) , still it has more two exclusive personages: 
 Colossus and Cavaleiro of the Moon. The portable ones also have its quota of proper heroes: in 
 the PSP, they are four, including Ronin and Vi&uacute; va Negra, and in the Game Boy Advance she 
 appears Jean Grey and Namor. Alliance of **** Marvel Ultimate Alliance has the same qualities 
 of the series X-Men Legends and who already passed for the predecessors must love the new game 
 of face. Exactly who does not support part RPG of these headings can be had fun, therefore the 
 game takes care of automatically of the development of the personages, if thus to want the user. 
 With an extensive list of heroes and villains, and an extensive content, is a game that values 
 the investment. Better still if you he will be fans of the hq's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  :Best Idea:
  &middot; Bringing all of these superstars in one game is a great concept. Surprisingly, the story 
 works with them together.
  
  :Worst Idea:
  &middot; Lack of a few really cool Marvel heroes that you would think would be in there. I'm more 
 talking about Gambit, who is one of the coolest X-Man ever.
  
  :Achievement Difficulty: &middot; Overall, they're not too difficult. If you dedicate a little 
 time to the game, they're all pretty much obtainable. Some of them are time consuming, but that's 
 why they are achievements. They're hard to get.
  -------------------------------
  
  What an awesome concept. Take all of your favorite Marvel comic superheroes together in one action 
 packed game. What do you get? Well, ultimately Ultimate Alliance.
  
  The story is in the lines of Dr. Doom and a bunch of Marvel baddies are running amuck in the world, 
 causing the random chaos you'd expect from baddies... especially bad guys names Dr. Doom. So, Marvel 
 teams up some of their best superheroes to defeat boss after boss in a truly epic battle of good 
 and evil. Characters range from Spider-Man to X-Men to even the cool, unappreciated (until the 
 movie) characters such as Ghost Rider.
  
  Overall, if you've ever played Raven's X-Men Legends games, then you know how this works. It's 
 a classic beat-em-up, hack-n-slash action role-playing game. In single player mode, you create 
 your own special team and control one player through missions. You can swap between which one player 
 you control, but overall, you only control one of the players. You can send your AI buddies to 
 attack, defend, or whatever you want. The AI is sorta stupid sometimes, but eh, it's RPG AI. They're 
 not ever going to be incredibly smart. The plus side is a buddy can jump in at any time and you 
 guys can play two different ways. Co-op with up to 4 buddies, or Arcade mode with up to 4 buddies. 
 You should know what co-op mode is like since you obviously are a gamer and reading this. The Arcade 
 mode is my preferred mode of play. Basically, the best player of a level gets extra experience 
 and extra points to spend on moves and attributes. If you're anything like me, you'll end up taking 
 all of that pie home. It keeps you entertained and is fun to actually steal kills from your buddies, 
 only further ticking them off.
  
  The graphics are pretty well done. Actually, for an action role-playing game, they're really good. 
 The character models, all though not all high-poly character, are detailed very nicely and giving 
 you more of an authentic Marvel look. The shaders are nicely done in the game and I'm basically 
 just expanding my thoughts on Hey, the graphics are good. . The downside to the game comes from 
 the audio. Not that the soundtrack or voice acting sucks. It's mainly that the audio randomly doesn't 
 play (every time I've ran through it, the frost giant boss battle seems to glitch out) . Another 
 thing that I ran into was the stupid thing that always bugs me about games like this: after a while, 
 the Spider-Man voice saying Why does it smell like rotten cheese in here? get's really dang old.
 
  
  Other than that, the game is good. If you bothered to notice, I game the gameplay a 7. I feel like 
 it could of had more variety in the moves. I mean, Diablo 2 has more attacks than this game and 
 it's how old? I think they should have done more with the overall attacking modes, since doing 
 the same move over and over gets old really, really fast.
  
  -------------------------------
  :Rent or Purchase?:
  &middot; This game is definitely worth 
 a purchase. It's got more than 6 hours of gameplay, and the multiplayer arcade mode brings back 
 memories of the arcade machines and old school beat-em-ups. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Nice to see a revamp of a game you like. Depends of course what it is that you are in for!
  This game is just like the X-men legends 1 and 2 we all loved and liked to play. this gauntlet 
 look where we bash, slash and crash is just too appealing to ignore. Almost like mindless entertainment. 
 I think it is a nice way to se it all up and this game has plenty to offer.
  
  The game is filled with heros we didn't play before, and the likeble goodies are here too.
  
 
  I admit that the levels are a little too linear, but the graphics look great, the special effects 
 are well done, and it is a nice mindless game to play.
  
  Do not see mindless as a bad thing, but see it that everything in this game is so intuitive that 
 you seem to do the right things from the word go, and that makes for a relaxing game. Yup, a defenite 
 asset for me. My only worry here is re-playability. after you have played this game more then once 
 then the challenge is gone, even if you re-play with other characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack40
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  We've all read Marvel Comics. Like Spiderman, X-Men, Black Panther, Fantastic Four, and the Incredible 
 Hulk. Those comics were awesome. Some of us played the games... we; ve played super hero games. 
 And this... is the the best super hero comic book game I have ever played. Pros: Very great combat 
 system, nice selection of characters, Co-op is well done, Special abilities are a real great addition 
 to the game.
  
  Cons: Some corny dialonge, voice acting is great but some are corny. GRAPHICS- Nice and well done 
 designs. THe character models look really detailed and great. The visuals look totally wicked. 
 Bravo, Marvel, Bravo. GAMEPLAY- Action packed, addicting and fun. The combat system gives a game 
 one total awesome touch. The special are just awesome. The co-op is a great way to play with others. 
 But some parts of the gameplay are just plain hard. Some boss fights can get boring and... touching 
 fireballs was hard but it was fun to watch your player get his @$$ burned. Still, one great experience 
 of a RPG.
  
  SOUND- It sounds well. The music is great and the voice acting is great too. But some voice acting 
 is just plain corny. Some lame cheesy super-hero dialonge. I've read the comics and the dialonge 
 did not sound cheesy too often. CLOSING COMMENTS- Super hero fans, comic fans, and especially Marvel 
 fans will love this. This a great way of bringing the awesome super hero action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 7, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who's played X-Men Legends can pick this up with no problem... but so can newcomers. This 
 is a great game that's easy to learn and play, and best of all, you're controlling the most famous 
 superheroes spanning across several decades. Something like teaming Kobe, Jordan, Magic, Kareem, 
 Dr. J, and Wilt the Stilt... you just can't go wrong. On the other hand, you're facing the most 
 famous supervillines of the last several decades, including Dr. Doom, Galactus, and Loki.
  
  The game is centered around Nick Fury gathering all these heroes to try to foil Dr. Doom's 
 newest evil plan. I won't ruin it for you, but it's a fairly good plan. As you can imagine with 
 all these superheroes gathering together, the fate of the universe is on the line. *gasp*
  
  You still play with four heroes at a time as with the X-Men Legends games, but there are a 
 few differences. You need to try to keep the same four going to build up your team's reputation 
 points, which can lead to team boosts that now accompany the individual boost of old. There's also 
 been an improvement in the health and power part of the game. You don't have to worry about when 
 to use potions or at what level to let the computer refuel your teammates. As you find health and 
 energy bits, they automatically beam to the nearest super hero so you can concentrate on the important 
 part: fighting with super-powers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan729
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  
  There is much better environment variety in this game than that of the X-Men: Legends series. This 
 is quickly apparent, as you find yourself underwater, in a pinball machine, and in a videogame. 
 This diversity is creative and highly appreciated. Really a substantial change from the bland and 
 uninspiring environments of X-Men: Legends. The lighting and particle effects are top notch, particularly 
 the fire effects from the Human Torch. There are a few minor frame-rate issues, but nothing to 
 take away from the game experience. However, online play often encounters slowdown, but is still 
 playable. The character models and animations are done well, as are the numerous cut-scenes.
  
  Gameplay
  
  This is traditional hack n' slash with lots of special attacks and abilities. 
 Button pressing minigames are used throughout the game for tasks such as moving rocks and defusing 
 bombs. However, these button pressing sequences are used best in the boss fights. This leads the 
 boss fights to be very fun and different. Boss battles are aplenty, and feature lots of different 
 characters from the Marvel universe. In fact, the entire game is comprised of almost 200 different 
 Marvel characters. The special attack system is done very well, and these attacks are easy to execute. 
 The RPG elements are not as deep as the past Raven games, but this isn't too much of a disappointment. 
 Health and energy orbs are now absorbed automatically, which is an improvement. The Next-Gen versions 
 of the game offer two additional characters: Colossus and Moon Knight.
  
  Sound
  
  The voice-work is good in this game, and it is nice to see that everything is voiced. The music 
 is wonderful, and is highly appropriate for the different levels. Value
  
  The single player lasts about 10-15 hours, but there are lots of additional side-quests to complete. 
 Add that to a great multiplayer, Arcade mode, and a Hard mode and you have easily 30-40 hours of 
 gameplay. Xbox Live consists of cooperative and competitive game modes. Also, the trivia game is 
 a nice addition, and there are lots of different Achievements and unlockables to go after. The 
 large amount of characters and attacks further adds to the replay value. For those who were wondering, 
 my favorite characters to play as are Captain America and Deadpool.
  
  Verdict
  
  It's long game with lots of replayability, and it is one of the best and most fun co-op experiences 
 around. Marvel: Ultimate Alliance gets a 9.0/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobobizarro
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  Just when you thought Xmen Legend was good, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance tops it off superbly! If 
 you felt that playing with the Xmen alone was not really giving you the satisfaction of the Marvel 
 Universe, now you can create your very own Super Team of Marvel Characters! My only grudge is that 
 they did not have The Hulk, so that my New Fantastic Four team would be complete, but playing with 
 Wolverine, Spider-Man and Ghost Rider, along with Luke Cage filling in Hulk's spot, it was truly 
 a thrilling experience.
  
  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance has you pit against a largely assorted bunch of Villains, lead by no 
 other than Victor Von Doom. Having this all star of villains was not enough, it seems. With Dr. 
 Doom leading this wild bunch of evil-doers, you know you can expect a grand adventure!
  
  So, select your four champions, may it be the Fantastic Four, The Avengers, Xmen or a mixed group 
 of your favorite Marvel characters, and jump into the fray and save the world! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaRkNeSs2393
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I love Marvel comics and video games, and this game is a perfect mix. With absolutley great heros 
 and villans, this is the game for people who love comics. I got to play as (quite literally) as 
 all my favorite heros. This is a fun and cool game with good graphics. The storyline basically 
 throws all the Marvel universe together at once, which is suprisng and strange. I am a comics freak 
 and still I didn't know half the villans. It's... wierd. The single player experience basically 
 takes X-men Legdens and makes it much better. With fun little aditions, like weapons you can equip 
 and highly destructible environments. The puzzels are all disapointingly simple, which is a shame. 
 The action is smooth and clean. However, where this game really excells is when you have 3 buddies 
 over and you are totally pwning Doom bots. The additon of being able to play with multiple people 
 makes the game. If you like comics and good games, this is totally for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 1, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game due to reviews alone, something I'll do occasionally. I am more of a DC comics 
 fan, so I would have let this great game slip by if it wasn't for the positive reviews. I am having 
 lots of fun playing the Fantastic 4.
  
  At first, I was impressed by the graphical detail. I didn't expect it to look so good. Then the 
 gameplay blew me away. I play it like an RPG, but I really enjoy the hack and slash style.
  
  Graphics, as I've mentioned, are very good. I thought it would be hard to make a very detailed 
 game with the type of isometric camera view, but you can zoom a little and everything looks nice 
 from far to up close. Animations are nicely done, and there are so many. Each heroes skills and 
 abilities have unique animations. Mr Fantastic has some of the best ones I've seen so far.
  
  Sound is average, but the background music is pretty good, enough so I notice it kick in at 
 the right moment but not annoying. Otherwise, you'll mostly be listening to crack, bam, boom, of 
 combat.
  
  The action part of the game is fun, but I really like the detailed customiztion of the team and 
 your characters. Each power, skill, uniform, stat, can be adjusted and improved. There is a lot 
 of play around with, but I haven't really noticed if it really made a difference in how my characters 
 and team performs. I guess I wouldn't know unless I replay the game without making any changes 
 or upgrades. Obviously, one would assume that improving stats and things of that nature would make 
 the game easier. I'm just not seeing a drastic different in my characters actions after upgrading.
 
  
  The storyline is straighforward and is nothing special, but does contain some nice surprises every 
 so often. It isn't the main attraction for me, as it was with FFXII, but it provides some motivation 
 while playing through the game. I haven't finished the game and I am interested in seeing how the 
 story pans out.
  
  This style of game is really growing on me. I really liked Diabo and Diablo II. I am a fan of Titan 
 Quest. However, this game takes some of the things from those types of action/hack-n-slach games 
 and adds some roleplaying aspects and gives a player lots of options to customize. This is my favorite 
 part of the game, I just would have liked to see more results after my customizations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance tells the struggle of a large group of various Marvel super heroes that 
 have come together as they chase and battle both highly recognized and fairly unknown enemies in 
 an attempt to foil Dr. Doom's ultimate plan for world domination: to steal the god Odin's powers 
 and use them for evil.
  
  If you ever played X-Men: Legends then you'll get the right idea for this game. You pick a group 
 of up to 4 mutants from a pool of about 25 heroes that include the X-Men, Avengers, and run around 
 a level meleeing enemies or blasting them with projectiles, collecting S. H. I. E. L. D credits which 
 are used to help level up your skills and make your outfit stronger (there are 4 costumes for each 
 character you can unlock and some of them are pretty cool while others are dumb) , solving small 
 puzzles, playing mini-games that require you to press a certain button that pops up on screen, 
 and collecting items. The items you collect can be used to enhance your character such as adding 
 strength or focus, unlock bonus levels called Comic Missions where you play as a certain character 
 in a situation that resembles a comic that character was in, unlock concept art, and unlock loading 
 screens. Additionally there are bonus objectives such as saving data from a computer, rescuing 
 Odin, and others that will give you both experience points and will affect your ending. So pay 
 attention to the objectives.
  
  Also when you meet certain criteria such as finding 5 action figures or beating all the Comic Missions 
 you can unlock hidden characters like Daredevil, Black Panther or Silver Surfer. While in-game 
 you can find Ghost Rider, Dr. Strange, Nick Fury &amp; Blade.
  
  Oh I forgot to mention that in each safe zone such as Stark Towers there are these trivia computers 
 that give you free experience points for each question you answer right about the Marvel universe... 
 and trust me its not really all that easy for newbie comic readers once you get into the higher 
 levels.
  
  The high replay value stems from the amount of things to collect, the leveling up of each character, 
 finding the hidden characters and it's online abilities. Thats right - you and 3 others can play 
 through the entire campaign working together or go into Arcade mode and compete for the highest 
 score for that level. Its pretty fun and rather interesting to see where others are at in the game 
 when they need help and set up a co-op server.
  
  The best part of this game, in my opinion, was when you're in MurderWorld and you have to play 
 a version of the old Atari version of the original Pitfall. Easily one of the best reasons to play 
 Marvel: Ultimate Alliance.
  
  The X-Box 360 achievements are easy to earn in this game for the most part. It really just requires 
 you to play through the game to get most of them but then there are a few like unlocking heroes 
 or throwing enemies off ledges or performing finishing moves.. trust me, they are easy.
  
  Graphically speaking, Ultimate Alliance is so-so. The levels are nicely detailed and the character 
 models of the super heroes and villians look great but when you go up close to other characters 
 they look blocky and muddled. Glactus looked deisel.
  
  But no game comes without flaws. For starters the sound effects fade in and out during cutscenes. 
 For example you'll see an explosion but won't hear anything. Secondly, a good majority of the dialouge 
 is in text boxes without voices (dont get me wrong, sometimes they talk but not all the time) . 
 Secondly, your allies AI is just bad - you can command them to be on the defensive or offensive 
 but no matter what you tell them to do they will still run after enemies and get their faces pounded. 
 The worst example of this is in the Comic Missions where you have to protect someone cause if they 
 die then the mission ends but all they do is run into harms way. Finally, the camera can sometimes 
 just randomly change spots which can be quite awkward and frustrating at times.
  
  Overall, Ultimate Alliance is definitley a game worth owning because there is so much to do, its 
 fun playing as and facing a wide variety of Marvel characters, it lengthy, not TOO hard, and it's 
 online capabilities is fun. Not to mention there are quite a few endings pending on the bonus objectives 
 you complete. I give it an 8.4 for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leprechaunv
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  When I started playing this game, I said It's not as marvelous as everybody is talking about , 
 it really disappointed me at first sight. Once I started making points, learn some combos, finding 
 more outfits, buying powers, etc. I realized that the point of the game is not the graphics, the 
 sound , or even the on-line features, is just to have fun with one of the best comics franchise 
 in the world. You can create your own team, naming it as you wish, including four heroes, whoever 
 you want. It has everything to spend hours playing.
  
  The history is not that bad, but also reminds me the justice league fighting against Lex Luthor 
 and super villains... lol. The thing is that you need to stop Dr. Doom's plans to rule the earth. 
 Also through the history, the enemies become more difficult to defeat, and you need to think which 
 hero you'll chose to play an specific mission, that makes it, a little bit harder, but more enjoyable.
 
  
  The multiplayer is easy to deal with, and you'll love playing with your friends, off-line and on-line.
 
  
  Graphics and sound are not the best thing you've seen, but as I told you, you'll forget that once 
 the game started growing on you. It starts taking you deeper each act, making you forgive any bug, 
 graphics or sound in the game.
  
  If you just want a game to spend some hours by yourself, just rent it, don't buy it, but If you 
 want to challenge yourself to get 100% in the game, you better buy it, 'cuz is not that easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyjrad
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  This game is great. Raven Software made an amazing game that shares the quality of the X-Men Legends 
 formula. It has a long campaign that can be played with up to four people that can be played on 
 the console or via Xbox-Live. This game is a perfect example of how amazing the whole Marvel universe 
 is. This game is more explosive than the X-Men Legends games and far more innovative. The story 
 is pretty much simple to understand: Dr. Doom has gathered the world's most deadliest villains 
 in the world into one organization, the Masters of Evil, and are intent on world domination. However, 
 a group of superheroes has banded together to fight that evil. Whether it's the Avengers or the 
 Fantastic Four, they are determined to stop Dr. Doom and the Masters of Evil. The plot thickens 
 as you progress throughout the game.
  
  Gameplay: It's not a button-masher anymore because characters have a very diverse set of moves 
 from each other. And to add more to the carnage, there will be minigames that require reflexes 
 like those of the Black Panther. Customization options are available for the heroes' movesets and 
 abilities depending on their costumes. Whichever you want to use and max out is entirely up to 
 you. Graphics: Environments are breathtaking. The many huge-story bosses are incredibly detailed. 
 The destruction is a wonder to see and you will be wanting more for your satisfaction.
  
  Sound: Voicework is top-notch. Deadpool and Spider-man are hilarious while Mr. Fantastic whines. 
 Sound effects are just as good.
  
  Value: You will still be playing this game five years from now. I guarantee it.
  
  Tilt: Do 
 I have to explain more for you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaladinJoo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Another great spin for Activision's action RPG Marvel series, Marvel Ultimate Alliance's strength 
 comes in the change of cast and scenery more than any new feature it includes. Seeing this large 
 and varied a cast is definitely geek overload, and the locales and references made should please 
 most Marvel fans. The game is also very accessible, with pick up and play controls and AI covered 
 stat enhancing if you so choose it. It also has the capability to become a fairly deep RPG, but 
 the fact that the game never gets very difficult, and the building up of characters doesn't really 
 have much effect on the gameplay. The game also never gets very difficult, so a repetitive number 
 battles towards the end of the game can be expected. However, the sheer variation of team building 
 choices, and varied locales and enemies makes this a fun little game to play, by yourself or with 
 friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWdarkJedi
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance for the Xbox 360 is a solid game. It has an easy to learn combat system, 
 and the story is pretty good. Basically, Dr. Victor Von Doom has formed a league of all the super 
 villians in the world of Marvel Comics called the Masters of Evil. Personaly I think the name is 
 terrible and very corny. So Nick Fury forms a yeam of all the super heros from the Marvel Universe. 
 The entire game you will fighting your way through lots of nice levels, but you will notice that 
 many of the enimies tend to look the same. There are many characters to choose from and more to 
 unlock.
  
  The graphics during the fmv's and cutscenes were excellent. But during the actual game the graphics 
 did not compare to other next-gen games. There were also times when the music would stop and you 
 would be able to hear nothing.
  
  But in the end Marvel Ultimate Alliance was a solid game and followed the same format as the X-Men 
 Legends series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud9210
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a great game. Its long, exciting. and just plain fun. Many of heroes 
 from the Marvel Universe are included in this game as playable and non playable heroes. I really 
 like how the costumes are set up. I like that every character has multiple costumes which you can 
 upgrade to make your hero stronger. I also really enjoy the team making. I like how you can make 
 a team of heroes, give them a name and upgrade them. One of the set backs to this game is that 
 it is to easy. Even on harder difficultys, there is no real increadible challenge. Some of the 
 character's also upset me. Like how Iceman's ice slide didn't leave a trail behind him, and how 
 Colossus basically sucked. The graphics for this game are pretty decent, but they could be alot 
 better, since this is the next-gen. One thing that I really enjoyed about MUA is the storyline. 
 I really liked how the evil villains teamed up so the heroes had to as well. Overall Marvel Ultimate 
 Alliance is a great game, that many people will enjoy even if they aren't fans of the Marvel Universe. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tapiondbz1106
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty dang fun. You can play as alot of people from the marvel series and they all 
 have 4 customs except for moon knight. i dont know why but thats the way goes. The fighting in 
 this game is the same but with cooler and better combos. The levels seem pretty cool as well and 
 the graphics got a little improved. There is online mode which is really good to. I play that alot 
 too. the sound on the game is also good plus you have to unlock some people which adds some fun 
 to it. If you liked x-men legends 1 and 2 then you should also like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JYGFluffy212
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a great game that captures what marvel is all about... the intense 
 3rd person game play puts you in control of any of the characters you want. The learning curve 
 for this game is really easy and its really fun play along side with friends in co op on xbox live. 
 The game it self is pretty long and fun to play. this will keep you busy for a while and with the 
 360 graphics you will not be disappointed. but if you dont like 3rd person games than this game 
 is not for you. but other than that its a great action rpg that will keep you at the edge of your 
 seat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hmoobstylez
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  This is a marvel rip off of champions of norrath, i mean great concept with all the heros and what 
 not, but for a next gen system the graphics arent really on par with newer games, looks kinda like 
 a polished xbox game, this game really got me dissapointed, shoot i went to a suoperwalmart at 
 midnight to go get this game, but when i started up the gameplay, it didnt excite me, i could of 
 been better off with getting Phantasy star universe, or LOTRII, now to me this is a trade in and 
 was prob the worst waste of $60 i ever used and not to forget this is my secondf 360 game, of course 
 i only bought a 360 to play gears of war on Live with my friends, and that is a fantastik game, 
 i cant get enough of it, had it since november 8th and god i love that like a child 
::::::

::::::
UserName: proskater40000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  The first thing i noticed about this game was the horrible quality of the raven thing. Of course, 
 that will not affect my review. Alright, the first thing i will write about is the story mode. 
 It starts out slowly and easily but, it's just perfect when you are starting out. The graphics 
 aren't spectacular untill the murder land level . Then the graphics really begin to shine. The gameplay 
 is great from the very beggining but, at times it feels like a button masher. Now, the next thing 
 is the online. It can be explained in one word, unreliable. If there wasn't a whole bunch of lag 
 and stuff then it would be really fun but untill they work out the kinks, It sucks. The big thing 
 is that it is way too easy. That will conclude my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stukes
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  marvel is cool. u get to upgrade all the superhero's powers and unlock costumes. the game play 
 is kinda repetative at first if you dont get into all of the moves you can do. at first, the max 
 moves you can do will any one super is eight (guestamite) that incluse air attacks, combos, and 
 grabs. the standard hit buttons are a and b and b charges if u hold it. the graphic at first might 
 seem so awsome that u think it the best since obilivion, but its not. the opening cinematic is 
 hypd up on streiods and the rest of the game looks like it came from a gamecube (cutscenes and 
 things of that nature) . u can also play on live with up to three other people. and, another thing, 
 playn the game on the 360 and using cheats (like my dad does) does not, i repeat, DOES NOT give 
 u achievments u unlock what so ever. the cheats also span across all of the profiles on that system, 
 so be mindful. ovrall its a good game. if u got 60 buck layn around, go and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volpexpress
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  this is a very good game ... if your playing mutiplayer. its a hell of alot more fun when playing 
 with your friends online and offline. the campaign mode is good, but you will get bored of it really 
 easliy. if your a marvel fan than this is a game for you. theres alot of bosses to fight many different 
 customazations to choose from, and also many different power and gear to really make your character 
 the strongest it can be. another thing is the acheivments, you will make alot of gamer points just 
 fighting bosses alone. if your the kinda player who loves gamepoints this is the game to get. i 
 reccomend this game to anyone that love online games and gamer points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 18, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't done so, read the Gamespot review. It gives a very good idea of what to expect in 
 this game. The only thing I do not agree with Gamespot is the score. I feel the game score should 
 be between 7 and 8, not 8.3.
  
  Ultimate Alliance is an ordinary hack and slash game, set in the world of Marvel super heroes (and 
 super villains) . The fate of the world is at stake (as usual) and only you can do something about 
 it. Your team has 4 characters, which you can choose from a small selection of Marvel Super Heroes.
 
  
  The game is enjoyable, but is plague by minor, annoying technicalities, like music that stops playing 
 during a fight, camera movement hiding part of the action, heroes immobilized in a corner and being 
 killed because you cannot move it, uneven presentation, etc. Frame rate is not consistent. When 
 too many characters are on the screen, the frame rate drops a little. But it's enough for you to 
 see it.
  
  The different characters have a few special moves of their own, but I rarely switch between them. 
 I usually stick with one that I like, and hope that the others will help. AI is not too bright 
 though. Twice during the game, a character was left behind because it got stuck between two objects 
 and I had to break the objects to free the poor man. There was one time that I was trying to break 
 a computer to free a princess in a very short time, and the only thing my companions did was looking 
 at the main character doing all the work ( maybe the union did not want them to work at that time 
 ) .
  
  Sub-mission are found throughout the game (they are referred as simulation) , but after doing one, 
 I never felt compelled to do the others. The benefits of doing these missions are somewhat obscure. 
 So I concentrated on the main story for most of the game.
  
  Gameplay is quite repetitive, and aside from certain bosses, the combat is the same throughout 
 the game (that's a hack and slash after all) . In fact, I was really glad to get to the end because 
 I simply had enough (I played for about 24 hours, according to the save game info) .
  
  Graphics and sounds are okay, but not great. I expect more than that from a next-gen console game. 
 There are time when music really puts you into the spirit of the fight, and some other time, you 
 just wish to die just to make the music stops.
  
  There are no memorable moments in this game. Story is what you can expect from a Super Heroes story. 
 But when you have finished it, I doubt that you will replay it. Note that my review only concerns 
 the single player mode of the game. I did not try the multi-player mode, which may gives a second 
 life to it.
  
  Conclusion, this is a good hack and slash, not very original, with some small annoyance, an uneven 
 presentation and low replay value for single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Keltic-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  If you every read a marvel comic or seen a movie by marvel, this game is a must have. This is action 
 packed game that looks like it came right out a comic book, it has a huge roster of Heroes and 
 Villian (mostly npc) but they still make an appearance. You start out playing as 1of 4 characters 
 (Captain America, Spider-Man, Thor, or Wolverine - can swap during gameplay) . Other characters 
 are available to you when you get to a save point and switch roster. Total playable roster is 24 
 I believe 20 to start and 4 characters to unlock. Each character has its own unique power to choose 
 from, 4 being the limit to use, you pick you choose.
  
  The graphics and sound are very impressive, with the common hero repeating there slogans. But I 
 don't think they had any marvel writers on this game cause the storyline is alittle short and weak 
 (not a biggie) . A big plus that I enjoyed was that the heroes where able to unable to unlock outfits 
 they wore in there history.
  
  I would recommand buying this game, story is alittle short but theres tons of stuff to unlock. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  If you like button mashers and having fun with your buddies, this game is a must!
  
  Graphics: Solid graphics for a game with quite a bit going on at one time. Also, the effects are 
 SWEET!
  
  Gameplay: It's a button masher but there is enough variety to make it fun. Being able to play with 
 three of your buddies adds to it all as well.
  
  Audio: Solid all the way around.
  
  Overall it's a fun game. For me, it was a rental but I can totally see other people buying it because 
 it is a very fun game. If you like Marvel characters, you will really like this game. And that 
 is what really matters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  A little over two years ago, Raven Software released an action RPG based on the X-Men. The success 
 of the original X-Men Legends brought about a sequel last year, X-Men Legends 2 Rise of Apocalypse, 
 which added a number of the X-Men villains to the playable character list, such as Magneto and 
 Juggernaut. This year Raven has released what could be called X-Men Legends 3, but this time around, 
 dozens of Marvel heroes join the cast in another epic adventure.
  
  Last time, the X-Men and members of the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants teamed up to save the planet 
 from the evil mutant Apocalypse. This time around, Dr. Doom has put together a band of villains 
 known as the Masters of Evil. Like any RPG, you learn more and more of the villains plot as you 
 work your way thru the game. Working your way thru Marvel Ultimate Alliance is alot like X-Men 
 Legends 2. The game is divided into 5 acts, with a hub level at the start of each level ranging 
 from Stark Tower to the house of Doctor Strange to Asgard. The levels making up each act are just 
 as varied, from Atlantis to Mephisto's Realm to Murderworld to Asgard to Skrull. As for playable 
 characters, a few X-Men still show up (Wolverine, Storm, Iceman and Colossus [exclusively for next 
 gen systems] ) . Joining them is an amazing group of superheroes: Captain America, Spider-Man, Thor, 
 the Fantastic Four, Elektra, Iron Man, Ms. Marvel, Deadpool, Spider-Woman, Moon Knight (also next 
 gen exclusive) , along with unlockables Blade, Daredevil, Silver Surfer, Doctor Strange, Ghost Rider, 
 Black Panther, and Nick Fury. Overall it is a very impressive roster of playable characters. And, 
 like in the XML games, you have free reign to choose the heroes you wish to use. And like in XML2, 
 using a specific group of heroes yields group bonuses, like using the Fantastic Four or the Avengers.
 
  
  So, great cast of playable heroes, how does the gameplay hold up then. Well just like in the previous 
 XML games. The controls are still the same, A button is light strike, B button is a heavy strike 
 that can be charged, X button picks up items and grapples enemies, Y button jumps and is used for 
 flight, right trigger brings up powers menu, left trigger handles your teammates AI if you are 
 playing single player. This time around however, since you can charge the heavy attack (B button) , 
 your melee combos are more limited. But making up for that is the fact that you can use your powers 
 more often because Raven did away with healing potions. In MUA defeated enemies drop red orbs that 
 heal and blue orbs that replenish energy so you don't have to worry about stocking up on potions. 
 Now you may think this would make boss fights tougher, well you are half right. Some of the boss 
 fights are tougher, but after dealing some damage, bosses will drop the orbs so your party can 
 continue fighting. Also only bosses drop gear, which does actually help speed up the pace a little 
 bit b/c now you don't have to worry about inventory space or missing good items. Plus in a move 
 toward simplifying the game, the default experience system is set to automatically spend skill 
 points and equipping gear for each character. It would have been nice for Raven to default the 
 system to manually spend skill points b/c when you gain access to the unlockable heroes, the system 
 has auto spent the points for you, spreading them around to each skill which is unfortunate b/c 
 there are skills you probably will not use.
  
  Speaking of character's skills, in MUA each character has access to 3-4 powers, 2 boosts, and only 
 one xtreme power, as opposed to the 7 powers, 3-4 boosts, 2 xtreme powers of XML2. However this 
 is a good thing b/c there were too many powers for each character in XML2 and although you had 
 the decision to customize each character how you want, you were overlooking some powers that were 
 essential to that hero. To help compensate for fewer powers, each hero in MUA has access to 3-4 
 different costumes which you can upgrade via the money you collect from defeated enemies and smashed 
 barrels. Each costume has 3 areas you can boost, examples include + XP, + melee damage, + critical 
 chance, + health regen, + max energy, + weapon damage, etc. The 3rd area for every costume is defense 
 so this time around you have a little more customization over your heroes than in the previous 
 XML games. Not to mention that this time the unlocked costumes make a difference. And the only 
 other big change in the gameplay is the use of the xtreme powers. Instead of the xtreme power icons 
 that you collected in the previous games, each character generates momentum when attacking enemies, 
 so when their momentum is maxed, you can then unleash an xtreme power. What's cool about this system 
 is that when you unleash one heroes xtreme power, any other hero with max momentum will unleash 
 their xtreme power, which comes in very handy during the numerous boss fights in MUA.
  
  The on screen action in MUA hasn't changed much at all from XML. You still have a 4-hero party 
 you use to make your way thru the various levels, hacking and slashing and super powering your 
 way thru enemies and villains. The gameplay is still fun even if this is the 3rd installment in 
 the series, but seeing as how it has not changed very much, you may not like the gameplay of MUA 
 if you did not like the gameplay in XML. Still, MUA is still worth trying if you were not a fan 
 of XML mainly b/c of the cast of Marvel heroes and villains which extends into the whole of the 
 Marvel universe, Xavier and the X-Men, the Fantastic Four, Uatu and the Watchers, Namor and the 
 Atlanteans, Lilandra and the Shi'ar, Galactus, Mandarin, Loki, Blackheart and Mephisto, etc etc.
 
  
  Being the 3rd installment of the XML/Marvel series, the graphics shaped up quite nicely. They may 
 not be as next gen as other games like Oblivion, but for this kind of game you are not expecting 
 the graphics to set the world ablaze. Of course you don't want them to be awful neither. And in 
 MUA they are very good. A more realistic style is used for MUA as opposed to the cartoon style 
 of XML, and it looks just as good, particularly in the environments, which are just as varied as 
 you would hope (bases to Atlantis to Asgard to space) . All the heroes and villains also look fantastic, 
 as they should. Same goes for the cinema scenes which open and close each act, and these look just 
 as great as they should.
  
  Mostly standard music accompanies each level and situation. There are some levels that have fitting 
 music, like Murderworld, but overall the musical score is just what you would expect. The voice 
 acting however, is where the money is. Plenty of voice actors are present, considering the overall 
 roster size (playables and NPCs) . There is not a bad voice in the bunch neither, everyone delivers 
 a solid performance. Those who have played XML will notice that the X-Men still have their same 
 voice actors who have done a very good job over the years. The other Marvel heroes and villains 
 are all appropriately well voice as well. My experience with MUA was very positive. I really enjoyed 
 the XML games so I knew what to expect from MUA. Still, there were a few things I was pleasantly 
 surprised with, namely how much fun a few of the heroes were to play, considering I mainly stuck 
 to the starting groups in XML, and in that mainly controlling Wolverine. In MUA, I shook things 
 up. I did use the starting four for the early parts of the game, after taking a day to decide who 
 I wanted to use in the first place. My starting group was Captain America, Spider Man, Thor and 
 Wolverine. As I continued, I ended up replacing Spidey and Thor with Daredevil and Moon Knight, 
 and I can further tinker with the group with Human Torch or Iceman, or a handful of other heroes 
 I have not yet tried. What this all means is that you have alot of flexibility in the gameplay, 
 not to mention replayability. And considering the game is around the 20 hour mark, you can replay 
 the game with any number of different hero combinations.
  
  While the formula remained the same, Marvel Ultimate Alliance still forges its own identity from 
 the X-Men Legends games by providing an epic conflict between the greatest Marvel villains and 
 the greatest Marvel heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhnshft
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 15, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is great fun. I could barely put it down long enough to write this review. Pure unadulterated 
 button mashing fun, mixed with all of the fun of old school heroes. Personally, I'm a big fan of 
 the Avengers, but there hasn't really been a great game to showcase them. The addition of the some 
 X-men and Sipderman are cool, but best part are the more obscure heroes like Moon Knight and Ms. 
 Marvel. Overall, just great fun. I can spend way too much time playing this one. Check it out if 
 you want to get sucked into hours of super-heroics. Word. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is basically the next release of the X-Men Legends series except now you 
 can play with any Marvel Super-Hero. And let me tell you, that is very cool. I must tell you I 
 was not a huge fan of the X-Men Legends games. But if you take that concept and move it to the 
 XBOX 360 then we're moving in the right direction. The game has really been pumped up in my opinion. 
 I must sat at first I was having some doubts about the game. But that was before I started playing. 
 All my fears were soon dissolved as I began hacking and slashing my way to victory with Wolverine. 
 You can choose from various Wolverine uniforms that he has worn over the years and certain characteristics 
 go with each uniform; and those characteristics can be upgraded by spending your gold coins that 
 you pick up throughout the game whenever you kill an opponent or smash boxes and various things. 
 Every single character has multiple uniforms with quite a few different powers and skills and characteristics 
 that can be upgraded just like a good RPG. I always love that part because it gives you something 
 to work towards and it gives you more of a feeling of depth and control. So the RPG elements of 
 this game are really good. I will tell you I played almost half way through the game before I realized 
 that each uniform had its own skills and powers associated with it so you need to spend your gold 
 coins wisely in upgrading your skills. You lead a group of 4 Marvel characters and can hot swap 
 between any of them at any time. You can save the game almost anywhere if you summon a portal. 
 Only during certain parts when you're in battle or close to battle can you not save. The game has 
 a 3rd person perspective. You can select a group of 4 characters called My Team and that team will 
 have team skills and characteristics that can also be upgraded and there's a special team attack 
 that is freakin devastating that you can use in dire situations when your power is built up. And 
 if you switch a different character out of my team you can suffer a small penalty but it's not 
 a big deal. Sometimes one of your heroes may be immobilized (killed for awhile) and you may want 
 to use another character in their place for a bit. Personally I like trying to stay with the same 
 4 main characters of My Team most of the time. That way I can build all their skills up first and 
 get used to them and master them. But it is fun to check out all of the new heroes different skills 
 and sometimes you MUST use a certain hero to perform a task that only they can accomplish with 
 their own unique skills and powers. The cut scene videos are sometimes humorous; especially Spider-man. 
 The graphics are absolutely stunning especially in the cut-scenes. There's one scene of Doctor 
 Doom and he's talking and raising his smoking, fiery -like hands and it is just spectacular it 
 looks so real. If you liked the X-Men Legends games you will LOVE LOVE LOVE this game because it's 
 so much better. But even if you didn't care for X-Men Legends or you didn't play them, not to worry, 
 because Marvel Ultimate Alliance really delivers all the way around. If I had to say just one thing 
 that is somewhat a negative in my opinion....... and I really hate to even say it but it would be 
 nice to see this change in the future and it is this...... you know when characters are talking 
 in a game and all the dialogue is displayed in letters on the screen and you can read what they're 
 saying but there's no sound of them actually saying the words. Ok that bugs me... especially when 
 there's whole lots of it. And then you have to keep pressing the a button to keep the conversation 
 going to read the next part. In this day and age I just don't think we should have to do that. 
 I'd much prefer the animated cut-scenes with full on conversations just like this game does so 
 well in other parts but I can't stand the still-life scenes when you have to keep pressing the 
 button to read what I'm saying. But that's my only little pet-peeve with the game. All in all a 
 pretty small detail. Also the game does have multiplayer and XBOX LIVE play even though I haven't 
 checked that out yet it's a great option. Buy this game! You won't be sorry! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maustin5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Im going to keep it short a sweet, this is a button mashing renter. Its really fun the first time 
 through, but it has very little replay value. It's isnt an open rpg, you get the whole story the 
 first go around, their isnt any important decisions you need to make that sway your journey one 
 way or another. Its fun to explore all the characters moves, but you can do that in the 8 - 10 
 hours it takes to beat the game. Graphic are good, but not anything special, controls are ok, gameplay 
 is ok, it isnt very challenging (i didint even know about the block button untill i had the first 
 4 acts done. This is a good game to rent for a boring weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DustinB
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 13, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  The Good: - Lots of characters, plenty of unlockables. - Chararcters do feel very different in 
 battle. - Fun comic book story. - Fighting is pretty amusing. - Game has a good length. - A game 
 I could see myself replaying multiple times. - Great cooperative mode on the same box. - Last boss 
 fight is insanely fun. Wish the rest of the game was more like this fight. The Bad: - Combat is 
 a little light on depth. I know its supposed to be an RPG but there really isn't enough itemization 
 for that gameplay to work here. Feels like a brawler without a good combat system. The Ugly: - 
 Occasional sound glitch. - Some NPCs don't seem to know that what you have done, old conversations 
 remain after you have done stuff related to them. - Online games frequently desync. I have been 
 unable to play past the 30-minute mark on-line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boink021
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 11, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance takes you where X-men Legends wishes it could go. The game on the next 
 generation platform makes it better visually, but also allows for some nice addition touches. Allowing 
 players to do extra side-quests that are almost mandatory make the game more in-depth. It's not 
 just straight run and beat up everything in your path as before. The side-quests so far do not 
 add any additional stats to your characters, but collecting statues can open up 2 additional characters 
 to the game. Opening up the entire Marvel universe also adds to the game. You get to fight all 
 the villains associated with Marvel Comics and even renew certain battles. While I believe the 
 game is the best in the series, I also recognize that it is lacking in certain aspects. The training 
 discs only have certain levels that are replayed over and over to a T. You can not take a different 
 path, just go through the same rudimentary map again. The graphics are better, but can still improve. 
 Some characters are more powerful than others and it is obviously that little or no effort went 
 into some of their models. This game is brilliant for anyone who loves Marvel, and is still fun 
 for people who do not know every nuance of the universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xenobia1981
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 11, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  My friend is a big Marvel comics fan so when he saw previews for this game he knew he had to have 
 it. Well, I decided to give it a try and I'm glad I did. I was impressed with the graphics and 
 the music. I felt that Raven did a great job on showing the unique abilities of the super-heroes. 
 It also had a good variety of characters, though some would disagree. I liked the fact that they 
 put Ghost Rider in the game, because my friend and I fee he is one of the most under appreciated 
 Marvel characters. The game-play was easy to get used to, since it was like the X-men Legends games, 
 and even if you never played those games the controls are still easy to figure out and get used 
 to. The sound effects were really good, although the clowns in Murderworld had some creepy sounding 
 voices. Let me end by saying this is a game that is worth playing, even if your not a die-hard 
 comic fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustinFriedman
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 11, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game.. im a hack n slash RPG fan as well as a marvel fan.. so i was 
 looking forward to this game. I loved BG and BG2 dark alliance n lets not forget one of the greatest 
 Diablo and Diablo 2. The core of this game is basicly like BG and Diablo but its missing one key 
 element ... FUN!!! I dont find this game fun at all i played it alone and with freinds. The action 
 is boring and i lost sight of my charater alot when the super powers got used or their was an explison. 
 To much happens on screen creating this fog of comotion. The RPG element seems to just of been 
 thrown in last minute. Also it doesnt seem to matter if your the thing or iceman... u seem to do 
 the same damage to your oponant.. only diff is u can grab a bigger box.. oo joy! Gameplay 6: Bad 
 cam and do much happining on the screen at once takes its toll on this game.
  
  Graphics 7: The graphics are ok, just your run of the mill action rpg graphics nothing next gen 
 AT ALL!
  
  Sound 6:
  The sounds effects arnt that good, but to be fair what is a good superpower sound? The real reason 
 i gave it sound 6 is do to its HORRID voice acting!
  
  Value 9: Im giving it value of 9 because of its multiplayer aspects and its reasonably long game.
 
  
  Tilt 6: Same games grab you and some dont. This one rubed me the wrong way from the start, i couldnt 
 ever really enjoy playing it for more then half and hour at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therabidbob
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 10, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  Let it be known that marvel ultimate allaince is a video game. Let it also be known that this video 
 game is good. Honestly it could have used a lot more variety in the levels. Unless your one of 
 those guys who gets erotically charged by small metal coridors you're gonna want some variety. 
 The music sounds like it came from episodes of star trek so take that how you want it. There are 
 a lot of super powers and heroes but wolverine is way too powerful. he's more powerful than thor. 
 that's just cultural bias and possibly racism. I'll check into that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krlos_castillo
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  Marvel ultimate aliance, realmente no revolucionara el tema de los videojuegos de rpg, pero aporta 
 algunos detalles nuevos a este genero dentro del ambiente de los juegos de videos.
  
  Junto con mantener el estilo de juego de sus predecesores (xmen rise of legends 1 y 2) incorpora 
 nuevos estilos de editar, crearr y modificar tu equipo de pelea, para hacerlo mas personabilisable 
 a cada usuario con respecto a sus gustos y preferencias sobre cada personaje del universo marvel. 
 El juego en si ademas trae un gran numero de personajes que como veremos con el desarrollo de el 
 mismo abarcan desde las clasicas historias de spiderman hasta las de ironman donde podremos encontrar 
 villanos clasicos como rhino, schoker, o el mismo mandarin han sido recreados con gran virtusismo 
 en cuanto a sus caracteristicas especiales y superpoderes. Junto a esto la version para la 360 
 trae consigo unos espectaculares graficos y unos excelentes efectos de audio, iluminacion, etc.
 
  
  Como la mayoria de los juegos d ela 360, este tambien posee las ya usuales ralentizaciones&iexcl;&iexcl;, 
 las cuales no se presentan en la mayoria de los escenarios si llegan a hacerse realmente molestas 
 en algunos pasajes del juegos. Esto junto a los pocos personajes a elegir y a lo no innovador del 
 jugar por el live realmente le quitan meritos a los desarrolladores de este juego. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faticusmaximus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 8, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid continuation for the X-men Legends series. Raven brings in the entire universe 
 of Marvel to make a good game with a ton of content.
  
  Gameplay
  Pros-If you have played the X-men Legends series, you will have no problem picking this game up. 
 Fighting is simple, but the new grapple system brings a new entertaining level. Grabbing and enemy 
 and repeatedly pummelling his face is always a gratifying experience. Cons-being a fairly hardcore 
 stat tracker, i was disappointed when i found out Raven got rid of the freedom to create your heroes' 
 attributes. It was most likely done to appeal to the Marvel fan who is a casual video game player.
 
  
  Graphics and Sound
  
  Pretty good when left in the normal un-zoomed state. The frame rate only drops rarely during the 
 use of the Xtreme powers. We all love solid frame rates and no lag. The musics good, and the overall 
 sound is good, but its not like i get turned on or off by a game's sound effect anyways. Value
 
  
  The replay value is good because there is a good amount of stuff to collect without it being an 
 overbearing 375 items such as other games. You need to find around thirty simulator discs, and 
 10 action figures to unlock all characters. There are a lot of unimportant sketchbooks to find 
 for hardcore collectors.
  
  Tilt
  
  The game has good tilt becuase of it's immersion in the Marvel Universe. I would find myself looking 
 up Marvel tidbits on Wikipedia just for fun. It definitely adds to the experience to have knowledge, 
 because the game does have a number of obscure and unknown characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frozen-hero
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 8, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the X-Men: Legends games then Marvel Ultimate Alliance is definitely for you. 
 The game play is almost identical with only a few adjustments to make use of the 360 controller, 
 and improve upon the Legends system. Many of the fun aspects from Legends are back: Trivia, Danger 
 Room-style challenges, frequent check/save points, collectible artwork, and a variety of NPCs 
 to interact with. The only downgrade from Legends to Ultimate Alliance is the item system. Now 
 instead of being able to equip 3 items each character can only equip one, and only bosses and cache 
 chests drop them. Each boss always drops the same item. There are no longer stores to buy and 
 sell items and upgrades, but you wont miss them. At any point in the game you can sell off any 
 unwanted items and use your money to upgrade your characters powers and costumes. Overall the item 
 system is good, but different slots (a la Diablo II) for different types of items would have been 
 neat.
  
  But the game ramps up in every other aspect, especially combat. Just like Legends, you have two 
 basic melee attacks: quick attack and power attack. Combos are back as well, with each one ending 
 in a specific result (knockdown, stun, pop-up) . Knocking an opponent down has more strategic importance 
 because now you can pound on a downed opponent while they are briefly immobilized. New to Ultimate 
 Alliance: the power attack can be charged to cause knockdown/knockback against your foes.
  
  Grabbing your opponents has been expanded on. Instead of just being able to toss them (which 
 you CAN do, and in any direction you wish) , there are two new maneuvers you can pull off. Press 
 the B button and your character will pull off a special throw unique to that character (Spider-Man, 
 for example, tosses his enemies up and webs them to the ceiling, immobilizing them completely for 
 a short duration) . Press the A button repeatedly to begin smashing your fist into the helpless 
 grappled enemy.
  
  Dodging/blocking is much more refined as well, and made easy. To defend, simply pull on the left 
 shoulder button. If you move your character while pulling this button, they will perform a dodge 
 maneuver. These techniques are very satisfying to learn how to use effectively and a critical skill 
 when facing bosses.
  
  The powers system is back and is almost identical to Legends, but there are not as many powers 
 to choose from. This might be considered a negative, but I think it is an enhancement. In Legends 
 a lot of the powers didnt feel right; they seemed to be there just to fill out a character and 
 everyone ended up having very similar abilities with different names. Ultimate Alliance doesnt 
 have that, and fewer powers allowed the makers to really tailor what is there to each character. 
 Every superhero has powers and abilities that make them seem to leap right from the pages of their 
 comic books.
  
  My favorite aspect of the game is the sheer number of characters (20+) and the varied selection. 
 You have the whole Fantastic Four, a few Avengers (Captain America, Thor, Iron Man, Ms Marvel, 
 and Black Panther) , some X-Men (Storm, Wolverine, Colossus, and Iceman) as well as Daredevil, Moon 
 Knight, Silver Surfer, Elektra, Blade, Nick Fury, Ghost Rider, Dr. Strange, Deadpool, Spider-Woman, 
 Luke Cage, and of courseSpider-Man. The costumes are just as much fun. Each character has 4 costumes, 
 each one with different traits that can be improved upon with money to improve the character.
 
  
  The graphics are solid for games of this genre and the cut-scenes range from bad to outstanding. 
 The soundtrack is good and wont annoy you, changing it up well with apt music for whatever location 
 you happen to be in. The voice-acting is overall very good, with the one-possible exception being 
 The Thing, and the story is just enough to keep you interested the first couple times you play 
 through it. After that youll find yourself rapidly skipping through dialogue and cut-scenes.
 
  
  This is simply a fun game. If you liked X-Men Legends (I or II) or you are a fan of Marvel Comics, 
 you are going to really enjoy running around with your 4 favorite super-heroes and beating up a 
 never-ending supply of enemies.
  
  ** frozen-hero 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mass3ff3Ct
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I recently bought this game and it is better than I expected. I was right about to buy PSU instead 
 b/c waiting for MUA to come out was to long of a wait. But the wait was worth it and of course 
 enjoyable. Everything about this game is excellent and it seems like there is nothing wrong with 
 it. It is truly a marvel fans dream and I recommend this game to anybody. The drop-in drop-out 
 system works perfectly and I would say this is the best co-op game out for the 360 right now. (hopefully 
 will be for the rest of the year) Buy this game when you get the chance, and trust me you won't 
 regret it. Its way better than you think.: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stafonb
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 6, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Ultimate Alliance is very colorful and animated, yet simplistic enough for the most novice video 
 gamer to pick up and play. This game really does a good job of giving you enough comic heroes with 
 enough arsenal that keeps you intrigued from the very first level.
  
  If you have children (like I do) that always want to play with Daddy on his X Box 360 and not on 
 their PS2 or X Box, then this is the perfect game to play with them. This game will keep both you 
 and your children interested to see what will happen next. Who will be the next comic hero unlocked? 
 And what will be their special powers? Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flawie
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 6, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  + So much Marvel Love ! All of your heroes, all of your locations, all of your bad guys and all 
 of your sidekicks, plot twists and cool super hero moves. Tons of extra missions, artwork, cutscenes 
 and lore. You even get an extra Trivia machine where you can answer questions regarding the Marvel 
 universe and earn Achievements by it. The content of this game is amazing. If you&acute; re a Marvel 
 fan you wont find another game filled with this much Marvel !
  
  + Great Hack N Slash gameplay. A great mix of Action RPG Diablo gameplay and some buttonmashing 
 combo building. The action feels great all the way through. Takes the best from the Action RPG 
 genre and builds on it. Sweet.
  
  + So many ways to play the game. With over 20 playable heroes there are over 20 ways to play this 
 game and since you always work in a team of 4 you have even more options considering who to take 
 with you. Chose those you like the best or try to make real groups of superheroes for special bonuses. 
 Everyone will have their own Superheroteam and their own way of playing through the adventure.
 
  
  + Great understanding and love for the comics. Every superhero have just the abilites you would 
 expect them to have in an Action RPG like this and every conversation is just as cheesy as it should, 
 bringing fourth the personality of every character from Bruce Banner to Nick Fury to Weasel.
  
  + Fantasticly fun Co-Op. Play up to four players over live or just let your buddy plug in a 
 secondary controller and press start. He jumps in to the game very smoothly and you now play together. 
 You pick your favorite hero and see them cooperate nicely on screen. This game is straight out 
 made for Co-Op and it is one of the best Co-Operative experiences you&acute; ll find on this side 
 of Gears of War.
  
  +Superb, top-notch soundtrack. Dynamic and with lots of variation. Changes with the mood, the level 
 and the difficulty of the game and always heightens the superhero feeling. Best soundtrack of the 
 year so far.
  
  + Sweet bossfights. What would a mavel game be without all of the great villians. The huge bosses 
 are the best. where you have to fight them God of War / Shadow of the colossus style with lots 
 of cool moves and timely presses of different buttons to jump on them, climb on them and / or drag 
 them down to the ground.
  
  + The Lenght. This is one LONG adventure spanning over several different marvel universes. Everyone 
 will get their fix. Really impressive lenght!
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  - Graphics 
 looks great from afar but up close and in cutscenes it dosent hold up and looks pretty ugly at 
 times.
  
  - The leveling system could be more fun. I would rather like a skill tree like in World of Warcraft 
 or Diablo rather than the pretty dull and sometimes confusing system the game uses now. Also custome 
 changing is plain out broken saying that you must be at a SHIELD point to change it even if you 
 are on one. Might be user error tho.
  
  - The game dosent really encourage you to try out different hero combos since you gain reputation 
 with a team whe you use it. The reaputation will eventually level your team. If you switch a member 
 in the team your rep will go down. I find myself just ignoring the rep since i want to try everyone 
 out. I wanna try Spider-Woman, Spider-Man, Iceman and Human Torch as well as Ghost Rider, Mr. Fantastic, 
 Deadpool and Wolverine.
  
  - When youre playing the game Single-Player you&acute; ll notice that the other 3 heroes dosent 
 really do much to help. They never use their abilities to the max and as such, dosent do much damage 
 at all. On top of that the enemies tend to go after your character and ignore your companions completely 
 making the team feeling pretty non existant. This is of course solved by playing Co-Op wich you 
 should!
  
  - The levels can sometimes feel kind of repetative. Same levels but with different skins, kinda. 
 Considering the lenght of the game i guess this comes with it.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Final Score: 
 8.6
  
  Blade, Nick Cage, Ms Marvel, Black Widow, Thor, Spider-Man, Spider-Woman, Mr Fantastic, Invisible 
 Woman, The Thing, Human Torch, Elektra, Storm, Iceman, Colossus, Wolverine, Jean Grey, Iron Man, 
 Captain America, Dr Doom, Shocker, Rhino, Arcade, Loki, Mephisto, Scorpion, Ymer, The Wreckingcrew, 
 Galactus, Enchantress, Grey Gargoyle.... The list would go on forever, and i mean it... The most 
 expansive Marvel game ever and a solid Action RPG !
  
  Tested On: Xbox 360, HDtv 720p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matadore
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 6, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  With the questionable success of X-Men Legends I &amp; II, it was inevitable that another game 
 like it would appear on next-gen consoles. In this case, it was in the form of Marvel: Ultimate 
 Alliance. For those of you who have played XML I or II, youll find plenty of the same here. That 
 may be a good thing or a bad thing, depending on if you liked XML I and/or II. Personally, I think 
 the days of diagonally top-down action/adventure games should have been over with a generation 
 or so of consoles ago. (Do NOT call this game a RPG, because it isnt. Id be ok with action/RPG, 
 but it is by no means a RPG.) So, to see this mess on the XBOX 360 was a little disheartening. 
 This game could have easily been done on the XBOX or PS2, which the game was made for those systems 
 as well. So, graphically (with the exception of the cut scenes) , this game hasnt progressed from 
 XML I or II.
  
  Lets break down some of the features of this game to really put a question mark on why someone 
 would want to pay $60 for this game for the XBOX 360. This game includes a huge roster of Marvel 
 Super Heroes, which is a plus for all those comic book junkies out there. But, to be honest, youll 
 wind up only using a certain four characters, with an occasional temporary substitution, mostly 
 for storyline purposes. But even then youll just have 3 heroes following you around as you beef 
 up just one character that you control. (For me, it was Wolverine. Hes the most balanced in the 
 game, and you cant ignore his health regeneration ability either. It comes in handy sometimes.) 
 I always had Spider-Man in my party as well, because of his web-swinging ability, which helps 
 get you over gaps or on top of ledges that are too high for other characters to double-jump to. 
 The other two were interchangeable, but mostly it was Black Panther and either Iron Man or DareDevil. 
 There are a lot of similar heroes Blade, Ghost Rider, Nick Fury, and Deadpool with their weapons, 
 Thing and Colossus being the heavy hitters, and the rest are pretty much poor melee fighters 
 who have to rely more on their super powers than hand-to-hand. Only thing is, this game is 99% 
 hand-to-hand, button-mashing chaos. And throw in the energy meter you have in order to use your 
 super powers, and that whole group of heroes are at a severe disadvantage. (Again, this is why 
 Wolverine is usually your best choice to use throughout the entire game.)
  
  The gameplay is ok, but the camera angles can sometimes hinder your view, especially of things 
 that are flying in the air or that is much taller than the ground level. The diagonal top-down 
 view is really a nuisance because its hard to see some enemies just off-screen, but it doesnt 
 keep your party from rushing those enemies. Which is another downside to M: UA your party members 
 AI. At first, its not so bad. But after a while, theyll be jumping off of ledges, getting themselves 
 killed for the fun of it. Its like theyre weaker unless youre controlling them. Then you have 
 the glitches that sprout up occasionally. (Once I had Spider-Man floating above everyone else stuck 
 in some sort of pre-jumping loop. The only way it corrected itself was when I finished the level.) 
 Ive heard of other glitches: not being able to leave a level once youve defeated the boss, etc. 
 On top of that, the storyline is really choppy and hard to follow at times. You know the grand 
 picture: save the world. But there are times where things just feel out of place and leave you 
 scratching your head. At least the music is super-hero like, even if everything else isnt.
  
  Overall, Id say its a good rental until you beat it. If youre a true comic fanatic, Id 
 recommend that you get this game. But for everyone else who is just mildly interested in just a 
 few of the roster of super heroes available, I suggest that you rent it and play through it for 
 a few hours before deciding if you want to add this to your XBOX 360 game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M00N-CAT
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a game that allows you to play as
  wolverine, Spiderman, Ghost Rider, Captain America, Thor, Storm and many more and the coolest thing 
 about this game is that you can create your own custom team and when you complete some levels some 
 superheros will join you on your crusade like Silversurfer, Blade. The enviorments that look like 
 something out of a comic book. The graphics are better than X-Men Legends and most other marvel 
 games but sometimes the lighting will distract you and may even annoy you some of the villians 
 have really low detail and the backgrounds are all blurry. The gameplay is awsome because it follows 
 the comics in a different direction than most of you expect. The combat system is pretty good but 
 if you like button mashing this game is for you. Overall this is a good game for any comic book 
 reader or collector. I'm gonna give this a 8.8 for being good and reaching my superhero needs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a360051
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance takes what we loved about X-Men Legends and continues it in a broader 
 scheme. The character selection is excellent being able to use anyone from Captain America to Dr. 
 Strange. The gameplay value is amazing, this game is a game you can play over and over again... and 
 not be tired of it. Online play is decent although it is only co-op missions, the same ones that 
 you play on single player. Graphically this game misses the bar in the X-Box 360 world. But if 
 you are looking for a great game with amazing replay value and lots of extra content, then this 
 game is for you. Anyone who enjoys Action/Adventure games go out and buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DizCrzedGamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 5, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome! The favorites of Marvel in one game. Solid game, awesome graphics, A MUST 
 GET ON THE 360!!! If you like the marvel series then you would love to play this game! The action 
 is very good team-based play, and i loved all the characters. Go WOLVERINE AND SPIDERMAN because 
 those two rock. Also the graphics on the 360 are pretty fricken sweet, although the 360 i played 
 on was a little buggy because it kept laggin and freezin frame for a second from time to time. 
 But that may be just on my end. Altogether, if you are looking for a solid new comic game for the 
 next gen, look no further then this. It is a must get if you are a comic book fan, and a must look 
 and play if you do not know anything about comics! IT WILL SERIOUSLY BLOW YOUR FRICKEN MIND AWAY!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  If you've played X-men Legends, then you'll have a pretty good idea how this game works. Superheros 
 banding together for a common cause to save something or someone. The only thing is, for these 
 heroes, it's not something or someone they're trying to save. It's everything and everyone.
  
  The game opens up in a chaotic fashion, with the SHIELD aerial carrier being attacked by the 
 Masters of Evil, a faction of villians led by Dr. Doom. Nick Fury calls in the only ones he can 
 count on, the Avengers, and a few others. Soon after that, the whole story unravels in a suspenseful 
 sense, taking you from the underwater city of Atlantis to the mysterious planet of the Skrull. 
 Soon, everything will hang in the balance as you finally take your first steps into Doom castle 
 for endgame.
  
  You begin the game as Captain America, Wolverine, Thor, and Spider-man, and they are possibly the 
 greatest combination of heroes you can use through the game, and they are the only ones featured 
 in the cinematic sequences. Though, at any time when you find a SHIELD checkpoint, you can switch 
 out for other heroes. Some of the playable heroes include big shots like Iron-Man, the entire fantastic 
 four, and many others, but also have relative unknowns that haven't really seen the spotlight like 
 Deadpool and Moonknight. As the game progresses, you'll unlock more characters to use in your team, 
 such as the infamous Blade, Ghost Rider, and even Nick Fury.
  
  One of the strong points of the game is the team feature. Once unlocked, you can name your team, 
 put a roster of only four heroes on, then fight with them to gain repuatation, which, in turn allows 
 you to pump them with upgrades. After a while you'll be able to increase the bench so you can have 
 more than four heroes on your team, though you're only able to play as four during gameplay.
  
  The game plays and feels exactly like X-men Legends, a proven formula for the action-RPG genre. 
 You can switch to any hero you desire on the fly (jn your party) . One new feature is the automatic 
 point distribution at start, which automatically adds new powers to you as you level up, though 
 it will be difficult to manage once you get closer to the end of the game, as most powers are sometimes 
 hard to switch to when in combat. Though a new feature is the momentum move. The more you do normal 
 attacks and finishing moves, the more you game momentum. Once the meter is full, you can use the 
 power that is always in your Y slot, and attack with that, which turns the game to slow motion 
 where your character does the attack, as well as every other character that has full momentum. 
 Usually this kills any lower level enemy in the area.
  
  Graphics and sound are excellent. From afar and during gameplay, it all appears like an Xbox game, 
 though once closer, everything is much more detailed. Cinematics are possibly the best, looking 
 closer to real than most games. The musical score itself, is very nice well, ranging the moods 
 from goofy, heroic, to mysterious and tragic.
  
  Once the short five-act story is complete, you will see the ending sequence that leaves room for 
 a sequel, but also shows you the future that happens depending on your decision. For example, you 
 can chose to save or not save the Skrull homeworld from Galatus' drills that assimilate power, 
 but if you do, then the Skrull will, in the future, come to the aid of Earth when the Kree attack, 
 and soon the Skrull and humans form an alliance. Marvel: Ultimate Alliance retails for $60. It's 
 a must-play, though still a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayne2k7
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 4, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Marvel fans will not be disappointed by this latest release of ultimate alliance.
  Many many Marvel greats to choose from such as Wolverine all the way to Deadpool.
  It takes a 
 little while to get into this game but when u do u will be instantly hooked i can assure u.
  The graphics are reasonably good but i think could of done with a little more work! They look really 
 detailed on cut-scenes but because of the camera angles cant really make out if they are the same 
 in game
  Gameplay is good. The controls mapped out very nicely and the classic superhero style music fits 
 in perfectly
  A good release and a good play for any Marvel or RPG fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGreen15LA
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  Now I'm not a big comic book reader, but I do see them as American Mythology on par with stuff 
 like Greek Gods. Now, getting to my review, this game was extremely good and sets a benchmark for 
 what a Super Hero game should be. From the get-go, you have control of various heroes in the Marvel 
 World, including Spider-Man, Captain America, The Fantastic Four, Wolverine, just to name a few. 
 Along the way, other heroes such as the Silver Surfer and Blade can be earned by picking up certain 
 objects or by completing particular missions.
  The gameplay, while easy, is very effective and will keep you on your toes and the fact that there 
 are so many characters to choose from, you'll want to discover exactly what everyone can do, thus 
 keeping the game from becoming overly repetitive. The graphics are also top notch, especially during 
 the cut scenes. And like a lot of comic books, some of the heroes even have goofy, yet entertaining 
 catch phrases that'll make victory that much sweeter. This is one of the better Xbox 360 games 
 and it's worth every penny because it'll last you a while. Heck, one day, I meant to only play 
 it for a half hour and wound up blowing half a day just playing it.
  
  Stop reading this and go get it... Go on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kraY-Z-Gamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 3, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  This is a great game! You get to play a good choise of Marvel characters all with different powers. 
 Custom teams make it much more fun. From the Avengers, X-men, Fantastic Four, Classic Avengers, 
 Marvel Knights etc. you can create any team you wish. There are also hidden characters to unlock 
 which is always a bonus. You can also collect CD's and comic books in the game. The controls are 
 good which is very important for a game like this. The graphics &amp; sound are great, gameplay 
 is awesome! Sure it's just like X-Men Legends but I find this game much more easy to get into. 
 If you're a Marvel Comics fan you have to get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 3, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  A game with the premise of MUA has easily been a long time coming. How often have fans of comics 
 wondered, What would happen if they all came together in one huge battle to decide the fate of 
 the Marvel Universe? 
  
  Raven Software does a great job of coming up with a great storyline (which I will not spoil here) , 
 also allowing you some options to make some choices to change the path of the story (though maybe 
 not as much as they initially let on) .
  
  To give an idea of the scope of the cast involved and people you will run into, the game touts 
 a cast of over 120 Marvel characters, good and evil. Before you jump out of your seat, remember: 
 only slightly over 20 of these are actually playable. You will be pleasantly surprised at some 
 of the good and bad guys that you will run into along the way. More popular villains like Dr. Doom 
 and Bullseye are instantly recognizable, and then there are some more old school/less known villains 
 like Fin Fang Foom.
  
  Graphically, you could say MUA actually looks a bit dated. While you can easily recognize your 
 favorite characters and villains, it really does not quite feel like a next-gen offering. This 
 isn't to say its a bad game, but graphically, the 360 (and even the PC version) could have looked 
 much better considering the technology. Level design is another area that seems to be lacking slightly 
 at some points in the game. While there are definitely some really great locales (ie Atlantis, 
 and Arcade's Murderland, Stark Manor) , some levels do get a repetitive feel after playing for awhile. 
 Sound is a pleasant surprise. The music does what it needs to do, and keeps you immersed in the 
 game. The voice acting is rather well done, with some really big names contributing to the voice 
 over cast. While some may almost sound over the top, it fits the evil villain/sarcastic antihero 
 rather well.
  
  Gameplay is where MUA really shines. Each character looks, feels, and plays very different from 
 their counterparts. Throw in the ability to unlock at least four costumes per character (which 
 change your stats and provide a new way to play the character, different abilites, etc) and you 
 have a slew of options and different things to try. The story is engaging and fun, and will surprise 
 you and keep you wanting more right up to the rather epic end battle. The ability to bring MUA 
 online and form a team of heroes with your friends and go through the story mode is a really wicked 
 feature. The longer you play as the team you created, your team will get specific experience and 
 bonuses, and notoriety which you can show off online to other wannabe supergroups. While the game 
 offers somewhat branching storypaths, replay value on this game (as far as playing single player) 
 isn't all that high. However, taking it online with your friends and going through the story mode 
 undoubtedly gives more reason to keep playing. With the potential of XBLA's ability to open up 
 more characters for future updates, MUA has a lot of future potential.
  
  Overall MUA provides an excellent foray into the Marvel Universe as a whole. For the comic fanatic 
 there are endless hours of fun to be had here. There is a Marvel Trivia portion of the game, a 
 combat simulator that simulates historic battles between certain superheroes and villains (spiderman 
 vs lizard, iron man vs mandarin, etc) , that add some flavor to the game. There are plenty of achievments 
 to unlock for the point fanatics out there as well.
  
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is a fun ride in the marvel universe. While graphically it may not feel 
 quite like a next gen game, the huge cast, great story and the ability to play as a team with friends 
 really make it something worth a look, especially if you enjoy the Marvel Universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hurricane66
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  I'll keep it short and sweet. The gameplay on the X-men Legends was always enjoyable but I am more 
 of a fan of Spider-man, Iron-man, Captain America etc. The rest of the marvel universe. There are 
 tons of extras to unlock along the way that its replay value is phenomenal as well as being able 
 to have your friends jump in your game if they come by your house. The online is limited to the 
 campaign mode... which is fantastic but an extra feature wouldn't have been such a bad idea (ie 
 team battles) This game brings so many characters together with such awesome gameplay and unlockables 
 its AT LEAST a MUST rent for ANY Marvel Comics fun. Haven't been able to stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 2, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  This game may be linear, somewhat repetetive, and not necessarily revolutionary in any way but 
 it sure is fun to play. The number of characters you get to use is worth the price of a rental 
 alone, and with four player co-op online and off, a few more unlockable characters and battles, 
 some artwork and extra features make Marvel Ultimate Alliance an overall great game experince.
 
  
  The level designs are a lot like similar games such as the X-men series and even Dungeons and dragons 
 : Heroes, but amped up with the comic book settings and themes. Graphically I felt that the game 
 could've possibly had more polish, but still looked just as good as most 360 offerings. The levels 
 offer a large number of bad guys to fight, so this definitely can turn into a button mashing festival 
 quick, but that's a good thing.
  
  Each character has his or her own special powers and each character levels up and learns new attacks 
 as they advance. You control the character of your choice and have teh ability to switch at any 
 time to another member of your group as long as no other player is controlling that character, 
 so the opportunity to sample everyone's abilities is wide open. This is a pretty straight forward 
 beat-em-up that is at the very least, well presented.
  
  The comic book theme is awesome and well done. The story is good and keeps the player wanting to 
 advance. The boss fights can be frustrating, yet rewarding and the voice overs are well to boot. 
 I certainly recommend this game for everyone from the hardcore geek to the 10 year old son of that 
 geeks girlfriend, yes freaks, I have an actual, living breathing girlfriend and I play video games 
 every day. Bow to me, play this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasc389
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 2, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  To start this off this is probably one of the funnest games ive played in awhile. Ive always loved 
 super heros and comics so i knew that this game would fit perfectly. I cant get over how fun it 
 is freezing people with iceman or shocking people with storm, and by the way, who doesnt wanna 
 be the bad ass blade?
  
  Gameplay- Love the x-men legends style gameplay, the rpg feel reminds me of the good ole diablo 
 II days. One of the things i didnt like was the camera, sometimes its stingy to change it when 
 turning around or such.
  
  Graphics- They look gorgeous on an HDTV, but im still not sold on them. The environments are nice 
 but i believe they could have been upgraded alittle more for the Xbox 360 version. Other than that, 
 the character models are nice.
  
  Sound- Not much to talk of here, the voices are done very well, just as the attacks and punches 
 are, not much i can find to complain about here.
  
  Overall, i reccomment Marvel: Ultimate Alliance to anyone who has ever loved any superhero anywhere 
 at anytime. The experience makes you relive all of this, making the game a must have for any marvel 
 fan, or pretty much, any fan.
  
  Have Fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WillerX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 2, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is pretty much exactly like X-men legends 2. The differences are that 
 you can be pretty much any good marvel super hero (excpet the hulk and punisher.) Another nifty 
 little thing is that you can make your own team of marvel super heroes and name it what ever you 
 want and level up the team stats. This game has a long and fun story mode that you can play with 
 up to three friends locally or online. Really my only problem with this game is that I found the 
 leveling system for each character to be way to simple and not fun. Also the voice acting was pretty 
 terrible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBlitzerx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 2, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: A huge cast of characters from the Marvel universe. I won't point out features, but let 
 it be known there are plenty. The game is basically a hack n' slash. If you played either of the 
 X-Men Legends games, then you'll things will be familiar here. The presentation is simple yet intuitive. 
 Players have been mentioning several glitches and bugs, but I haven't encountered any during my 
 play through. The story is everything you expect from a game with the name Ultimate Alliance. I 
 don't won't to spoil anything though.
  
  Sound: The voice acting is excellent. Dialogue is also fairly well written. To point out a few 
 specifics, be sure to play as The Thing and Deadpool. Sound is decent as well.
  
  Unlockables: Three difficulty settings, characters, art and extra missions. There is plenty here.
 
  
  If your a Marvel fan, you'll love this game. If your craving an action/rpg, be sure to check it 
 out. I think you'll find it worth the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonpz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was going to be a waste of my time but then I checked it out a little bite 
 closer. The game is awesome. There are so many great characters in this game you don't know who 
 to be. The game play is similar to the X-men Legends game. You get to pick who is on your team 
 and complete missions. You have different headquarters and that is where you find out your missions. 
 The headquarters aren't as complete as the X-men Legends games but they are still nice.
  
  The game levels aren't just streets and sewers. They throw in some different areas. Some of the 
 levels aren't just about killing many guys; you have to figure out how to get to the next part 
 and how to defeat certain enemies.
  
  The graphics for the game are medium level there is room for improvement. I like the level of details 
 it could just use so rounder corners and sharper environments.
  
  The sounds are great in the game. The characters that give you all the information just don't talk 
 to the lead characters. If you come up as a minor character, they say your name and continue with 
 the stories. The short video clips are also great in the game.
  
  Over all if, you like the X-men Legends game you will like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  When I first started to play Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, I was taken back. I remember always impatiently 
 waiting for the next Spider-Man comic to hit the stores. This game really hits the nail on the 
 head for me! Its got your great comic book heros and villans, your mind blowing powers, and your 
 cheesy comic book-read lines! The best part is its gameplay. Its like Diablo for PC if you will, 
 pretty much a hack n slash RPG where you control 4 heros to accomplish taking down Dr. Doom and 
 his menace. The game graphics are not to shabby, though they dont feel real next-gen, but the cut 
 scenes feel really next-gen. The voice acting is great, and the additudes that the characters have 
 for one another is dead on, with the know it all Captain America and the sour additude of Wolverine. 
 All in all this is a great game to have for all comic book and RPG fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoelWhy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  UA is a cool game. It's great that they've included so many different playable characters. But, 
 separate the hype from the reality. This game is far from perfect.
  
  UA is not exactly innovative. It is a simple button masher. And, I mean that in the most literal 
 sense. During fights, I just mash away on the two attack buttons (occasionally throwing in a jump 
 attack for good measure,) and this technique is pretty much fool-proof.
  
  The graphics are mediocre. Aside from a few cut scenes that are done extremely well, it looks like 
 you're playing a backwards compatible X-box game, not a game for the next-gen console.
  
  Also, the writing is god-awful. This includes both the story and the dialogue. The story is a jumbled 
 mess featuring the heroes (and yes, the bad guys keep referring to you as heroes) against the Masters 
 of Evil. I mean, come on, who would call themselves evil ? They may as well have a thin mustache 
 that they pull at before bellowing a diabolical laugh. It's a caricature of comic books -- bad 
 writing that should have been left behind in the 70s. Oh, and dialogue is just as bad.
  
  That all being said, the score is the best music I've ever heard in a game. Yes, it's that good. 
 The kind of stuff you'd expect from a quality superhero film.
  
  Plus, at the end of the day, playing all the different heroes makes it worth it. I'm focusing a 
 lot on the negatives, but the game is fun to play around with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakotan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  This game is nothing like the x-men legends. I waited for reviews before I bought it to make sure 
 it was'nt. The Sound and Graphics are awesome but then again I am playing only on the 360. This 
 game will fulfill any comic book geek dreams. Like me *smile*
  Gameplay could have been tweaked a lil bit bit more. Maybe making the melee look more impressive. 
 The weapons are awsome in the game and so are the attacks but they drain to much energy I think.
 
  I also think they could have put info on each character in the game where they lvl up and such 
 like the ppl at snowblind did for Justice League Heros.
  In closing, this game went far beyond what I thought it was gonna be and I now have some superhero 
 playing madness to hold me over until Superman Returns the video game comes out. This game is not 
 a renter but a buyer cause even tho i cant do it , it has a awsome online feature that is really 
 great. Be like playing the game with different personalitys for the differant heros. So get off 
 your butt and go buy this game it rocks!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VincentV21
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Spoiler Free!
  
  A while back an X-men game called X-men Legends blew my mind with how fun an RPG could be based 
 on Marvel characters. Then, X-men Legends 2 arrived and blew me away even more with how much fun 
 there was and just how many times I wanted to go back and unlock everything. Well, the folks at 
 Raven deliver again with Marvel: Ultimate Alliance. This game takes it up a notch, and instead 
 of focusing on merely the characters of the X-men mythos, it encompasses practically the entire 
 Marvel Universe.
  
  From the get go you control Spider-Man, Thor, Captain America, and Wolverine (or Logan, if you 
 wish) . Later on the roster expands to some familiar faces (Fantastic Four, Iron Man, Storm, etc.) 
 to some that people may not know (Deadpool, Moon Knight, Spider-Woman) . Every character has his, 
 or her, own set of combat styles, and it is a load of fun figuring out the best setup for each 
 character. You also have the ability to unlock new costumes for each character, which not only 
 changes the physical appearance of your hero, but also adds new attributes that you can upgrade. 
 For instance, one costume of Spider-mans may add damage to his dodge, web power, and health limit 
 and the other may add to his striking, speed, and total XP gained. The voice work in this game 
 is great as well, as everyone sounds as they should: Spider-man always has a joke, Captain America 
 sounds like the leader he is, and even Deadpool plays the role of the Merc with a mouth. The 
 FMV sequences are beautiful, and are some of the best in any game to date. FMVs like these make 
 me want better movies based on Marvel characters, thats for sure. Unlike the X-men games which 
 had you trolling around mostly dungeons and pretty industrial looking areas, M: UA takes you from 
 a flying S. H. I. E. L. D. hellicarrier, underwater Atlantis, and even to the planet of the alien species 
 the Skrull. Variety is definitely the spice of life in this game. The single player game takes 
 more than ten hours, so you will have your hands busy with this one, especially if you unlock all 
 the secret characters, do all the side missions, take the XP earning quizzes, and take part in 
 the outstanding multiplayer.
  
  The multiplayer is where this game is really fun. You and up to three other friends can play the 
 single player campaign out on Xbox Live. The single player and multiplayer are seamless. You can 
 even start from any saved single player game you have. Do not get rid of this game until you at 
 least try the multiplayer with a friend, it may change your mind about being done with the game.
 
  
  Overall, I am highly impressed and pleased with M: UA. The only gripe I can say I have is that 
 there arent more characters in the game! Where are Venom, Hawkeye, Cable, War Machine, and the 
 rest of the well known characters of Marvel alumnus? I can see the roster getting even bigger in 
 the next game. Oops, did I say next game? :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfitness1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 1, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game from Blockbuster on Monday and so far so good.
  
  Visuals : :
  
  Not overly impressive but nice, then again what do you expect from an RPG. For the most part the 
 game looks good. The charactors are look great except the smaller one's are a little hard to make 
 out in battle. Just for the record, I have a 34'' Panasonic HDTV. Frame Rates : :
  
  Could be better. If it's one thing that bothers me is a game that has great graphics but because 
 the graphics are so good the frame rates suffer. Either that or the developers needed to spend 
 a little more time fine tuneing so that the game could reach a solid 60+ frames per second.
  
  Sounds : : Nothing to write home about. However, it works fine for this RPG.
  
  Gameplay 
 : :
  
  That is where this game scores big. This game will definitely keep you busy. With a combination 
 of puzzles, fighting, using the different powers to beat up the enemy and plenty of nice looking 
 levels to satisfy the eye.
  
  Value : :
  
  Not sure yet. Like I said, it's a rental and I only had it for 3 days. The multi player was OK, 
 at least for me. I've heard people say how great the multi player was, I have yet to have the same 
 experience. It was fun but, not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 5, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  The Good: Most of the major Marvel heroes are represented in this game, as well as some lesser 
 known heroes to mix it up, the visuals are outstanding, the various gameplay modes keep the game 
 from getting stale anytime soon, online modes look great, is just a ton of fun to play with friends.
 
  
  The Bad: It's expensive, it lacks The Hulk and The Punisher.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Fans of Marvel Comics have been looking for their dream game, and Marvel Ultimate Alliance is 
 probably as close as it gets for now. This is an outstanding RPG/Beat 'Em Up that is a blast to 
 play, online or off with friends. The game begins with SHIELD summoning all of the greatest Marvel 
 heroes (with the exceptions of The Hulk and The Punisher) , to fight against a new superteam of 
 villians, led by Dr. Doom. There are 20 superheroes to choose from and each one has their own special 
 moves that keep the action interesting. You earn coins by beating enemies and smashing the scenery 
 around you, and use those coins to upgrade your powers. The action is almost limitless as you use 
 your super team of super heroes to destroy the waves of enemies around you, to solve puzzles and 
 to fight bosses using God of War style mini-games. All of that, along with a massive storyline, 
 tons of different gameplay modes and online play over Xbox Live make this a must buy for all Marvel 
 fans and action fans in general. The visuals are amazing, even for the Xbox 360 and the action 
 is always intence. The visuals leave the cell-shaded look of X-Men Legends and X-Men Legends 2 
 and goes for a more realistic look, which works really well. In addition to the massive amounts 
 of gameplay modes available, there are a ton of unlockables such as mini missions using various 
 characters and alternate costumes to earn by playing through the game, as well as the glorious 
 achievement points. It may be missing a few of the better characters, but pretty much every major 
 hero a person could want is in this game, as well as bosses such as The Lizard and Galactus. Overall, 
 this game is a must buy on all accounts, so go and buy it now, or Galactus will eat this planet!!! 
 Just Kidding...
  
  Gameplay: The action RPG/Beat Em' Up gameplay of X-Men Legends returns, but with all the best Marvel 
 heroes and villians. There are tons of modes and tons of unlockables, so this is a game that will 
 not be an easy finisher.
  
  Graphics: The cutscenes are amazing, some of the best visuals I have ever seen on the 360. The 
 top down gameplay is also very well done and looks great.
  
  Sound: The sound effects are also outstanding and really work well with the game's style. The various 
 hero's one liners can cause random outbursts of laughter.
  
  Value: It's a full priced 360 game, but it's worth every cent.
  
  Final Thoughts: Buy this 
 game, 'nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDT_ZEUS
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 1, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  Truthfully the game could have had a lot more but this is just due to the fact I am a huge Marvel 
 and DC fan. I have read the comics for years and years so to me this was a must get game. The X 
 men predecessors for this were merger at best but I am really getting into this one. If you like 
 kicking the hell out of robots and bad guys, and upgrading then this is the game to play for the 
 week anyway. It fell short for me because there was no Punisher or Hulk. If they had those two 
 instead of Moon night and Mr. fantastic id be down for giving the game a close to perfect score. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiserySignals
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 1, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  This is a great game to play either by yourself or better when you get a group of friends together 
 to play. Personally I've only play about an hour in but from what I can see the game is well made 
 and can only get better. The script the producers used is in all honesty straight up awful, but 
 that makes up half the fun when your playing with friends, when ever the Masters of Evil speak 
 you can't help but burst out in to a fit of laughter that no other game has been able to do for 
 a while. IF more games made me laugh I think even the bad ones would prove to be more fun. It seems 
 as if the game makes fun of itself when ever the dialogs are triggered. If we all could all make 
 fun of ourselves life would be more enjoiable and we all could sit back and play video games. Another 
 thing to add to this game is that the movies that were rendered into it are phenomenal. I may have 
 only seen the opening video but it is apparent that the rest of the FMV's would be equally as good. 
 I must say I enjoied Logan's hysterical laughing whilst flying an airship into the side of a bigger 
 airship. It kinda creeped me out to see one of my favorite X-Men run himself into an airship like 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 31, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  When I was younger, I used to be a big fan of the Marvel Universe and would always imagine what 
 a game with a bunch of super heroes would be like. Back in those days, the best comic book game 
 we had to look forward to was X-men the arcade game. Thankfully, with the advancement of technology, 
 games like Marvel Ultimate Alliance are now a reality.
  
  Right away there are going to be a lot of comparisons to the X-men Legends series. Yes, for the 
 most part MUA stays the same but it does enough things different to stand out from the XML's.
 
  
  The gameplay basics are pretty much the same so I'll just mention the new things. MUA does a good 
 job of keeping things varied with the addition of Quicktime events for some of the larger foes, 
 puzzles, weapons and a more robust system of special moves. Most of these new additions work fine, 
 but there are a few issues. For starters, the weapons that you either pick up or take from foes 
 are heavily overpowered. While regular attacks are doing in there 20's and 30's, it's not uncommon 
 to see weapon attacks as much as 5 times more damaging. Also the Quiktime events for the boss battles 
 seemed a little cheap. I didn't mind them too much in theory, but they way they were executed left 
 much to be desired. The quicktime motions would be the same each time but with different button 
 prompts. So seeing an uber for like Galactus fall for the same moves over and over again was a 
 real disappointment. Graphics were a huge improvement over the XML series. I've never liked cell 
 shaded games so I was happy that MUA is in 3d. From the normal view in the game, the characters 
 looked pretty good, but the cut scenes showed how truly ugly some of the character models were. 
 Also the graphics seem unbalanced the way some characters just looked better than others. Captain 
 America, up close, looked much better than Thor and his flat face, or The Watcher and his mammoth 
 block head. In game there was some slowdown, some visible seems between textures but other than 
 that everything ran pretty smoothly. Another small complaint is that some of the scripting for 
 the ingame cutscenes were just poor. I'd rather not have it show that the characters are walking 
 though a portal than have a cut scene in which the characters walk up to a portal, the disappear 
 before they step into it. Last thing I have to mention is that the CG cutscenes were simply beautiful.
 
  
  The sound department is a mixed bag. The music is pretty damn good, it's just that the voices were 
 hit or miss. The main characters were all done well, it's when you get to some of the supporting 
 characters that quality seems to drop off. Iceman is a great example of this, annoying voice and 
 terrible script all rolled into one. While still not my dream Marvel game, it is the closest thing 
 thus far. With story, graphics, gameplay better than the last X-men Legends, and a cliffhanger 
 ending, This installement in the Marvel Universe gives me high hopes for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bayani789
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 31, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  My short, simple, &amp; straight to the point review.
  
  Gameplay: Its fun to play online with people but it can get laggy sometimes. Its even better if 
 you can play with a buddy at home and level up together if youre into that kind of thing. Overall 
 single player can get addicting once you start unlocking new powers, getting new gear, and enjoying 
 a your favorite character in general.
  
  Graphics: Just picture X-men legends with much better graphics. Despite these better graphics, 
 its nothing to saw wow when compared to most persons standards for next-gen. 
  
  Sound: Voice acting varies with each super hero, some match well and some don't. Nothing to shabby 
 here, nor fantastic either. I'd say a 7/10 in this area, just your good old C average sound effects.
 
  
  Value: Lots of replay if you want to max out characters and unlock the variety of costumes (each 
 with different specs of course) . Like I said before, gameplay with someone via online or together 
 makes this game so much more fun. Great value if youre not a loner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gapboi954
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  I you liked the X-Men Legends series then your going to love this game. With a wide array of characters 
 and places to adventure. You will have a great time with this game. If your a fan of comic books 
 then this is the game for you. With such characters as Thor, Dr. Strange, Loki, Enchanttress, Galactus, 
 Baron Mardox and Spiderwoman you will relive your childhood with this game. Also there is online 
 multiplayer in the form of coop. Their are more than enough achievements to keep you playing for 
 days!!! If you form a team of a certain group you get certain bonuses for example if you use Storm, 
 Wolverine, Iceman and Colassus you will get the X-Men bonus which is +15% energy. They have that 
 for Femme Fatals, The Fantastic Four and many more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogypsy
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 30, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  I found this to be a typical superhero game. This game is a definite bargain bin game. I found 
 Prince of Persia on my cellphone just as entertaining. This games only selling point is the name 
 Marvel . It seems they could have put a lot more effort into the storyline. They definitely should 
 have taken advantage of the Xbox 360's graphics. I was not impressed with the superheros either, 
 did'nt we all play th X-men game already. I think they could have and should have done a lot more 
 with this game. Sorry I really tried to like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 30, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Finally we get a Marvel game where you can play with some of your most favorite heroes all in one 
 game. I'm a big fan of the Marvel comics so look forward to a very positive review. First if you've 
 played games like X-Men Legends and Justice League heroes than you'll fit right into this game. 
 This just like X-Men with HD graphics. Once you start the first mission you'll see a cut scene 
 that's Nick Fury's ship is being attacked by a bunch of villians sent by Dr. Doom and it looks 
 amazing but if only if the game look like that. The game looks good for an 360 game. I noticed 
 that after the first cut scene once you're done with the first mission the second doesn't look 
 as good as the first did in the game. It kind of looked like a current gen cut scene. The special 
 effects are a little up and everything has more detail into it. You'll level up like you do in 
 X-Men Legends/Justice League as you collect shield coins you'll be able to purchase alternative 
 costumes and level up your attacks. The game as over 120 characters and most of then which are 
 unlocked from the beginning of the game and about a few dozen that are playable. The sound effects 
 and voice acting are pretty good in the game. I've put in a good few hours after purchasing the 
 game. I haven't been able to put down the controllers.
  
  If you're a fan of the Marvel comics and loved X-Men Legends/Justice League than you should definitely 
 check out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicemarmet1984
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I very much enjoyed XML1 and XML2, so I had very high hopes for this game. It has met or exceeded 
 my expectations. The gameplay is wonderful. The controls seem very responsive and crisp. Flying 
 can be a bit awkward from time to time, but still effective. Graphics. This is probably the weakest 
 part of that game. But you know what, thats fine with me. I still think this far better graphics 
 than some of the 360 games released to date. I would much rather them skimp on the graphics and 
 make the game more complex any day. Sound. I though this was a big upgrade from XML2. When you 
 are hitting the barrels, ancient artifacts, or metal walls, you can tell what they are. There is 
 a specific sound for each material you are hitting. The music is another big upgrade for this game. 
 I noticed in a few spots where the music was looping back to the start, but it is a very heroic 
 sounding music. Value. Worth every penny. Here's how i see it, I bought the game when it was released, 
 had to go out of town on the weekend, and I could not wait to get back and play the game more. 
 Thats the sign of a great game. I usually dont get fired up like this over many games. The multiplayer 
 makes this game even better. Me and a buddy have allready logged many hours going through the campaign 
 mode. Very fun!
  
  Tilt. This game will be great for a long time to come. With the XBLive capabilities and the multiplayer, 
 it makes for a more diverse playing environments. You are not subjected to just single campaign 
 or multiplayer frag fest. Overall: a great game, with a few visual flaws, and yes I have come across 
 a few of these bugs people might be referring to, but come on, no game is perfect. Im just glad 
 this game does not freeze up on me like XML2 did all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chamoen
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of X-Men legends (I and II) , I was looking forward to this game. After a devoted weekend 
 (with friends) , I can happily say I was not let down!
  
  Games that provide true co-op fun are in short supply, and this game lives up. The characters look 
 good, the environments are very good, and the combos are all there (though without the annoying 
 COMBO from previous games) . If you have ever been a fan of comics, you *must* play this game. The 
 voice acting is terrible, but the content is there. As with many great RPGs, if the playability 
 and story is there, we'll overlook the small things.
  
  This game is just plain fun - pick up and go with a bunch of friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidermanc2k
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  How many times have you wondered when you would find a quality game based on some of your favorite 
 characters from the Marvel Universe? Well, wonder no longer. Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is a fan's 
 dream come true, as it adds in good number of characters from across the Marvel world and continues 
 to build on the things that made the X-men Legends games fun as well.
  
  The game gives you a storyline that's typical of a large comic book crossover event: lots of heroes, 
 lots of fighting, and numerous twists and turns. The main game play involves you and your chosen 
 set of heroes (4 at a time) battling through waves of enemies, solving puzzles, and leveling up 
 as you make your way to the final showdown with Dr. Doom. Throughout the adventure, comics fans 
 will be pleased at the number of playable characters found in the game. Some are well known, like 
 Captain America and Thor. While others are more cult favorites like Deadpool and Cage. The number 
 of villians is amazing as well, and none really seem just thrown in for the sake of another name 
 to add to the list.
  
  The graphics are hit and miss in this game. While the backgrounds and special effects are nice 
 at times, the character models leave something to be desired. As a matter of fact, in most cases, 
 the character models look downright ugly. As next-gen game, this is unacceptable. However, its 
 clear that when this game was being made, the PS2 and Xbox were in mind. Other things make up for 
 this however. The music in the game is very fitting, and the voice acting isn't too bad (although 
 a little too over the top sometimes) . Plus, the game is just fun to play. This could be an ultimate 
 party game, and sweet memories of playing konami arcade classics come to mind. Yes, this isn't 
 the same, but we all know how fun it was to play games like TMNT Arcade with three other people. 
 This game brings that same feeling, and the addition of Live play is icing on the cake.
  
  With all of the high profile games coming out, it would be easy to loose track of this game. Plus, 
 its hard to suggest paying extra money for a game that looks only marginally better than the lesser 
 PS2 version. However, if a 360 is all you have, and you're a huge fan of the Marvel Universe, then 
 this is one of the best games that you can find. Good: Lots of characters to choose from, lots 
 of customization, lots of playtime and modest replay value if you want to go back and play as a 
 different team of characters.
  
  Bad: Character models could be better. Hopefully the next game will show true next-gen muscle. 
 You may be dissapointed to not find a character you're looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix73nj
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  Ultimate Alliance brings together some of the greatest elements in co-op play to-date. Lets summarize 
 shall we?
  
  Incredible graphics (check)
  Interesting and colorful story with great cinimatics (check)
  Great gameplay via diverse Combo 
 / Power System (check)
  Optional RPG elements that don't force you into RPG minmax hell (check)
  Plenty of Awesome Marvel 
 Characters (check)
  Over the top varied and interesting Marvel locations and villans (check)
  Varied, Dramatic and 
 Interesting Boss and SubBoss battles (check)
  More co-op fun than you can shake a stick at (check)
  Marvel trivia and backstory at every turn 
 (check)
  Various optional historical iconic marvel hero sub missions (check)
  
  and most importantantly...
  
  PLAYABLE IRONMAN (check check check 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic85044
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 30, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  Marvel: Ultimate Alliance is the newest game from Actvision, the company ho created the X-Men Legends 
 series. The game uses the same battle formula that the X-Men Legends games did, but it also features 
 more characters than any of the X-Men Legends games did. This cast of about 2 dozen playable characters 
 definitely gives you the opportunity to switch out your team members often.
  
  The gameplay is very good, although it may sometimes get a little frustrating, and may seem to 
 simple for some players, mainly because it's all button-mashing and a beat-em-up game. But in my 
 opinion, the gameplay is very good and the fact that your have such a big cast of characters in 
 the game.
  
  The bosses in this game can be a little difficult, and are pretty memorable, especially when you 
 fight big enemies, like at the beginning when your fight this giant dragon Fin Fang Foom. But along 
 with the large bosses, there are normal sized bosses, such as Bullseye, from the Daredevil series.
 
  
  The sound of this game is normally very good; although the attacking sounds may occasionally be 
 a little behind when you actually punch someone, but they are usually spot on and very good.
  
  Overall, this game is very good, and it's not just for a major Marvel fan who knows all of 
 the characters, because the game has a unique storyline, where you can just jump in to this game 
 whenever you feel like it and start right up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarzyz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 30, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is every comic-book fan's dream come true. It features 20 heroic icons 
 to play as -- from popular crews such as the X-Men and Fantastic Four, but also some more obscure 
 stars like Moon Knight and Ms. Marvel. In turn, they battle a potpourri of evil that's even more 
 varied. A thin but intriguing storyline attempts to tie it all together, but it's the inside jokes 
 and pop-culture references where the writing really shines. However, in games like this, the story 
 is just a conduit between maps full of button-mashing combat anyway. The combat doesn't reinvent 
 the art of punching someone in the face by any respect, but it's still plenty fun. Slight tweaks 
 like debris you can wield and better throws subtly enhance play, and the smarter teammates are 
 very welcome. That's not to say they won't get stuck in corners once in a while, but a quick tap 
 of the shoulder button warps them near your position to make their superhero paychecks. A good 
 percentage of characters can fly or have other unique double-jump mechanics -- Spidey slings, and 
 Deadpool teleports. These help make traversing the wide terrain a little more entertaining 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxdriva
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I must say as an aspiring game designer and a huge comic fan this game was pleasing on many levels. 
 It was made by the same company of the x-men games so the controls and gameplay feel familiar, 
 but the game is in no way the same old x-men game. The more in-depth rpg elements and character 
 development really make you feel like your playing a true action-rpg game. The story and plot is 
 pretty much standard comic book stuff so its pretty good if your into that kind of thing. As far 
 as the action goes, the game is just awesome. Each character has standard melee attacks and jumping 
 abilities but nobody plays it for that crap. Its all about each characters trademark powers, and 
 each character has at least 10 or so. I recommend this game to anyone who likes games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silvernix
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  OK, we all know the story so far, Raven surprised everyone with X-Men Legends with what is known 
 now as Hack and Slash RPG. There game had The X-Men Vs. Mageto. Raven returned with X-Men Legends, 
 making it bigger and bringing forth Apocalypse. Another well known Enemy from the X-Men, Marvel's 
 most popular team. Now, We have Marvel: Ultimate Alliance. Bringing forth heroes new and old to 
 the video game libraries. Most of the Heroes are from the latest Marvel movies that has come out 
 in the last few years and some that are coming out very soon. But instead of just doing that, Raven 
 has added a few somewhat unknown heroes like Darkpool, Ms. Marvel, Moon Knight just to name a few 
 as well as added some hidden characters. The story is, Dr. Doom has brought together a huge team 
 of Villains and attacked the S. H. I. E. L. D. S. base.... A group of Agents paid for by the Government 
 to protect Earth. With that, Fury, Commander of S. H. I. E. L. D. called for every Metahuman to assist..... 
 now, how he was able to contact every metahuman is WAY beyond me. That didn't make since.... did 
 he have a loudspeaker on his ship? Well, anyway, Wolverine, Captain America, Thor, and Spider-Man 
 we're the first to assist.
  
  The game play plays somewhat like X-Men Legends 2, except better. Now they added alot more interactive 
 moves. Example, Thor can call forth a hurricane by swinging his hammer around as can Storm by using 
 the analog stick and turning it around.
  
  The Characters are all true to there form. Each of them have different powers and abilities.... 
 and sometimes they have the same, for example, Dead Devil, Ghost Rider, and Spiderman can use there 
 abilities and throw an enemy behind them..... or yank them back from a distance. As I mentioned 
 before, Storm and Thor can summon a hurricane. At first, your gonna think carbon copy when you 
 see a few heroes together like Wolverine and Black Panther, but after a bit, you will see enough 
 skills to set them apart. The game isn't over the top hard at all, and that was really never the 
 fun of the game. The multiplayer and storyline has been the focus here. Now, with XBox live, your 
 on no shortage of friends in which to play with. Gameplay is pretty long too. I'm clocked at 15 
 hours in 3 days and I havent even gotten off of the first Act (5 in all) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aymonius
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 29, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is good. That much is clear, but it is my opinion that the game could have been more 
 polished and less buggy.
  
  Pros: The game is lengthy, good visual improvement over X-Men Legends II, and terribly fun.
  
 
  Cons: There are game design flaws all over the place that make the game much more tedious than 
 it ought to be.
  
  I liked this game. Honestly, I did. It's a good game in the hack-n-slash genre of RPGs. The graphics 
 look pretty good on an HDTV and the special effects are great too. I was a fan of both X-Men Legends 
 games and I can say when I bought this game, I was banking on the fact that this was going to be 
 just as good, and probably better.
  Overall, gameplay is great. The action is visceral, and the controls are tight and responsive. 
 It is certainly satisfying to watch power moves totally rip apart enemies. It is even better to 
 watch consecutive executions of the Xtreme powers of each in your party.
  The party AI leave much to be wanted, though. I find them frequently attacking anyhting that moves, 
 even if they are on the brink of death. That isn't so much annoying, because it's just a computer, 
 but them jumping off cliffs and dying or falling into a void and dying, or maybe jumping hitting 
 a ledge, but sliding into the pit that really gets me. Sometimes, invisible walls work in your 
 favor, but there are quite a few times, where they don't work at all. i've had my share of times 
 waiting for the character to become available again.
  There are several major gamestopping glitches, however, and that makes this game much less greater 
 than it could have been. Things like finishing a quest but not being given a way out, or bosses 
 not spawning correctly really interrupt and scream unfinished sometimes.
  Graphical bugs aren't so much a problem, but they do make the game look ugly. For instance, say 
 my Silver Surfer starts flying around and lands. At times, the surfboard will not disappear, but 
 appear to be permanently connected to one of his feet and move with it as he walks. Ugly. Or maybe 
 Human Torch's flame/fire effects are no longer present. Why? I don't know. But it looks damn retarded 
 when he flies.
  From all these past reviews given by other players, it's almost as if everyone just ignored the 
 blatant glitches and bugs and let the fanaticism blind them. This game is good, but it is far from 
 being superb or great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7540
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 29, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  Marvel Ultimate Alliance is, what most comic fans like me would say, is a very good game. You can 
 play as almost the entire universe of Marvel. Some favorites are Spider-man, Ghost Rider and The 
 Hulk. You'll play through a very unique story stripped from a Spider-man comic. Not sure which, 
 but it isn't all that brilliant. Ghost Rider is the best so far, that is until you have unlocked 
 the other Marvel heroes and villians. What also makes it good is that fact that it runs smoothly 
 on Raven Software, the people behind the graphically engenious Quake 4. It was nice for Activision 
 to also make another great Spider-man-like adventure. Marvel Ultimate Alliance is much more better 
 than Marvel Nemesis, which sold a loss for EA. Allas, it is time for this review to end. This is 
 just your friendly neighbourhood reviewer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phiznat
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 28, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  If you like to take on tons of bad guys with super powered good guys, this game has it all! And 
 if you like to have people over for a button mashing party the same applies. If you really immerse 
 yourself in the game it seems to go on forever. But with so many extras and unloackable things 
 to obtain you always have something to look forward too. Theres plenty of action in the game, the 
 story is cool with some nice plot twists. One thing about the game that is notable, is that the 
 boss fights can actually be tough! A lot of the cool villains are in the game and need a good liberation. 
 Also there are some pretty epic sized battles with HUGE bosses, which requires a little different 
 approach than just beating them down. Other cool features include upgrading your characters abilites 
 with objects scattered about the levels. This will eventually apply in a slighlty different way 
 later when you gain the ability to make your own team! Other cool things include ripping weapons 
 out of your enemies hands and going on a total anhilliation spree, playing bubmper cars, and an 
 atari like pitfall game :-) Anyways... this may not be the best game ever graphically for next gen. 
 consoles, but in my opinion its one of the most fun all-a-round games available. Especially if 
 you have friends over! Although I have not finished the game entirely, I could see there being 
 much replay value with so many characters play as. And the fact that you'll probably want to try 
 several different team variations. Let me also say that the music score for the game fits it perfectly! 
 Probably the games greatest complement while actually bashing your way through levels!
  
  My unbiased strict rating for this game would be 8.5
  Based of fun factor only id probably give 
 it a 9.5
  
  Bottom line... you're going to use some of your fav. superheros to bash bad guys! Which equals tons 
 of fun that four people can enjoy in one room!
  Buy it and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinty69
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This is a great Next Gen version of the Marvel Universe. The gameplay remains almost the same as 
 X-men Legends with a few minor tweaks, the graphics being the biggest in my eyes. I do wish Marvel 
 would pick some better characters to play as for this game, but Im sure they cant satisfy everyone. 
 I did find myself struggling to get a descent team of 4. Some characters were questionable as in 
 why would they put Luke Cage as a playable when Marvel has so many other awesome characters!?!? 
 Id like to take control of Venom, Juggernaut (like in XML2) , The Hulk, Carnage, and maybe some 
 other heavy hitters such as onslaught. Overall the game feels familiar, but I seriously like the 
 feel with the Marvel world. Im so glad they dumped the cell shaded graphics from XML. Overall I 
 love the cast of Marvel and I hope they go all out on a sequel. If you half way enjoyed Legends, 
 buy this game. (I do still feel the price for 360 games are still to high considering you can get 
 the same game for 20 bucks less on Pc.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 777djm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  After shelling out so much money for the 360 I've only been impressed with a few games. When I 
 heard abou this game the first time I didn't think it was going to be this good. The levels are 
 huge and challenging.. this isn't a hack and slash it takes strategy and there are some fun puzzles. 
 I have to admit I'm not an avid comic book reader.... and in this huge game i did feel lost every 
 now and then. But it's not going to stop me playing it. Well worth the money... I traded Dead Rising 
 in so it made it half price. Nice long game, and not so challenging that I want to punt the 360 
 out the window. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BammBammBamm
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely incredible. If you are or ever were a fan of Marvel at all you have to 
 put your life on hold for a few days and mash your way through this adventure. 4 player co-op rocks. 
 It's easily the best 4 player co-op game on 360 and the best I've played in a long long time. All 
 of your favorite characters are there. It's a basic button masher but the locations are cool, the 
 characters are awesome and ther is enough diversity in the customization options to keep it interesting 
 for a while. Everyone is different you can spend hours just testing out which char is your favorite. 
 Smash some barrels grab some coins and power up.
  
  Sit down, close the window shades, grab some munchies and play until your eyes bleed. You will 
 not be dissapointed.
  
  Seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socialninjitsu
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 28, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of Legends games since day one, so when I picked up this title I was comfortably at 
 home with the way it played out. The game is slightly overrated by its cult following, but worth 
 buying for the story.
  
  The graphics are a world better than X-Men Legends games we've seen so far. The controls are pleasantly 
 familiar, but you can do a few cooler and deeper things action-wise. For example some of the environments 
 are destructable and leave behind things like lead pipes to smash baddies with and knock their 
 effin lights out.
  
  I was relieved to find out this is still a role playing game like X-Men Legends. Thankfully, you 
 still gain experience, stats, and a chance to buff your powers however you want to. This means 
 wolverine can still put everything on fury and claw slash for massive physical and bleed damage 
 and the fast speed with a quickness. I actually had to raise this review score after experiencing 
 the depth of gameplay later into the title.
  
  Let me get one thing strait; This is not an XML game. It's true that it plays out with the same 
 controls and some cool new stuff. However The levelling system is not as deep. Gone are passive 
 skills and the ability to distribute attribute points where you want as you level up. The graphics 
 look more like xbox graphics than 360. However, to their credit they look a world better than the 
 xbox games, which to me looked like playstation graphics. However, the charm of the detailed characters 
 makes you focus much less on the lazy graphics. The fact that it looks much better than the xbox 
 game makes you forget that these aren't 360-calibur graphics. You end up laying back and enjoying 
 yourself anyway.
  
  The lineup of characters is wonderful, and they are designed a lot better in this go-around. For 
 example, while other characters fly, spiderman uses web grappling with the same controls, but it's 
 different than flight. Mister Fantastic stretches seamlessly with stylish affect. While the graphics 
 aren't the best, the game has polish, and the characters are filled with detailed thought bringing 
 their balanced powers affectively to the experience. Gameplay is detailed to the point of Impressive 
 touches like stages where the physics for all characters change a little bit. While you will see 
 fans exaggerating the appeal of this game because of nostalgia, they do have a point. You'll waste 
 a lot of time hooked on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _crazykeith_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  In Marvel: Ultimate alliance, you join a team of superheroes from the Marvel Universe. You fight 
 a dangerous team of evil. I will keep this short and sweet. This game looks and sounds dated. The 
 one thing truly bringing this game back up is its great multiplayer. Hours can be burned like seconds 
 in the co-op mode. I love this game, although I will admit it is a bit clunky. Without Xbox Live, 
 this game becomes very boring. Playing as the heroes is great. ( My choice character is the thing 
 ) Gather some freinds who have the game as well and you will have a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: draken2533
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I didn't have high expectations for this game but it sure met and surpassed my expectations. The 
 amount of characters and the wide variety of them make this game a must for most comic book fans. 
 The gameplay is great not only did raven bring back the 4 player but now its better than ever because 
 when no one is around you can hop online and team up with people all around the world. The fix 
 I am most happy with is now when a player gets stuck you can keep advancing and it will warp them 
 back with the party so back tracking to get a character unstuck is pretty much a thing of the past. 
 Also the addition of each outfit containing its own special boosts is another great addition. The 
 grabbing of enemies is awesome punching them in the face then throwing them over the edge of a 
 map is just so gratifying. Finally the voice overs have come and I have to say that each character 
 acts like they should from spider-mans smart remarks to the crazy deadpool talking about stabbing 
 a friend in the leg because he was going to eat the last cheesy puff is hilarious. The sounds of 
 battle are better than the previous installments of Legends. The replay value is very high considering 
 there are so many things to get and you have to play lots to lvl your characters all the way plus 
 its just pure fun smash the most villains i have ever seen in any game! 20 characters is a lot 
 to go through to find the best one but most players will already have a favorite when first starting 
 the game The graphics suffer from time to time especially when there is a lot going on which causes 
 the game to become very choppy. One big problem and the reason i gave the graphics such a low score 
 had to do with the character models and the horrible lighting! At times when you get under light 
 shooting in from above the map your unable to see yourself, enemies and your group and the shadows 
 are not the right size in comparison with where you are standing. Otherwise besides those short 
 comings i enjoy the look and the layout of the stages with the semi destructible environments. 
 This is my first review so hopefully its helpful. I enjoy this game and so do my buddies and is 
 great for group play. Many hours of sleep lost to this game already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegimp56
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 27, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  i did not even think about getting this game at all. i bought it on a hunch and it was a damn good 
 hunch. its almost too fun. great gameplay, pretty good graphics but nothing phenomenal and very 
 good level design. i highly recommend this title wether you are a die hard marvel fan of just a 
 casual gamer. im impressed with the list of playable charecters and the way they play. it makes 
 it fun to unlock them all. for instance wolverine is the absolute killing machine that he is the 
 comics and silver surfer is an absolute powerhouse. and to think i was not going to get this game. 
 im glad i listened to my gut on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonicstriker
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 27, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  What to say about one of the most addicting games I have played on one of the greatest systems 
 I have played on well 360 baby oh yeah. Some of the great features this game has to offer would 
 be the intense game play as well as in depth character customization. You have the ability to play 
 from twenty Marvel super heroes who you are able to switch in and out of from a portal. You are 
 able to also set up a team who levels up along side of you and helps you thwart evil. The coolest 
 thing I have found so far would be the fact that you are able to get new costumes and upgrade them 
 as well as equip upgrade armor on characters that you get from bosses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 27, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  Okay.... this game is really fun to play, I also like the large selection of characters in the 
 game. They should've put a little more X-men memebers in the game though, but it is just fine. 
 What I like most about the game which comes to a surprise to me is the story line. I think the 
 story line is the major part of the game. It kept me entertained and wanting to know what's going 
 to happen next. I also like the X-men legend games but i hated the way it looked, I loved the gameplay 
 but hated the graphics, this is why I think Ultimate Alliance is way better. When you really think 
 about it is damn near the same game. The only thing I didn't like about this game is some of the 
 characters combos. They are poop! Maybe because they are weak characters.... I don't know, but it 
 could be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badkolo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 27, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  I wasnt to sure since I never played any previous games like it before, Im not into RPG's, but 
 this is different, more action oriented with rpg elements. I must say I am surprised, A little 
 old school style mixed with todays graphics and gameplay, any flaws are minor and nothing to complain 
 about. My only gripe was the first level was making me thing it would be repetetive and the graphics 
 would be the same over and over and that I would be limited in what each hero can do, well that 
 was all but killed after the first level, once you pass the first level and start to build your 
 characterthe game gets intense, yeah its similiar to the xmen games (i have seen em) but its much 
 much better and a little different.
  
  The controls are tight and work well, theres tons of moves and more open up as you play, each character 
 looks good and the camera is not bad at all. You can upgrade each Hero and change they outfits 
 and much more, the save points are available every 10 minutes or so and theres little treats such 
 as portals and mini games when you find a shield for that player, lots of things to uncover, theres 
 some puzzles to solve which start off easy but get harder as you progress, you bump into lots of 
 heroes on your way and the story get real good, the game opens up nicely as you progress and makes 
 it more fun, the action is done well and each character has all the powers you would expect , Theres 
 many heroes to choose from and you can change your team at every save point. The bosses get bigger 
 and harder as well. Theres also nice little effects here and there and the game is pretty polished 
 and smooth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulisan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 26, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  I've had the chance to log several hours of gametime into Marvel: Ultimate Alliance, and it's easy 
 for me to say that this is one of the more exciting and addictive games that I have played this 
 year, especially on the Xbox 360. The expansion of the X-Men Legends system to include almost every 
 superhero and villain that you can think of from the Marvel family is outstanding, and the special 
 strengths, weaknesses, and skill sets that each character uses mixes up the experience that much 
 more and extends the life of a game incredibly. From doing battle with some security guards, to 
 living the comic-based rivalries that we read about, I've had no complaints and pure praises for 
 the game. Also the team attacks are a beauty to watch in HD (My widescreen is set at 1080i) , as 
 well at the cut scenes that are shown. It would have been cool if your current team could be displayed 
 in those cut scenes, but I understand why they just needed to stick to the core characters in the 
 story.
  
  November, without a doubt, will be the most exciting month in gaming this year, with the release 
 of the PS3, Wii, and the great title releases on the Xbox 360 (such as Call of Duty 3, FEAR, Gears 
 of War, WWE Smackdown vs Raw 2007, and Rainbox Six: Las Vegas) . With all the dream shopping that 
 you will be doing, for either yourself as a gamer or a beloved gamer in your family, Marvel: Ultimate 
 Alliance is a great addition to any gamer's library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ferrari3
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 26, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  What a fantastic start to what is sure to be a great series on the 360. There is not much I can 
 say that hasn't already been said. Graphics, Game play, sound, replayability ... this one has it 
 all. What could make it better? I would love to see even more playable characters in the future, 
 though I am satisfied with what I have now. Every character is very unique and the fact that each 
 costume has different capabilities adds to the replayability of this game. Another idea would be 
 to play as the 'bad guys'. How awesome would it be to go online with a team of 'badies' and take 
 on someone elses team of 'goodies'? I've got chills thinking of a scenario like that. This one 
 is definately worth the money whether you are a Marvel / Comic fan or not. Great Job Raven... you 
 guys rock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jscimeca715
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 26, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  The game itself is surpisingly easy to pick up and play but has a very deep character customization 
 and ability tree. Definitely fun if playing co-op with friends, that's the best part! Would've 
 liked to see a better selection of characters. I find myself playing with Spidey, Capt America 
 and the ol' faithfuls instead of Ms. Marvel and Spider Girl. Level design is a little bland as 
 we've played through the first two missions and they looked very similar. Haven't tried the single 
 player game yet, I'm afraid the team ai won't be very appealing.... Definitely a must own to tide 
 me over for gears of war... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrman43807
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 25, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Probably the best part about this game is the drop-in/ drop-out co-op mode in this game. It is 
 a lot of fun to play with up to four friends. I've had one problem with the AI during a boss fight, 
 and it was so annoying we had to get one more person to take over so all the characters were player 
 controlled. Other than that one instance, I haven't noticed anything else wrong with the game. 
 It seems pretty long (I haven't played it for very long yet since I picked it up today) and I think 
 it will bring lots of fun, at least for the next two weeks (November 7th) and possibly longer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hughessimon
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 25, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  MUA is a must for true marvel fans. It has all the main marvel characters (except the hulk for 
 some reason, maybe he's hidden) , aswell as some of the more obscure ones that fans have been waiting 
 to see in a video game (silver surfer, Dr strange, spider woman) . As with the xmen legends games, 
 the cutscenes are awesome, and with a script written by a marvel writer, you cannot really go wrong. 
 However, if you are looking for complex in depth gameplay (like splinter cell) , this is not the 
 game for you, as the game consists of running around, bashing and killing things, and completing 
 the odd not too taxing puzzle. But I miss this kind of game, and for that I would reccomend this 
 highly. There is a lot to do and the designers have have an effort to spice up the gameplay with 
 flying characters, underwater battles and diverse landscapes. The controls are also simple to pick 
 up, and being able to swithc between four characters on screen prevents you getting bored with 
 just one guy or gal. If you like fighting games or comic books, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rincon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 24, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Though I have only played for about 3 hours ( i feel is enough time to post a review) this game 
 is all I had hoped and more. The opening move not only looks great but it does a wonderful job 
 of pulling the player in and getting their attention. Once the game begins the first thing that 
 shines are the look of the heros and the background, which both look amazing. The detail of the 
 heros is just plan spectacular . The lighting and weapon effect are simply fantastic . You begin 
 with four heros. Caption America, wolverine, Spiderman and Thor. Each heros moves are the same 
 thus making it easy to switch between each hero. Once you finish the first level you can change 
 any one of your team members by locating a platform that allows you to enter the selection of hero. 
 While playing the game switching is done between heros with the control pad. Simply put you push 
 the pad in the direction of the hero you wish to play. Heros are easy to move around and their 
 combat moves are well done . so far this is shaping to be a great game with a great look and a 
 great feel. There are many un-lockables in this game, from comic books to 7 different heros. Also 
 all the cut seens can be reviewed once seen for the first time and I love the photos of each hero 
 you can view. Only problem I had was some clipping that occurred while playing Spiderman, his head 
 disappeared into a wall. For me online and co-op went un-tried but Im looking forward the most 
 to this aspect of the game. I went online to join a game but none was to be found. Im sure with 
 in the next few days this will change. Anyway take my review for what it's worth and with the understanding 
 I have only 3 hour into the game but, if the first 3 hour are a glimpse of the things to come it 
 will be a sweet ride. Sorry for the quick review but I must get back to saving the would from the 
 evil clutches of that madman doom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Poole
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 24, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is my first review, but I just had to review because it lived up to the hype.
  
  Ok the essential that make this game a must have for comic, or rpg, or fans that want to have fun.
 
  
  Gameplay: 8.0 If you are Familiar with XML then you can pretty much just pick up from there. If 
 you havent then it is only maybe a 30 minute curve to get everything down. The only new addition 
 is the ability to charge and attack which I must say looks awesome in 1080i, which brings me to 
 the other category of....
  
  Graphics: 9
  One of the most best-looking and polished games you will find out for the 360. Now this is no G. R. A. W. 
 ..... But it does all of your favorite Marvel Superheros and villains justice, from the stitching 
 in spidys suit, to the gorgeous flames emitting for The Human Torch.
  
  Sound: 9
  This is a tricky on for me because I have surround sound and every game sounds good to me but from 
 what I can tell every swipe, slash, clash and explosion seems to be here intact and on target.
 
  
  Value: 9
  If you are fan of fun, comics, good story lines or multiplayer action then this game will definitely 
 not disappoint.
  
  Tilt: 9
  This game will keep you so occupied, that you may even call in to work sick, I know I did lol. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
