-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mass Effect
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/rpg/masseffect/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Powerful storyline draws you into a tense, politically charged universe.
 Dialogue options will keep you constantly engaged in your missions.
 Great visuals and superb voice acting.
 Biotic powers are fun to pull off in battle.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Vehicle navigation and combat are weak.
 A bunch of annoying interface issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 9.1, 86 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 16,097 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: BioWare
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Nov 20, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An excellent story and fun battles make this a universe worth exploring. 

  Developer BioWare has always been at the forefront of progressive storytelling in games, so it's 
 no surprise that Mass Effect's story is one of its best yet. It's got a unique take on the  
 plot, and just when you think you've got everything figured out, the game throws you yet another 
 surprise. BioWare has created a politically charged universe with an exhaustive backstory and filled 
 it with a bunch of interesting, multifaceted characters. Combined with an exciting and unique combat 
 mechanic, it makes for a fun and absorbing experience that you'll want to see through to the end, 
 just to see how everything turns out -- even if the game isn't perfect by any means. In fact, it's 
 surprising that so many small annoyances and glitches made their way into a game of such general 
 high quality. Still, most players will be able to look past them and enjoy Mass Effect for what 
 it is: A terrific role-playing game with great production values and fun, exciting action.  

           The story is one of BioWare's best.      

  As in most role-playing games of this 
 nature, you begin by customizing an avatar. You play as Commander Shepard, potential savior of 
 the galaxy, but there's plenty of room to mold him or her as you see fit. Physical customization 
 isn't as deep as you'll find in something like last year's Oblivion, but the system is relatively 
 robust, letting you choose from a variety of preset features, and even letting you round everything 
 off with a scar. Shouldn't every badass commander have one? Of course, you'll also choose a class. 
 In this case, you've got six to choose from, each with various strengths in combat, tech, and biotics 
 (Mass Effect's sci-fi equivalent of magic) . More impressively, you will select a few autobiographical 
 tidbits -- and these choices aren't just for show. Through the course of the game, characters will 
 refer to your past, and your resulting dialogue options will allow you to react to their comments 
 with various degrees of humility, wistfulness, and scorn.  

  The narrative is pure space opera, yet there's no denying that BioWare has created a tale of surprising 
 depth and appeal. Surprise number one: Humanity is not the political center of the universe. We 
 don't have a seat on the galactic council, or even a representative on the Spectre squad, an elite 
 group of special forces whose members are given wide berth to solve political and military challenges 
 as they see fit. In the meantime, a Spectre has gone rogue, ransacking ancient artifacts and unleashing 
 the violent, robotic Geth race on an unsuspecting galaxy. As Shepard, you pursue him across the 
 Milky Way, visiting one alien world after another and discovering the fallen Spectre's intentions 
 along the way. He isn't the best villain ever created: He disappears for the bulk of the game, 
 which makes finding him feel less urgent than it should. Still, the journey to the game's exciting 
 end is one worth taking.  

  In true BioWare fashion, you'll be navigating through loads of dialogue trees throughout the game, 
 and how you respond can have life-or-death consequences -- though you shouldn't take that to mean 
 that you need to brood over every decision. Oftentimes, multiple choices have the same result, 
 a somewhat transparent trick that makes it seem as though you have a lot more impact on the conversation 
 than you really do. At important junctures, however, your decisions can affect how missions play 
 out. You can turn friend to foe, console (or devastate) a suicide-attack victim, or exploit evil 
 corporate executives for fun and profit. And it all plays out amid an intricate melodrama of political 
 intrigue and racial prejudice, and in a galaxy populated by fascinating, complex characters. There 
 are pages ripped from the  Star Wars  and  Star Trek  playbooks, certainly, but quirks such as 
 the interesting speech patterns of the overly-formal Hanar alien race, or the nomadic structure 
 of the Quarian flotilla -- a galactic government that's always on the move -- make Mass Effect's version 
 of the Milky Way a unique one.  

  When navigating dialogue, you'll also be earning paragon or renegade points, which is the usual 
 light-versus-dark system we've come to expect from the developer. Unlike in Knights of the Old 
 Republic, however, your decisions here will not affect any abilities you have. However, the intricate 
 relationship between the story and the game proper means that these decisions still affect gameplay -- though 
 that effect is usually an indirect one. More interestingly, your paragon and renegade meters are 
 separate, rather than being at opposite sides of a single spectrum. It's a subtle but effective 
 choice that lends itself to Mass Effect's shades-of-gray fiction, where light and dark aren't mutually 
 exclusive.  

  The main quest starts you on a huge space station called the Citadel, but takes you across a small 
 series of planets before reaching the game's exciting final moments. Not that you're stuck with 
 the main story, since you can pick up a good number of side quests along the way. Some of them 
 are simple and relatively self-contained, while others will send you across the galaxy to uncivilized 
 planets and derelict spaceships. This involves bringing up your galactic map, selecting a destination 
 system, and going planetside to kick some alien butt. There are multiple regions to choose from, 
 and often multiple solar systems within them, but while that sounds intimidating, it's not nearly 
 as mind-bogglingly huge as you would expect. In any given system, you can usually only land on 
 one planet -- and on each of these planets, there are usually only a few things to do before you 
 get to your destination. More surprisingly, once you've finished the mission, there's never a reason 
 to return. Aside from the annoying thresher maws (more on these later) , there aren't any hostile 
 indigenous creatures, so once you've dispatched your foes and scavenged for loot, it's time to 
 move on.  

           Thresher maw battles are exciting -- and annoying.      

  When you first land on a planet, you drive around in a rover called the Mako. The thing's possibly 
 the most resilient vehicle ever created in a game. You get dropped onto the surface from hundreds 
 of feet in the air and drive up impossibly steep mountains without much difficulty. Too bad that 
 the driving portions are undoubtedly the weakest of the game. The weird bouncy nature of the rover 
 and the fact that gravity is the same on every world (even Earth's own moon) are both suspect issues, 
 though they don't really affect gameplay.  

  The rocky planetary design and Mako combat mechanics can really be a downer when combined together. 
 You can spray machine gun fire or launch shells at your foes, and it works fine, provided you are 
 on the same level as your enemies. However, the Mako's turret, for whatever reason, can't move 
 up or down. The result is that bullets don't necessarily land where your crosshair is, so if you're 
 on higher terrain or your target is too close, those endless clips you're unloading are useless 
 (though you can hit enemies above you without difficulty) . It's sometimes maddening, since in many 
 situations, the enemy base is nestled below you in a crevasse, and you're forced to either get 
 in closer (often a death sentence in an area swarming with tough foes like the robotic Geth colossi) , 
 or get out and try to take on the toughest foes of the game on foot. Be careful if you get out 
 of the Mako in areas like these though, since your adventuring party can slide into a deep valley 
 and get stuck very easily, which forces you to either return to the Normandy (your ship) and return 
 to the planet, or reload a saved game.  

  The other issue here is with the aforementioned thresher maws, which are sandworm-like beings that 
 burst from the ground, spew deadly goo at you, submerge, and emerge elsewhere. These encounters 
 can be really exciting, since the things are tough to take down and keep you on the move. The problem 
 is that the game doesn't check on the Mako's position before respawning the thresher maw. Multiple 
 times, we had the creature emerge from directly underneath us, which either resulted in an unavoidable 
 insta-kill or getting stuck in the thresher's geometry while the camera jittered madly. That's 
 just not fun, and you will find yourself avoiding flat expanses on planets just to avoid these 
 problems.     

   

  Thankfully, on-foot combat is a lot of fun. You'll accumulate six total teammates, two of whom 
 can accompany you on missions at any given time. They have a variety of talents, and each of them 
 is special in his or her own way. There's a variety of guns to choose from, from pistols to shotguns 
 to assault rifles, and each weapon can be outfitted with various upgrades that may increase stability, 
 add scanners that bypass disrupted enemy radar, and more. You can also outfit special ammunition, 
 though you always have unlimited ammo.  

  On top of that, some characters have magic-like powers called biotics to mess with. It's worth 
 noting, however, that these powers are focused on manipulation rather than direct offense. You 
 can push enemies back with the throw power (awesome to behold at higher levels) , lift them in the 
 air, or create a vortex that sucks enemies toward it (another great use of Mass Effect's fun combat 
 physics) . Engineers have some nice abilities as well, such as the ability to sabotage weapons from 
 a distance, which makes your enemy's weapon explode, or the power to turn robotic enemies against 
 your own foes. As a rule, your teammates aren't a liability, though they aren't governed by the 
 most advanced artificial intelligence we've ever seen. But provided you micromanage them as described 
 below, you'll not only be getting the most out of the experience, you won't be apt to notice any 
 drawbacks to the AI.  

           The radial menu allows you to choose special abilities while the game is paused.      
 

  The combat feels like it belongs in a third-person shooter at first, but if you continually approach 
 it this way, you'll die. A lot. Like in many previous BioWare RPGs, you're meant to pause, survey 
 the situation, and perform your actions. As long as you stick to that method, you'll find combat 
 to be a lot easier than it first appears. You can set your party members to automate their actions, 
 simply perform defensive powers on their own (the better choice) , or only perform powers on your 
 command. Holding the right bumper brings up the command wheel, which lets you assign orders to 
 your companions, as well as perform your own abilities. You can also take cover behind walls or 
 other objects, though this mechanic isn't all that helpful. Once you get into the groove, battles 
 are rather enjoyable, with a flurry of bullets and biotic powers flying around. The joy of flinging 
 the Geth around, filling them with shotgun shells, and watching them drop from the ceiling after 
 lifting them in the air is a joy few RPGs can approximate.  

  The spoils of battle are always a fun reward for a job well done, and loot ramps up pretty well. 
 You can also open up various lockers and containers for more loot, though it's best to level one 
 of your party members in the decryption skill for the more difficult-to-open ones. To open locked 
 containers, you have two equally odd choices: Either perform a minigame that resembles the overdone 
 contextual button presses we've seen in far too many games of late, or smear omnigel on the container, 
 which is an all-purpose goo that opens cabinets, repairs the Mako, and, we suspect, may also eliminate 
 ring-around-the-collar. It sounds like a silly mechanic, but all things considered, it's a perfectly 
 legitimate way of keeping the user engaged in the looting process, and it makes you feel like you 
 earned the resulting spoils.  

  As you can imagine, you'll be doing a lot of fiddling with your inventory, what with all these 
 weapons, upgrades, and party members to deal with, but this is another stumbling block that could 
 have used some streamlining. The menu interface isn't terrible, though on its own, it's a bit clunky. 
 But it's the little things that add up in a game that requires you to spend so much time in menu 
 screens. First annoyance: In some menu screens, you can't hit a button simply to escape to the 
 previous menu. For example, in the weapons upgrade menu, if you decide you don't want to make any 
 changes, you can't just leave the menu -- you have to choose something, even if it means scrolling 
 to the top of the list and selecting the same upgrade you already had equipped. In other cases, 
 such as when you convert an item to omnigel, the menu jumps back to the top of the list, which 
 is vexing. You can't even deselect a power from the ability wheel in combat once you've chosen 
 one. You can change the skill, but on the frequent occasion where you will want to change your 
 mind after selection and not cast one at all, you're stuck wasting a skill and waiting for it to 
 recharge.  

  Other problems rear their heads as well, such as the occasions when you or your party members get 
 trapped on level geometry, which forces you to reload your last save. But you'll be apt to forgive 
 them in light of the depth and variety to be found here. It's fun to get to know your crew, conduct 
 a clandestine romance, or turn Shepard into a hard-line exclusionary (or a racially sensitive diplomat) . 
 You could finish a fairly complete play-through in 40 hours -- standard for a role-playing game -- but 
 there's enough contextual content to make it worth a second play, if only to explore your renegade 
 side, try out other romance options, or see another of the multiple endings. On the other hand, 
 if you ignored the side quests and stuck with just the main storyline, you could be done in 15 
 hours or less.  

  Mass Effect's visuals are excellent. Facial animations are among the best in gaming: Characters 
 move their lips believably with the dialogue, further expressing themselves with subtle tilts of 
 the head or with a slight raise of the eyebrows. Character models are beautifully detailed, such 
 as with your Krogan teammate Wrex, whose every wrinkle and ridge is carefully textured and molded. 
 There are some technical hitches, however. The framerate can dramatically dip at the worst possible 
 times, and there is a lot of texture pop-in. There are also frequent load times -- some of them hidden 
 by elevator rides, others popping up in the midst of exploration. Nevertheless, Mass Effect looks 
 wonderful. From an artistic perspective, the game looks great, if not quite original. Planet outposts 
 tend to use only one of two interior layouts, and environments owe a lot to games and films of 
 the past (much of the game's look wouldn't be out of place in a Halo title) . But even with the 
 obvious inspirations, Mass Effect still conveys its vision clearly, thanks to meticulous character 
 designs and dramatic set pieces, such as the Citadel itself.  

           Wrex isn't just a badass character model -- he's also a badass.      

  It's also one 
 of the best-acted games in recent memory. An all-star cast including such well-known actors as 
 Fred Tatasciore and Seth Green bring Mass Effect's characters to brilliant life. Not once will 
 a drab line delivery or overzealous histrionics get in the way of your immersion. The soundtrack 
 is evocative, with just the right amount of sci-fi shimmering to round out the occasional symphonic 
 swelling. Sound effects are great across the board, from the robotic yammering of the Geth to the 
 din of a planetary blizzard filling the room with its high-powered whooshing.  

  All told, Mass Effect is a great game with moments of brilliance and a number of small but significant 
 obstacles that hold it back from reaching its true potential. But in the end, if you like RPGs 
 and want to spend some time in an absorbing sci-world populated with a bunch of unique inhabitants, 
 you'll definitely have plenty of fun with this one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1358 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2009 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Having never played a game made by BioWare before, I wasn't exactly sure if I should purchase Mass 
 Effect. However, since it looked from the various reviews I saw of it like a combination of Star 
 Wars and Halo, I was absolutely intrigued by its premise. While the story mainly revolves around 
 you chasing the bad guy across the galaxy, Mass Effect has managed to squeeze in many twists, interesting 
 characters and dialogue sequences that make it worth playing-and replaying, for that matter. When 
 you add an exciting combat system into the mix, you're looking at a great role-playing game that 
 just about anyone can enjoy, even with its small annoyances.
  
  Not unlike most RPGs, Mass Effect starts out with you customizing your character. In the game you 
 play as Commander Shepard, known for your bravery, heroicness and such (don't worry: you'll be 
 able to change that in the dialogue sequences) . The customization system isn't as deep as, say, 
 Saints Row 2's, but it does feel somewhat deep with a decent variety of faces to choose from (you 
 can also have a scar and choose to be either a male or female) . You do have the option to create 
 a first name for your character, but it hardly matters because no one refers to you by it. More 
 interestingly, you'll be able to choose from several "classes," most of which include your character 
 harnessing special abilities, such as telekinesis. These classes also affect what type of background 
 your character has, which may make your decisions a bit difficult.
  
  The story itself isn't exactly 100% comprehendible. There are so many different characters and 
 locales that it's hard to keep track of. A Spectre (some elite class of warriors I think) named 
 Saren is going across the galaxy stealing artifacts and plans on releasing the ancient Geth race 
 (a race of powerful creatures that's thought not to exist) on the entire galaxy. You'll mainly 
 be going from one planet to another trying to tack him down. He disappears for a good portion of 
 the game, making the search for him feel a little less urgent, and, quite frankly, he's just not 
 that good of a villain. The Council won't listen to you and refuses to help you on your search. 
 Other than that, the story's nearly incomprehensible. Fortunately, the various dialogue sequences 
 (more on these later) make the story more interesting and exciting. 
  
  Speaking of dialogue sequences, you'll encounter numerous characters to interact with them-and 
 how you respond can actually mean life or death. But that doesn't mean you should be worried about 
 what you say during every conversation. Unlike most other RPGs, Shepard actually has full voice 
 while interacting with someone, making the game as a whole more immersive. Usually there will be 
 three or four different dialogue options that resemble what you would want to say, but when you 
 select it, Shepard responds by saying something else that means the same thing you selected but 
 is altered considerably. Multiple dialogue options usually have the same results, making you feel 
 like you have more variety in the dialogue than you really do. You'll be earning either paragon 
 or renegade points, similar to a light vs. dark system, and these points are actually treated separately 
 and affect gameplay indirectly.
  
  Most of your time will probably be exploring the Citadel, a gargantuan-like space station. While 
 exploration options in the Citadel aren't entirely robust, there are numerous characters to interact 
 with and shops to buy items at. Sometime people you meet have side quests for you to do, and these 
 add a bit of variety to the game-for a while, that is. Sometimes you won't have to travel outside 
 of the Citadel, instead meeting or killing a person for the person who assigned the quest to you. 
 Most of the time, however, side missions will send you across the galaxy to unknown planets. This 
 involves you going up to the docking bay to the Normandy (your ship) , select a destination on your 
 galactic map, and land on the planet. However, it isn't nearly as big as you'd think it would be-for 
 each system you can usually only land on one planet. There isn't much to do on these planets, and 
 aside from the annoying thresher maws, there usually aren't any hostiles. Basically, once you've 
 accomplished your purpose for being on a planet, there's no reason to return to it.
  
  Each and every time you land on a planet, you're forced to drive around in a rover called the Mako. 
 The driving mechanics for it are very poor, unfortunately. You see, the Mako moves in whatever 
 direction the camera's pointing to, so this means that you'll be driving backwards and trying to 
 turn around. When you move the left stick down, the camera turns around and you drive backwards 
 similarly to driving forwards. In other words, the left stick gets inverted; think of it as driving 
 forward while pressing the left stick down-it's impossible to drive properly! 
  
  The Mako's poor driving mechanics and the rocky planetary design don't work well together when 
 combined. You can use an automatic turret or use the Mako's cannon against the enemy. It's extremely 
 satisfying to blow up an entire enemy base to kingdom come and watch numerous sniper towers being 
 crumbled. This all works fine, provided you're on the same level as your enemy. The Mako's turret 
 apparently lacks the ability to move up or down. While you can hit enemies above you with ease, 
 most enemy bases are below mountains. The result is that your bullets won't hit where you're aiming 
 at, and you can't hit enemies that are extremely close to you. This problem forces you to either 
 go in close to the well-populated enemy base (which often results in a death) or to take out the 
 enemies by foot. Unfortunately, your squad mates might accidentally get stuck in the planet's geometry, 
 forcing you to either restart from the last checkpoint or to go back on the Normandy and re-land 
 on the planet. 
  
  The final issue on these planets is the appearance of thresher maws, giant worm-like beings that 
 emerge from the ground, spew goo on you, submerge, and then reemerge somewhere else. The game doesn't 
 check on the location of the thresher maw, so it'll sometimes emerge from directly underneath the 
 Mako, resulting in an automatic death or being stuck in its geometry with the camera shaking frantically. 
 This may make you want to avoid flat areas on planets to avoid these problems.
  
  Thankfully, that's the biggest problem I have with Mass Effect. Everything else is good, such as 
 the on-foot combat. You'll be able to have six teammates in your "collection" at one given time, 
 two of whom can actually join you during gameplay and missions. There isn't much weapon variety- 
 you'll wield an assault rifle, shotgun, sniper rifle, and pistol. Each weapon can be upgraded to 
 have better ammo and such, and a helpful factor is that the guns have unlimited ammo, though they 
 do tend to overheat.
  
  The combat feels just like that of something like Gears of War. I have yet to use the biotic powers, 
 so I can't comment on that. You'll have the option to select commands to give to your squad mates, 
 though you should probably let them act on their own. There is a cover system, but it is a bit 
 clunky because it occasionally doesn't detect that you're trying to get into cover, and I assume 
 this is because just walking against an object allows you to cover. Friendly AI is generally quite 
 good, but the enemy AI is a bit weird. In most battles one stupid enemy will try to rush you, which 
 may result in you dying just because it's unexpected.
  
  The visuals in Mass Effect are nothing short of excellent, especially for its release date. The 
 environments are well detailed and the draw distance is especially impressive, since you'll be 
 able to see hundreds of feet into the distance. The art design does remind me of a mix between 
 Halo and Star Wars, which makes it seem really neat. The game uses the Unreal Engine, so it'll 
 look similar to Gears of War with the grain feature, but there is the occasional texture pop-in 
 during cutscenes. Character models (especially aliens such as Wrex) look fantastic, and their lips 
 move in sync with their voices. Speaking of the character's voices, the voice acting in Mass Effect 
 is also great. Not one of the character's voices is bad throughout the entire game, and the in-game 
 audio is also good.
  
  Overall, Mass Effect is a great game and RPG that should satisfy both third-person shooter and 
 RPG fans alike. If you overlook the Mako portions of the game, what you're looking at is a fun, 
 creative, sci-fi adventure that you won't forget any time soon. 
  
  Score - 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 8:44 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a third person Action-RPG boasting an expansive galaxy for players to explore, and 
 an intricate role playing experience in which your actions affect the story. Mass Effect received 
 much attention prior to release; but it's arguable whether or not the game lived up to the hype 
 it acquired, as there are a number of limits and restrictions on the finished product which prevent 
 it from feeling like a truly open and expansive game world. It also doesn't have much in the way 
 of the whole 'action' factor, with many problems to the combat mechanics which drag down the experience 
 in a significant way. However, Mass Effect is a game which rewards you for sticking with it, and 
 ends up delivering a breathtaking story which really draws you in and makes you feel like an important 
 piece of the overarching plot.
  
  It's the year 2183, and humanity has not long begun to embark into space, discovering advanced 
 alien life forms along the way, and trying to find our place in the galaxy. You play as Commander 
 Shepard, who can be either male or female and have a number of different facial features and hairstyles, 
 along with special abilities and skills and all your usual RPG malarkey. The character design isn't 
 exactly innovative or varied, and you're better off just sticking with one of the defaults as they 
 seem to be designed in a finer way. Either way, your character is soon thrust into the game to 
 begin your 20-or-so hour journey.
  
  First impressions were bad. It's not long until you're thrown into a fight, and as it turns out, 
 the combat system feels dreadfully clumsy and takes a lot of getting used to. Your allies run around 
 in circles, usually right in front of your crosshair, and enemies often rush you mindlessly instead 
 of staying in cover. This is not to mention the really awkward cover mechanics which required me 
 to move the analog stick in an exact position toward the wall, at which point the game doesn't 
 always register what I'm trying to do, resulting in me having to do a double-take and trying again. 
 Once you're in cover, if you decide to peek around the corner to shoot at someone, don't even think 
 about nudging that analog stick again even a little bit; because you'll end up running out of cover 
 and being filled with holes. Keep an eye on your HUD, because your weapons are going to overheat 
 if you fire them for longer than a couple of second blasts at a time; and this isn't even the worst 
 of it, because aiming is a b*tch to do, with your so-called "commander" apparently having no marksmanship 
 skills at all; often you'll be shooting directly at the torso of your hideous opponent who stands 
 8 feet away as your bullets stubbornly ricochet off the wall behind him.
  
  I was close to giving up a few hours in and verbally massacring it in a hateful review, but then 
 the game opened up to me and let me in. I forgot the sh*tty combat in favour of what can only be 
 described as the most immersive experience I've found in a game for quite a while. I found myself 
 lost in the intricate world and storyline, building relationships with characters and exploring 
 the galaxy. The combat is a prominent feature in the game, but while VERY flawed, it turns out 
 that it isn't bad enough to get in the way of the rest of the experience which is mostly remarkable 
 and unforgettable. Once your character levels up more, the combat becomes much more tolerable as 
 your weapons end up being more powerful and you're a lot more accurate. This isn't to be viewed 
 as any kind of forgiveness to the combat though. It doesn't become passable until half-way through 
 the game, and if it's bad enough to make me want to stop playing at any point, it deserves no repent.
 
  
  The scale of the game 'world' (or in this case, I suppose 'galaxy') doesn't become apparent at 
 first, but once you realise the depth of it all you really start to appreciate it more. You're 
 not nearly as free as you are in a completely open-world RPG, (such as Oblivion) but while the 
 game never gives the impression of being truly massive, the attention to detail in both the back-story 
 and the levels themselves is really something. In fact, it's quite perplexing how there is so much 
 attention to detail in other areas, yet the combat feels so sloppy and neglected. All the characters 
 in the game, even down to the very minor roles are voiced with unparalleled proficiency, delivering 
 some really memorable personalities and scenarios, in which all your actions are affecting the 
 outcome. And you really DO feel like your behaviour is making a difference in the story, which 
 is a really grand immersion tactic completely underused in the gaming industry right now. The story 
 is a mature space epic with aspects similar to that of any number of brilliant sci-fi movies out 
 there, (and sci-fi isn't even my 'thing' usually) featuring a number of well-realised species, 
 and tackles discrimination against humans, space colonization, and artificial intelligence. The 
 back-story is crafted well, setting the player free in a complex, defined universe; and the ending 
 is superbly done, feeling really epic and leaving you on a high note as the credits roll.
  
  Along with the main missions of the game, there are a good number of side missions for you 
 to partake in; granting you experience points, money, and letting you delve a little more into 
 the plot. Sadly, they are rather repetitive, usually involving you doing the same thing repeatedly 
 in slightly different looking areas. A side mission will typically involve you landing on a planet 
 in your space buggy named the Mako, driving around for a bit, and going into a base and killing 
 everything inside. It's mixed up a little by the all planets looking quite different and having 
 different atmospheres, but all of these indoor areas on the planets seem to be drawn up from about 
 3 different templates. So you seem to be encountering the same areas continually, disguised with 
 slightly different textures and lighting. Sadly, the Mako also doesn't handle very well, forcing 
 you to steer it with the left analog stick, including accelerating and reversing too, which is 
 really confusing sometimes because the controls are relative to the direction in which the camera 
 is pointing  so if you're reversing and turn the camera around, reverse suddenly becomes accelerate, 
 resulting in some really confusing moments. The Mako is often used during the main missions too, 
 so it's entirely unavoidable even if you're planning on whizzing through the campaign and skipping 
 all the extras.
  
  Some of the mission objectives can be rather unclear, as it doesn't always tell you exactly where 
 to go on a side mission, meaning you have to look around the different clusters and nebulas on 
 the Galaxy map until you find the correct planet. This isn't really exploration, its just trial 
 and error searching a selection screen until you find the right path. There's also never a need 
 to use anything other than the assault rifle and grenades, because all the other weapons are exceptionally 
 useless even when you level up your skill with them. One thing to note is that I did choose a Soldier 
 character, and I have no experience using the biotic powers or know how effective they are in combat.
 
  
  Mass Effect has some awesome visual effects, models and facial expressions which make up for some 
 slowdown and texture pop-in issues. The frame rate problems are by no means rampant, but they are 
 very noticeable during some of the larger battles, and will likely impact on your playing performance 
 when it reaches its worst. Textures take around 5 seconds to become fully detailed every time you 
 load up a new area, which is pretty common for games using UnrealEngine 3. Not exactly a big problem, 
 but cut scenes often start with all the model textures looking washed out and ugly, which is fairly 
 detrimental to your immersion in the experience. The visuals are quite rich and colourful, with 
 the usual mystical blue-ish tone you would expect from a sci-fi experience, with many varied creatures 
 and texture styles for you to ogle at. The game comes with a film grain filter as default, but 
 I found it ruined it a bit, so you should try turning it off in the options and seeing how well 
 you fare with that.
  
  Mass Effect is hard to describe. The combat is severely flawed to the point of almost making me 
 give up on the game, which happens very rarely; but the story kept me coming back for more in the 
 end, because it kept grabbing me and wouldn't let go. This is evidenced by a night when I sat down 
 planning to play the game for a few hours, and only stopped a good 8 hours later when I realised 
 everyone else was getting up for breakfast. As much as I want to damn the game for having a poor 
 combat system, it is an RPG at heart, not a third person shooter, and if you play it with that 
 in mind (and possibly put the game on Easy mode so the flaws won't get in the way as much) you 
 might just love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnsaidWarning
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is another BioWare game, so if you've played any of they're games you know how they 
 usually are. This ones got the cool space aspect, and feels and looks very alive.
  
  Characters: The cast is good, I felt myself wanting to talk to them more and more, and probably 
 had the most fun doing so. Its a shame they aren't fleshed out a bit more. Fantastic voice acting.
 
  
  Story: Basic stop an evil threat destroying the universe scheme, but the sidelines involved in 
 the overall quest really make the experience worth it.
  
  Music: Blade Runner for the win!!! Awesome music that gives the game a unique feeling. A very unique 
 aspect of the game too, if I heard it I would recognize it.
  
  Game play: Fun. The fights can feel a little old after a while, and the settings are pretty bland 
 except for the major game areas, but still well done. The story lines areas are all unique and 
 fun, but some of the side quests are just too repetitive and seem more like chores at times.
  
  Felt flat after a point, because after about half-way through you've witnessed everything game 
 play wise, but its still a great game. Worth Playing! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UVERproject
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 7:43 pm PT
Review:  
  The Graphics
  Man are they pretty, every single thing is detailed right to the spec on the wall. The create a 
 character system makes your character look exactly like you. Everything is nice and there was no 
 lack of detail in anything in the game. The background is really nice and makes you want to look 
 all around you and explore everything.
  
  The Story
  The story is the best there is out there in video games. It is an interactive story where you pick 
 your own diolouge and that determines how you character is perceived and how other characters look 
 at him. You get to pick your own character's back story and that even changes how the story is 
 seen. Theres a fable like system that is better than the one fable has. The responses you pick 
 determine if your a good guy or bad guy who pushes people around but its not exactly pure evil 
 or good. you can be half so yea. Every planet in the galaxy has a story and there are a lot of 
 them. You can talk with everyone and get to know there stories and its a long detailed one. The 
 writers musta been working there asses off with all this taking and story telling to go through
 
  
  The Gameplay
  Its a third person shooter RPG, sounds like the greatest thing ever man. You get to shoot peeps 
 up and get points for it to make your character stronger. Man is that great. So everything isnt 
 fast paced but it still is pretty sweet and you aint gotta worry about ammo in this either, your 
 gun has an unlimited amount but it can over heat causing instances where battle becomes almost 
 strategic. There are tons of classes to choose from where there either good at combat, techs or 
 biotics or a mixture of them. Everything is real time so you can order what your other party members 
 are doing and the weapon changes is real easy. I'm not a fan of the sniper though. There aint enough 
 stability to make it useful unless your party members got you covered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steviedambo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2009 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Being an avid fan of previous Bioware RPGs, especially KOTOR I got this for Christmas 2007. For 
 whatever reason, I didn't start playing it until over a year later, and all I can say is WOW. 
 
  
  This is, in my opinion the best RPG on the 360, yes better than Oblivion and Fallout put together. 
 I loved it from start to finish. The main reason being that of the wonderfully crafted story. It 
 takes you on an emotional rollercoaster through a galaxy full of memorable characters, wrought 
 with political struggles - and the best part is you have a say in pretty much every part of the 
 story. I really liked the way in which you could choose 3 or more options to answer/ask questions 
 all the way through the game, and get a different response from NPCs each time. 
  
  The scope of the game seems absolutely massive at first as you eventually get your own ship and 
 literally the galaxy is your oyster. However, there are many many planets that you cannot even 
 land on. A small gripe that will hopefully be changed for ME2 next year, giving you many more side 
 quests to distract you from the main storyline. In fairness though, the main quest was so good 
 I found it extremely hard to wander from away from it.
  
  Excellent game. Get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfdc
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 6:31 am PT
Review:  mass effect has fallen to my hands last year, when i ordered the limited collectors edition it from 
 the store i work! when it came i knew it was going to be big! i noticed the great artwork inside 
 and the extra dvd that included interviews from the creators and more...
  i've heard from friends played it that is about space travels, great combats and really nice visuals...
 
  i started it that night and i admit that i wasn't really excited at first touch. i thought i was 
 playing a typical space-shooter with a quite good story!
  but as the game progressed i saw what the good things were...
  you get a looooooooooot of upgrades 
 in weapons, armor and ammo, thing that i really liked!
  but the real magic of this game is when u become a spectre!!!!!!!!!!!
  u get to command the normandy 
 spaceship, which is the best ship the people created this far and an entire gallaxy unravels in 
 front of u!
  gennerally u can go anywhere, do almost everything and act with concequences about your every decision! i 
 finished the game in 18 hours the first time, by following the basic objective which was a reeeeeeeeeeally 
 big mistake! i started it again the same moment, i looked around almost everything, it took me almost 
 40 hours then! it's a great game with great visuals and gameplay, a lot of great moments to remember 
 and it; s surelly worth playing it!!!!!!
  ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msharki
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect starts out with a captivating story but then lullz you to sleep for 10 hours with some 
 boring side quests. The main story of the game is pretty good and has plenty of cinematic moments, 
 but it takes forever to get there if you do all the side quests you can manage to find. These side 
 quest add to the story nicely, but aren't a essential to the story's main plot. In essence Mass 
 Effect is a mediocre third person shooter with an RPG chassis. The gameplay would be good if it 
 weren't for the fact that the frame rate drops constantly and sometimes the screen will seem to 
 go into convultions making high action sequences hard to play. Not that the action sequences are 
 even over the top. They are actually pretty substandard considering what is available in the action 
 market these days. Most over the top action is handled in cutscenes where you have no choice but 
 to watch it unfold. Vehicle sequences help to break up the monotony, but aren't overly enjoyable 
 after a certain period of time spent on them. 
  Through all this Mass Effect still manages to be entertaining. The story is top notch. Getting 
 to chose what you say and who lives and dies is quite a nice addition. Plus the voice acting is 
 great. (Good thing because there is a lot of it) . Dialog is also good, and rarely gets cheesey. 
 You really come to care about the characters since you spend so much time hearing them talk about 
 themselves and their work. This is one of the features that will have you keep playing. 
  The last thing I noticed, and was rather surprised with was the length of the game. I accepted 
 and finished almost every side quest I could find and still finished the game in 21 hours. Not 
 a bad length from an average game's stand point, but since I had heard the game boasted 40+ hours 
 I was a bit surprised. None the less Mass Effect was still worth playing through, and I look forward 
 to the sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LocustWarlord
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 10:34 am PT
Review:  Okay first of all. Great game, I like the idea of being able to choose what your character says 
 in a conversation which affects the storyline in many ways.
  
  Before this game finally arrived after a weeks wait, I read many reviews saying, 'It has over 50 
 hours worth of gameplay' I beat the game in less than 10 hours. :l
  
  You have 4 weapons, Sniper/Pistol/Assault Rifle/ Shotgun. There arnt any other weapons. so not 
 much variety. But to make up to that, you can find better weapons throughout the game and increase 
 the damage done. It has a great level up system. You can get new skills everytime you level up, 
 justlike any typical rpg.
  
  The main storyline is pretty short if you think about it. first you find out about the geth (main 
 bad guys in the game.) go to the citadel, become a spectre missions on 4 planets, then your main 
 planet called the citadel, you go back and save the day. Thats pretty much it. 
  
  Of course, Since it is an rpg, there are side planets. loads of galaxies which you can explore. 
 with only about 7 planets which you can actually land on. That also peed me off a little. 
  
  The one thing that drove me crazy was the fact that there was WAAAAY too much chit chat. On 
 the mission before the last your chasing seran (the villain) find your self blocked and end up 
 talking to some darn computer for about half a flippin hour. By the time they were done talking 
 Seran probably would escaped in reality.
  
  The graphics are superb. You get to customize your characters First Name, Looks and everything.
 
  
  Overall:
  
  Its a good game. I would recommend buying it if you are a fan of RPG's and star wars. 
  
  Graphics 
 9/10 - Amazing graphics
  Gameplay 8/10 - Pretty good despite all the talking
  Sound 8/10 - Not bad
  Storyline 7/10 - A little short.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duhhhhhh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 9:51 pm PT
Review:  This is easily one of my favorite games on the Xbox 360 if not the of the best games Ive ever played. 
 Has a great and compelling story if a bit hard to follow at times but still top notch. Game play 
 was very fun a felt really new and different implementing third person shooter and rpg aspects. 
 If your an rpg fan you absolutely must pick this 1 up its is as i said before a true masterpiece 
 of a game and you would be very stupid not to pick it up lol. From guns to powers to tech abilities 
 the combat system is really fun. The inventory system takes a bit of time to get used too but once 
 you do its neat all the options you can change in your armor and weapons. Any rpg fan should pick 
 up this game at once. This + Lost Odyssey are an epic combination and should make a great start 
 to whats hopefully going to be a good line of rpg's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biklak
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2009 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing games for a long time and i have been waiting for this sort of impact for a 
 long time, lets say last time i felt this good about a game was probably back with the original 
 releases of Deus Ex and Half-Life.
  
  The game takes place on a beautifully crafted universe, the plot is deep, very rich, intense and 
 nothing short of a literary sci-fi masterpiece. The way the story unravels, makes you very gripped 
 and attached to the game, giving you the feeling that with each decision you make, you are shaping 
 the future of the universe.
  
  The moral system is great and originates some of the most brilliant character interaction in recent 
 memory, creating some really golden moments throughout the game and making you want to come back 
 after you finished it.
  
  Combat system is fun and diverse, you can play a lot of different classes, each one with its own 
 strengths on the way you approach combat. 
  
  This is a very intelligent game, carefully thought out from the 1st second to the finishing credits, 
 a joy and a pleasure to play. Bioware are with no doubt one of the best studios out there, you 
 can really feel the guys who made this game poured their hearts and souls into it. 
  
  Most games coming out nowadays are technically flawless but once you play for 30 min they just 
 feel bland and empty, most with 20 min of gunplay and a fancy cut scene by the end of it.
  
  Mass Effect might not be the most brilliant technically advanced game out there, but it sure 
 makes up on the total experienced which feel organic, and every minute of gameplay worthwhile, 
 an absolute must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacchus2
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 2:35 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect offers a great journey across the stars, set to a backdrop where humanity is trying 
 to assert its position on the galactic scale. It offers plenty of opportunity for exploration, 
 dozens of full developed characters to talk to and have varied discussions with, and interesting 
 options in combat.
  
  The Citadel is the main hub of activity in the galaxy, and the Council governs what happens in 
 the galactic space over which they have authority. Humans are not yet awarded a position on the 
 Council, but do have an embassy on the Citadel. You can choose the pre-made John or Jane Shepard, 
 or you can play around and create your own character, though your last name will always be Shepard 
 to facilitate the dialogue in the game. The pre-determined characters are Soldiers, but there are 
 6 classes you can choose from if you want to make your own. These are the 3 'pure' classes Soldier 
 (better with weapons and can wear heavier armour) , Engineer (ability to manipulate technology including 
 things such as overheating enemy weapons and hacking things outside of combat) and the Adept (using 
 telekinetic powers to throw and lift enemies) and 3 classes which are a mix of any of those 2. 
 Which class you choose dictates which talents you will be able to upgrade during the game.
  
  Your first mission is to travel to Eden Prime with a SPECTRE to investigate a beacon that has 
 been discovered. The SPECTRE's are a covert group of soliders serving the Council, and they are 
 beyond the law and are able to perform their duties as they see fit to get the job done. Before 
 your arrival, a signal from the surface indicates they are under attack from the Geth, a sentient 
 robotic race, thought to have been eradicated from within the Council's sphere of power. The events 
 that follow set up the story nicely; the SPECTRE whom you accompanied is betrayed by Saren, a SPECTRE 
 who has gone rogue, and you discover the Beacon left by the Protheans, a race that has long since 
 been extinguished from existence. Something strange occurs when you discover the Beacon, and it 
 seems to impart a vision upon you, something that you can not understand.
  
  The story continues once you arrive back on the Citadel, and you are allowed to explore. There 
 are many characters who you are able to talk to, and who may offer you assignments that are not 
 necessary or related to your main mission, but you will likely feel compelled to see what everyone 
 has to say. Once you approach the Council with enough evidence that Saren may be a threat, a milestone 
 for humanity occurs, and you are the first human to be awarded a position as a SPECTRE for the 
 Council. Once this part of the story unfolds, you are able to board the Normandy, and begin exploring 
 the galaxy. Ships use the Mass Relay system to travel at hyperspeed to reach other systems in the 
 galaxy. Once you have chosen a Cluster, you can then select which System within that Cluster to 
 visit. Once you visit a system, you are shown that systems Sun and all the planets or objects orbiting 
 it. From there you can select planets to get more information on them, and this may be scanning 
 them to search for mineral deposits, or give you the opportunity to land on it if possible.
  
  When landing on an uncharted world, you will be dropped off in the Mako, your wheeled exploration 
 vehicle, which comes with it's own machine gun turret and cannon. The Mako is an all-terrain vehicle 
 and can scale steep climbs, but it can be annoying to control at times. Some worlds are full of 
 cliffs, and it can be annoying to navigate almost all the way to the top to find that the Mako 
 can't quite make it up that final incline and you have to take a much longer way around. The Mako 
 controls by pushing in the direction you want to go as opposed to steering (ala Halo's Warthog) 
 but it seems to be sluggish or get confused as to what it should be doing. Your team can get out 
 of the Mako, which will be required to survey mineral deposits, or enter bunkers.
  
  When you leave the Normandy, whether on the Mako or into any port, you can select two members of 
 your squad to join you. The game begins with two people on your squad, but you will encounter another 
 3 on your travels that are of varying classes and have different skills. Combat plays out much 
 like a third person shooter, but is strongly affected by the RPG elements. Depending on your characters 
 class, you may be able to upgrade their talent in the 4 weapon classes (Pistols, Shotguns, Assault 
 Rifles and Sniper Rifles) . While you lack skill in these areas, weapon reticules will grow large 
 quickly and your accuracy will be terrible. Holding the right bumber also pauses the game and brings 
 up the talent wheel. Here you can use each characters talents, directing them to a target if one 
 is required, and once unpaused the ability will be used, and then recharge and be unavailable for 
 a period of time. You qiuckly learn that it is not wise to run gung ho into most encounters, and 
 that talents will need to be used wisely in some of the more challenging encounters to survive. 
 You have the ability to heal your team mates, which also requires recharging before it can be reused. 
 Should your team mates fall in combat, they will come back with a small amount of life after the 
 combat encounter is over. It is also possible to have your team mates uses some of their talents 
 automatically, and I found little problem with this. In general combat they could be a little dumb 
 at times, shooting directly at walls that enemies were behind or walking out into almost certain 
 death. While noticeable, usually this wasn't too much of an annoyance.
  
  Experience is earned from taking out your enemies, but is not the only way. Experience can also 
 be earned from resolving peoples problems, investigating things in environments, surveying minerals 
 and recovering artifacts. New weapons, armour and items also become available over the course of 
 the game, which can be found in locked containers (which is where the decryption skill comes in 
 handy) or can be purchased once you have sufficient funds. You will earn money from completing 
 certain tasks, or from selling off the items that you have found that you don't need any more. 
 Once you earn enough experience you level up, and all of your characters progress at an equal rate, 
 regardless of whether they are in your active party or not, so you don't need to worry about constantly 
 swapping in characters to maintain the status quo between them.
  
  Where Mass Effect excels is in the story telling. Facial animations are convincing and the voice 
 acting superb. The characters subtle movements during cutscenes add weight and emotion to the discussion. 
 While there is a main story line which doesn't change, certain aspects do change based on your 
 dialogue choices or actions. Two talents you can put points into are Intimidate and Charm, which 
 can open up additional dialogue options, which can help you get your way. It appears that a replay 
 of the game with a completed save may be required to explore all of these options, as even though 
 I had put all possible points at the earliest opportunity to each of these, there were still some 
 dialogue options I found locked. Several side quests allow you to show how heartless you can be, 
 by giving you the choice as to whether you allow some people to live or whether their grievances 
 should be punishable by death. The story has several twists and without wanting to spoil too much, 
 one of your crew members (and virtually his entire race) suffers from a disease that does not allow 
 his people to procreate, yet Saren has discovered a way to counteract it, though only to pursue 
 his own ends. There are other story elements that can relate to certain characters, and having 
 them along particular missions can yield different results than if they were not.
  
  What is great about Mass Effect is the attention to detail. There are plenty of conversations you 
 can have that you don't need to, and these will often fill you in on certain parts of the backstory. 
 Investigating certain objects in the environment can give you experience, but also adds logs to 
 your Codex. You can vist your Codex at any time, and there are some main entries that are narrated 
 which cover some of the more main topics (Mass Effect drives, the Relays, etc) as well as some 
 secondary information you can read at your leisure. No doubt all of this information would take 
 at least a couple of hours to sift through if read all at once, and provides a great complement 
 to everything you will learn from playing the game proper, and gives you more insight to certain 
 races or events, and grants a greater appreciation for the character interactions in the game.
 
  
  Mass Effect is a fantastic adventure, enough that I started a second playthrough shortly after 
 finishing the first, which is a rarity for me once I complete a game. A small word of warning for 
 explorers; the end of the story 'locked in' a bit earlier than I was expecting. Make sure you explore 
 all of your side missions early if you want to complete the game thoroughly as you will be unable 
 to do so after the game ends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pol09lo90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I personally am very impressed with the experence of this game. It's has a story that sticks with 
 you from start to finish, characters that the player can connect with, and what seems to be a living 
 breathing unverse.
  
  story- the story is not original in any way. you could read classic science-fiction novals and 
 you have the story of mass effect. what makes mass effect special is all in presentation. characters 
 feel organic with there own backstories and there own feelings toward you in and your actions within 
 game. this makes the universe of mass effect feel alive and breathing. from your crew to certain 
 messages on the elevator rides.
  
  sound- who ever composed the score for the game should be well credited. the music just fits. for 
 example when intense moments of the game occur a strong cromatic vocal peice is heard gathering 
 tension under dramatic moments of the game. absoulty great.
  
  graphics- this is were the negatives. when then the actully is running its one the most buteaful 
 game of the curent consel cycle. but texture pop-ins are really bad. this is lessend once intalled 
 to the harddrive but still should not have been present at all.
  
  gameplay- its as simple as gears of war with active turn base moves. you enter cover you shoot 
 but you can also pause the game to perform biotic ablitys.
  
  all in all a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravenswan32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 3:52 am PT
Review:  There are a lot of good, crazy, amazing rpg's out there. We look back at the Japanese market, and 
 the rulers are rpg's, with their characters in crazy outfits, gravity defying hairs and plots that 
 cross love stories, mad villains and legendary heroes. 
  Well, here we are with an rpg that does not happen back on earth, nor in peaceful villages or a 
 modernized dark city. 
  In Mass Effect you don't use legendary swords, or the special ability to shoot fireballs or reunite 
 a bunch of crystals to save the planet. Here you just have a couple of guns, a crew of aliens, 
 some biotic abilities, a mission or two and a lot of assignments. 
  Well, you ask, what's the fun of that? 
  The fact is that in Mass Effect, you probably won't 
 spend much time as you should, since the game is extremely complex and long. The thing is, you 
 are actually able to jump over all the assignments (let' say, secondary missions) and go to the 
 missions instead (primary missions) , saving a lot of time and ending the game strangely quickly. 
 If you jump over all the assignments you'll probably end the game in less than 10 hours. However, 
 you'll lose a lot if choosing doing this, since valuable equipment to important information. 
 
  Then, you have your lovely cast of aliens. One of each race, you'll find interesting the differences 
 between all the many galactic civilizations, cultural and historical, and even the curious antipathy 
 most races have for humans. 
  Hand in hand with the plot, the dialogues of Mass Effect add color to the whole story. When playing 
 the game, I found myself having fun commanding the dialogues instead of laughing each time I shoot 
 an organic, zombie-like creature. 
  For the people who enjoy the game and its universe (literally talking) , Codex will be indeed a 
 powerful tool to use. Reuniting the story of the world of Mass Effect, the races that populate 
 the galaxy, the many planets available for you to explore, the tools and the weapons, you have 
 to clear you head a bit if you want to be swallowed in the world, because this game is surely more 
 complex than it looks in the beginning. 
  Battles are fun and quick; you can use your biotic abilities, your weapons with endless bullets 
 that overheat too quickly and your super sniper. After a couple of real-time battles, and the assignment 
 of points in various abilities that will raise your combat skills, your are rewarded with... another 
 great dialogue. Well, in fact, most of the game is this: dialogue. Plot. Dialogue. A couple of 
 battles. Dialogue.
  Mass Effect is surely a G. R. E. A. T. game, enjoyable, fun, complex. What about now? 
  Well, we 
 are waiting for the sequel. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 11:38 am PT
Review:  Two years after the release of Mass Effect, I picked this one up for 9.99. Awesome. After two years, 
 opinions have varied widely and have been voiced often on the subject of the game, so I will address 
 common issues that I have heard:
  
  1. Voice acting: I would agree with the majority that it is very good, if not excellent. Every 
 game has some lulls and hokey moments, but enlisting Seth Green, Lance Henriksen and Keith David 
 were good choices. Good voice acting seperates mediocre from good.
  
  2. Length of the game: This one confuses me. The primary complaint was "too short." I spent nearly 
 30 hours on the game, often skipping dialogue and not completing all secondary quests... so I'm 
 not sure how it qualifies as "short."
  
  3. Graphics/Sound: Stellar. This is one of a handful of games that has utilized my Dolby Digital 
 Surround system to its full capabilities. If you don't think it makes a difference, it does. Loved 
 hearing sound coming from background speakers as my gun amped through the front central speakers.
 
  
  4. Story: I'd sit on the fence with this one. Some great, some rather.. dull moments. The romance 
 plots are a bit cheesy, and aren't incorporated as well as could have been. I admittedly skipped 
 dialogue because I didn't really care. Inconsistencies abound if you look: "Spectres are above 
 the Law." Then, you have your ship taken away from you. I thought you were above the law, and answered 
 to no one? Ultimately, this game will come down to whether you are a space epic fan or not. 
  
  5. "It's Kotor Without Lightsabers" : While the game is made by the same principle company, 
 has some similarities and even a returning voice actor (Carth=Kaiden) , I wouldn't go so far as 
 to complain and say it's a "clone" of Knights of the Old Republic. That's a stretch. 
  
  6. Combat: I can see how this could be boring to some. The weapons are aplenty, but ultimately 
 fairly generic: assault rifles, pistols, shotguns. Bio and tech abilities are best suited for PC 
 gaming, as they could have several mapped at once, rather than a single, solitary ability quick-mapped. 
 I'm not a fan of "red triangling" the enemy. I already have crosshairs, I don't need a big red 
 blob on top of the thing I want to kill. 
  
  Overall, I enjoyed the game, but thought it could've been fleshed out. While you visit multiple 
 planets and clusters, they still seemed rather linear in terms of where you could go and what you 
 could do. The majority of planets weren't landable. Dialogue options had little effect on the ultimate 
 outcome of the story. Final opinion: decent game, but definitely fan-specific. I understand why 
 some hated it, and understand why some loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterhumbug
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 8:52 am PT
Review:  When Mass Effect came out in 2007, I didn't have an XBox 360. Mass Effect was one of those titles 
 that made me seriously consider buying one, but I was happy with the PS3 and thought it was just 
 one of those things I'd have to miss out on. Well, since I ended up buying a 360 a few months ago, 
 I couldn't resist picking this game up. The wait was worth it.
  
  Mass Effect is truly an experience more than just a mere game. Ranking high up on my list of RPGs, 
 right below Fallout 3, Mass Effect is pretty much everything I could ask for in a next-gen console 
 game. Though not a perfect game, it was pretty damn close.
  
  The way the game looks and sounds is nothing short of cinematic. With fluid mo-cap, impressive 
 facial expressions, a riveting storyline, and utterly compelling voice-acting, Mass Effect envelops 
 you. You truly do care about the characters, and the plot has excellent twists and turns worthy 
 of some of the best sci-fi. The universe created for Mass Effect, from the rich cultures of each 
 of the alien races, to the way that the human race has evolved, makes for some great role-playing. 
 Hell, I enjoyed learning about the history of the universe as much as I enjoyed playing through 
 the story-line of the game!
  
  Like many of the recent RPGs (Fallout 3, Fable 2) , your actions have consequences, and vault you 
 down the road towards good or evil (or, in Mass Effect, Paragon or Renegade) . The dialogue trees 
 throughout the game typically make you go one way or the other, and the way that each character's 
 opinion of you changes as you make these decisions is complex and mature. You develop relationships, 
 you decide whether people live or die, you are merciful or merciless... there is a plethora of 
 moral decisions you are forced to make throughout the game. Mass Effect does an excellent job of 
 framing the gravity of your character's decisions.
  
  The gameplay is, for the most part, solid. The conversation/dialogue interface is presented uniquely, 
 but is comparable to that of Fallout 3 and other top RPGs. The combat interface was not difficult 
 to pick up, but I suspect hardcore shooter fans were/will be mightily disappointed by it. For me, 
 who favors role-playing over action, the combat interface was just perfect. There are mini-games 
 throughout the action, though all the mini-games are pretty much the same thing over and over again, 
 which did get a little dull after a while, but was still infrequent enough to not bother me too 
 much.
  
  There were only a few aspects of the game that I think could have been better. I think it would 
 have made sense if you were able to upgrade your ship Mako (your ship's lander vehicle) in the 
 same way you could upgrade your armor and weapons. It would have added a whole other aspect to 
 the game, allowing for much more customization and improvements. The Mako, for example, would take 
 FOREVER to recharge shields after an attack, and I think there should have been a way to upgrade 
 recharge time, etc. Also, I ended the game with so much money, I didn't even know what to do with 
 it, since there was really nothing worthwhile to spend it on. It also would have been nice to see 
 some more variation in planet exploration, as well as more varied extra-planetary flora and fauna.
 
  
  These complaints are minor, though. Frankly, it's hard for to find much to criticize about Mass 
 Effect. It was truly a complete and immersive gaming experience, and I eagerly await the recently 
 confirmed Mass Effect 2, which I hope will be even bigger and better than this one. In a nutshell, 
 Mass Effect is a must-have for any RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KepNaki24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect, a game where the fate of an entire galaxy rests on you, and no one else really wants 
 to help you and some don't want to believe you. It certainly makes for a good drama, doesn't it? 
 It's Sci-Fi nature and depth of the story will keep you intrigued from beginning to end.
  
  The Good
  1. Immersive Story: As I said, the storyline is very deep. The characters are also 
 very interesting to listen to, as well. You almost have no choice to pay attention to it.
  2. Free Choice: BioWare is famous for it's all but unknown game Star Wars: Knights Of The Old Republic 
 (if you haven't heard of this game, what rock did you crawl out from?) In that game, you were given 
 plenty of choices that send you to the Light Side or the Dark Side. In this game, good and evil 
 isn't black and white. Instead of being truly good/evil, there's a blend to it all.
  
  The Bad
  1. Weak Combat: The fighting system may be interesting at first, but it gets old fairly 
 quick. It's a little bit clunky as well, being the fact that you could be shooting at someone, 
 but might have to use one of your powers. It's an annoying process to go through.
  2. Storyline: While the story, as I said, makes you almost have to pay attention to it. Well, here's 
 why: if you miss something, you'll end up getting lost horribly. It's that intricate.
  3. Emphasis On Conversation: While this is where most of your choices come from, there are some 
 people I know of that don't like to pay attention to it. The fact that you almost have to will 
 more than likely annoy people like that.
  
  Mass Effect is certainly an awesome game to be sure, it's just not suitable to people who just 
 want to get to the action in the game. However, if you're looking for substance in your games, 
 if you want the story to pull you in and keep you playing, then by all means, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dioxide75
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 4:28 am PT
Review:  What's not to say about this game. I've read over and over this is the Star Wars of video games... 
 and it couldn't be any closer to the truth in my eyes. Not since I was a kid have I been sucked 
 into such a great story. My first play through I made sure to hit every planet, talk to every creature, 
 complete every mission possible and there was more than enough to keep me busy. Instead of blowing 
 straight through to the end, this game made me want to veer off and check out everything and I 
 still haven't seen it all. Which is why as soon I was finished I made an exact opposite character, 
 increased the difficulty and jumped right back in. I have such a backlog of other games to play 
 at the moment but I could care less about them, which is something I never do so it's got that 
 going for it for a major "1".
  
  2nd on my list of praise, besides everything looking amazing, which lets be honest there aren't 
 very many games on any platform that can compete with these graphics, and this game is already 
 over 2 years old. The Voice acting is top notch, and having everything voiced was amazing, not 
 that I have anything against reading but having every conversation audible added even that much 
 more to the cinematic aspect of the game. 
  
  I've read the complaints about the Mako being difficult to drive, which is something I really didn't 
 have much of a problem with. It wasn't much of a problem for me since there weren't really any 
 timed events that made use of the vehicle. It got the job done as far as I'm concerned. It's a 
 planet rover anyways not like your playing Burnout or anything with it. 
  
  The graphic glitches were a bit off-putting in some places. Weird seeing certain scenes render 
 before your eyes, but it usually took maybe 3 to 5 seconds tops to load and then you forget about 
 it. 
  
  In closing this game is absolutely stunning to play. I'm just bummed that I have to wait till next 
 year if not longer to play the sequel I can only hope its as amazing as this. they've set the bar 
 really high for themselves I hope they can pull it off. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 12:48 pm PT
Review:  First off I am a fan of Bioware... But compared to KOTOR 1 this game is not as good.. In Kotor 
 1 u could control every character and switch off between them... In this game u cannot and can 
 only assign orders... the customization in this game is weak u can only get new armor, and upgrade 
 for the 4 main weapons already shotgun, pistol, sniper, and assault rifle... The game starts off 
 kinda difficult, but midway through the game after u kill matrich benizia the game feels way too 
 easy and like kotor 1 and 2 u will feel unstoppable... now i know that i have been critizing this 
 game, but the voice acting and dialogue options save it... u can be good or evil (paragon or renegade) 
 and I decided to be renegade and u actually feel good or bad based on your decision, and its not 
 some gimmick like in fable 2... your actions actually effect the galaxy, your partners, etc... 
 the graphics are good with alot of slowdown and pop-in, and the combat is somewhat bland, but fun 
 at the same time, the game can take u like 12-15 hours main quest and 15-20 for the alternative 
 quests and storylines... The dialogue and story make this game superb... I didn't like it as much 
 as kotor 1 and i thought the mako sections and the enemies were somewhat bland, but the attachment 
 to the characters make it feel like u are playing a movie than a game with excellent voice acting 
 (Seth Green as joker) etc... its a fun game to watch than to play, but it is superb never the less 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zfreak1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a space adventure/rpg/space opera/ that all revolves around you, and your decisions. 
 You make your own decisions, and character, all of which affect the way the game turns out for 
 you. All of these perks, plus great graphics, and story make it a worth addition to your collection.
 
  
  You play as Commander Shepard, a space marine investigating the sudden betrayal of a highly respected 
 Spectre ( high ranked) named Saren. Your job is to travel the universe defeating his ever strengthening 
 army of geth, and various soldiers, while finding out of different space cover ups. You create 
 your character (or use a preset) and choose your class, and than your off. You can be a tech where 
 you can affect the ability of your enemies weapons, and electronics, biotic which is psychic ability, 
 or soldier where your running and gunning. All of which surrounded by a superb story.
  
  The gameplay of the game has a third person over the shoulder style. You can shoot, or pause the 
 game and use your biotics, or tech skills. Everything is very effective and fun and easy to pull 
 of. The gameplay is standard but pulled of great. You get to decide which other 2 a. i companions 
 you want to take into battle as well. The star of the show isn't the gameplay though, its the dynamic 
 dialogue tree. You can choose how you react to the many Npc's that are scattered throughout the 
 Mass Effect universe. All of them have an effect on how your enemies react, whether you start a 
 confrontation, or talk it out, amongst other things. You really fell in control, and every word 
 that comes out of your characters mouth is what you tell him/ her to say. 
  
  The graphics of the game are superb. The armor your character wears is detailed nicely. Characters 
 are very expressive. Environments are beautiful, water shimmers, and everything gleams beautifully. 
 There are some graphical glitches. Some of your armors detail may take time to form, and some details 
 in the environment pop up a bit late. Overall, the graphics are beautiful.
  
  The soundtrack is a typical score, it has a more techno, electronic soundtrack. Weapons have a 
 different sound depending on make and brand, and characters shout commands, and requests great. 
 With such a large amount of chatter, good voice actors should be required, and thankfully they 
 are. You really feel as though they are real, because of how effective they are at maintaining 
 conversation. 
  
  The extras in the game are minimal, but there are plenty of side missions to do. Traveling to different 
 planets, and responding to distress signals is a very common situation. They don't play very different 
 but the are still fun to do. You can also replay the game on a higher difficulty with the same 
 character, but not a different class. It is still very fun though. The game lasts anywhere from 
 15-40 hrs, depending on how many quests you do. But the replay is so good, beating it quickly will 
 only encourage you to go back and find whatever you missed.
  
  Overall Mass Effect is well worth a purchase. It provides a beautiful universe to explore, and 
 wonderful characters to interact with. It is a ton of fun, and at its current budget price, there 
 is no excuse not to play this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volcomsk83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 11:55 am PT
Review:  Summary: 
  M. E. is truly insiprational. The Combat, Story, Characters and Universe are fun and believable. 
 It is a must if you are into stories, rpg's or great strategic combat situations.
  
  Review:
  I thought that the graphics were good, some frame problems on the 360 in high combat 
 situations, and a few problems with the textures on some planets with the pc. Sound was A+ quality, 
 loved the effects, the music was amazing and made the game that much better. Combat is great, able 
 to really use ur party members in every situation so choose carefully. The characters are believable, 
 in depth and great to be around. 
  
  Other thoughts:
  I wish there was more in regards to the weapon, item and armor customization (colors & creation) . 
 The Planets that did not belong to the main story seem very plain with little depth, could of used 
 more drive on side quest and planet exploration. 
  
  Bioware has made a truly amazing world and and it is worth visitiing!
  
  Why is it whenever 
 someone says "with all due respect", they really mean "kiss my ass"? -Ashley Williams" (-; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bokan
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2009 8:14 pm PT
Review:  With no prior bioware series experience, I did not know what i was getting myself into. However 
 given as a gift I thought I would give it a shot, here's the result:
  
  Graphics: The absolute best facial expressions and character models i've seen in video games, hands 
 down. Emotion and meaning is conveyed through them to the point where seeing two people talk became 
 enjoyable no matter what the topic. However, environments while exploring in the mako were rather 
 bland and helped hinder those experiences.
  
  Sound: Voice acting is superb, with absolutely no weak ends. Seth Green provides the voice of the 
 comedy relief rather naturally.
  Music was mostly background however there were a few moments where well placed scores made moments 
 epic.
  
  Controls: The blockers controlled weaponry and powers amicably while the rest of the controls were 
 rather standard, left trigger aimed, right trigger fires, etc. Everything Worked.
  
  Story: A rogue Spectre (equivalent of James Bond) named Saren goes rogue and betrays the Galactic 
 council, all hell breaks loose as the protagonist (Commander Sheppard) tries to prove his betrayal 
 and understand it before Saren gets what he's looking for. A story that unravels quite well, concludes 
 in a small way, but on a grand scale the story is just beginning as it is the first of a planned 
 trilogy. The story picks up and contains a deep amount of side quests. Your decision to go either 
 Paragon or Renegade (Just or Ruthless) alters the story in small yet very noticeable ways. Frankly, 
 if you are into any Sci-Fi based novels, games, or movies, you will at least have the basis down.
 
  
  Gameplay: The fighting in Mass Effect is the main gameplay aspect, and in this sense it both fails 
 and succeeds. If you are expecting an action shooter then you will be dissapointed as this is beyond 
 all else an RPG. Your levels determine you and your teams ability to fight. This all plays well 
 with powers being used seamlessly throughout. The sidequests are so abundant that they may get 
 repetitive if done all in one playthrough. Also, the Mako moments are quite dull and frankly slow 
 the game down to an almost sloth like pace. 
  
  Others: The AI in the game is quite competent although sometimes less than helpful when too many 
 enemies arise. The scope of the game is simply enormous, the characters quite memorable, and the 
 theme quite adult. This is a game for 17+ for a reason.
  
  Overall: A MUST for Sci-Fi Fans and RPG fans alike. As for the rest, If you give this game a solid 
 2+ hours of play almost everyone 17+ will find this an enjoyable experience through and through. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelsdad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect pulls off the unthinkable for a space age/science fiction RPG -- it creates a non-Star 
 Wars universe and still manages to completely immerse the player within hours. Dialogue and backstory 
 are among the strongest in gaming and border on the level of a work of stand alone fiction. Wheel-based 
 choices for biotics and weapons are addictive during battles and the massiveness of the universe 
 available to the gamer is truly impressive. Cut scenes are well paced and both the minor and major 
 moral choices in the story line are well done in that one always has the sense that they truly 
 matter -- both to your character and to the overall story's outcome. Many reviewers have commented 
 that the only weakness of this game is the land based roving system and that is accurate -- I personally 
 liked the feel of how the land unit moves on planets which are obviously less dense since the rover 
 feels as though its semi-weightless -- but the recharging system after the unit takes damage is 
 painfully slow. Other than this one negative aspect, this game borders on the perfect both storywise, 
 game-play wise and cinematics-wise. For those seeking a role playing experience in deep space that 
 pulls you in, Mass Effect can't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ztg360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Ok the first time I ever played this game I was like been there done that. But after actually playing 
 the game I simply fell in love with the storyline. The storyline may seem generic but I have honestly 
 not seen a story quite like this one. The story manages to suck you in and get you intrested without 
 seemin farfetched or boring. The characters are just amazingly well done both graphics and voice 
 acting quality. Whoever says they dont like this story must have an extreme bias against scifi. 
 The combat is great expecially for a rpg. The only aspect of combat I can't stand is vehicle combat 
 and that is only because a ( the mako never feels quite like it should turning at least and b ( your 
 turret at close range can't hit squat and also you can't aim low at all which results in either 
 you getting out of your vehicle or you having to back up. I personally think that these graphics 
 are up to par with this years graphics but thats just me. the simple fact that your overall level 
 cap is 60 (which is fairly easily reached) makes it feel like you have actually gotten a lot stronger 
 unlike fallout 3 (which is still a game any gamer who even remotely likes rpgs should get) . The 
 whole fact that there is also a ton of political agendas makes in even better and more interesting. 
 (I havent really seen any glitches other then when landing on a planet from the mako but thats 
 it) .
  Overall I give Mass Effect a 9.5 and i just beat it yesterday 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix0003
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:30 pm PT
Review:  I have had this game for awhile but I just beat it recently, and I must say that it is an amazing 
 game. There are a few problems with the game like frame issues, and random loading points, but 
 even these problems were not big enough to bring the score of the game down for me. 
  
  The game play is a lot of fun. Leveling is similar to that of Fable. Also when one uses their abilities 
 the game pauses for that person to select what move to use, and while this may seem like it would 
 disrupt the flow of the game it doesn't. There are a lot of side quests to do, so players are sucked 
 into the massive world and story even more. 
  
  However the highlight of the game for me was the story and the power to choose how you wanted to 
 shape your character and the story. Mass effect brings storytelling to a new level. I really felt 
 as if this game was a playable book, and that is not a bad thing. When you choose what your character 
 says he actually says what you selected, and the emotion and lip movement is pretty much dead on. 
 I cannot wait for Mass Effect 2. Bioware has made something special here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reviewninja
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is just one of those great games where it can make you like that genre if you were 
 previously cautious about it (as i was about RPGs) but Mass Effect has that ability to so. 
  
  You Start the game and you can create your character as commander Sheppard who is fully customizable 
 down to scars and facial definition. Once you complete your looks you are going to be able to pick 
 your childhood backround and personality type. Picking your personality can be extremely fun to 
 do especially if you choose to be a renegade your first time around, you will end up doing things 
 your way and answering to noone which will result in a change in the outcome of the story. If you 
 choose to be a nice guy the outcome will be different also and you will have a different effect 
 on the other characters.
  
  While Playing Mass Effect at first to me it just seemed like another shooter so i would carelessly 
 go into the battles and try to gun everyone down halo style but as i glanced at my health i noticed 
 it wasnt the smartest thing to play the game that way and so i used the RPG-like attack system 
 where you press RB to select attacks, shields, and other crew member attacks which turns out to 
 be very effective especially overkill in the beginning of the game. 
  
  The Story mode is fantastic, it is long (about 25 hours) but is well worth every hour and it will 
 have you attached to certain elements of the story and have you excited to get to the next galaxy 
 or next cutscene. 
  
  The controls are great and its hard to point out anything bad with the controls except the whole 
 running thing, you can only get a short sprint while in battle but you will run like the wind lol. 
 The Graphics are phenominal as well and may be arguably the best looking 360 game. 
  
  Overall i recommend this game to anyone with an Xbox 360 and loves an awesome story. you dont even 
 have to be a big RPG fan to enjoy this game, its got the best of many worlds shooter/adventure/RPG. 
 its only $20 new so i definatley say that 360 owners pick this up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:42 pm PT
Review:  story wise , up to the i think 5th mission of the game, i cant count lit lol, but its at that one 
 level i have to protect this building any how, great and funny story so far i like hw you get to 
 interact with what people say , 
  you get to basicaly tell them from a selection a piece of your mind lol, if you liked what they 
 said or what not, 
  
  graphically this game is very good looking for a 2006 title, i didnt think a 06 title would look 
 as good as this, 
  
  now i can compare finally somthing as good as goldeneye, 
  if only it had multiplayer, 
  
  soundtrack is great , i have a bonus cd with it , great sound 
 track it tops halo 3s , one of the best deals so far i got for a 360 game, ive had 4 others along 
 with this one, dark sector-8 dollars r6 vegas 9 dollars sof payback 10 dollars and this 1999 and 
 all of these games were awsome, if i did a review for each of these the results would be about 
 the same
  
  but htis particular game does somthing that not many games do,
  let you pick what you say to others 
  much better then pd0 by the way, 
  
  im now putting 
 mass effect 2 on my wish list lol, i want that now , 
  as far as replayablity goes i tihnk its great havent even finished it , working on 2 other games 
 at the moment as well , which are 2 of the 3 mentioned games up there, they play alike without 
 the talkitive part
  action packed, unlike many fpses ive bouight on the 360 so far
  
  
  people reading this should stop reading and buy the game if they dont already have it, 
  its 
 worth it ,go to walmart its 1999 it had the dlc incluided to and the soundtrack etc , lots of value 
 , for 1999 i dont think there will be many takers though i doubt this game isnt in any other collection, 
 i know alot have already went day one and got this , 
  
  but i waited and wait =good somtimes, 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Xbox 360-Mass Effect
  
  Review 173
  
  Released: November 20, 2007
  Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
  Developer: BioWare
  Game Genre: Action Role-Playing
  ESRB 
 Rating: M for Mature
  ESRB Descriptors: Blood, Language, Partial Nudity, Sexual Themes, 
  Violence
  
  Opening Thoughts:
  Along with the release of Mass Effect came a truckload of 
 expectations. Planned to be a trilogy to rival the Halo series, its open-ended gameplay was anticipated 
 from many Xbox 360 gamers.
  
  Story: 30%
  Gameplay: 40%
  Graphics: 20%
  Durability: 10%
  
  Story (10/10)
  The storyline is this game's main feature. Although the 
 gameplay and graphics are excellent in their own right, Mass Effect's greatest accomplishment is 
 giving its gamers a complete and total understanding of the world they've been thrown into. The 
 game implements this ability flawlessly, taking a progressive approach rather than throwing hours 
 of information at the user right from the start. As you progress through the game, more info becomes 
 available through the Codex feature as well as info gathered by talking to characters in the game.
 
  
  If you are looking for gameplay and gameplay alone, the game will start out very slow for you. 
 Take my advice, however, and stick through it. You will be rewarded.
  
  If you are looking for an excellent storyline you will love the first 3-5 hours of gameplay. 
 
  
  To make a long story short, you can choose how the storyline progresses. When you begin a new game, 
 you select many different aspects of your character, including his/her attitude and place of birth. 
 No matter what you select, however, you control the life of Commander Shepard.
  
  The game begins with a mission to the human colony of Eden Prime. You find out from many characters 
 on board the Normandy that there may be more than you originally knew to this mission. I will stop 
 there to avoid any spoilers. Trust meyou do not want any spoilers for this epic storyline.
  
  Gameplay (9/10)
  When the developers at BioWare said that Mass Effect's gameplay would be 
 very open-ended, they weren't kidding. Throughout the game, you choose which aspects of the storyline 
 (for the most part) you take on first. Aside from that, there are dozens of planets, some uncharted, 
 that you can explore. For me, completing the game as well as a majority of the side quests took 
 a total of 72 hours.
  
  The game is a third-person shooter with an RPG backdrop. For example, you can equip each character 
 with different guns and armor, and characters gain experience. When a character levels up, you 
 select different areas to upgrade.
  
  There are minimal flaws in the gameplay. The only thing I got truly annoyed with was the game's 
 lack of sprint ability. When not in combat, you are forced to use Shepard's jogging speed, which 
 (when you want to walk across a large area with no enemies around) is very slow. Other than that, 
 the only other iffy area I discovered was equipment. There are so many different weapons, weapon 
 upgrades, ammo upgrades, armor, armor upgrades, grenades, biotoolsyou get the point. It can sometimes 
 get very hard to keep track of what is what. The balancing factor is that in the end, it really 
 does not matter that much. The game's difficulty varies based on your character's level, so having 
 a powerful gun helps, but is not completely necessary.
  
  Graphics (9/10)
  The graphics are incredible, and the voiceovers are remarkable, but in times of much action, there 
 is also a lot of lag. The graphics have a grainy feel to them, which I think helps the realistic 
 feel a lot.
  
  Durability (10/10)
  As I said earlier, I spent 72 hours to complete the game once. Replayability is a definite factor 
 because of the many different aspects with which you can create your character. I will probably 
 beat the game again at some point, once I can find the time and the boredom. There is also downloadable 
 content featuring a completely new mission.
  
  Overall Score (9.4/10)
  Rounded Score (9.5/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  A must-play, must-buy game for a fan of RPG or 
 shooter genres. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrysaor686
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 11:21 am PT
Review:  Now, forgive me for buying the game two years after it's been released. This might have something 
 to do with the score I've given Mass Effect, but even so, a great game should be able to stand 
 the test of time. I've heard some great things about it, and though people are quick to point out 
 it's 'flaws', it's still often lauded as one of the greatest games ever made by many. Something 
 that I have yet to understand.
  
  Well, first off I guess would be the storyline. I've never really been a fan of Space Opera/Pure 
 Science Fiction. Science Fantasy (Along the lines of Star Wars or Warhammer 40,000) tends to draw 
 me to it more often. So, I was skeptical about this game from the start, and it didn't prove me 
 wrong. This is about as generic as you can get with science fiction. If you don't have a problem 
 with that, then I would definitely suggest playing it, but I do. Not that it's not well executed. 
 The Universe of Mass Effect has tons of care put into it's creation of all of it's races and political 
 agendas. But you have to care about that to really end up noticing it, as the backstories of the 
 different races don't play a big part in the main storyline. Also, the story itself (beyond all 
 of the usual Sci-Fi trappings) is about as plain and generic as it can be, wonderful dialogue and 
 voice acting aside.
  
  Next, we come to the character creation. Mass Effect has a fairly nice character generation system, 
 if you choose not to use the default Shepard that Bioware has provided for you. Nothing that hasn't 
 been done before, and nothing that hasn't been surpassed. It gives you an option to customize your 
 character's backstory and demeanor, but this really does not have a profound effect on anything. 
 Mostly, it exists to give you the illusion that you have complete control over the shaping of the 
 game's dialogue, when in fact you do not. You may notice a few sentences changed depending on what 
 background you choose for your character, but hardly anything major.
  
  Next up is the oft-praised Dialogue System. This is something that Mass Effect has been accoladed 
 for time and time again. Upon further inspection, though, the Dialogue System is basically a lie 
 crafted to make you think that there are actual consequences for what you choose to say. More often 
 than not, what intent you choose in the dialogue wheel has absolutely no effect on what Shepard 
 actually says, and even less often does it actually effect what the other person you're engaged 
 in dialogue with says. Not only that, but there are quite a few sections where you're forced to 
 sit through the entire dialogue, though some you can skip, which ends up being all the more confusing 
 (this gets extremely annoying when you end up dying and having to go through a huge section of 
 dialogue just to get back into the action) . The only praise I can give this system is how much 
 voice acting has actually gone into the game, since literally everything is dubbed. Beyond that, 
 it makes me angry more than it impresses me, because it just feels like Bioware is feeding me lies 
 so hopefully I will enjoy the game more, or regret my actions so I feel the need to go back through 
 the game. Piss-poor implementation of replay value.
  
  The Graphics of this game still hold up fairly well, which is impressive in it's own right, but 
 there is one huge problem I have with them. The texture pop-up in this game is worse here than 
 in any other game I've ever played. I mean, it's absolutely inexcusable how often pop-up occurs. 
 I guarantee that you will see it every single time you play. When it occurs, it takes a ludicrously 
 long time for the texture to actually load in. Probably about ten seconds. This might be acceptable 
 if Mass Effect had quite a few fast-moving sequences, or a consistently huge draw distance that 
 it had to deal with, but it does not. So I just don't understand how they let this slide. Also, 
 the load times for Mass Effect are some of the longest I've ever seen. Not that I mind this, as 
 I'm generally a patient guy. But the game's attempts to cover up the load times are more annoying 
 to me than the load times themselves, because they are very inconsistent. Sometimes, you'll be 
 stuck in an elevator, listening to some random news broadcast. Other times, you'll sit and watch 
 your ship fly in to a star system. But then there are quite a few random moments where you'll either 
 get a black screen, or your game will freeze and simply say Loading... But if you're going to try 
 to cover up load times, you need to be consistent with it. I honestly would've preferred a loading 
 screen to the elevator sequences.
  
  The Combat is also generally praised very highly. While it is unique, and it does a decent job 
 of blending third-person real-time shooting with RPG elements, there is plenty left to be desired. 
 While it tries really hard to be both, it fails pretty miserably at times. It is painfully obvious 
 to see all of the calculations that occur when you shoot something, so much so that it might as 
 well have been turn-based. Hit detection is worthless, as you either hit an enemy or you don't 
 (it doesn't matter where) . The special abilities are great to have, but they end up requiring a 
 completely different mindset and they put a real break in the action. The cover system feels really 
 weak when compared to more recent work, such as Grand Theft Auto IV or Gears of War 2, and is pretty 
 inconsistent. The team AI is fairly inconsistent as well, so much so that I never really bothered 
 to use it, because I never quite got the desired result from it. All in all, Mass Effect requires 
 you to strike a perfect balance between real-time shooting and using timed abilities, which is 
 not only somewhat difficult to do, but disappointing as well. You should be able to rely completely 
 on guns if you want to, and you should be able to rely completely on abilities if you want to. 
 This game is about choice, isn't it?
  
  Mass Effect is also very counter-intuitive. It doesn't even begin to tell you everything you need 
 to know, and even hours into the game, there will still be things you're figuring out how to do. 
 The in-game radar is all but useless, and though the game is generally very linear throughout missions 
 (in the expected Bioware fashion) , it can be very hard to find where you need to go at times. Though 
 it might've felt like a cop-out to some, an indicator on the radar would've helped tremendously. 
 Beyond the story missions, the unexplored planets are pretty much copy-pasted with a few palette 
 swaps, not offering hardly any difference from one to the next. I actually didn't mind the driving 
 sequences at all, as most people did, because I was too busy worrying about the other problems 
 with the game. Mass Effect also presents plenty of glitches, or at least more than I'm used to 
 seeing in recent years, with clipping and getting 'stuck' in certain parts of the environment.
 
  
  While Mass Effect has it's problems, it's still a fairly enjoyable game, even today. I know it 
 sounds like I was being hard on it, but it has so much content that it's faults are easily forgiven, 
 as it offers a unique experience that you can't really find anywhere else. While it's definitely 
 not perfect, as quite a few people have said, I would still recommend it, especially if you're 
 a fan of Science Fiction.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marinamanson
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2009 10:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrifically awesome and one of the best releases in recent years. I've played this 
 game 3 times as each of the 3 "pure" classes and I'm still not bored. It is a huge expansive world. 
 While some things maybe be a little disappointing - the vehicle combat as much weaker than the 
 on foot combat, the side mission locations are all very similar and the weapons all look almost 
 exactly the same; this game is fantastic. The biotic powers are fun and hacking is awesome to use 
 in large battles. The combat is fun and fast and the choices are free roaming let you feel like 
 you really have influence in the universe. The world is alive and believable and the humans not 
 being the dominant species is a welcome change from the traditional sci-fi universe. 
  
  You must play this game
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nabz034
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 8:47 am PT
Review:  I was urged to rent this game from the Blockbuster Rep, and not that i care about the ten bucks 
 I spent, but I think I would rather clip my toe-nails instead of playing another minute of this 
 game... Extremely boring, and builds no anticipation to wanting to play more... Again, very boring, 
 not really a let down because I never had any hopes for this game anyway, but just a total waist 
 of time. I was urged to rent this game from the Blockbuster Rep, and not that i care about the 
 ten bucks I spent, but I think I would rather clip my toe-nails instead of playing another minute 
 of this game... Extremely boring, and builds no anticipation to wanting to play more... Again, very 
 boring, not really a let down because I never had any hopes for this game anyway, but just a total 
 waist of time.....
  
  There are some people who love this game, im not one of them... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightwarrior179
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 12:14 pm PT
Review:  With it's powerful narrative and high degree of interactivity between the player and the world, 
 BioWare's role-playing games have always had a special meaning to the genre. They have managed 
 to carve out a special niche for themselves which distinguishes them from every other RPG you might 
 come across. The developer who made a name for themselves with Baldur's Gate and the Star Wars 
 based Knights of the Old Republic have repeatedly built up on their forte's and the result has 
 never been more evident before as it is in their latest game, Mass Effect.
  
  From it's very premise, Mass Effect gleams with a promise of doing things differently. And it is 
 quite clear from the beginning that BioWare has put on a lot of effort and work in making this 
 game. Creating a completely original universe with diverse alien species rich in history where 
 each and every race has it's own general personality, their own beliefs, grudges, political agenda 
 and what-not goes a long way in creating the kind of an immersive experience that Mass Effect is. 
 You play as Commander Shepard, a Human Spectre (which is like a law enforcer who is allowed to go 
 to any length and limit to maintain peace and unity) . Like most of the BioWare RPGs, you get to 
 choose whether you want to play as the default Shepard or you want to customise him/her. The customisation 
 is pretty deep with further options relating to your character's background and past. So if he 
 is an Earthborn chances are that aliens will tend to look at you with a slightly aloof perspective 
 and so on. Needless to say, the customisation is deep enough to ensure you will want to play through 
 the games multiple number of times to see the difference.
  
  Like the recent BioWare games, the highlight of Mass Effect is it's player-NPC interaction and 
 the morality. This time around, BioWare has gone a step ahead with the character interaction and 
 have made it totally seamless. When you initiate a conversation with a character, a dialogue wheel 
 is brought onto the screen with various options of dialogue on it. Upon selecting any one dialogue, your 
 character first delivers the dialogue and then opposite character responds to it. While this is 
 happening, the change in facial expressions of the characters and the different camera angles through 
 which the conversations are shown adds an amazing dynamic effect that is hard to create. This fluid 
 interaction and exchange of dialogues adds an entire new dimension of interactivity in the game.
 
  
  Morality and dialogues are closely linked to each other. Rather than go for the typecast, Light 
 and Dark ways in Knights of the Old Republic, Mass Effect blurs morality into a haze that repeatedly 
 puts the player into moral dilemma. Here there are two "moralities" -- Paragon and Renegade. A paragon 
 character is a one who is patient, tolerant and who usually stays within his limits. A renegade 
 on the other hand is hot-headed, mostly intolerant person who might go to any limits to get the 
 work done. The moral choices you make throughout the game will give you Paragon/Renegade points 
 which will determine the kind of ending you will get. This added with the fact that neither of 
 the Paragon or Renegade is really good or bad makes some of the decisions harder to make. There 
 are times where you will question your own decision after you've seen it's outcome. Moreover, it's 
 quite amazing to see much of the state of the galaxy shaping due to some of your decisions. The 
 plot is at the heart of any RPG and the same goes for Mass Effect as well. Fast-paced, thrilling, exciting, 
 peppered with adequate moments of tension, dilemma and emotion, Mass Effect's story is nothing short 
 of a masterpiece. Equipped with enough twists and turns, it is needless to say that it's story will 
 keep you engaged till the end. The story missions are one of the highlights of the game and are 
 packed with action and morality choices.
  Shepard also meets some really interesting characters along the way some of which join his party. 
 Some of them are aliens, while others are humans. Each and every character has a unique personality 
 which can be easily co-related to their species general personality. Combat in Mass Effect is simplistic 
 for most of the parts. A touch of right trigger switches the player from "interactive" mode to 
 combat mode seamlessly. Once in combat mode, the gameplay works like a normal shooter with few exceptions. 
 Since this is a squad-based RPG where parties of three including yourself engage in combat, you 
 are given the power to issue orders to your fellow squad-mates. These orders are simplistic in 
 nature and can be issued with the help of D-pad. The orders vary from assisting you, to laying down 
 cover fire etc. The drawback to this feature is that these D-Pad orders are followed by both members 
 of the squad. So, it is not possible to separately give orders to your squad-mates.
  
  Undoubtedly, your biggest tool in combat would be the Power Wheel. It is the very heart of the combat 
 and very useful. Pressing the Right Bumper and holding it, pauses the game and brings up a Power 
 Wheel on the screen. Here all the special abilities and powers of you and your squad mates are 
 listed. This comes along with the ability to rotate the camera with a reticle on it, around you 
 while the game is still paused. So you can command a squad member to use their special abilities 
 and powers on the enemies while the game is still paused. Not only does this Baldur's Gate-esque 
 element add a whole level of strategy into the game's combat, it's a very handy and comfortable 
 tool to use without which the combat is quite unimaginable.
  
  After a certain stage in the game, you are given the freedom to explore the universe with your 
 spaceship, SSV Normandy. The game's universe is composed of almost a dozen clusters, with it's local 
 systems and all. When you land on an "uncharted" planet you are dropped off in a rough terrain 
 space vehicle called Mako. Most of your planetery exploration involving sidequests, hunting down 
 criminals for bounties, surveying minerals or lost artifacts for credits will take place in the 
 Mako. Equipped with a plasma gun, plasma jet thrusters and a powerful cannon, Mako is frequently 
 used throughout the game and while it is a necessity, driving it is mostly a burden. It behaves 
 almost like a toy car when driving on the rugged terrain of the planets and has a knack of overturning 
 at the most awkward places. Such instances while aren't that common are frustrating enough to dislike 
 the Mako driving sequences.
  
  Sidequests have always been a major part of any RPG and even in Mass Effect they take up a good 
 portion of the game. They serve as a great alternative to the story in making you familiar with 
 the new universe and the way things work in it. Sidequests are given by NPCs or are initiated by 
 accessing computer terminals or ports at certain places. While some of them are absolutely amazing 
 and offer the level of thrill and excitement equivalent to the story missions, most of the sidequests 
 in Mass Effect are rather disappointing. Most of them are repetitive and usually involve you travelling 
 to a certain planet and eliminating a fugitive/group and earning rewards. There are minor variations 
 among these as well but none of them are as exciting as the aforementioned story missions.
  
  Mass Effect is easily one of the best-looking games this generation. With beautiful alien world 
 sceneries and vistas, great detail to the surroundings and almost real human like facial expressions 
 during dialogues Mass Effect surprises the players at every instant. It's cutscenes are wonderfully 
 rendered and it can definitely count amongst BioWare's best works graphically as well. But even 
 these beautiful graphics are at times plagued by texture popping problems. Most of the texture 
 popping problems usually occur after load times or a cutscene and while they are noticeable they 
 aren't anything serious. All the dialogues are well-written and their sharpness, wit and tongue-in-cheek 
 humor is applaudable. Moreover, the dialogues are well-voiced by suitable voice actors and Mass 
 Effect probably has some of the best voice acting in recent years. However, Mass Effect isn't without 
 it's flaws. The most evident and annoying flaw is the Mako. Since a considerable portion of the 
 game is spent driving it, it's driving mechanics are often bothersome to downright annoying. The 
 in-game inventory is also a little messy and removing multiple items from is a little tedious than 
 I would expect it to be. Even the "uncharted" worlds one gets to explore are all barren and lifeless 
 and have nothing other than random minerals, events or enemy "hideouts". So even though while BioWare 
 has created a fantastic universe, some of it's parts seem a little lifeless at times. Another BioWare's 
 long-running problem continues in Mass Effect as well. The one of frequent load times which are 
 mostly cleverly disguised as elevator trips. However, wisely so this time BioWare has often peppered 
 these elevator trips/loading times with news reports or interesting conversations between the squad 
 members.
  
  Mass Effect is a breakthrough not only for role-playing games but for the gaming world itself. 
 Fewer games have been able to associate themselves with interactive media without losing any of 
 it's "gaming" part. It builds upon the previous BioWare installments in every imaginable way and 
 more and sets really high standards for the coming games in the genre which will be hard to beat. 
 Mass Effect's potential is hampered a little by it's flaws but if this is to be the first game 
 of the series then one can only imagine the mammoth heights the future games in the series might 
 conquer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vonstalhein
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 8:04 am PT
Review:  Make no mistake - Mass Effect is one of those games that was delivered kicking and screaming into 
 the harsh light of post hype-storm skepticism. To continue the parallel, just as a newborn has 
 little ability to explain its needs, its wants, jumping into the game for the first time you may 
 well experience a similar, helpless feeling.
  This review is almost a retrospective. I feel the same way now as i felt when I first started on 
 the ascetic, shimmering path to the Citadel Tower; Mass Effect is a game that requires patience 
 and multiple play throughs to truly appreciate. Having completed the game with three different 
 characters, I finally feel qualified to rate what I consider one of Bioware's finest achievements. 
 Strong praise considering their pedigree, but nevertheless this is a game more innovative and visionary 
 than many people realise, or are prepared to believe.
  
  Allow me to elaborate with an illustration.
  
  
  The camera pans round to reveal, the scarred, 
 pitted visage of Urdnot Wrex, his reptilian face framed by the neon-blue glow from the C-Sec lighting. 
 You choose your dialogue summation in the midst of his basso growl, so that your reply flows seamlessly 
 into the flow of conversation. Your squad-mates, possessed of their own motives and backgrounds, 
 stare skeptically at your exchange until, finally, you and Wex uncover a common ground; you're 
 both 'taking Fist down'... and so the next quest begins.
  
  And the payoff. This isn't an isolated incident, a pre-rendered cut-scene. This is a common occurance 
 in Mass Effect, and so too are the witty exchanges, the feelings of attachment and emotional investment. 
 The dialogue system, if nothing else, is revolutionary in the way it allows you to watch a scene 
 of definitely filmic quality (enhanced by the 'film grain' option in the graphics menu) unfurl 
 in dramatic real time, whilst maintaining control over your actions, speech and moral compass.
 
  Granted, this is the most obvious area in which the game excels. Other aspects fare less spectacularly. 
 Combat for example, can be a furstrating affair when your erstwhile friends and comrades run blindly 
 into crossfire, and must, perhaps out of some strange childhood trauma, are unable to part from 
 each others company. Conversely, the tactical element, whilst not-so-novel, is preferable to turn 
 based, adds a much needed slick of pace to a genre traditionally mired in laborious combat and 
 stands out when it works as dramatic and involved.
  The menu system is another irksome aspect. Grant me this one indulgence; I refuse to care about 
 and comment on a slightly unwieldly menu system when everything else works hunky-dory to say the 
 least. It's like complaining that your wallet has too many compartments; it holds money, so you 
 deal with it.
  
  I am seriously at risk of writing a dissertation on the properties of Mass Effect that make it 
 so worthwhile. That, however, is certainly not while you are here, hypothetical reader, and if 
 you are then Kudos and my apologies. I will, in an effort to buck tradition as much as Mass Effect 
 does, end this review with a dissertation title:
  
  Why does Mass Effect represent a truly profound step forward, despite its flaws, in the genres 
 it spans, and how does it make a giant lizard so damn lovable?
  
  Deeman
  x
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CCyberDDemon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Let me guess... you believe that Mass Effect is another would-be Star Wars or Star trek whos currently 
 trying to work his way near to these giants a little bit ...?
  
  You're wrong! Mass Effect starts strong like a hollywood block-buster thing thats for sure, but 
 also (maybe much more) like a great video game logo that comes slicing through the screen, with 
 a great score and stuff. 
  
  Back in middle of '80 i was just a kid when i first saw Star Wars on the cinema and when the logo 
 STAR WARS enourmously big and damn cool yellow super high good score have popped up with a quick 
 blunt on the big screen... i just sayd...''' WOW... dude! ''' Thats prove how an Opening sequence 
 is important to you. It is like an predictment of entertainment for the rest of the story. Many 
 years before i play Mass effect and what have happened? I just feel that again, like a blast from 
 the past. They dont do games like this anymore, i have to get happy with this one.
  
  Through the game you'll find some innovation of course, Mass Effect is not an adventure game but 
 an RPG action packed thing, expect a lot of action and hard combat situations in your missions. 
 What define your morality and heroism is not just action all right... you better be good on you 
 tongue and social skills because youll need them on the dialogue situations... some of them are 
 like a true combat... really, you have to see your XO (male or woman, you decide at the begging 
 of your game) having a little chat with an alien called Wrex or a specific mission in the end of 
 the game. Its reminded me about frog and magus from chrono trigger. Really amazing. A little mistake 
 on your tongue and saying and you can mess the whole game. Interactivations have a new meaning 
 here.
  
  The story is fantastic never-boring piece of art. I dont tell you a thing i have no spoiler here. 
 Even the staff rolls in the ending with a good score theme, a wonderfull reminder of the game that 
 youve just finished in.
  
  oK... Could have a better modeling on those ''uncharted worlds'' but who cares? Its good that way, 
 you feel like you're on the middle of fragging nothing arround milky way... but could be better.
 
  
  Take a look from the begging to the end and be amazing. Dont forget the corns and the stand-applauses. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nismo_skyline85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 6:56 pm PT
Review:  WOW!!... This is the reason I play videogames. Mass Effect is a masterpiece that is only brought 
 down by its technical flaws.
  
  Mass Effect sucks you in and doesn't let go, but lets talk about the bad things first. The game 
 is really glitchy. I think its built on the Unreal Engine, but you can't tell. It looks good but 
 not as good as something like Unreal or Gears. the real flaw is texture pop-in. Sometimes it takes 
 seconds for textures to fully load, which really brings down the experience. The frame rate can 
 get really ugly sometimes too.
  
  Now the good stuff: the story is among the best in any entertainment medium ever. It sucked me 
 in and wouldn't let go. Characters have believable personalities that you really care for. The 
 story takes you across the universe and ends well, but also sets up the story for sequels. You 
 can also get involved with several love interests, which is cool. I picked up Mass Effect for $15 
 used. Why I didn't get it before I don't know...
  
  The gameplay is also really cool. Its a shooter at heart, but its also an rpg. You must stop and 
 survey the situation and figure out what to do or you will die. You gain experience to level, and 
 get tons of items, weapons, armor, etc. to play with.
  
  The main quest is kinda short clocking in at 15 hours or so. I'm sure there is another 20 hours 
 of side quests, but I'm not really into that stuff, but the game is good enough to consider several 
 play throughs.
  
  Mass Effect is amazing. It is one of the best videogames I have ever played. It woould have been 
 perfect if not for its technical flaws. I can't wait for the sequels. GO PLAY MASS EFFECT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This is the closest any game has ever come to living up the the hype. No one thing about it makes 
 it great. There are many things that are rather annoying about the game. If you look past the individual 
 problems, the game as a whole is an amazing achievement. This is the first game I have ever played 
 that upon completion, I immediately started my second play through.
  
  Designed by the same people that made Knights of the Old Republic, that game's influence can be 
 seen everywhere. It plays nearly identically and many of the ideas are the same. Imagine Star Wars 
 without lightsabers and a little better technology and you will basically get the gist of Mass 
 Effect. The battles play similarly to Gears of War. The action is seen from an over the shoulder 
 third person perspective. There is a cover mechanic similar to Gears but a targeting assist makes 
 gun battles a little easier. It needs to be easier to target because, until you get a few levels 
 under your belt, the game is incredibly difficult. There isn't much of a tutorial to help you out 
 either. Once your abilities get some experience behind them, you really become a force to be reckoned 
 with. You need to be, because your party members are complete idiots in battle and you will find 
 yourself doing almost all of the fighting. You can issue basic orders to them, but much of the 
 time they will just ignore you and end up getting themselves killed. Luckily, they are returned 
 to life as soon as any nearby hostiles are eliminated. The game ends only if you are killed.
  
  The story is everything a scifi epic needs to be. Every life in the galaxy is in danger and 
 you are the only one who can save them. It is nice to see that people actually appreciate what 
 you are doing in the game. You will start to be recognized for your deeds and even get some fans 
 that want your picture or autograph. I was getting tired of games where you are the toughest SOB 
 in the universe and everyone still talks down to you the whole time. Listening to the local news 
 channel put it's own twist on what they think happened during my last mission always brought a 
 smile to my face. These things don't have any real bearing on the game play; they just add to the 
 depth. There aren't as many difficult decisions in the game as the television ads (or even the 
 game's intro video) would like you to believe. Never will you have to sacrifice one quest to go 
 do another the way the ads imply. Only twice did I have to actually think about which decision 
 was the best one. The main quest was a little shorter than I would have liked. As far as the time 
 to complete is concerned, I had no problem with that. My first play through took just under 25 
 hours and unlockable difficulty levels make it quite a long game. The problem was that there weren't 
 enough main story missions to really make you feel the epic scale of the game. Most of your time 
 is spent on side missions, and many of those have mini storylines that are nearly as good as the 
 main one. There were a few times when I didn't even care about the main story until I found the 
 person I had been tracking down for a side quest. The ending of the game is the first to come along 
 in a long time that really just felt right. I got the closure I like to get from a game but there 
 is enough left open in the event of a sequel. You can even play the game again with your leveled 
 up character once you complete it, but since you can't change the difficulty without starting a 
 new character, this option felt a little useless to me.
  
  The graphics overall are amazing. The character's faces portray very real emotion and look more 
 realistic than any other game I have ever seen. The character creator allowed me to make a guy 
 that looked almost exactly like myself. One of the alien races, the Krogan (seen in the above screenshot 
 on the left) , actually look like they were taken right out of a movie. Put next to Hollywood's 
 best CG special effects, they would fit right in. I wish the loading screens were a bit longer 
 because the graphics don't completely load until after a scene is on the screen. Many times, the 
 game looks terrible for just a couple seconds. There are also a few glitches here and there that 
 bothered me. Occasionally a NPC would walk straight through a crate or box. Many of the enemies 
 will twitch on the ground until the game decides they have settled properly. These are somewhat 
 forgivable problems given the scope of the game, but they are still disappointing to see. Also, 
 the building interior for nearly every side quest is one of two layouts. I find it hard to believe 
 of all the planets in all of the solar systems in all of the star clusters you will visit, that 
 every building used these same two floor plans. Many other games implement some kind of random 
 map generator and I am not sure why it couldn't have been done here. Two other design decisions 
 that happen quite frequently bothered me a bit. When entering an elevator, no matter where they 
 are, your party member warp to your location instantly. When getting out of your vehicle, the party 
 appears about a foot above the ground and falls into place. Both of these situations could have 
 been fixed by a quick fade to black and back. While these issues do detract from the immersion 
 level of the game, many of the locations look so amazing that you will quickly forget about the 
 games problems. One level in particular takes place along a shallow river valley with waterfalls 
 and scenic views along the entire stretch. You almost forget that you are in the middle of a firefight.
 
  
  The game features some great music and voice talent. The right type of background music is always 
 playing to fit the scene and the entire soundtrack is awesome. All the voice acting is top notch 
 and features recognizable stars like Keith David (Imam from Pitch Black and Chronicles of Riddick) , 
 Marina Sirtis (Deanna Troi from Star Trek: Next Generation) , Seth Green (Scott Evil from Austin 
 Powers) , and several others. Not only does having such talented people add to the believability 
 of the conversations, but it also adds to the epic feel of the game.
  
  It is very easy to tell you about the problems in the game, but I don't want you to think I didn't 
 love every second of it. is a little slow at first, but only gets better as time goes on. This 
 is definitely a 'sum of all it's parts' type of game. Individually, nothing about it is great. 
 Added together, this is one of the greatest gaming experiences in recent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacroxs
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect is a good as and RPG can get in my opinion, but does this statement justify it a 10/10 
 either way mass effect is a good as it sounds...
  
  Mass effect sort of plays in a fallout 3 kind of way. KIND OF WAY. if you have every play the sith 
 lord or KOTOR. then you know what to expect here. First off you make a person so it isn't as deep 
 as like smackdown vs raw where you can change their eyebrow colours and all that stuff but its 
 all right. You will then chose a class like the warrior, Vanguard, Engineer etc then you chose from 
 like were you earth born, do you get the job done, witnessed your entire squad get killed. That 
 really has no effect on the game besides the start where they might go. o hes an earth born raised 
 on the streets and joined the military to get away from it all...
  
  When you FINALLY get in the game and you land on the planet you will notice some amazing graphics. 
 There not the next killzone 2 but goodness there is some amazing graphics in this game.
  
  When playing mass effect i dont know if it was me but there is sometimes alot more talking then 
 fighting so with one battle there 3 conversations. Also the bugs/glitches in this game is off the 
 charts. you will sometimes fell like your watching a movie and your that person. Then a bug happens 
 or a texture fails to load and you go o its just a game. People with Xbox Live will be able to 
 download updates but for the rest of us we will just have to but up with it.
  
  The story is also a great thing about mass effect. Instead of like, o aliens are invading earth 
 we got to stop them and like EVERYONE GET TO THE CHOPPA! its like aliens are invading a spectere 
 (a really good guy) turns against you and there's an odd alien beacon thing. so it sort of keeps 
 you on your toes.
  
  Scores
  Gameplay:8.7
  Graphics: 9.7
  Story:8.8
  Sound: 9.0
  
  Overall: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretnoob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I very much enjoyed Mass Effect. With thorough character customization (which I hilariously abused) 
 and other great qualities, Bioware really did well with this title. 
  
  You start off as a Space Soldier guy in the future, and you determine where you came from by picking 
 in the beginning of the game, which will affect how characters talk to you in the game. Upon investigating 
 a distress signal from a nearby planet, you discover that the top member of an elite special operations 
 group has gone rogue, and plans to unleash evils upon the universe. So it is up to you to stop 
 him. 
  
  It varies which I talk about first, the good or the bad, depending on which list is shorter. In 
 this case the bad is shorter, so I will begin with that. 
  
  I do not like this method of storytelling. Bioware has been praised for perfecting the art of storytelling 
 in games for this title, where you determine how things progress with dialogue options. However, 
 it's like reading those old books where you can pick what happens, "if you go through the door 
 on the left, go to page 41", and calling it a great book. Some dialogue options are nice, but the 
 crafting of the story should be up to the game developers. Also, by creating a game with the option 
 of picking your own dialogue choices, you run into the danger of the moments in the game where 
 you shout aloud, "I WOULN'T SAY EITHER OF THOSE THINGS". Which seems to happen to me a lot. 
  
  Also the friendly AI is merely more targets for enemies to shoot, and the brunt of killing 
 is left up to you. 
  
  NOW FOR GOOD STUFF. 
  
  Plenty of planets to explore. I love Metroid games where you have the option of going back to places 
 and visiting previously inaccessible locations, and the universe of Mass Effect is full of that 
 stuff. And if you don't like that stuff, you can skip it all! Though while exploring I did have 
 to keep a pen and paper log of where I'd been and which planets were actually explorable, so a 
 better interface letting you know where you had been and other things would have been nice, but 
 I never got annoyed enough for it to really bug me. 
  
  Combat is the first thing you do in the game, which is always a good idea, and when you initially 
 find out you have infinite ammo, you just have to think, SWEET! Combat focuses less on ammo conservation 
 (actually zero) , and more on weapon quality, overheating, and Bionic powers. It's a lot of fun, 
 and I would constantly explore, looking for a firefight. 
  
  Graphics are good, with a kind of smooth aesthetic that is very cool. I don't know how else to 
 describe it, it just looks cool. Voice acting is superb, given that almost every single NPC you 
 see in the game talks, with multiple dialogue options. Soundtrack is very bleep bloopy, and sounds 
 just like a space soundtrack should. And the replayability is very high, making you almost immediately 
 want to start a new game once you finish. Finally the arc your character takes as the events transpire 
 is very enveloping, since you govern most of it. 
  
  Also, I Secretly think the blue alien girls are hot. There I said it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jman0725
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This is what a modern space opera, action, rpg should be... Im only a few hours into it and im looking 
 forward too finding out where things go. I have had to put away time on both Dead Space and The 
 Force Unleashed too finish this game. The driving is suprisingly fun, The shootouts rock, and the 
 story is better than some novels I have read of late. 
  If your used to driving the warthog of Halo fame you should be right at home in the M35. and it 
 can even jump on its own with out having to hunt down ramps. It can dish out the pain too with 
 both a cannon and a machine gun.
  The characters are awsome too. Along with amazing voice talent and dialog makes the characters 
 feel like people you have met before. Again I am thoroughly impressed. I don't play rpg's KOTOR 
 bored the heck out of me. On this small note Bioware nailed the formula right. I cannot wait until 
 Mass Effect 2 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garuda414
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 10:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is the Unicorn of all Xbox 360 games. This game is beautiful in every way. The character 
 models are extremely detailed and each level is built perfectly. As you progress through the game 
 you will gain exp so you can level your character up the way you want them to be. You also get 
 to choose two followers to escort you were ever you go, each with there own specialties. Throughout 
 the game you will acquire new weapons, armor, and upgrades to fine tune your squad. The game is 
 huge, allowing you to travel to worlds all over the universe. Theirs a large variety of quests 
 that can take you days to complete. The only thing that this game could have that it doesn't is 
 multiplayer, but when a games single player is this good you don't need multiplayer. The game has 
 the best voice overs and some decent music. So if you are smart at all go snag this game for a 
 mere 15 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eajack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 6:37 am PT
Review:  Mass effect is so much more than an RPG. It has the requisite elements of a computer roll-playing 
 game, but you also get aspects of a squad-based shooter, a vehicular exploration game, turn-based 
 strategy, and more. And like most good RPGs, the story is the central point of the game. And the 
 story in Mass Effect does not disappoint.
  
  You begin the game by creating your character. Male or female, any way you want to look, and with 
 a choice of three backgrounds. And your choices mean something in the game. Other characters refer 
 to your past throughout the game. And your gender determines which of the romance interests open 
 up for you. Oh, and unlike most games with player-created avatars, you are not some nameless, voiceless 
 entity. Commander Sheppard (Jane, in my case) speaks every line of dialog. And since your last 
 name is always the same, other characters call you by your name, not just some generic title. Oh, 
 and the voice acting in the game is top notch.
  
  Right from the beginning, you have choices for everything you do. Be a nice guy or a badass... 
 the choice is up to you. And your choices have consequences. You are treated differently depending 
 on how you act. And there are plenty of things to do, giving you plenty of choices to make. If 
 you follow only the main story, you may finish the game in roughly 20 hours. But if you explore 
 all the planets, take on all the side missions, and play the game thoroughly, you'll net 100+ hours 
 exploring the galaxy.
  
  While exploring every nook and cranny of the game may get slightly tedious after a while, the main 
 story offers plenty of reason to stay riveted to your seat. It is well written, includes some game-changing 
 twists, and the final 2-4 hours of the game will have you playing on the edge of your seat, unable 
 to put the controller down, no matter how much past your bedtime it is!
  
  If you like RPGs, and haven't played this one yet... what the heck are you waiting for!? Even if 
 you aren't normally an RPG player, but enjoy a good game with a sci-fi setting, this is the RPG 
 for you to cut your teeth on. Personally, I can't wait for the sequel. In fact, I may go back and 
 replay this one... and that's something I rarely ever do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richy_Splinter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 3:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is an amazing blend of action RPG and cinematic story telling. From the character creator 
 to the character interactions you'll be impressed with the depth and immersion. I have played it 
 through close to twice and that was with my brother's copy. Even though I have plenty of new games 
 I find myself redrawn to it. It is interesting that a post I saw of someone saying "the 'rebellious' 
 ending is awesome" was all it took for me to want to play it through again. It is a great game 
 and I look forward to the next one, and if it holds true that you can carry over a character, then 
 it may be tough choosing which one. That is all I really have to say but it wants more characters 
 so this is what you get. P. s. I think this is a great game for Star Wars fans or anyone who is 
 a Sci-Fi fan. So go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juk3n
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Kotor - Knights of the Old Republic, heard of it? Played it? If yes, then you have a firm grasp 
 on what you can expect with this game - gameplay wise. Minus the melee weaponry.
  
  This game is very very good, and very deep. It is very immersive and very well thought out. It 
 is attempting do bring something new to the table that is the "next gen rpg" and i think it manages 
 it, without loosing the essence of what an rpg is supposed to be.
  
  A story heavy sci-fi rpg like this was crying out to be made, and expect the next KOTOR game to 
 play just like this. With that said this is a very good game, but not everyone will like it, RPG 
 lover or not, it IS an aquired taste. It's very pretty, the sound is excellent, voice acting - 
 top notch and the environments are fantastic for the most part. What the game lacks in length , 
 it makes up for in replayablilty, and you most likely WILL want to play through this game more 
 than once, if not just to see how the other half live over on Evil-Ville.
  
  Ofcourse there are the completionists who will play through all difficulty settings and scenerios 
 in order to have a fully acomplished character to 'maybe' transfer over to Mass Effect 2, but if 
 even if you arn't one of them, the game is still worth a playthrough - just to see experience the 
 next step in rpg gaming. Well the pre-step to the next step anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luno-gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 5:34 pm PT
Review:  From my play experience, this was an incredible game, in fact, one of the best games I have ever 
 played. Great graphics, awesome combat and gameplay, and a completely original setting and storyline. 
 What more could you ask for? If you are a KOTOR fan then I highly reccommend this game for you. 
 Very much like it, but with far better dialogue. When you're not picking off sentry bots with your 
 sniper rifle or blowing aliens off their feet with a shotgun, you're taking part in immense conversations 
 with multiple characters throughout the game. You'll feel like you're sitting back and enjoying 
 a blockbuster movie. Its hard to find games like Mass Effect nowadays. Picking it up by mere chance, 
 you can probably imagine how amazed I was to find such an awesome game for only $21 on a discount 
 shelf at wal mart.
  
  There was however one flaw with the game. Though it has very nice graphics, it does have a problem 
 processing some of the detail. Much like in Halo 2, the character details often take a few seconds 
 to load and some don't even load at all during a few scenes. Though that isn't enough to make you 
 want to put down the remote and stop playing. Far from it! Just a very minor setback to this spectacular 
 game :)
  
  Gamespot, this game deserves a perfect 10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisonedpawn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 10:14 am PT
Review:  These days, I find I'm disappointed by as much as half of the games I play. Anyone who takes a 
 look at other reviews I've written or scores I've given can see I loathed the acclaimed Jak II, 
 was annoyed with the popular Conker: Live and Reloaded, bored and frustrated by Shadow of the Colossus, 
 and fairly unimpressed with Assassin's Creed. Yet, I continue to play games, because I know there 
 are still goods titles out there - somewhere. I've enjoyed the Ratchet and Clank series (mostly) , 
 loved Bioshock, Knights of the Old Republic, and Half-Life 2. All of these games combine what I 
 consider to be the necessary requirements for a game to go from run-of-the-mill to something that 
 I'll miss playing when it's over. Fun gameplay, minimal frustration (that does not mean it has 
 to be easy) , and an interesting and engaging story. Having spent more than 30 hours over the last 
 month squeezing as much gameplay as I could out of Mass Effect, I can safely add it to the list 
 of games I love.
  
  There is little I can complain about in Mass Effect. My only main problem was some annoyances during 
 a few of the Mako sequences. Specifically, I found that a few situations (all on unnecessary side 
 missions) were made painfully difficult by that fact that I would lose my shields relatively quickly 
 and need to go hide to regenerate them. The main issue with that is, it seems to take about ten 
 minutes for your shields to regenerate fully. If it was a little faster, these sequences would 
 have been better. The Mako also controls a bit awkwardly, but in most circumstances I was able 
 to deal with it.
  
  The other issues I had with Mass Effect are more nitpicks than anything else. The repetitive use 
 of buildings on the side missions was a bit distracting, and occasionally my party members had 
 a tendency to pick out the good hiding spots or get in the way of my target. All in all, I found 
 these fairly minor and not really worth punishing the game's score for.
  
  Mass Effect truly shines during its cinematics. The music is excellent, the voice work is all top 
 notch, and the visuals are amazing. The story that accompanies these cinematics is also excellent. 
 It kept me interested from beginning to end.
  
  As is the case with all good RPGs, there is plenty of variety in the side missions, and I spent 
 a good chunk of the 32 hours or so I played for just completing these missions.
  
  Combat is fun, and uses a new approach as compared to other Bioware RPGs, forcing the player to 
 use cover more than just running at enemies, guns blazing.
  
  There really isn't much else I can say other than that Mass Effect is an all-round great game. 
 I anxiously look forward to its planned sequels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigGhost_AJT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:21 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  The story: It's a wonderful, mature and well thought out story. This is one of those games that 
 puts the player firmly in the universe it creates. The player is drawn in and really feels as though 
 they're taking part in this sweeping space opera. I cared about each of the characters as well 
 as their stories. Never did I ask "Why am I doing this?" because the gravity of my actions were 
 made that clear. 
  
  Character Creation: No game that I have played has EVER incorporated a player-created character 
 so seamlessly into a narrative. By game's end you will have formed a connection to your Shepard 
 because he/she is just that: yours. So many ways in which to customize your character but it never 
 feels overwhelming (ahem Oblivion) . 
  
  Combat: 
  Whether shooting, using biotics or technical skills the combat is a load of fun. There's an array 
 of skills to be learned and weapons to acquire. All of which give the player a good deal of variety 
 in the way they choose to approach a fight. One drawback may be that there aren't enough battles 
 throughout the game.
  
  The Bad:
  Inventory System: There's no need for an inventory to be this convoluted and hard to manage. Being 
 forced to scroll through long lists of armor, weapons and upgrades to find what you want is problematic 
 considering just how much loot is acquired along the way. Not a make or break but a an annoyance 
 nonetheless.
  
  The Mako: It takes a little while to get used to driving and shooting while in this clunker. And 
 even when the controls are mastered, it never becomes that much fun. It always feels like more 
 of a chore.. and in gaming that's not a good thing.
  
  So there you have it. If you're looking for an intelligent action-RPG with a fantastic story and 
 great character creation features, you'd be hard pressed to do better than Mass Effect. Minor annoyances 
 aside this is one of my top 5 games for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: varkdm
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 3:45 pm PT
Review:  
  I have to start off by stating that Bioware are probably my favourite developer, I've genuinely 
 loved so many of their games; you only have to mention Baldur's Gate or Knights of the Old Republic 
 to understand why. That being said, it also means that I look forward to their games with great 
 fervour, and judge them against the highest of standards, so for Mass Effect to genuinely live 
 up to expectation, it's got to do rather well.
  
  There are a few things that set this game aside from Bioware's previous line up  firstly it's 
 got a heavy dose of action. When someone says action RPG to me, it usually brings up an image of 
 Diablo or Dungeon Siege  button mashers with character progression. Fortunately that's not the 
 case here, Bioware have chosen to mould third person shooter combat in with a genuine RPG experience, 
 but more on that later. 
  
  The second key area that is new territory for Bioware, is the universe itself. They've crafted 
 an entire galaxy of beings, places and technology from scratch. Previously they have produced superb 
 recreations of other peoples universe's (Star Wars and Dungeon's and Dragons basically) . The big 
 question here being, would the Mass Effect universe stand up to other successful peers, or will 
 it join the myriad of failed ideas and cheap knock off's?
  
  So what is Mass Effect all about? Humanity have been busily colonising their region of the galaxy, 
 thanks to the discovery of a giant "Mass Relay", an ancient device that allows near instantaneous 
 travel between stars. It doesn't take long for them to discover the galaxy is full of alien races, 
 most of which are governed by the three most powerful  the Salarians, the Turians and the Asari. 
 These three races form the Citadel Council, based aboard a massive space station (called The Citadel) , 
 also built by whoever built the Mass Relays. There are hundreds of races, with varying degrees 
 of influence on the galactic stage. The story takes place some twenty years after their first encounter 
 with the Citadel races and humanity are vying for their place amongst the community. You play a 
 senior and famous (or infamous depending on what you decide in character creation) human officer 
 in the Alliance  the collective name for humanity. Who has been selected as a possible candidate 
 to join the elite "Spectres", the agents of the Council, who are above the law and tasked to achieve 
 a goal, through whatever means necessary. As the first human Spectre, there's a lot riding on this.
 
  
  The game is split into three key areas  walk and talk sections, tactical combat and vehicular 
 exploration/combat areas. The walk and talk part of the game is probably the most well featured 
 part of this game, and is basically where all the "RPG stuff" takes place. At varying stages of 
 the game you will find yourself in what are, for lack of a better phrase, "quest hubs". The largest 
 of these being the Citadel itself. In these sections you get to explore the world of Mass Effect 
 and converse, in great detail, with its inhabitants. You can spend huge amounts of time doing this, 
 so it's just as well that they've done a very good job of realising these environments and most 
 importantly, the people that occupy them. 
  
  The graphics engine and voice acting are key to achieving this. The voice acting is very good throughout, 
 even minor characters are well voiced, I didn't notice any lines of conversation that I felt particularly 
 jarred, although there were the occasional hiccups, mostly through unnatural changes of voice tone 
 when offered multiple branches of a conversation. This is combined with what can only be described 
 as exceptional facial animation. Characters are rendered in amazing detail, adding great depth 
 to conversations  my recommendation to get the most out of this, is to ensure that subtitles are 
 turned off, else you could end up missing most of the immersion factor this adds -through focusing 
 on the written words, rather than watching the on screen "acting".
  
  Conversations use a clever system that gives you multiple choices on what to say. It never tells 
 you exactly what you are going to say, more the tone that you want to convey. This makes conversations 
 far more interesting  simply because you don't know exactly what will play out on screen. Depending 
 on how you have chosen to advance your character, you may also be offered "charm" or "intimidate" 
 conversation options, these seem to always "win" the conversation, or get some kind of result they 
 may not have otherwise been possible. Although in most cases you feel you have a choice in how 
 the conversation plays out, this is often just an illusion, with multiple conversation choices 
 ending up in the same place, regardless of what you wanted to convey  unnoticeable on your first 
 play through, but if you decide to play through more than once, then you will definitely become 
 aware of it.
  How you behave in the game world is recorded through "paragon" and "renegade" points, which are 
 recorded separately. Paragon points are awarded for being the full on politically correct traditional 
 hero and renegade points for representing less conventional methods and behaviour. There is no 
 good or evil, you are a good guy, it's more a case of how ethical you have been along the journey. 
 I've played through the game twice and I have to admit, I found it really hard to play the game 
 as a full on renegade, even consciously making decisions that I knew would reward me with renegade 
 points, still ended up with me having more paragon points  the action of simply taking on tasks 
 would reward paragon points, which seems a bit unfair as most of the tasks in the game did this, 
 so to truly go renegade would see you missing out on a lot of the missions. This is one area where 
 Bioware have let me down a bit, whilst I naturally prefer to play the good guy, it would still 
 be nice to know that there is a proper dark side to be explored.
  
  As mentioned above, the choices you make in how you build your character, has a huge impact on 
 how you play the game  both in combat and in conversation. At the character creation stage you 
 are given some choices about your characters background  where they came from and what key event 
 occurred that brought you to the attention of the Alliance command. Other than that you can customise 
 your character  male or female and what their skin colour, hair and face looks like. The changes 
 here are purely cosmetic, although your choice of sex affects your romance options in the game.
 
  
  As you play the game, you are awarded experience points for completing objectives and defeating 
 opponents. I don't think there is a level cap, the achievement points indicate it's possible to 
 get to level 60, but having completed the majority of the content of the game as well as the DLC 
 mission "Bring Down The Sky" I was level 50. Earlier levels award you several points to spend on 
 skills and attributes, as you get higher level you are awarded less point to spend, so impossible 
 to max out every skill tree. At an advanced stage you are also able to further specialise your 
 character into a different class, giving new benefits.
  
  All but the charm and intimidate skills are primarily based around your combat skills. Don't worry 
 though, whether or not you hit what you are shooting at, is basically entirely down to you, these 
 attributes simply grant bonus's to attributes like health, armour and damage or duration of certain 
 weapons or abilities, they also unlock special abilities. 
  
  Which leads nicely on to combat. This is where I got to breathe a sigh of relief, whilst the combat 
 may lack the finesse of dedicated third person shooters like Gears of War or the Rainbow 6 series, 
 it is so far in advance of the systems offered by other traditional RPGs as to make it truly stand 
 out. The one real let down was the cover mechanic  whilst it's there, it's a flaky implementation. 
 Locking in and out of cover was often pretty random and cumbersome, and you would occasionally 
 find yourself locking to walls you were standing next to in the middle of a fire fight, suddenly 
 changing your view and taking your sights off what you were shooting at. On the whole it definitely 
 works, but it needs a bit of polish to achieve what I think they were hoping for.
  
  There are two aspects to combat  guns and abilities. The guns are very well implemented  depending 
 on the character class you have chosen and how you have spent your points from levelling up, you 
 will be able to use pistols, assault rifles, shotguns or sniper rifles. These are all satisfying 
 to use but obviously the most fun is to be had with the assault rifles and shotguns. The pistol's 
 do the job well enough, and if you have specialised in sniper rifles they are also effective, but 
 for most combat situations, they are your bread and butter. Assault rifles behave as you would 
 expect, offering a moderate damage output over good ranges, losing accuracy if you hold the trigger 
 down too long. The shotguns are slow firing, short-medium range weapons that inflict heavy damage 
  so no surprises there. What I particularly liked about the weapons implementation was the sound 
  they are loud and they sound powerful because of it. There is nothing worse in a shooter to have 
 guns that sound quiet and weak, fortunately Mass Effect's come across as loud and brutal. Aside 
 from controlling recoil, rapidly firing your weapons will cause them to overheat, jamming them 
 for a few seconds  this is to prevent over use of spray and prey, as there is no ammo in the game 
 (just ammo upgrades) .
  
  To compliment the gunplay are special abilities. These vary depending on your class  some relate 
 to temporary weapon or shield buffs, but the truly special abilities are the "Biotic" or "Tech" 
 abilities. These are their version of Force powers, and are explained as manipulation of mass effect 
 fields and technology on a small scale. These abilities generally stun, inflict damage, debuff 
 or cripple single or multiple opponents, and some of the more powerful ones, such as "Singularity" 
 look particularly impressive on screen. There are six different classes of character, some specialise 
 in weapons combat, some in Biotics and some in Tech  as well as mixing up these abilities abilities 
  for example the "Vanguard" class can use medium armour, excels with shotguns and has access to 
 an array of biotic powers. Whereas the Soldier class can use heavy armour, can specialise in any 
 weapon and has special abilities to boost damage output and damage mitigation.
  
  One problem with the game engine does frequently come to light during combat though, especially 
 when all the powers are being used; the frame rate frequently plummets  I guess it's the price 
 to pay for having such high quality character models on screen, but it also hints towards a case 
 of releasing the game before it was completely finished.
  
  Other class abilities offer the ability to hack and decode computer terminals and locks. Putting 
 points in these does not make the action any easier, it just lets you try and hack more secure 
 systems. The process of hacking itself is handled through quicktime events, which I normally dislike, 
 but it's no better or worse than other systems used by RPG type games to convey this (for example 
 the hacking or lock picking in Fallout 3 or Bioshock) . 
  As you progress through the game you will gain access to increasingly powerful equipment, as well 
 as powerful "mods" that change or boost certain properties, such as the amount of shielding a piece 
 of armour has, or the chance to freeze an opponent when using "cryo" ammunition. There is a huge 
 array of equipment and modifications to choose from, allowing for customisation as you see fit.
 
  
  The third area of the game where you will spend a great deal of your time  far too much in my 
 opinion, is the "Mako" armoured personal carrier. This six wheeled armoured vehicle sports a machinegun 
 and cannon, and is mostly used to explore the surface of any of the alien worlds you visit throughout 
 the game. This is without a doubt the weakest part of the game, in fact it screams of laziness. 
 They were clearly desperate to feature as many worlds as possible, but rather than supply a large 
 list of fully developed areas, like the key plot worlds or the Citadel, they simply offer a set 
 of maps, with seemingly random, generally featureless, terrain, with occasional things to do. Whilst 
 the skies look impressive and the ground textures are high quality, there are actually no features 
 on the ground itself. They hide this well, but it doesn't take long to realise that there are no 
 rocks or plants placed on the terrain at all. You will occasionally see some extremely poorly modelled 
 and animated creatures, and of course the bits you can interact with, but that's about it. Generally 
 driving around these worlds is a painful experience. The Mako can climb near vertical surfaces, 
 but even so, it can frequently get mired in areas of jagged rock  it can often be quicker to call 
 in a pickup and go through several loading screens, so you can redeposit yourself back on the planet 
 at the starting location, rather than drive back through it. 
  
  When you do get to your target location, it's either a single item to hack and take what's on it, 
 or it will be a small facility to explore and nearly always fight through. Many of the locations 
 are simply carbon copies placed on different worlds, with slightly different interior lay outs 
 and occupants. There are plenty of small side quests that send you to these locations, to add a 
 sense of purpose to it, but generally exploring these alien worlds is a case of rinse and repeat. 
 When they have spent so much time getting a great combat system, it's a shame to see them use so 
 much simplistic and unsatisfying ground vehicle combat to flesh out the game.
  
  Something I haven't covered yet is your crew. You start the game with two junior Alliance officers 
 on your team. As you play through you pick up a number of characters, a total of six of varying 
 races and specialisations, that can accompany you on missions. Before heading out into any new 
 area you are asked to choose two of them to join you. Generally it's good to try and balance out 
 your party with a mix of skills and abilities. For some sections of the game, you are advised to 
 take certain characters, as they have a specific impact on story during that section. Even when 
 you are not playing through a section that has relevance to them, your companions will frequently 
 take part in the conversations you have  usually offering an insight in to what is going on or 
 what to do next. In between missions, when on board your star ship, the Normandy, you can hold 
 detailed conversations with them. This gives you the opportunity to learn about their history and 
 the world of Mass Effect, what motivates them and generally building your attachment to each character.
 
  Depending on your chosen sex and how you treat them, you can also follow a romance story line 
 with one of three of them (you have a choice between either a human male, a human female or an 
 Asari (the Asari are blue skinned humanoids that look female but do not have a gender) ) . Should 
 you press the right buttons, you will eventually get to bed your chosen partner. This is where 
 the much hyped alien sex scene comes in to play, but it's about as risqu as Blue Peter  yes the 
 characters are naked but you never see anything more than an arse, the rest is covered up in a 
 style reminiscent of the Austin Powers movies. It's truly amazing that this caused so much controversy. 
 
  
  At some point in the game you will have to make decisions that could lead to a member of your crew 
 dying and you can potentially end up having to kill one of them as well  it's at these points 
 (late in the game) where you can see just how effective the developers have been, at attaching 
 you to the characters.
  
  That covers the essentials of the game  so far a bit of a mixed bag. If I was to end this review 
 here, you'd probably be thinking that this game will score well, but not exceptionally so. What 
 I need to add is my thoughts and feelings about the wider aspects of the game. With any single 
 player RPG, by far the most important thing is the story and setting. Whilst the general story 
 of Mass Effect is not revolutionary, it is well thought out, well written and very well realised. 
 There are enough twists and clever bits to raise it well above the average sci-fi plot. The universe 
 they have created is exceptional, it's vibrant, believable, atmospheric and filled with interesting 
 people and places. The superb sound, music and graphics all help to realise this  even if the 
 graphics do suffer with frame rate issues.
  
  The problems I have noticed in the game, seem to stem from not enough development time  the shallow 
 planet exploration sequences, stuttering frame rates, flaky cover mechanics and occasional events 
 where you are met with a dialogue box describing what happens, rather than an in game cut scene, 
 all point to rushed development schedule. I did encounter a few bugs, but not with the frequency 
 or regularity as to make them a major issue, be aware though that I have heard more serious complaints 
 about severe clipping and AI problems. I do wonder if the change of publisher for Bioware so close 
 to the release date was to blame for these problems. 
  
  That aside, how I feel about the game is still overwhelmingly positive. For me it's one of those 
 games that leaves you craving more. I felt disappointed upon finishing the game, as despite having 
 spent close to 30 hours on it by that time, I still wanted to carry on and see what happened next. 
 The combat and conversation systems are excellent, providing depth and excitement in good measure. 
 As such I would heartily recommend it to all but the most hardcore of action gamers (who are likely 
 to find the long conversational sections and rough around the edges combat frustrating. I'd also 
 add, that for RPG enthusiast's, like myself, this is a masterpiece of the genre  flawed, yes  
 but definitely not to be missed at any cost.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willdizzle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game for people who like playing role playing games. It has many aspects to 
 pick up at first but once you get going, you'll be sucked in its story and battles, that soon you 
 would be playing hours straight. 
  The load times are fine and they never get in the way but sometimes it brings down your gaming 
 excitement but a couple of seconds later it is refilled. Sometimes the map gets quite annoying 
 to fumble with but you will learn the system quite fast.
  The vehicle that use use when on uncharted worlds and maps where walking on foot will take forever, 
 sometimes gets quite annoying. The controls of the system or maneuvering the vehicle gets real 
 touchy and can quite harm you when in a tough situation.
  If your a person who studies the game you play to see if you can link the characteristics to movies 
 or game, etc, this one has many of them. At the somewhat beginning, there's a moment that feels 
 like a part of the Matrix trilogy. Other moments connect to other action games like Halo but not 
 quite and parts that feel real similar to Star Wars K. O. T. OR. games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan_Lionheart
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 10:36 pm PT
Review:  BioWare, the minds behind Baldur's Gate, Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, and Jade Empire 
 have done it again. They've produced an amazing display of a game, and in higher quality than ever 
 before.
  
  Mass Effect is a sci-fi Action/RPG that immerses you in a highly political story giving you virtually 
 every choice and response to make. You create a character, choose their class, and after you begin 
 the story you will gain squad mates (party size is 3) and allocate their skill points to which 
 weapons and bionic (think force powers) abilities you'd like to master. The actual upgrading aspect 
 of Mass Effect's combat is nice, but the combat itself is very, VERY standard. It's very simple 
 run and cover third person shooting mixed with some special abilities. It's just a bit of a shame 
 that with the amount of depth present in every other area of the game, the combat is so basic. 
 The majority of the time you'll do fine if you just jump behind a corner and hold the right trigger 
 before the enemy advances. Some of this is due to the squad AI (which is very good and knows how 
 to dispose of enemies) , some might be just that I know how to upgrade my character so I don't find 
 fights particularly challenging or needing strategy often.
  
  This generally moderate flaw aside, Mass Effect is far beyond the point of greatness in every other 
 category. I would go as far as calling it one of the most beautiful games ever witnessed. I don't 
 think it's hands down the best, but certainly top ten of all-time. Character models, animations, 
 lighting, and environments are very well done. On top of this, the atmospheric tone is amazing 
 with one of the more brilliant soundtracks I've heard for a game. Mass Effect's most drawing quality 
 (like any true classic RPG) is it's story. This is a reinvention of the RPG genre with the way 
 the story is approached. You'll go through conversations, choose responses, and everything will 
 be affected throughout the entire game. Relationships with characters will change, and nobody is 
 a clearly cut good or evil person. Just like real life, everyone has their own opinions, and while 
 you may not agree with them, you can still respect how they got there.. It's very fluid and well 
 done.
  
  If you need a fast paced, intense game with lots of action, Mass Effect probably isn't your cup 
 of tea. But if story (an amazing one at that) is what you're looking for, this is not just your 
 cup of tea, it's your favorite brand, in your favorite mug, being consumed while you sit in your 
 favorite chair. Mass Effect is one of the most cinematic, movie-like experiences in all of gaming, 
 and just for that it deserves to be played. This is personally one of my favorite games for the 
 360 (quite easily one of my top two offline titles) and from beginning to end, it left a great 
 taste of satisfaction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sathyaiyer28
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2009 8:07 am PT
Review:  Dont look at my score and scoff "Ha.... a perfect score.... no way is mass effect perfect"
  Mass effect definitely isnt perfect. In fact the number of annoyances is so high, that this review 
 might seem very negative. But the things it does right are just so memorable, enjoyable and downright 
 epic that it leaves an incredible lasting impression.
  Okay, so the flaws first:
  
  1) The uncharted worlds: These are just plain boring to explore, with dull landscapes, and extremely 
 repetitive buildings. If only there was a bit more variety, exploration could have been a lot of 
 fun
  
  2) The mako: Easily the worst component of the game, the vehicle which you have to drive to explore 
 uncharted planets, the mako handles terribly. The physics are all messed up, and it just bounces 
 around like jelly.
  The vehicle combat isnt much better, you cant aim the turret without turning the vehivle, which 
 can be really frustrating.
  
  3) The Inventory: This can get very messy, with lots of loot getting piled up, and it can be a 
 real pain to remove all of them to free space.
  
  4) Glitches, bugs and graphical problems: There are plenty of glitches. Sometimes the game fails 
 to recognize button presses, and can crash altogether. The framerate is quite erratic too, although 
 it isnt unplayable. It also suffers from the texture loading problem of UE 3.
  
  Phew.... a lot of flaws, so theres no way the game is good, right? WRONG!
  
  Everyhting else 
 about the game is just about perfect
  
  The story, as expected from bioware, is just amazing. The depth is phenomenal, with each character 
 in the game, even minor npcs having fully fleshed out backstories. The major characters are all 
 great, your squadmates are incredibly likeable, this alien called Wrez is simply badass... and the 
 villians have believable motives. 
  And the ending! wow, how often do greta games have lame endings? Not the cas here..... the final 
 2 hours of mass effect are simply epic.
  Story: 10/10
  
  Gameplay is 1/3rd talking, 1/3rd combat, 1/3rd exploration. On foot combat is a lot of fun. It might 
 seem slightly slow to fans of shooters, but using biotics and tech powers is a lot of fun. The 
 rpg elements are great.... with a lot of depth in the levelling up process, giving you plenty of 
 options to work with. Replayability goes through the roof as you can play the game 3-4 times and 
 get a slightly different experience every time, depending on your choices.
  Gameplay:9.5/10
  
  Graphics look simply stunning in HD. The detail in the facial animations 
 is amazing, and the lip-synching is great, too. Only the framerate is a bit of a problem
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  
  The sound quality is incredible, too. A HUGE amount of voice acting, and 
 some great music throughout. The credits song kicks ass, too
  Sounds: 10/10
  
  Overall: 10/10. 
  I gave it a 10, because even weeks after playing the game, i kept thinking 
 about the game. It has so many memorable moments, that it overshadows the small problems completely. 
 
  If someone asks me about mass effect a few years from now, i wont say "Damn, the mako sucked big 
 time". Ill say "Wow, what a game that was!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo426
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2009 11:19 am PT
Review:  I'm a RPG fan and this was the first game I bought after getting a 360. Although I enjoyed playing 
 this game, I felt that it had more potential than what it managed to achieve. Reasons -
  
  1. Its great that the game has good voice acting but the bland facial and body expressions sort 
 of takes the immersion away. My personal opinion is that most RPGs shoot themselves in the foot 
 by having the 'create your character' option. The main character looks very synthetic in someways 
 which is unfortunate.
  
  2. Most side quests feel quite detached from the main game and follows certain patterns. Given 
 the number of planets involved its quite disappointing. In my opinion side quests in RPGs should 
 mold into the main game.
  
  3. The main story is interesting but its delivered in a mediocre fashion. The environments doesn't 
 vary enough and the back story of the characters feel really cheap in comparison. The crew gets 
 involved with the main story in a limited way. Other than delivering a few lines at major points 
 of the story they rarely make an impact.
  
  4. As mentioned by the Gamespot review, the action on foot is great but the vehicle sections are 
 tedious.
  
  Mass Effect is still a good RPG but there are a number of things that could be improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steeley92
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 5:49 am PT
Review:  AMAZING!!! I was first quite sceptical about this game, i thought that the the graphics will be 
 shabby due to the sheer size of the envirnments. i thought the speaking interface would be boring 
 and tedious, and i though that the combat would be really weak and just a crappy copy of gears 
 of war. But i was wrong!!!
  
  The GRAPHICS are some of the best i have seen. The envirnments are huge and dont get degraded by 
 their size. The graphics can sometimes lag but return to their regular state after a few seconds. 
 The movies and speech interfaces keep the same graphics throughout, and are interesting so that 
 the player doesnt loose focus or get bored.
  
  The STORY is very immense and interesting, with the fate of the galaxy in the balance, you have 
 to stop a rouge agent from unleashing a race of sentient machines fron destroying all organic life. 
 But along with the main story there are many different side missions and objectives that can link 
 to the story or just give you a rest from the real story. Also, you can go to any planet at anytime 
 to explore or survey, which can unlock more missions and story options.
  
  The COMBAT is quite good, and it does have many similarities to the gears of war mechanics in combat 
 such as finding cover and running. However, the weapons, armour and accessories are all customizable. 
 You can change what type of ammunition to use whether it be proton rounds or cryo rounds, you can 
 alter your armours unique qualities like health regeneration or kinetic buffers. If you choose 
 a certain class, you can have biotic powers that are alot like the force powers in star wars; there 
 are powers like lift, stasis, barrier and my personal favourite, throw. These can all be upgrade 
 to increase power and duration.
  
  This game is so immense and the story is so interesting you get addicted to it very easily, which 
 is a good thing as you want to know how the story plays out. the combat is good but could be better 
 and the graphics are amazing if you get past the small lags that occur. This is a definite must 
 by if you have a 360 and will keep you entertained for hours!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryandeth316
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2009 2:14 am PT
Review:  I finally got an X-Box 360 for Christmas, and this game wasn't even close to being on my radar. 
 I had no clue what Mass Effect was, I had simply turned off my brain off to gaming as it stands 
 due to the fact that I simply couldn't afford to get into the "Next Gen" club. 
  
  However, once I was able to purchase an X-Box 360, a good friend of mine, after I asked for his 
 suggestions on games to purchase said, "Dude, you HAVE to get Mass Effect. It will be your new 
 favorite game." And he was 100% right.
  
  From the moment I popped this game into the console, I was hooked. Taking the role of War Hero 
 "Shepard", it is your duty to hunt down a rogue political enforcer from destroying every race in 
 the galaxy. One of the amazing aspects of the storyline is how the races view humanity with distrust, 
 and sometimes outright hatred, it has such a realistic feel. At least in my opinion, in the future, 
 this is the way it would be.
  
  By choosing your past upbringing, and your role in the military, conversational options are different 
 when people speak to you... that's just one of the little things this game does that makes it one 
 of the best RPGs in a long time. 
  
  This game has everything that you want in a role playing game;
  
  A great story, relatively 
 easy controls, diverse characters, and quality interaction. The weapons are pretty great also.
 
  
  If you're looking for a game that you can play, and then not realize that you've been sitting in 
 the same spot for 4 hours playing the game, then this is the game for you. 
  
  I'm sorry I did not add anymore, I simply do not want to give up much of the plot. But the game 
 play is relatively simple, the story is top notch, and the music really sets the tone for the different 
 areas and moments in the game. Your party members, you recieve relatively quickly in the game as 
 well which is also in my opinion a big positive. 
  
  Being that this game is over a year old, it is a quality bargain for the first time X-Box 360 buyer, 
 or someone looking to get into role playing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebaronmoo
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted this game to be the best rpg ever. I REALLY did. But it is nothing like my favorite 
 game ever KOTOR, gameplay wise. I found everything about the game amazing except for the gameplay. 
 The combat was bland, dull, and boring. It was playing a Star Trek game when I like Star Wars. 
 It focused too much on story and not enough on gameplay. It might be that I am trying to compare 
 it to KOTOR. It's just me but I didn't like it. A lot of people do though, and to them, enjoy it. 
 I just wish I could've. It just was too boring and I was feeling rushed along a boring story. The 
 storytelling was good but the story itself, was dull. The Galaxy was nothing like they said it 
 to be. You could only go to about 1 or 2 planets per solar system, when BioWare promised hundred 
 of places to go. The most fun I had was in the Citadel. It looked like a really cool place to be. 
 The planets though, were boring. The Mako controlled HORRIBLY. There was nothing to do on the planets. 
 I really wanted to like this game. I REALLY did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 9:26 am PT
Review:  The best part about Role Playing Games is the fact that they are made for the gamer to experience 
 the adventure at both their own pace and for the most part, branch the story to their specification. 
 Because of this, RPGs can last a long time and you will still only experience a fraction of what 
 the developers have to offer.
  
  Mass Effect is a perfect example of a solid Role Playing Game; one with a great story that is possible 
 to play a number of ways. The game has you controlling a Human solider in the future where Species 
 from different Galaxies interact with each other. Your character can be created from the ground 
 up, with the ability to adjust your sex, look and even your character's history, all of which affect 
 the story and the interaction of other characters. This is actually quite a common feature with 
 Western-styled Role Playing Games but the developers at Bioware have taken this to another level 
 considering the amount of dialogue involved in this game. Where in some games, the main character 
 would be a silent one, here it's quite the opposite. Your character, Sheppard, is very talkative 
 and there is full voice dialogue in both a male and female voice.
  
  As stated before, the future has various species from around the galaxy interacting with one another. 
 The Human race are the new boys on the block and have yet to gain the full trust of the rest of 
 the species, to the point that they are still not given the same treatment as the other, more superior 
 species. The Humans are eager to gain this trust including earning a spot on the high council and 
 earning a spot in the Spectres, a sort of Galaxy police that helps to protect everyone.
  
  Sheppard begins the game as a support character on the Human ship the Normandy and one a mission 
 discovers that a Spectre called Saren has gone rogue and seems to be plotting something very diabolical. 
 Sheppard witnesses Saren and attempts to stop him but because of his status and strength is unable 
 to do so.
  
  The council see that Saren is a threat and because of Sheppard's efforts, they award him as the 
 first ever Human Spectre with the sole purpose of determining what Saren is upto and to stop him. 
 This begins the key story and your adventure through the Galaxy will see you traveling to various 
 Solar Systems and planets trying to uncover Saren's plot and try to stop it.
  
  In terms of Gameplay, Mass Effect is played out very much like a tactical 3rd person shooter. All 
 action is played in Real time with you and two other team members. Depending on your character 
 class your abilities both with weapons and biotics, essentially your magic powers, will vary. Upon 
 leveling up, you have the ability to allocate points towards various skills. When you create Sheppard 
 in the beginning of the game, you determine which abilities you will have throughout the game. 
 Some traits will have you stronger with your Biotics but weaker with weapons, or reversely, you 
 might be have great knowledge of all the weapons and armor but your Biotic abilities are extremely 
 limited. Regardless of how you develop your character, as long as you learn your characters strengths, 
 you can be very effective on the battlefield.
  
  Your team always consists of you and two other party members. As you progress through the story, 
 you will have the ability to choose from more than 5 different people to aid you along the way. 
 Each of the other characters have specific abilities as well and finding the right balance for 
 each mission is critical. During fights, your teammates do act on their own, with fairly good AI, 
 but you will be able to influence them and direct them to varying degrees. With the simple tap 
 of the up button, you can direct your squad to advance or if the heat is on, you can tell them 
 to retreat. It's a great mechanic that works quite effectively. You won't be able to tell them 
 to run around crazy, but they are smart enough not to stand around and let themselves get killed.
 
  
  The game itself is fairly long but only long if you decide to go through the plethora of side-missions 
 made available to you. Through your journey, you will encounter various different characters with 
 many of them needing your help. Some might ask for some simple tasks as aiding them with some research 
 or you might have the daunting task of traveling to various planets and collecting resources. How 
 you interact with others will also developer your character either as a Paragon (hero) or a Renegade 
 (anti-hero) . If you fail to help people or kill the wrong people will only make you look bad in 
 the eyes of the public, but if you are willing to help and go out of your way to help will make 
 people think positive about you.
  
  The game's dialogue, which is extensive varies greatly depending on how your character talks. In 
 every major situation, you are given the opportunity to answer in one of three ways that can lean 
 neutral, positively or negatively. Also, if you decide to develop your charm and intimidate skills 
 can open up other dialog windows that may be important a key points in the game.
  
  Mass Effect is not an easy game in the beginning and it will take you sometime before you get fully 
 adjusted to switching weapons and using your Biotics effectively. Once you do get familiar with 
 the combat system, the difficulty does get a lot easier, but this is a game that cries to you to 
 save every chance you get. Enemies are strong and if your character is not developed a certain 
 way can also add to the possibility of having to restart key points numerous times.
  
  The only real down-side to the game has to be with the controls of the Mako, your ground vehicle. 
 It can be fun to drive, but often the controls are a bit too sensitive causing you to drive it 
 erratically. The camera can also pose a problem as you can get stuck if you drive yourself into 
 a rocky area.
  
  The game's sound is absolutely incredible. I have already stated how impressed I was with the amount 
 of dialogue in the game. The voice-actors are all really well done and the lines are delivered 
 quite effectively. Because you can attempt every area with any of your characters, each one had 
 to deliver the full lines of the game, so you can imagine how many hours were spent recording dialogue. 
 The score is also fantastic and adds to the game's fantastic setting. The sound effects will impress 
 you thanks to the distinctive sounds of the different weapons, grunts and shouts of the enemies 
 and allies and the noises from the environment.
  
  Graphics do suffer a bit. It's far from a poor looking game, in fact, for the most part, it's a 
 fantastic looking game but there are some noticeable polygon issues throughout the game. This game 
 suffers a lot from loading and you will often see models 'load' their polygons as a cut-scene plays 
 out. It almost gives off the impression that the graphics were rushed at times since it happens 
 at such weird moments. There will be points where you will be amazed at what you see, but other 
 times you'll wonder why it looks so bland only to see the detail slowly pop in. The game is also 
 a victim of 'cookie cutter' syndrome where many of the smaller levels and planets look eerily similar 
 to each other. Because of this, you can essentially learn what to expect once you reach a destination. 
 This problem occurs with your side-quests but considering how much effort was placed on all the 
 other aspects of the game, this omission stands out more than it probably should.
  
  Depending on how much time you spend on sidequests, Mass Effect is about a 20 hour game. If you 
 decide to play through the various rescue and research missions given to you, you could spend a 
 very long time before you actually complete the main story line. Also, once you complete the game 
 the first time, you can take your character and go through the story again, experiencing it from 
 a different and/or more difficult point of view. It's great, especially for those who like to find 
 every possible nook and cranny placed by the developers.
  
  I absolutely loved playing Mass Effect. It is a great game that any RPG fan will enjoy. The game 
 strikes the right balance of challenge and enjoyment that you might not realize just how much time 
 you've been playing. The story is very deep and very engaging with plenty of twists and turns along 
 the way. Your experience with the game could be very different from your friend's. On top of that, 
 the 2nd or 3rd time you go through the story, you might notice things you didn't the first time. 
 If you're looking for a game to get lost in, this is your best choice and should not be missed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect truly brings up what it's made of from the creators of the KOTOR series. I was really 
 impressed the way they engined the game. Whenever you had a conversation with the Council short 
 dialogues/multiple choices will be listed on the bottom of the screen. So if they say to you something, 
 than you have to respond to them with an answer. And the part that surprised me the most was that 
 you had an option on the bottom of the screen that said "You don't deserve to live". "Get out of 
 here". Or "You can go". So I chose You don't deserve to live knowing that there is no possibility 
 that he would kill him. But just when I spoke too soon Shepard (Main Character) says you've betrayed 
 us, you must die. And with a click of a trigger a shot began. I actually thought that was the most 
 unique way to share a conversation and the way you deal in the universe. Mass Effect offers a minimal 
 amount of gun selections but that doesn't stop me from playing an awesome game like this because 
 they just don't offer guns, but they also give out power-ups,  
 Vehicle ( One vehicle used since only single player.) 
  
  Ok now that I have spoken too much about the positives I will tell you about the negatives of the 
 game. If you are the type of player who likes to play games that are mostly multiplayer based, 
 than you will not like this game, but since it doesn't matter to me, I love this game, anyways 
 also if your the type of person who prefers FPS than this might not be your kind of game. And for 
 my opinion I don't like the way that you have to travel a lot to place to place by means I mean 
 walking not traveling by space. Which reminds that you can also travel through spaceship using 
 the galaxy map located on the middle of your ship which will let you decide where your going. The 
 other thing about this game is that you can choose who your going with to the battle, through aliens 
 and humans.
  Out of 10 I would rate this game 9.5/10 A completely awesome game just a few boring moments where 
 you have to keep walking. If your into Sci-Fi or Star Wars especially, I can almost gurantee you 
 that you will enjoy this epic game filled with wonderful landscapes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rerout343
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of the few RPGs that is just as fun the fifth playthrough as it is the first 
 playthrough. Plus BioWare has shown us again that they are one of the few companies that can compete 
 with Square Enix in making an amazing story, but completely blow away Square in game play with 
 Mass Effect, combining everything that made there other games great with a 3rd person shooter. 
 It starts-out slow like all RPGs but picks up speed faster than others, once you finish the first 
 level the game opens up and is completely based on choice. Another thing that made Mass Effect 
 great was the actual combat, and depending on your class you can easily switch between a firearm, 
 "omnitool", or the force power type attacks called biotics. Along with a team of AI controlled 
 partners that actually make a very large contribute to the battle unlike other games where friendly 
 AI are just for show and do nothing but standing there getting shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmattx
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This games is a really masterful sci-fi RPG - the storyline and plot are very compelling and draw 
 you willingly through the game. Combat can be challenging at first as your instinct is to rush 
 in like 3rd person shooter - this won't work! However, once mastered the fighting gameplay is loads 
 and loads of fun and you start to look forward to future skirmishes.
  
  Graphics are very detailed and well executed. It often feels like you are watching a movie and 
 playing a game simultaneously - this is definitely the vanguard to this hybrid gaming/entertainment 
 experience that a number of game studios are exploring in their games.
  
  The game does have some the odd annoyance - I am not a huge fan of the 'Mako' Planet Lander as 
 the camera angles here can get quite annoying - that said, it is minor really.
  
  Overall - any quirks or annoyances will be outweighed massively by the huge strengths this game 
 has and it is a worthy addition to the RPG arena.
  
  Even cooler is the announcement that this is only the first in a trilogy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Review: Mass Effect (360)
  
  The Xbox 360 is a system with many great games, but one of the main failings of the system as with 
 it's predecessor is that there are not too many great Role Playing games on Microsoft's newest 
 console, other than The Elder Scrolls Oblivion that is. Will Mass Effect join the ranks as a great 
 RPG? s for the Xbox 360, or even as Bioware's other great RPGs like Jade Empire, and Knights of 
 the old Republic, or will it fail to impress?
  
  Story:
  Your name is Sheppard, a human war hero, and the first human inductee into a group of elite intergalactic 
 solders called the specters, which have complete freedom to do what they need to defend the galaxy. 
 So gather your crew each spanning from a different race in the galaxy, and prepare to stop a galactic 
 evil so large that it places all races, creeds, and nations at risk.
  
  Graphics:
  Well what can I say other than the graphics are astounding, the game looks absolutely breathtaking, 
 easily one of the best looking games available on any platform, that said the game suffers from 
 slowdown at times trying to keep everything looking so great in the middle of intense action scenes 
 which wouldn? t be such a problem were it not for the action scenes being so intense that slowdown 
 hinders the combat ever so slightly but even though that may bee the case the games beauty remains.
 
  
  Music & Sound:
  Music wise the composer did a great job making the game feel like a Sci-Fi epic like you would 
 expect to find in most of the programming on the Sci-Fi channel, sounding much like classics the 
 Mini Series Frank Herbert's Dune, and Farscape. And the voice acting is top notch easily on par 
 with the best games and animated movies out there. If there is a gripe at all it is that I would 
 have liked to a little more variety in the musical score, to mix up things up a little. While it 
 is good music and the scores are brilliant the can sometimes overpower what you are doing while 
 in a conversation if left on the games default setting, and the music syncing with the game could 
 be better than it is can sometimes take you out a little out of the game, for instance when the 
 battle music is going constantly while driving the tank. Other than that I really have a hard time 
 trying to fault the musicians here for what is the music director's fault.
  
  Control & Game play:
  To put it simply if you loved the combat in Knights of the Old Republic, 
 and Jade Empire, than prepare to be blown away! However if you are coming in expecting this to 
 be your above standard 3rd person shooter prepare to be disappointed! But if there is a contributor 
 to the frustration of all it would have to be the battle vehicle that is yours to control, that 
 I will just call a Tank, since that is what it is but with tires instead of treads, this thing 
 controls like a turret mounted on one of those inflatable moon rooms that parents rent out for 
 their child's birthday. That said the games control is just fine and if I do say as a fan of Bioware? s 
 work Previous to Mass Effect that this game is a marked improvement for them as a game developer, 
 and even the tank missions could not ruin my enjoyment of this game
  
  Design & Fun Factor:
  It is my humble opinion that this is the best RPG that Bioware has ever 
 made, and that it? s few flaws would have been easily taken care of, or at least remotely fixed 
 had the schedule not demanded that the game not be released in time for Christmas, those bugs I 
 will not reiterate since I mentioned them earlier, and it would be pointless, at least 10 different 
 races each with their own quirks and traits that most fans of either Sci-Fi movies, or Role Playing 
 games in general will love. The game takes a lot of different approaches in the story telling that 
 will keep you involved like you are playing a movie, and really aid in the multiple choice, make 
 your own path story that can be weaved in Mass effect, I have not only played and beat this game 
 but I have watched my friends take a turn at it and beat it and each game had different and different 
 outcomes that made the game far more interesting.
  All in all I think my comments made in the first to sentences in the game play section summarize 
 who will like this game more, and I personally recommend this game though most may want to rent 
 first to see if it is to their liking.
  Graphics 
  
  Mass Effect (360) :
  Pros:
  Amazing Graphics
  Deep, involving story
  Great soundtrack
  Tons of replay
  
  Cons:
 
  "Tank" controls terribly
  could have uses a little polish
  some slowdown in intense action scenes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centruroides
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Im not a RPG fan so, i got this game rly cheap being used, i heard a lot of things of this game 
 so i had to try it... and it didnt disapoint
  
  A 3rd person shooter-RPG elements makes this game extremely fun, considering all the options and 
 elements on it:
  -Find/buy items
  -Level up to learn and improve skills
  -Option to travel across the galaxy finding quests
  -Option to custom a character
  -Acording 
 with the player perspective, keep a 2-storyline-like endings
  -4 weapons + granedes have never been that enough!
  -Get cover and rpg-like skills makes a good 
 tactical game
  
  The story is SO immersive, since the beggining to the end making this game easy to recommend.
 
  
  Few bad things can be achieved, but the ones i saw are:
  - Kinda slow plot... talk a lot and many times.
  - Graphics could be better (not saying are bad 
 tho)
  
  personally, this game is a must buy, today isnt even expensive and any gamer that keep track of 
 good new games... theyd surely have or at least played this game. if u dont, u shouldnt hesitate 
 cuz a sequel is coming and i cant wait for it!
  
  gl hf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felipeeb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 9:22 am PT
Review:  To tell the truth, i liked the game from what i saw on the box. The graphics of the uniforms and 
 the spaceships draw my attention. A friend of mine recomend it to me so i picked it up. It surprised 
 me when i got home and started it up. The story immediately got me. 
  
  Two bad things so far, one is the complicated inventory and computer system, and the other is the 
 weak combat. Even tho i still have to get deeper into the game to judge the combat system it seamed 
 weak so far. i really dont know if i am hitting the bad guys or my squad members are doing it for 
 me.
  
  Anyway... this is a game i just got my feet wet with and keeping it for later becouse its good... 
 like a good desert or sandwich that you dont want to get over with? ever happened to you?
  
  I highly recomend this game if you are looking for a great story and amazing atmosphere, the 
 inventory and combat weakness does not spoil the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mezro01
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that convinced me to finally get an xbox360. I've always played PC games and this 
 is the first game on a console system that has captured my attention span for more than 5 mins. 
 The graphics are great, the gameplay is fun, but it is the story that got me hooked. I've even 
 bought the 2 books that came out for this game! Soundtrack is awesome and the voice acting is the 
 real deal. I like how you can customize the main character and how the game lets you choose your 
 concentration as far as specializations. Combat could've been a little better, the game let's you 
 pause during action and choose whatever special moves each of your squad members can perform on 
 an enemy, which could be a good or bad thing. A couple of things that is really annoying, controls 
 for the vehicle "Mako" and the user interface that reminded me of FFIX (the most horrible game 
 in the world) . It kinda feels like half of the game is about driving that undriveable vehicle all 
 over mountanous planets. All in all, I still think this a great game to have if your into the story 
 line of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greg258
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game is great; for me its rare to find a game that can still hold my interest after I've beaten 
 it. The game takes you traveling through the galaxy in a war between human and geth. Wane you start 
 the game you can choose from 6 classis Soldier's are combat specialists, Engineer 's are tech specialists, 
 Adepts are biotic specialists, Infiltrator combine combat and tech abilities, Sentinel combine 
 biotic and tech, Vanguard's are biotic warriors. You can level up each class in your on way by 
 rising stats and assigning Talent points to each character.
  
  One of me favorite things to do in this game is traveling to deferent planets in the galaxy, there's 
 plants were you can visit or just look up information about the planets. The one's you can visit 
 mite have side quest, mysteries or elements were you can explore buy the map with your rover to 
 find geth hide out or find other travelers wasted buy geth or something else leveling on the planet 
 were you can come in contact with. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mythgar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an incredible mix of a third-person shooter and a sci-fi movie. This game can literally 
 feel like you are watching a movie at some points in it. Couple that with awesome game play, and 
 you have an unforgettable experience that RPG fans and even those who aren't should give it a try.
 
  
  The game is a third-person shooter and it does it in a rather unique way. There is a cover system, 
 but it's not very important to utilize the cover unless you're on a harder difficulty. You bring 
 along two squad members to every planet you visit to help you through it. They did a good job on 
 the AI in this game, they will take cover themselves, they know whom to shoot at and they're quite 
 capable of clearing out an entire room by themselves. There are four different guns to choose from, 
 there are also telekinetic powers called biotics, which are available to certain classes that you 
 can choose when you create your character. The use of biotics comes at the cost of less specialization 
 in the weapons. You can also choose a class that specializes in tech and that can be used to decrypt, 
 damp and hack into various locked things. The game play in this game is incredibly fun and highly 
 addictive, my only complaint for it is that I find the vehicle that you must drive for certain 
 parts to be quite badly done. The combat in the vehicle is unsatisfying and the navigation is equally 
 boring.
  
  Mass Effect's graphics are also a force to be reckoned with. They use the same Unreal engine as 
 Gears of War, and it shows through. Though the game suffers from those same problems that Gears 
 does, and when a cutscene comes up it can sometimes take a few seconds for the graphics to properly 
 load. Despite the very small loading issue, the graphics are amazing and the environments are extremely 
 realistic looking and beautiful.
  
  Storyline is almost always the most important part of a game to me, and a good storyline is necessary 
 for me to be able to even finish a game. Mass Effect delivers brilliantly with a story that keeps 
 you guessing until the very end. Okay, so maybe more like an hour before the very end, but still 
 pretty close. The game begins and you have a choice of either being a male or female and you can 
 choose your first name, but either way your last name will remain Shepard, and that is how you 
 will be known to everyone you meet throughout the game. You start out onboard a highly advanced 
 experimental Alliance ship known as the SSV Normandy. You're heading towards a human colony world 
 called Eden Prime to recover a Prothean beacon, when you arrive you find that the world has already 
 been attacked by a species of synthetics called the Geth. I don't want to ruin the story for you, 
 so I won't say anymore but it is the type of storyline that every game strives for, however, unlike 
 countless others who have tried, Mass Effect delivers.
  
  Overall, this is an incredible game and one that everyone should play from start 'till finish. 
 Bioware has made some very good games in the past, but this one tops them all, and is easily one 
 of the best Xbox 360 games to date.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ty232
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Quite simply, of all of the games I have played on the 360, there is no other game which performs 
 at such a high level on in so many different ways. This is a truly fun and interactive universe 
 which has tremendous replayability. The character creation is excellent anyway but really shines 
 on the xbox 360, the graphics really push this game even farther forward than I would have thought. 
 The combat system of this game works really well and is very fun and challenging, and there is 
 the right mix of adventure and action between what your character and party will be doing in the 
 game. There is always something new and different to on each of the primary missions undertaken 
 and with all of the side missions that exist in the game, there is a lot of room to go back and 
 play again because you're probably not going to complete all of the missions the first time around, 
 I know I didn't. I don't really know what else to say, 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 4:42 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Crisp graphic's, brilliant storyline, brilliant characters, brilliant plot, brilliant 
 setting.
  
  The Bad: Some bugs here and there.
  
  I could play this game all day every day for the rest of my life. When I play Mass Effect I half 
 of the time forget that I'm playing a game. I've never played a game with such in depth story. 
 Graphics, the graphics makes you feel like your watching a movie not playing a game because of 
 how crisp the graphics are it's just amazing. Story, this game could entertain anyone for 20 hours 
 at least. This is a really great game to sink your teeth into but be prepared for some bugs, like 
 you go into a corner and you get trapped in an awkward place and your squad is standing right in 
 front of you which is in your way, I'm sure there are a couple more. Definitely add this game to 
 your shopping list, trust me you will not be dissipointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dysehunter
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  So i just completed mass effect and it is an amazing game, visuals and audio but its way too short, 
 it feels like half a game, i dont mean half finished but the experience went way too fast.
  I completed mass effect with all side quests etc on normal difficulty in just over 21 hours, thats 
 including the "Bring Down The Sky" DLC.
  The exploration leaves much to be desired, it almost feels like your nailed to the rails and forced 
 to go certain places even though free roaming is there to a certain point.
  The planets you can explore feel lifeless and barren only having maybe 1 building you can enter 
 usually an underground bunker and a few enemys with pointless objectives.
  The main plot was fantastic but it felt like it was missing something which i couldnt quite pin 
 point exactly, as i said before, seriously too short, so apart from what felt like an abrupt ending 
 i give it 8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hirfel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect has a staggering amount of detailed backstory, an immersive plot, and characters you 
 can get attached to. Its graphics range from the finest I've ever seen to very good; its only noticeable 
 recurring trouble is shadows. The dialog tree is a phenomenal idea, and works like a charm. The 
 music is a really great blend of '80s electronic combined with some darker, more contemporary ambient. 
 It's a soundtrack that may not strike you at first listen, but on the second run through you'll 
 be intoxicated by it. Gameplay may be the game's weakest part, and not by much. It's a basic third 
 person shooter at the core, just with a few skill options and RPG elements thrown in. As a class 
 other than Soldier, you might be relying on those skills more than the guns, but even then it doesn't 
 stray too much from a basic shooter. Overall, it's an extremely memorable game, and for those who 
 care about a good narrative (and that doesn't mean you have to belong to the RPG-cult) , it's probably 
 the best game on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodeen80
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 21, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  So I've been a fan of pretty much everything Bioware has done since Baldur's Gate. Without fail 
 they have released countless great games...... on the PC. This is the first of their games I've 
 tried on my 360 and wow does it suck. This is maybe the most counter intuitive game I've ever played.... did 
 they even consider doing a tutorial for this? There is no instruction on the combat system or your 
 characters powers whatsoever. You are left to figure this out on your own. I've been playing this 
 for a while now and I'm still not sure if my shield boost is doing anything.
  
  This confusion is probably leading to the fact that I am getting my ass kicked in almost every 
 single fight. This is only about three hours into the game. I have to load and reload every fight 
 about 5 or 6 times before I figure out how to beat it. Again.... this is only about three hours 
 into the game. I am getting killed by one shot by just about any enemy..... I'm trying to figure 
 out how this was perceived as fun or entertaining by the staff at Bioware.
  
  The story in this game has potential. Although they stole the design and concept straight from 
 Halo. I'm sure if the gameplay wasn't so horrendous I would be enjoying the space exploration. 
 Anyway.... Hiep this was a bad call.... You can have this one back ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chacarron11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect could have a veeeery long pro-con list, but meh.
  First off, the shooting aspect is very fun. You basically sprint into cover and gun down baddies 
 with whatever gun or magic you choose. Its simple, but that's what makes it fun.
  A quite annoying problem is that this game gives you very few directions. I spend long amounts 
 of time trying to find my way to my destination.
  BUT, when I do find my way, I have huge amounts of fun gunning down the Geth while listening to 
 Avenged Sevenfold, so its usually worth the trouble (Avenged Sevenfold is great shootout music 
 XD)
  I would recommend this game to pretty much anyone with patience who enjoys shooters mixed with 
 rpgs.
  Yes! Its part rpg as well!
  You spend quite a bit of time talking political matters and stuff (I usually skip through it all 
 and let my character say whatever he wants) .
  All in all, a huge game, which would've been a higher grade, had it not made me run around looking 
 so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Markuspunker
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  I just could not get into this game!
  
  I wanted to play this title for ages and just wanted to see what the hype was all about.
  
 
  when first playing the game i got into it, sleek graphics, (so far) good gameplay, voice acting 
 etc, but that dried up after......3 hours? 3 hours of boring chit chat, they run so slow and by 
 the time you get anywhere its "oh, is that the time already?", the controls felt stiff, characters 
 ran slow, which sucked when you had to run from one end of the map to the other until you discovered 
 a place and can use a form of fast travel.
  
  the graphics were nice, ill give it that, but alot of next gen games give up decent gameplay for 
 eye candy. which just doesnt fit the price tag. the combat was very poor, and nine times out of 
 ten your squad would run at the enemy when you order them to hide, im not 100% if it was my ability 
 to play the game, but an order means you do what you're f****** asked! it can get frustrating and 
 for an RPG, combat control and stratedgy are key elements and at times when you were faced with 
 10 enemies just eating you up for breakfast, you had no chance of getting your squad to kill, so 
 while i try to revive them, i end up being killed over and over again. of course i took cover! 
 wish the squad did the same when you ask them too, and when you end up having to fight on your 
 own, you end up running around for ages avoiding physical attacks or spend ages shooting back at 
 an ugly fool at the other end of the map.
  
  I can see why people enjoy the game, but just cant get into it. from its frustrating controls, 
 dodgy combat system, dumb squad members and wondering around in circles and then talking rubbish 
 for even longer, i couldnt get my head round it. Im a fan of RPG's but this one is a game not worth 
 the dosh. 
  
  just proves not all top rated games suit everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xodiac
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  I was pleasantly surprised by Mass Effect. It took me just over a year to finally complete, but 
 the fact that I actually bothered says a lot. It was around 30h in the save game timer. The story 
 and universe of the game are nicely fleshed out and well put together. I loved the retro electronic 
 music score. Graphics were really great as well, and the environments were generally creative and 
 well-designed. Looking forward to the future parts of the trilogy.
  
  The weakest parts were the driving aspects which sometimes dragged on too long, especially with 
 the messy controls for the tank/car (Mako) . Also it wasn't always easy for me to get around in 
 the Citadel. As usual, the console controller is not ideal or precise enough for a FPS or third-person 
 shooter type game, but the fact that you could still hit enemies when "close enough" to targeting 
 worked well in the context of the RPG.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: STO-109
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the funnest RPG's i've played to date. I like the whole space warrior theme that 
 it has and you can make your own desicions. You can go good and be a good guy and uphold citizen 
 rights, or you can go renegade and be a bad guy and do whatever makes you happy whether anybody 
 approves of it or not. A lot of people complain about combat and I dont know why. Its great. From 
 what i've played you have unlimited ammo on all the weapons you find or buy. The only complaint 
 I have about the combat is the cover system. I'm used to the "press a button and automatically 
 get pressed up against the wall" systems. Like Gears of War. But with this it uses a sort of old 
 cover system and its like you run towards a wall until your character presses up against it. Not 
 too bad but I would rather hae the Gears of war cover system any day. The game is about 70+ hours 
 long. I've put like 20 hours into the game and i'm still having a blast. The graphics are spectacular 
 and the different planets you can explore and travel across are mind blowing. But there are more 
 issues... During cutscenes character movement is stiff and feels like they are being forced to move. 
 Sometimes after you load up a saved game the game takes a while to load up textures. It has a noticable 
 lag. Its close to horrific. And sometimes you get stuck into objects such as tables, chairs, etc. 
 Overall this is a good game and I think even with its annoying issues its still worth a go. If 
 your looking for a cheap addicting RPG. Then Look no further. Mass Effect is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antiukguy
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  If the game devs would have put more time into Mass Effect, it could have been one of the greatest 
 of all time, but has some huge flaws that make you ask, What were they thinking?
  
  The Good
  
  - The universe of Mass Effect is very immersing and amazing
  - Cool story and 
 decent setup for sequels
  - Creative races and characters and locations
  - Cutscenes are epic, especially the latter ones
  - Dense amounts of information about explorable 
 planets
  - Good dialogue system. The good versus evil "power" selections in dialogue are very inventive 
 and are a great add in
  - Romance subplot
  - Ability to get to know pretty much every important character in the game pretty well through 
 dialogue
  - The main mission environments
  -Character creation
  -Ability to replay with the same character and keeping stats and inventory is a genius move
  
 -Different character types add great replayability
  -Beautiful graphics compliment the beautiful environments
  
  The Bad
  
  -This game feels 
 like the devs were really ambitious, and then they just got lazy and called it quits and as an 
 effect, the game is deceptively shallow. Many planets are identical, all "dungeons" and hideouts 
 are identical, places like Noveria's port and the Citadel are VERY small environments compared 
 to how they realistically should be.
  -Its curious that, with how advanced the races are, and man, being much further behind the other 
 races and yet still very advanced, that there are only 3 or 4 settlements in other galaxies and 
 Earth and the Citadel both have unbelievably tiny populations compared to what they should logically 
 be.
  - Money has no value
  - Weapons lack variety, and after you get the best weapons 3/4 of the way through money becomes 
 obsolete and the aspect of improving weaponry is gone. This follows through multiple game plays. 
 Weapons that top at X should go to 30.
  -Effects on bullets, weapons, armor, etc. should make more drastic differences and add different 
 abilities. As is, they don't affect strategy and don't make any kind of difference.
  - The tank is a really bad version of the Warthog.
  -Annoying glitches that will frustrate you, 
 like getting out of your vehicle on a slope and not being able to get back to your ship.
  -Boss fights lack anything creative or challenging, simply just shooting the boss
  -Achievements 
 are brutally annoying and require AT LEAST 3 playthroughs which include exploring every nuance. 
 Each playthrough exploring everything takes at least 30 hours, and when half of that goes to driving 
 around on barren and uninteresting landscapes, it is very cumbersome
  -the races of the Hanar, Elcor, and little dudes are introduced early in the game and then completely 
 abandoned after the first 3 or so hours.
  -Trading is the biggest flaw of this game. they make markets but everyone sells the same thing! 
 Make specialty stores and sell things not required for the player. Also, don't make us enter dialogue 
 everytime we want to trade!
  -the shield ability of enemies on harder difficulties is unnecessary and utterly annoying, it shouldnt 
 take 1 mintue to kill an enemy when you are at point blank pumping him full of shotgun lead
  
  I would hope that for 2, they let the player travel to fewer locations, but detail those locations 
 to the fullest. Get rid of the planet exploration if you are going to half *** it. Add depth, let 
 us see the home worlds of other important races (Hanar would be sweet) . Add more weapons and abilities. 
 Eliminate lag and glitches and create a smoother experience
  
  The game devs are certainly capable of making a perfect 10 for Mass Effect 2, they just need to 
 commit and realize their flaws, all of which can be corrected with work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbydog2699
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is easily the best game I've played on xbox 360. Halo is good but gets boring, Gears 
 of War is the same!
  
  Mass Effect always keeps you interested with all the different story plots, classes to choose from, 
 and everytime the game is played events can always occur differently.
  This game cannot be described but must be played. This game is a masterpiece, and has a really 
 good soundtrack.
  This game is awesome and Mass Effect 2 should hopefully be just as good. The Robdog
  
  -Game 
 Favourites
  1. Mass Effect
  2. Halo 3
  3. Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas 2
  
  
  Mass Effect is easily the best game I've played on xbox 360. Mass Effect is easily the best game 
 I've played on xbox 360. Mass Effect is easily the best game I've played on xbox 360. Mass Effect 
 is easily the best game I've played on xbox 360. Mass Effect is easily the best game I've played 
 on xbox 360. Mass Effect is easily the best game I've played on xbox 360. Mass Effect is easily the 
 best game I've played on xbox 360. Mass Effect is easily the best game I've played on xbox 360. Mass 
 Effect is easily the best game I've played on xbox 360. Mass Effect is easily the best game I've 
 played on xbox 360.
  
  I've played approximately 120hrs of Mass Effect. It just doent get old! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shifteeone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  To start off, to FULLY enjoy this game go very easy on the side quests, you might want to skip 
 them all together and not worry about them until your second play through.
  
  I have to say I used to put an incredible amount of stock in Gamespot's rating system they were 
 always tough, but fair. So when i saw Mass efect receive an 8.5 I was actually pretty dissappointed 
 because I find the only games worth paying 60 dollars for hover around 9 and 8.5 is borderline.
 
  
  After taking a risk and picking up this game "irrregardless" I was sucked into a world that actually 
 satisfied the thirst I had for Bioware working on a KOTOR 3. 
  
  The problem as I see it with this game is that when people do the optional side missions they are 
 slowing down the story , the pace of the game, and start to feel like the combat is monotonous. 
 On my second play through I skipped all of that just did the story and realized how unbelievable 
 this game is.
  
  It's simply, play this game an it is a guaranteed good time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CliX098
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This game has a very entertaining storyline with many side missions to make your character more 
 skilled. The side missions usually end kind of interesting. Your party grows as you do different 
 missions. The higher the level you are, the better the weapons you get to buy and use. THe combat 
 in this game is very fun. You have a sniper, pistol, battle rifle, and a shotgun to choose to equip 
 at any time. The sniper obviously best handles from long distances, the pistol is good for close 
 range duck and shoot combat, the battle rifle is best for rapid fire combat, and the shotgun is 
 best for close range instant kill combat. There are many different species of cool looking aliens 
 that all have different personalities. The story line ends good to the plot. I personally think 
 this is one of the best RPGs in the world. I think you should take it for a test run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tajirinere
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  first it's start with the menu that looks awesome then graphics, it doesn't blow you away but it 
 feels right and i really like it. the story is one that really intrigues me and i quickly got lost 
 in the side stories too, some of which provide some kind of information about the world you play 
 in. the controls work fine and i really like the auto target system which makes the game more approachable. 
 like every other RPG upgrading your squad will take a lot of hard work but it all works. there 
 is also lot of background information on practically creature you come in contact with and all 
 this can be seen in your journal. there is a bug, when you enter the interface to upgrade your 
 character you are treated to steady character build up with might take a few seconds. i'm always 
 fascinated by the process so it wasn't really a problem for me
  even as i write this i still don't know why i'm attracted to this game but it's really good and 
 i recommend it to any gamer with an open mind 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathcloud2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  This may be my best xbox360 game and one of the best games i have ever played.
  The graphics are gorgeous and gave the game a very unique atmospere, a space opera feeling. The 
 planets, the spaceships and best of all the species, all look extremely detailed. Too bad the engine 
 doesn't keep up an there is slowdown. Luckily, this is most of the time a static game (as most rpgs 
 are) so the slowdown doesn't affect the experience too much. 
  The sound is very good but there could be used bigger variety of tracks. Overall the music follows 
 nicely your exploration.
  The gameplay is at least interesting. It's nice to see something new and fresh and here the gameplay 
 provides both rpg and shooter elements. As a whole this is an game with unique but generic customization 
 and little challenge.
  Its funny that when i first played the game i thought 'this must be a wonderful game but a little 
 dull'. To be honest i still believe that this game as most wrpgs lack the fan factor that japanese 
 games often have. This and the fact that you need some time to get into the complex universe (to 
 learn the species, the politics, humans role in the galaxy etc.) made me stop playing the game for 
 some time. When i came back in the game after two months i was completely hooked. The story, the feeling 
 of the galaxy, the fresh gameplay, all i found excellent.
  This is a mature game aiming at older audiences, with a very serious and well-written script. It 
 looks chaotic (as it should) but in fact it isn't. Your story is not that big but you have the constant 
 feeling that there are so many things to discover. Of course there are always sub-plots that can 
 make this game far bigger than the main storyline does. The sub-plots in this game are a success. They 
 are small, variant and well rewarded. If you ask me they are a reason i consider this game better 
 to oblivion.
  All in all this is one of the best games, with one of the best worlds in a videogame, a cinematic 
 as long as a static rpg experience that (lets see) will gain more and more possitive reviews as 
 time passes (ign placed it 1 in its xbox360's best 25) . 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: witide
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I thought Mass Effect was supposed to be fun? I loved Knights of the Old Republic, so I waited 
 in anticipation to get the next game from Bioware. Now a year after it's released, I've finally 
 gotten it. But so far, the only good thing I can say about the game is the visuals and audio.
 
  
  I just didn't feel immersed in the game or attached to any of the characters like I usually do. 
 All I know about my main character is the backstory I chose when I created him, which didn't offer 
 much variety anyway. The side characters aren't much better either, although I did find two of 
 them pretty cool. Wrex is badass and I like the Quarian woman, but the others seem so generic. 
 I look back at playing KotOR when I had trouble choosing which two I wanted to accompany me on 
 missions, because they were all so interesting. 
  
  As most people have said, the Mako is terrible. It's a pain to drive, and even worse when I have 
 to use it in combat. I'm not enjoying normal combat that much either. Most of the time I just end 
 up doing the same actions; crouch behind some cover, use a few biotic powers, then shoot everyone. 
 I assume casual combat will be the same but without having to use cover or biotic/tech powers.
 
  
  I'm playing on veteran mode, and so far the only difficult section has been trying not to accidentally 
 drive the Mako into some lava or navigating through the item interface. It's very tedious when 
 I want to select a new armour type or use a different type of weapon. The minimap doesn't present 
 itself that well either. It only shows yourself, enemies, and nearby items of importance. If I'm 
 on a quest and need to go somewhere, I have to bring up the main map and have a look around to 
 guess where I need to go, or walk around until something pops up. It would have been much easier 
 if there was something to show me where to go automatically.
  
  The presentation is excellent though; the visuals are great and still hold up a year later, and 
 the voice acting is superb. Dialogue matches up with the lips and I can clearly see emotions on 
 the faces of people. The music is pretty good as well. Just from the main title, the music had 
 an epic sci-fi feel to it and gave me the impression that this game was going to be spectacular.
 
  
  The game is also very polished and there are plenty of dialogue options. Unfortunately there are 
 just too many. I'd spent a lot of time just listening to people talk and choosing what to say, 
 when the whole conversation could just be summarised in a few lines. All I want to do is listen 
 to a small bit of dialogue, choose good/neutral/evil response, then listen a bit more. I don't 
 want to go in circles of repeating similar lines while waiting for the important piece of information 
 to come up finally. 
  
  The storyline so far doesn't seem to interesting, but I have a feeling that it's going to build 
 up. Right now I'm exploring a few planets trying to find Saren, while completing a few sidequests 
 along the way. The only non-linear gameplay I've stumbled upon i my ability to choose where I want 
 to go first, yet I was told this game presented plenty of choices. Perhaps I've missed them or 
 I have progressed far enough into the story, but they're lacking where I am. 
  
  Of course, I can't just disagree with everybody who has bought the game and loves it. This is just 
 my review and I happen to find the game boring. I feel like the game is keeping my out of the loop 
 and I have to be 100% interested in order to enjoy it. I've played it for a couple of days, but 
 I might give it another go today and see what happens. At this rate though, I will probably end 
 up going out and getting Fallout 3 or Gears of War 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afq2846
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a great game. I have to say that starting out. You play a space marine who has to 
 save the galaxy from an evil enemy. As you play through the game you meet and gain a few members 
 to your party. You get to mix and match who is in your party and all the combinations can make 
 the game interesting. The graphics in this game are good and the music is ok. You talk to people 
 and the selections you chose decide how the game will go. You could go renegade or paragon. Basically 
 good or evil. As you visit various solar systems you get missions and the more missions you do 
 the more powerful you get. You have firepower and you use it with a little magic thrown in. One 
 thing as you go on in the game the missions start to become repetative and you also become too 
 powerful. The missions just become a part of the game and with some of them you just go through 
 the motions. You also get to drive in an armored tank so to speak. That can be difficult but after 
 awhile you get better at it. This is a very good game and at the price no xbox360 should not have 
 it. Buy it its worth it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dancoia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a classic game with brillant graphics fantastic story that really draws you into 
 the game. Mass effect is not your usual bioware game its dead simple to pcik up and level up your 
 guy unlike starwars knights of the republica were you really had to take a while thinking about 
 were you are going to put the points. The auto level feature works really well if your the type 
 of person that justs wants to get back into the action. THe gameplay is dead simple and fune it 
 plays out kind of like gears of war. You can take cover while shooting or you can pause and select 
 who you want to attack then un pause the game. Another great thing is that your character actually 
 speaks unlike other bio ware games were your character just stands there and saids nothing when 
 you select the what you want to say. The acting and diolog are brillant at some points you will 
 be laughing because of the stuff you can say or do. Overall mass effect is game that everyone should 
 like even if you dont like rpgs chances are you will like mass effect its not your ussual rpg. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason320
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  When I started playing this game I was very impressed. I have to say that there was alot of detail 
 in your ship the Normandy and on the first planet you visit (Eden Prime) . After that once you go 
 to the citadel there are alot of people you can talk to and just the option of being able to say 
 what you want is awesome.
  
  After you get your first missions, you go the planets and there is things to do there too and their 
 all different and then theres also different ways to play. You can kill your way in or talk your 
 way in and there is alot of ways to complete your primary missions. 
  
  Also when you start playing you notice that the graphics are very niceand every single character 
 has a different detailed face, not to mention the terrific voice acting and motions. Then theres 
 your galaxy map, all the planets, solar systems and the entire milky way is created so beautifly 
 and there are alot of unique planets.
  
  So this is actually an RPG and it works quite well, because the combat is amazing and the leveling 
 up is good and not like some other RPGs. The only thing i didnt really like is that your equipement 
 would get to cluttered and youd have spend ten minutes selling your 
  guns, upgrades etc that you dont need. 
  
  Another nice thing are your team mates. Their not 
 stupid ai characters their actually smart and will take cover and use their powers and shields 
 usefully to take out your enemies.
  
  Now for the negatives, once you complete or decide to take a break from your primary missions, 
 you have at least 10 if not more hours of side missions. This seems good when you think about it, 
 but not when you actually play it. Some of these missions are on the citadel itself which is the 
 main hub of all your missions and these are ok because none of them are repetitive, but once you 
 do the missions on the other planets thats when it gets repetetive. You will always get drop in 
 your mako which is one of the slowest vehicles you will find in a game, but thats no the point. 
 The point is, is that ever one of these planets are almost exactly the same thing. If you look 
 on your map the layout is the same for all planets. Not to mention some of the buildings you find 
 on these planets are all the same, some with more soldiers than the other, but all look the same. 
 Exactly the same. Another thing is that you cant visit all planets like earth and just talk to 
 people. All the secondary planets you visit there is no one to talk to just kill mercanaries for 
 a side mission that some guy called you to do. 
  
  Also something stupid I saw was when i was reading the description of a planet it says that it 
 is -100 degrees then when you go on it its like a volcanic planet. 
  
  The only planets that are nicely created are the primary ones or the ones your supposed to go on, 
 but all in all this is a great game. With great character design and graphics youll be playing 
 Mass Effect for hours and wont get board and if you do get board you can create your own character 
 and try to make a differnt ending and make this person stay alive and this person dead. Anyway 
 i recomend this game to any 360 owner you wont be dissapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XAOcheez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  I originally bought an Xbox 360 and started gaming to stop watching so much television. I thought, 
 if I was just going to sit on the couch at least I should accomplish something. With that being 
 said Mass Effect satisfies my desire to be entertained, with its endless and captivating dialogue 
 between players, and it satisfied my desire to do something with my life, like save a whole damn 
 galaxy in wicked style. From the very first mission on Eden Prime, you see the detail and time 
 that was put into this game. I was amazed at just the realness of it all, and that is exactly what 
 the Mass effect team was going for. Can you simultaneously create a physical environment that is 
 convincing and a storyline that lives up to the players expectations? In Mass effect that succeeded 
 greatly. The game is just one long mystery unraveling itself as you complete assignments and missions, 
 while you make enemies and make friends. Even though the Citadel section of the game is incredibly 
 time consuming with it optional assignments it really gives you a taste of what galactic life could 
 be like. And truly, it's not that different from our own. Their are politics you have to work through 
 or work around, and religion is present as well. For one assignment, you can either stop an alien 
 creature from preaching, or you can help him by purchasing him a license to do so. In Mass effect 
 you are always presented with a choice. Will you choose to be the nice and considerate representative 
 of humanity, or will you choose to be a trigger happy commander who has no respect for anyone or 
 anything? Both paths will yield different results. As you progress in the game, the videos get 
 more intense and so does the game play as you might have imagined. And I'm not just talking about 
 shooting either, no, your relationships with your crew members become very intense. And even though 
 this is the case, Spectre Shepherd always figures something out. In Mass effect, the galaxy is 
 huge. You can choose to play through the game (took me about 23 hours) or you can spend a lot of 
 your time exploring, earning more points and racking up some awesome achievements. But what is 
 most incredible, is killing weird monsters and **** I mean, who doesn't like completely obliterating 
 a creature they just met? And in Mass Effect there are plenty of things to attack. Shoot them, 
 sabotage them, throw them, blow them up, it doesn't matter. The method of death is your choice. 
 As with any game you learn more and more the longer you play. But in Mass effect you don't just 
 learn about your technical or biotic abilities, you also learn about other alien cultures, and 
 the history behind the universe that put humanity on the map with the rest of civilization. Remember, 
 that not only are you a player, a soldier, or a human; you are a citizen of a greater community, 
 and you are actively involved for better or for worse. From the citadel, you'll move onto Feros, 
 Noveria, Vermire, and finally to Ilos. These worlds are absolutely beautiful, but they have even 
 more dangerous things to fight and accomplish, so be sure to save your game often. From the beginning 
 you will move ever closer to defeating Saren, the rogue Turian spectre behind your main problem. 
 Let it be said, that this is a very satisfying encounter. And when your done you do it all again 
 at your current level. I do recommend downloading gamespot's guide though. It proved very useful. 
 So if you think you have what it takes to make it in the Alliance, if you can make some tough decisions 
 and live with the consequences then Mass Effect is the game for you. If you want to save a universe, 
 and experience beauty and terror you never have before then Mass Effect is the game for you. If 
 you're ready to be totally immersed in kicking some serious alien ass, and if making love is kind 
 of your thing, then humanity needs you. The universe is calling for its next hero. Yes, I hear 
 the calling and I will answer. Will you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrozenLiquid
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect, the game to break all RPG conventions, and the game to take BioWare from legendary 
 status to god-like, was released in November 2007. Did it become the new king of role-playing, 
 or does it slip up space?
  
  The game takes place in the 22nd Century, where mankind has found ancient Mass Relays, subsequently 
 advancing their technology by 200 years. We have also discovered that we are not alone, and through 
 a muddy history, have joined other alien species under the "Citadel Council", a galactic government 
 ruling a large chunk of the Milky Way. The actual story begins as you, Shepard, investigate the 
 human colony of Eden Prime which has recently unearthed a Prothean Beacon. Through a few personal 
 revelations, you realize that another government agent, Saren, is plotting against all living creatures, 
 and to make matters worse, you're the only one that knows it.
  
  The story is told very well, with exceptionally choreographed cutscenes and well delivered lines. 
 Believe me when I say this, though, that the plot is very, very typical. In fact, it feels like 
 a "greatest hits" collection of all previous science fiction and space opera. Whereas other games 
 like "Half-Life" and "Halo" put a twist on the "1984" and "Alien" plots respectively (so much so 
 you don't really notice them) , Mass Effect's influences stick out like a sore thumb. Not to give 
 anything away, but you will see elements of Battlestar Galactica, Invasion of the Body Snatchers, 
 and another certain sci-fi/fantasy universe BioWare has dabbled in before. As a literary and film 
 enthusiast, perhaps I've been jaded by my adoration for science fiction, but nevertheless I was 
 thoroughly disappointed with Mass Effect's plot and setting. To make matters worse, the story arc 
 is tied up quickly and abruptly, but not before screaming out "sequel!" just as the credits start 
 to roll.
  
  What I like about BioWare is that their games are genuinely fun and addicting for being video games, 
 not interactive cinema. Both combat and non-combat gameplay have been some of the best the genre 
 has ever seen, from Baldur's Gate all the way to Jade Empire (the latter being the action precursor 
 to Mass Effect) . That being said, Mass Effect's game-play is fun and enjoyable. What it is not 
 is the best the genre has ever seen. First up is the skill trees: it's standard RPG fare, and both 
 the combat and non-combat skills you use will genuinely see you increase in level and power. Paragon 
 and Renegade, essentially the Light and Dark side of the Mass Effect universe, help define your 
 character. What is a bit of a bother as a veteran gamer though, is that you can max both Paragon 
 and Renegade skills, which renders character definition obsolete. Next is combat: it's fun, but 
 from the small corridors to the Mako, everything feels off. It wants to be an action game, but 
 it has the makings of a RPG. BioWare did not mix this well. More often than not I was pulled down 
 because I needed a reflexive skill on the level of a shooter, but instead I was trying to rely 
 on the skills that I had buffed. Really, could I be blamed for expecting some RPG-esque game? Jade 
 Empire gets off the hook for not being too reliant on reflex, but Mass Effect did not heed Empire's 
 warning, and thus, it suffers.
  
  Another problem with the game is the dialogue system. BioWare have always been at the forefront 
 of dialogue-trees in the RPG genre, but unfortunately, the promised evolution did not come. In 
 fact, it takes a step back. Playing the game several times I have noticed that there are some branches 
 that quite literally give you the illusion of choice. Some branches, all with different levels 
 of disposition, lead to the same answer coming from Shepard, and not even affecting your character 
 or any other character for that matter. Technical limitations of the 360? Take of it what you will, 
 but I felt cheated of my time invested in building my character. 
  
  At least the presentation is fantastic. Technically, the game stands. It has a few pop-in and loading 
 issues, but it's some of the best graphics the 360 has seen. The art direction is also commendable. 
 It's a damn fine sight to admire the beauty of a dangerous, young planetoid, complete with large 
 celestial bodies in close orbit. A few copy/paste planets and buildings mar the overall experience 
 though. The sound is also variable, from the generic and forgettable sounds of weapons to the fantastic 
 harsh winds of the planet Noveria. The voice acting is some of the best games have ever seen, but 
 it is the sensational musical score that takes the cake. If there is one thing Mass Effect will 
 be remembered for, it's the original, inventive synths of Jack Wall (he is to Myst what Marty O'Donnell 
 is to Halo) .
  
  Mass Effect is a highly enjoyable title, and you will play it at least more than once. Despite 
 this, there are a few core elements that hinder it from being a title of general excellence. As 
 a game that essentially tries to meld a history of stories and a history of video games, it is 
 hard for any one person to objectively critique Mass Effect. So it is up to you, ultimately, to 
 decide where it stands.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DARKESTxNME
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of the most memorial game I played...
  
  I bought this game 2 weeks after it came out, I was worry about the story, gameplay and the bugs 
 but what the heck ? I risk it...
  
  The story impacts so dramatically, powerful it reminds me the time of FF7. The story really gets 
 to the point and really changes the perspective of gaming including the dialogue selection. The 
 Galaxy of Mass Effect is gorgeous, including the graphics. 
  
  Gameplay is phenomenal and outstanding, if you played Bioware's past games like KOTOR or Jade Empire, 
 you know what I'm talking about. Customize your character, Male/Female and pick your background 
 information and change the interface of the story. For newcomers including RPG Fans your in for 
 a treat. The controls are good but a bit of getting use too including the vehicle... When you get 
 into combat, its similar to GoW, which is a good thing and im glad they put over the shoulder camera 
 interface....
  
  Now the cons which i hate the most...
  
  The games suffers from famerate issues and bugs, it gets a bit annoying, you get money easily, 
 you basically find and afford anything quickly, checkpoints need some work (always save game) , 
 and the story just falls short, around 13hrs (plus side quest 40hrs) 
  
  but dont worry about the cons, the story makes up for it. If your a kind a player that likes shooters 
 and RPG, you missing out something special, this goes for you players that want to give it a shot! 
 its worth it...
  Mass Effect change gaming in my perspective including the perfect voice acting and the engrossing 
 story. 
  After you beat this incredible game, you will want more and more. Can't wait for the sequel....
 
  
  Mass Effect is a Masterpiece.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdader
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a great game. Probably the most remarkable thing about this game is its gameplay. 
 It's an original mix of thrid-person shooter action with a touch of rpg style combat. The story 
 seems to start like a bit of a cliche story but gets more engaging the further you get through 
 the game. The graphics of the game look great and the facial animations are incredible. They greatly 
 help to establish a connection between you and the characters. Also helping this is the terrific 
 voice acting. Every character is voiced spot on. The worlds you go on all look amazing and, at 
 least the planets where the main missions are held, are all varied.
  Probably the greatest flaw with this game is its art direction. All the items in the game look 
 very similar. Almost all different shotgun types look the same, only with a different coat of paint. 
 Same goes for all the weapons. The armor's between species all look really cool, but after a while 
 they just start looking a bit bland. Same goes for most of the planets of the game. The interiors 
 of these planets aren't very varied either. This drags down the game more than you would think.
 
  Apart from that flaw though, mass effect is really enjoyable and if you're a fan of a good story 
 or an rpg fan, I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil93
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Hi My name is Khalil and i'm here to start my review about 360's great shooter Mass effect. Well 
 for starters the game have a great story line it leads you right into the story so you won't miss 
 something tyhe voice overs are great the Joker is played by Seth Green really great next was the 
 shooting gameplay which was also amazing my choice of the best weapon was the shot gun and the 
 pistol because both packed a lot of power as you was shooting the enemies in the game also the 
 names for everything was tremendous such as the Geth, the husk, the Krogans ect. Mass Effect is a 
 tremendous game that you will start over maybe like 4 times because it has so much excitement as 
 the game goes on so if you are looking for a great classic shooter pick up Mass Effect for your 
 360 sense this game gave me so much to do I am giving Mass Effect a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreadedsniper
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't wait for this game to come out immediately after I heard of it. I love all biowares 
 rpg's and this is there best yet. The game is full of great plot twists and explosive action sequences 
 all throughout the game. It never fails to deliver fun. It is the perfect rpg. Fans of shooters, 
 action and rpg's all can enjoy this game. Its like a rpg hybrid. A shooter with an amazing and 
 gripping storyline that will keep you hooked the entire way. If you have a 360 or a computer that 
 will run it buy this game its well worth the money. The replay value is probably the best of any 
 game i've ever played. You literally can play up to five times through and have the same amount 
 of fun. The reason is because there are so many choices within the game that effect the end outcome 
 and who survives within your party/team. This is the best rpg bar none! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jc0682
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a game that, overall delievered what it promissed. Sure, they took out some of the 
 things promissed (Like dynamic cut scenes, controlling your party members) , but this game still 
 feels fresh, innovative, and it's a lot of fun to experience...
  
  There are some bad points: Boring side quests, horrible inventory management, too few equipment 
 upgrades...
  
  But, knowing this, you can only be pleasantly surprised but what Mass Effect excels at... while 
 it fails in certain areas, what it brings to the table far surpasses 90% of what games have to 
 offer out there today...
  
  - The cut scenes are fully acted out... 
  - You get to make dramatic decisisons in the story line... (and every choicre is FULLY ACTED OUT) ...
 
  - The graphics are stellar... 
  - Combat is A LOT OF fun...
  - Ashley is hot lol
  
  
  You HAVE TO try this game... It might not make your top 10 of all time... but it definitly 
 sets the bar for next gen games... It is truly groundbreaking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smalls5
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Ok i have to say this game is amazing. i just randomly bought it one day and i was not disappointed. 
 The story is a pretty complex and original one. i wont ruin it for any of you but it is so original 
 and great. the combat is also very well designed. the weapons are pretty nice and the powers and 
 changin weapons is easy to use. the shootin itself is pretty fun because the sound effects are 
 so good. the guns sound like none ive ever heard. and i hav to giv bioware props for the virtual 
 universe they did such a good job of creating. there are so many different systems and planets 
 you can explore. this game is very very good. the story really hooks u in and the combat, visuals, 
 and everything is so well put together. if you havnt ever played this game at least rent it youll 
 be doing yourself a favor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B1G_DADDY
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  The game we have here is the best RPG for the 360 ever, and to most the best 360 game. Out of all 
 the games i've ever played this is one the few I gave a perfect score. The reason being, it is 
 just amazing. It is not your normal RPG, it is more like a 3rd person shooter with an RPG mixed 
 with it, and that's perfectly fine. Personally I love 3rd person shooters, RPGs, FPSs and action 
 games. You start out the game as Commander Shepard, totaly customizable, Shepard can either be 
 mle or female, after you pick the gender, you make the appearence, there is hundreds of options 
 to chose from. I picked Shepard male with the default settings, shaved hair with a scar right above 
 his forehead, you can also pick the scars. Default female is an older women, about 40, with brown 
 hair down to her shoulders. after you pick the appearence, you give your character a back story, 
 it may seem like it's just for show but it changes how people interact with you, I picked spacer, 
 which is where your parents were both in the navy and you enlisted when you were 18. Whatever you 
 pick also gives you extra side-missions, I don't know of much but I do know if you pick a backstory 
 where your parents are still alive, you get a mission where you meet your parents old friend, now 
 a drunk. The battle system gives you four weapons, a pistol, shotgun, assault rifle, and a sniper. 
 You give upgrades to your weapons, and you can change your weapons, the best weapons come around 
 level 50 - 60. When you level up you will have a certain amount of points to add to the abilities 
 you have from your class. The class i picked was "Soldier," mainly because i'd rather have stronger 
 weapons than tech or biotic power, tech lets you hack enemies and places that are locked for treasure. 
 Thats when you get the strongest weapons and armor. There's also differen't allies, you get your 
 first four early, and the fifth one comes near the end of the game. ( I don't think she's that 
 good though. ) The party i use is Wrex and Garrus, Wrex is very good with weapons and also has 
 tech powers, he's a very balanced character. Garrus is good with weapons as well, and he has biotic 
 powers, he also lets you open anything locked if you can complete the code, if you fail the code, 
 you will have to buy it out with omni-gel, which is only used to unlock anything locked. You get 
 it by anything locked and you can also get it by reducing useless weapons to omni-gel, but it is 
 most of the time bettet to sell weapons. Money is also easy to get after a couple hours of side-missions, 
 and you are almost at your max items, go to your ship, and sell everything if your full and you 
 sell all useless items, you will have a couple million dollars, $9,999,999 is the max you can get 
 and it is easier to get than it looks. Your ship can go to any planet that is open, and there's 
 usually only one planet per galaxk and there's about 50 clusters in the game, so there's plenty 
 to keep you occupied. the only real downside, is the mako, your vehicle when on regular planets, 
 besides the main quest planets, it isn't that accurate, you have to be on the same level or higher 
 to hit the person with the turret, the handling could be better as well. The game is kind of short 
 if you only do the main quest, about 10 - 15 hours, but the real fun comes from side-missions, 
 if you complete all the side-missions you will have 40-45 hours, and just imagine doing 45 hours 
 5 times befre it gets boring, depending on how you act, you will get paragon or renegade points, 
 they're just for show, but if you have maxed out renegade or paragon you get an achivement for 
 completing the majority of the game, 15 - 30 GP I can't remember exactly how much. The point is, 
 Mass Effect is one of the greatest RPGs ever and one of the best 360 games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIOJECT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  Great solid story that is rare in the gaming market. 
  
  The gameplay takes a little getting used to, but it's 
  really fun once you get the hang of it. 
 My only issue gameplay-wise is that I wish there were more powers and weapons to choose from. I 
 don't like how you can basically max out all stats by the end of the game leaving no room for replayability 
 to try out unused powers. It's very different from Kotor 1 and 2 where you were very limited on 
 which skills and powers you could max out.
  
  Unfortunately there is one major gripe I have with this game because it was practically the selling 
 point the game developers were using, interruptable conversation. I don't know what went wrong 
 in the development process, but somehow this awesome feature went from being shown off in trailers 
 to nonexistance.
  
  Following on the subject of conversations, I think the game suffers a bit for having high quality 
 voice acting and yes and voice acting is really good. The problem is that there seems to be a lot 
 less dialogue choices than in games like Kotor 1 & 2 because EVERYTHING in Mass Effect had to be 
 dubbed for the reading challenged. 
  
  I think this is a must buy from the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xid32
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  This game took my breath, when i first got playing it, I was blown away by the game, it was just 
 great. 
  
  Basically you start off as (your name) Shepard , there is the typical "save the universe" story, 
 but it is so much more, the story alone will keep you coming back for more. Your choices affect 
 what you want to do in the future, your stats I. E.  etc will alter 
 alot of the parts of the game, at some points, the persuasion/intimidation stats really come in 
 handy.
  
  you will NOT enjoy this game if you enjoyed 25 to life, a basic understanding of story-telling 
 is required to play this game (The gamer illiterate specifically) was ignored in this game, which 
 is good, since look what happened to spore when they targeted that audience.
  
  The visuals: id give it a 8.5-9/10 , at times textures load in akwardly, or you see some spots 
 that could use some work..... but the in-engine conversations are great, you can see every wrinkle 
 on rex's face, and the explosions were done well.
  
  The audio: The music is outstanding, the sound effects are also amazing, one of the best soundtracks 
 for a game i've heard.
  
  
  the gameplay: 8.5/10 great for the most part, at times the aiming seems clunky for close range, 
 and blind-firing would of been great if it was included in this game.
  
  the story: 10/10 one of the best of 2007 AND 2008, the story just kept me up until 2 AM sometimes 
 just for me to see what happens next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bl4ckh34rt
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Games set in the future often tend to repeat themselves: it's always man vs. alien or man vs. machine 
 or something like that. While Mass Effect ties into these themes, it does so in a way that hasn't 
 been done before. It's like Halo meets Knights of the Old Republic. The idea of customizing your 
 own character from appearance to historical background and everything in between has rarely, if 
 ever, been seen in a game. You basically pave your own road. There is a central objective, yes, 
 but you get it done the way you want to. You can either be the model citizen or a complete *sshole. 
 The choice is yours.
  Which leads me to the development of the characters. To the guys at BioWare, I commend you. Games 
 like this one usually don't get so deep into the supporting characters. Each member of the crew 
 has his or her own background and personality. How well you get to know them is up to you. You 
 can even choose to pursue a romantic relationship with one (or more) of them if you want. Once 
 again, the choice is yours. 
  The voice acting is pretty on-point. I mean, it should be when you have the voices of Keith David 
 and Seth Green among others (not so much the latter, no disrespect to Mr. Green) . The musical score 
 is fitting for the situation, and some of it is almost movie-esque. The gameplay flows smoothly 
 from combat to casual, probably because of the accessibility and ease of use of your weapons. Simply 
 equip, point, pull, and repeat steps two and three as needed. Sure the weapons are basic, but they 
 get the job done. If you want, you might not even have to use your guns. Depending on the character 
 class you choose at the beginning, you might have biotic, "force-esque" abilities such as push 
 or lift that grow stronger as you progress. So you either perforate your enemies or go Jedi on 
 them, or both (sorry, lightsaber not included) . 
  To wrap up my (lengthy) review of Mass Effect, it's smooth, immersive, and has great replay value. 
 Definitely worth every penny.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recon807
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect for the Xbox 360 reviewed by Matt.
  
  PRESENTATION:
  
  Audio: 8.5/10
  +Great, especially when in surround sound.
  -Glitches are rare, but not rare enough to miss.
 
  
  Music: 8/10
  +Very nice soundtrack, but nothing mind-blowing.
  
  Visual: 9.5/10
  +Stunning graphics, and some damn near perfect lighting effects.
  -Some very minor frame-rate 
 issues.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  +Very good controls for a game that is RPG first, shooter second.
  +Huge replay value.
  +Tons 
 of items such as armor and weapons to collect.
  +Squad-mates are very helpful and behave well.
  
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Story: 9/10
  +Very 
 original and involves many unique characters and locations.
  +Presentation of the plot is very cinematic.
  -Most side missions lack depth.
  
  OVERALL: 
 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRunner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Well i reckon Mass effect is worth more than an 8.5, i picked it up for $50 and its worth every 
 cent. Once you start playing you can't stop. The battles are great fun and i always wanted to shoot 
 some more baddies basically its everything an RPG should be. Great boss fights, leveling up in 
 the way you want to mould your characters, Biotics and the one engineers use are like magic from 
 old style rpgs, Heaps of armour, guns, money
  And a great cast of characters with their own story lines, when in the elevators they make conversation 
 with each other. the only real bad thing was the Inventory menu and the long elevators other than 
 that pure genius.
  
  so yes bioware are the kings of RPG's and cannot be stopped. I personally think what they are going 
 to do with the second one, story wise it wont be hard for bioware gameplay im sure they wont change 
 up too much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wallenstein_155
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  With the respect BioWare has had for RPGs in the past, it is easy to see that they continue with 
 fantastic storytelling and RPG elements in Mass Effect. For the story, this game has one of the 
 best stories in a videogame to date. While some may say that is not as epic as that of the first 
 KoTOR or Bioshock, as the first in a trilogy it does a fantastic job of introducing the major characters 
 and the overall plotline while still entertaining the player. The cutscenes are top-notch, and 
 the voice acting is incredible; no cheesy dialogue, and each cutscene feels like watching a movie. 
 These elements plus a great storyline add up to the best cinematic experience in video games to 
 date.
  
  Another positive from this game is how the choices you make determine the outcome of the story 
 and characters. Of course, this has been a staple in BioWare games, and it does not lack at all 
 in Mass Effect. The player can range from the ever-loved hero of the galaxy to the Jack Bauer (you 
 are an **** but you get the job done) of the universe. If you prefer neither of these, you can 
 take the straight neutral approach, but the outcomes of certain scenes and dialogues may not be 
 as satisfying. The combat will appease most FPS players, though on harder difficulties more than 
 just running in and blasting everything that moves will be needed to beat the game. With that in 
 mind, this is not an FPS, but an RPG with a shooting element. In order to successfully complete 
 the game (again, especially on harder difficulties) the player will need to combine both simply 
 shooting the enemy and making combinations of biotic and/or tech attacks. The biotic attacks closely 
 resemble force powers from Star Wars, whereas the tech abilities would be equivalent to a hacker 
 or some sort. All of the classes play differently, which allows several playthroughs of the game. 
 Whether you want to go all combat with the soldier, all biotic or tech with the biotic and engineer, 
 respectivelly, or combinations of all three with the other three classes, it is entirely up to 
 you. While the game itself sets the bar for storytelling and cinematic appeal, what does keep it 
 from being completely masterful is in its other parts. It seems that the "open-world" aspect had 
 gotten the short-end of the stick, with almost all side quests being repetitive and sometimes dull. 
 The lack of creativity in the side quests' planets bring down this aspect too, with every secondary 
 planet containing 3 common things: a debris of some sort, an anomaly of some sort, and a building 
 or place relating to the quest. These quest related places seem to be rather small and desolate, 
 with every side quest taking you to some barren planet with barely any signs of life. A change 
 of pace would have been to create some planets with these side-quests that had more liveable atmospheres. 
 Create a couple of places like Noveria, one of the main quests planets, in which maybe you had 
 to pick up a package and deliver it to someone, rather than the repetitive shoot-kill-receive your 
 reward-mission.
  
  The squad command in combat tends to be rather weak as well. The player would be better off just 
 keeping your squadmates with you, rather than try to use tactics in movement to acheive victory. 
 In most cases, splitting up really isn't the greatest of ideas (especially if you are by yourself 
 and have a Geth Destroyer barreling towards you, trust me) and, excluding the power and weapons 
 tab, there is not really many options of what to do with your squadmates, other than have them 
 follow you or stay in some spot.
  
  There tends as well to be small graphical hiccups, more noticeable during cutscenes. I suggest 
 freeing up some space on your harddrive, because that seemed to keep these load-in problems to 
 a minimum. Overall, however they shouldn't distract you from playing the game.
  
  Overall, Mass Effect is a must-have for any Xbox 360 owner, and is the beginning of a story and 
 franchise that will have plenty more to come in the future. It has opened a new universe in sci-fi, 
 enough to stand among the Star Wars, Star Trek, Halo, Fallout, and countless other sci-fi universes 
 in both cinema and video games. In fact, this game contains the best of both worlds: cinema and 
 video games.
  
  When the release of Mass Effect 3 comes, will countless numbers of people be waiting in line dressed 
 as Quarians, Turians, and Asari just as those who wait for Star Wars movies will? With the success 
 of this game, it is doubtful it won't happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Salt_360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  I loved it. The customisation is great, the story is good and the dialogue is great too! 
  
  First off the story, you have to bring down Saren - some alien who is trying to destroy the 
 universe. And you go through plenty of missions trying to catch him, the council keep saying he's 
 good, but you prove to them he isn't. I coudln't say anymore unless you wanted the story revealed!
 
  
  Customisation is great. Different armor for each classes, different weapons aswell. The customisation 
 at the start is fun, I just managed to make a look-a-like.
  
  Dialogue is amazing! You can choose what you feel like saying to people, whether nice or naughty 
 XD This makes you feel like you're in the game.
  
  That's all I can say. Buy it if you like cinematic and intense single player games, trust you'll 
 like it! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoldFlame0
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect does so many things right, but unfortunately at the end of it all, it leaves you feeling 
 a bit unsatisfied. A very immersive RPG with amazing graphics from the fantastic BioWare, the people 
 who brought us the great Knights of the Old Republics (KOTORs) . Just knowing BioWare has another 
 RPG is exciting in itself. Fortunately, just like KOTOR did, Mass Effect brings a lot to the Sci-Fi 
 RPGs. With a great story that is told wonderfully through great animations and pretty decent voice 
 acting, though the main character is a bit lacking in emotion, it's not something that should be 
 missed.
  The battling isn't really anything spectacular, but it is still fun and doesn't get too repetitive 
 by the end of the game. With your biotic powers and arsenal of weapons at hand, battles can be 
 played out in numerous ways, depending on how you choose to develop your character, which is one 
 of the strongest points of the game.
  Creating a character is so detailed that you can give your character their own background, which 
 will be brought up in the game, and people will react differently to you depending up which back 
 story you choose. Traveling to so many different planets is a great trip, even though the actual 
 on-planet game play can get kind of boring after a bit, it doesn't take away from the game at all. 
 The only sad thing is, you don't get to travel to all the different planets, which is understandable 
 given how much extra space that would take up and how much more time it would take. There are hundreds 
 of side-quests to do, and hundreds of people to interact with, and with so many unique and creatively 
 made characters in the game, it never gets old. The artwork is amazing, the scenery often has you 
 staring in awe.
  Mass Effect is a great story, and at the end, leaves you wanting more, in the best way possible. 
 The replay value is amazing because of how many ways you can create a character, and upping the 
 difficulty is a great way to get that challenge some may want. Mass Effect is definitely a great 
 game to have in your arsenal if you're a fan of great RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteghost0615
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect was a very looked foward to game. I searched the internet for game play videos day 
 in and day out. I usually like to wait for games to get to a cheap point at gamestop, and when 
 i finally bought the game i played it. This game is quite fantastic. The fighting is intense ( 
 once you figure out what your doing ofcourse) . There is plenty of variety all over this game. But 
 i have alot to complain about. The number one thing i don't like is the stupid elevators. They 
 are absolutly every where, and they take forever. They all move about the same speed regardless 
 of the distance they have to travel. And that speed is slow. The elevators are the reason this 
 game has such a huge game time level. Another thing is that i still have not been able to figure 
 out an easy way of remembering who is who, and if i like them or not. There are so many names its 
 rediculous. Its like the game developers expected you to remember each persons name and the mission 
 they gave the minute you are done talking to them. Now i know that the only way to do this is to 
 search through your journal all the time, but that gets old especially when all the assignments 
 and missions start piling up. I got through about 3 levels and then decided to take on the assignments. 
 I've only been taking on the ones that i know won't be a geth superior assignment, you know things 
 like the two crime lords that lead to the third crime lord (Which i chose to kill her, Whoo Haa 
 Renegade all the way Biatch!) But when it comes time to go to the next assignment you have to search 
 through the journal find what you want to do, remember the cluster name and the system name, and 
 if you forget then you need to exit back out and look through the journal again. Also you do more 
 traveling in this game than anything else. I would have liked to change that, or maybe make the 
 running and driving and flying a little more exciting, like maybe flight videos when ever you come 
 into a cluster or come to a planet. That would be nice, also i wish that some assignments like 
 the fan in the citadel, would go away, it keeps telling me what could it hurt if i talk to him, 
 so i talk to him, and the mission is still there. BTW, if any one knows how to fix that guy let 
 me know, he is quite the creeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is, without a doubt, a necessity for every 360 owner. Its story is unpredictable, its 
 visuals are stunning, and its replay value is limitless. What's better, you can choose your own 
 path, to follow the kind, charitable path of the Paragon, or choose to rebel against your superiors 
 and choose an independent path as a Renegade. Your decisions are what ultimately decide your fate 
 and the ending of the game, so your choices over time will eventually determine the outcome of 
 the game.
  
  The game is an RPG, meaning you'll find new party members that have their own talents and skills, 
 and you'll also level up over time, improving your health, combat, and other skills. What makes 
 this RPG different from others is its combat. The game works exactly like a third person shooter, 
 and when you encounter enemies, one quick button press draws your weapon. This makes it easy for 
 players to swich from idle to combat mode. 
  
  If you played any of Bioware's previous titles such as Knights of the Old Republic, you know just 
 what to expect as far as your powers go. Overtime, once you've gained enough experience, you can 
 momentarily pause combat to activate a power that you have obtained by leveling up. These powers 
 can make your weapon more accurate, heal your defeated teammates, or sabotage opponents using tech 
 or biotic skills. It adds a brilliant twist to the combat, and works extremely well.
  
  The music of Mass Effect sounds typical sci-fi and fits right in during climactic battles and epic 
 cutscenes. The sound effects are also incredibly realistic.
  
  The graphics are great, but occasionally it can take a few seconds for textures to load, which 
 is a minor problem, but certainly doesn't go unnoticed whenever you enter a new area. Luckily it 
 doesn't interfere with the framerate too much, or the overall gameplay, so it isn't that big of 
 a deal.
  
  Mass Effect is a brilliantly executed game with a gripping and interactive story, stellar gameplay, 
 and excellent music. If you don't already own Mass Effect, you should make it a priority, since 
 it truly is one of the best games on the Xbox 360.
  
  Story: 9.8
  Graphics: 9.4
  Gameplay: 9.6
  Sound: 9.7
  Replay Value: 9.7
  
  FINAL SCORE: 9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ftmoauron42
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  I initially played this game on medium as a Vanguard (a somewhat odd mixture between a soldier 
 and a user of biotics, which kind of reminds me of the force) . This was a mistake. Firstly, the 
 battles in this game tend to get more and more unpredictable the higher the difficulty. Secondly, 
 while you would think it would be good to be able to use weapons and biotics, it turns out that 
 you never tend to get tend to get very good with either of them. I ended up quitting this and stopped 
 playing this game for a while because I was getting so frustrated.
  
  The second time I played through I tried the game on easy as a soldier. A soldier can use all weapons, 
 effectively making them the most powerful and versatile class in the game. By this point, I had 
 decided that balance was no longer important, as the game would either be too easy or too hard. 
 I knew the story was going to be great, and thats really what kept me going.
  
  That's not to say the gameplay wasn't good. It was, it's just that on normal difficulty, the game 
 tended to fluctuate between difficulty in the various battles. Because of this, I would often blow 
 through most of a mission only to get killed in an instant when I walked into a rather small group 
 of enemies (I put "just right" for the difficulty because I had to put something) . The game isn't 
 impossible, it's just annoying, and I really don't have time to spend sitting in battle waiting 
 for my health to regenerate or walking back to where I got killed.
  
  This raises another interesting concern. Save often. This has always been an issue with RPGs and 
 I'm beginning to doubt it will ever go away. I cannot express in words the pain involved in having 
 to do half a mission over again because the boss suddenly killed you right at the end. Just save 
 as much as you can.
  
  One of the most intriguing things about the game is the galaxy. The game allows you to travel to 
 several different systems in the Milky Way and in each of those systems, several different planets. 
 Without going into the specifics of the story, I will only say that it is a bit disappointing that 
 you only end up having to travel to a handful of these planets and systems in the main storyline. 
 Additional missions take you to other planets for fairly short instances and you can't even land 
 on most of the other planets. Still, the game is vast, with each planet displaying unique characteristics 
 and it's own story.
  
  Speaking of story, Bioware has yet again outdone itself in this game. The story is great. It feels 
 inspired by various science fiction classics. It includes political, racial, and romantic intrigue. 
 All the characters are well thought out, each with there own back story, demeanor, and opinions. 
 The story itself is somewhat linear at points, but usually only when you're ready to proceed. It's 
 also great in the fact that you get to make decisions as to what happens. This effects many things, 
 ranging from your character to who lives and who dies. It's great because it makes you make decisions 
 you don't want to and you feel like you really had some control over what happened.
  
  The music in this game was the best soundtrack in any game that year. It felt heavily influenced 
 by classic soundtracks from other science fiction stories while still maintaining itself as a completely 
 original composition.
  
  The graphics in the game are some of the best in gaming. This is especially apparent in that the 
 cutscenes, from what I remember, were all done with the in-game graphics. Everything in the game 
 looks great, from the well-developed landscapes to the unique species that you work with and against. 
 I will mention that there are slight visual glitches every so often, but these are completely forgivable.
 
  
  I recommend anyone into gaming play this game all the way through because it is an original, amazing 
 accomplishment not only in gaming, but in storytelling in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brother_Tevis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I was thinking, wow, I'm gonna love this game beyond belief. Sadly, I didn't. Now that's not to 
 say I didn't like it, because I did, I think it's an excellent game. However, it just didn't do 
 it for me. I still haven't beaten it, and I've had it for almost a year now. I loved the concept, 
 to me it seemed like it was going to be an ultra version of KotOR, and I absolutely love those 
 games. But the game doesn't stick. It feels to repitive. Exploring systems get's boring after awhile, 
 since most of the planets you land on look the exact same, with different lighting and colors. 
 The combat is fun, but also gets a bit boring, using abilites was a little to sluggish and convoluted 
 for me, it just didn't come as easily as I think it should have. I do think they did a great job 
 with making it very diverse conversationally, and storyline-wise (though I would've liked to see 
 more diversity with the armor and weapons, it felt like everything looked the same, only with different 
 colors) . In short, yes, I did like this game a lot, I think it was great. But it wasn't everything 
 I thought it was going to be, and fell a little to short in some areas for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boricua01
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is just absolutely amazing. Some of the great features are: The story of mass effect 
 is simply incredible, it draws you in and it is very compelling. Since you can choose what you 
 want to say in the game, it even draws you more into the story as seeing what you say and do can 
 change the events that unfold. The option to make your character and to make it look like you makes 
 you feel a part of the story along with a phenomenal story; it also has very good graphics. Everything 
 looks so nice and sharp in the game. The diverse landscapes on the game at very nice. The character 
 stats and customization in the game are very diverse. There are many categories in which you can 
 select to upgrade your character. Your skill categories depend on which class you choose at the 
 start. Each class has its own special abilities and only some classes can use certain guns. For 
 example, an infiltrator can only use a sniper rifle and a pistol while a biotic can only use a 
 pistol. But the biotic can use telepathy to lift or throw enemies while a sniper cannot. So depending 
 on which class you choose, you will be able to do different things. But you can have up to 2 squad 
 member with you out of the total six team members excluding yourself. Each one has different abilities 
 in which you can use to help you in combat. Also taking a certain squad members on certain missions 
 will change the plot of events. Besides the main story events, there are also side missions in 
 which you can do. These are a great way to receive exp and paragon/renegade points. The paragon 
 and renegade points are points in which you earn by choosing what you say and choosing what to 
 do. These points determine if you're more of a rouge good guy or a straight forward good guy. There 
 is so much more but I will not make a super long list of the stuff so to summarize it, this is 
 a Must won for Xbox 360 and personally one of my favorite games of all time. Has a great replay 
 value and you will spend lots of hours playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. If you've just fired it up, and your feeling a bit let down as it just doesn't 
 seem to be measuring up to the hype and accolades, press on. It gets a lot better. 
  
  I thought the first couple of hours to be a bit slow, but then I think a lot of that is that it 
 takes a little time to get used to and understand the controls and the nuances of Mass Effect's 
 gameplay. Once mastered, I fell in love with the game. 
  
  The only real complaint I have is the equipment handling. It is awesome having so many choices 
 and constantly getting armor upgrades, but it really bothered me that when you are over your limit 
 you can't exit the screen and liquefy old equipment rather than the items you've just found. Just 
 a generally stupid concept that defies realism. It's like buying a gallon of milk, getting home 
 and realizing you already had a gallon, but don't have room for two and pouring out hte new gallon. 
 It just doesn't make any sense. It's punishment enough to have to pour out the old gallon that's 
 still perfectly fine. Somebody missed the mark on this aspect IMO
  
  Anyway, that aside this game is incredible. I won't go too much into the details, as it's all been 
 covered thousands of times across the web. I'll be playing it again here shortly with less attention 
 paid to the primary quest and hitting all of the side quests on my way to the final. The game took 
 about 20 hours on a fairly narrow path, but I figure it should be easy to milk 30 or more out in 
 a broader, all encompassing play through.
  
  I've beat the game the game but haven't had enough Mass Effect just yet.
  
  UPDATE: Played 
 a second time through, it was even better this time around. I took time to see every world, find 
 every object and beat every quest. Serious bang for the buck, and I'll play it again on the next 
 difficulty setting.
  
  
  A note to Kevin-V - reviewer of this game. You're an idiot. I can't believe you docked points of 
 the score of this game because you couldn't' figure out how to use the gun on the MAKO. Just zoom 
 in or better still use the amazing sniper zoom. Sure it has trouble with creatures that are within 
 10 feet, but it is almost entirely a non-issue. Combat in the MAKO is super-easy if you have a 
 clue as to what you're doing. As for the Thresher-Maws - just stand still and rise above their 
 attacks. It took ONE encounter to figure that out - I'm seriously questioning whether or not we 
 can trust your reviews anymore. Didn't anyone at Gamespot figure this out? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hand4hire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I had been waiting for a sci-fi RPG for a long time, and it finally came full force. This game 
 is great not only in graphics and gameplay, but in the storyline too. This game is very easily 
 to play and does not take long at all to get used to the controls. The graphics in this game are 
 quite incredible with everytime you talk to someone it looks like a cut scene. The people are very 
 well done. The way you talk to people in this game is revelutionary and very cool. When getting 
 talked to you can choose to either be a nice guy, middle of the road, or a straight up jerk to 
 people. Like I had said before, every dialogue with other characters looks like a cutscene. The 
 gameplay is also very cool with the different guns and the kind of force stuff you can use. I would, 
 however, of liked the game to be more open to do whatever you want. It is in a way, but everytime 
 you land on a planet it is basically the same thing. Very cool game and very cool story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  To say Mass Effect is the most immersive and innovative RPG I have ever played would be an understatement. 
 Put it this way, if you like Science Fiction novels and are new to games, this game is so good 
 and so expertly crafted in 99% of its creation that it will make you think you are within a sci-fi 
 novel. Its just that good. 
  
  I cannot say enough good things about this game that professional game journalists haven't said 
 already. Metacritic. com cumulative review totals put this game at a 91/100. That means almost every 
 magazine and internet game website that reviewed this game gave it at least a 9/10 or 4/5. Mass 
 Effect cements and reinforces why Bioware is the king of western RPGs. Nobody can touch them and 
 this is precisely why EA entered into a multi-year publishing deal with them. Its no fluke folks, 
 Bioware is not to be ignored when you want to play an RPG. I knew this since the days of Baldars 
 Gate but dont take my word for it. Go out and buy this for your Xbox 360 because if you don't own 
 it yet, you will be glad you did. Its like playing through a first rate interactive sci-fi novel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scanzo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  My brother bought Mass Effect the first day it was released in stores, he would always tell me 
 how great it was and kept insisting that I played it, I was going to but I never had the time, 
 and when I had time to spare I would always get caught up in another game or something else, but 
 for the first time the other day I put the disc in my Xbox360 and entered a new world... well a 
 new galaxy, a few new galaxies. hahah.
  I don't think I am close to the end of the game yet, but once I complete it and take down that 
 bastard Sarren the downloadable mission will be added to my 360.
  
  I have also heard talk about Mass Effect 2, I can only imagine it evolving into a greater game 
 with better graphics, more planets and more land to explore, new aliens, and new everything to 
 make a great sequel.
  
  Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoReph
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing, bottom line. It's really fun to play, has a masterpiece storyline, and you 
 will fall in love with the characters. The best thing about this game is how it gives you all these 
 choices to make. EVERYTIME you talk to someone, YOU get to choose what to say and everything you 
 say leads to a different path later on in the game. Also it is awesome how you get to create your 
 own character. Talking to your party members and getting to know them is really neat too.
  
  Storyline- The story line draws you in more and more the farther you get in the game.
  
 
  Graphics- they will blow your mind.
  
  Sound- the sounds are clean pure amazement.
  
  Voice Acting- the best I have ever heard in a game and also what helps make this game so good.
 
  
  Gameplay- AWESOME! It's an action/RPG/shooter. Letting you move around, take cover dearing battle, 
 and shoot the heck out of enemies. Also being able to use telekinesis depending on what Class you 
 choose for your character.
  
  All and all, BUY THIS GAME! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Un4givingAsault
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Very intresting and innovative game that brings something new to the RPG genre by removing the 
 normal elves, drawves and taking things to space.
  
  [Warning: this review is extremely condesned due to the fact that I believe reviews should be conscise 
 and not have any spoilers. I also take pride in being incredibly unbiast.] 
  
  The Good:
  
  Very wonderfully done voice acting and graphics. All charecters look life like, there isnt 
 much to say other than check them out there awesome. 
  
  Charecters, each charecter has their own unique backstory and offer dynamic cutscenes due to the 
 clash and co-operation between their personalitys.
  
  Diffrent Unique races that are allies or foes, each has a substatial amount of info explaning the 
 role each race plays in the saga. 
  
  Tremendous back story, and story from how humans became so advance, and the first encounters between 
 other races. The story itself is well scripted allowing the player to feel apart of it not just 
 along for the ride. 
  
  Charecter customization is well devolped, from facail features to armor, to weapons, allowing the 
 player to come attacheed to their charecter. Also there are diffrent classes a person can be which 
 always for replay ability. 
  
  Achievements, the achievements for getting so many kills with weapons or beating the game more 
 than once or under diffrent classes gives player incentives to play the game through more than 
 once. 
  
  Combat interface always a person to control there team but freezes combaty so the player can access 
 diffrent abilities or weapons. 
  
  Paths, there are two diffrent paths that affect the story by either choosing a "good" path or path 
 of "evil". 
  
  Many diffrent levels of weapons an armor for the player and team allowing the player to customize 
 a formidable fighting force.
  
  The leveling system allows for specailization of the player and team. 
  
  The Bad:
  
  Mako: 
 the mako is the vechile the player drives in the game to explore planets. Although has a sleek 
 look it doesnt not fuction incredbly well. The reticle doesnt always fire in the direction a the 
 player is aiming and the driving and aiming is quite akward. 
  
  There are some redering issues during the game which are quickly corrected but still a problem.
 
  
  Planets apart from the main missions or quests are not very detailed and vegatation. They seem 
 unispired but are somewhat understanable due to the scope off the game. 
  
  It would have been nice to be able to customize the "mako" or have a wider variety of vechiles 
 to use.
  
  There should have been a larger variety in side missions, at some points they dont seem to be put 
 under much consideration by devs.
  
  The great thing about MASS EFFECT the great qaulities bring alot more to the table then the poor 
 aspects take away. This game is a must play on 360 due to its innovation, immersive story, and 
 a unique experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Donnelly_
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  Mass effect is a RPG from the people who brought you Knights of the old republic. And just like 
 that game this is another epic RPG that deserves your attention. You begin the game by investigating 
 a small incident on a strange planet, and by the end of the game you will be fighting to save yourself, 
 and the galaxy. It's a great story with great characters who are superbly acted. If it was a movie 
 it would rival the Star wars films... probably.
  
  Without doing side quests this game will take you anywhere from 15-20 hours to complete, if you 
 go after achievements, side quests this game could take you a very long time to finish. It's not 
 a easy game, it takes time to learn what each class of character can do and how to manage your 
 inventory, skills and other team members. But stick at it and it becomes second nature after a 
 few hours.
  
  The combat is not up to the standard of something like Gears of war, but it does the job and it's 
 enjoyable to try out different tactics and skills on enemies. You also control a vehicle at different 
 times in the game, these sections are ok, but I would have preferred if there was less of them. 
 What makes this game great is the story, and interacting with the varied alien creatures you will 
 encounter. You can play the game as a good guy, helping people and settling arguments in a diplomatic 
 fashion. Or you can play as a bad guy, trash talking, and generally being a ass. It's very fun 
 to play through the game a few times handling situations in different ways to see the outcome.
 
  
  I highly recommend Mass effect to anyone after a deep and satisfying RPG. It has a few problems, 
 such as the frame rate dipping on occasions and the side missions could have been better, and it 
 may start off a bit slow for some gamers. But the problems are not big enough to kill your enjoyment 
 of the game. I have played many many Xbox 360 games, and I would rate Mass effect in the top 3 
 games released on the system to date. Bioware took on a huge task of making a game like this, but 
 they've pulled it off. And the good news is this is only part one of a trilogy of Mass effect games. 
 If you like Western RPG's do yourself a favour and play this game, it's as epic as gaming gets, 
 with very high production values for a RPG. Let's just hope EA buying Bioware does not have any 
 negative effects on the sequels to this very fine game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jediknight52501
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 10:45 am PT
Review:  Bioware has done it again. after making the first Knights Of The Old Republic, Bioware made another 
 great RPG, Mass Effect. the game is a RPG/Shooter that has a lot going for it. the game has some 
 great graphics and the sound is amazing at times. the locations you go to in the game are nice 
 and different for this game as you travel to various locations in different galaxies that make 
 the shine. the voice acting is also nice as a few Hollywood actors lend there voices to make the 
 characters really shine. but what really makes this shine is the storyline. you lay as Shepard, 
 a Soldier who has seen a lot of combat in his day as he serves on the Normady, a ship that would 
 make any Sci-Fi fan happy. as you play the game you meet new allies and you also meet a host of 
 enemies that will challenge you at times. as you look for Saren, you run into a few puzzles that 
 will test you. the game does grow on you and is fun to play even after you finish the game is a 
 game i suggest that any RPG fan or even a Shooter fan. what is nice about Mass Effect is that you 
 really have to play the game more then once to get a real feeling for the game. you just can't 
 enjoy the game just once as there are 3 different types of Class in the game including the Soldier 
 C; ass, the Biotic Class and the Engineering Class. each Class has it's own features and adds to 
 the depth of the game. the Characters you meet through the game are willing to help you and having 
 Allies in the game is a must as it adds to to the depth of the game as well. so for all RPG fans 
 out there, you really shoul give Mass Effect a chance and try the goame out and you will enjoy 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NonyoBizness
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I got it for Christmas, played it for about an hour or two, and then went 
 back to Call of Duty 4.
  
  Then around Spring of 2008, I picked the game back up... but I started from scratch.. this time 
 making a girl character (after hearing about the possible love situation haha) ... and began my 
 journey in probably the game that immersed me into it's storyline and my character more than any 
 game has ever.... and yes I own and have played/beaten MANY GAMES.
  
  I went through this on the hardest difficulty they allow you to start at, and I found that it was 
 just right. By the end, you are so powerful and skilled... you are wanting it to keep on going.
 
  
  The choices you make effect many aspects of your experience. This game is HIGHLY UNDERRATED even 
 though most have reviewed it so well. A 9 does not do it justice. This game is a true 10. I give 
 games a rating of 10 for different reasons, but this one has it for every possible reason I can 
 think of for a game.
  
  I can not wait for part 2 and I am going to be playing it again very soon. This game is amazing, 
 if you get bored the first hour, two, or three.... don't let that discourage you. Keep going, pay 
 attention to the story and, enjoy it. It's BETTER than a top notch movie.
  
  This game is truly an instant classic and not your average RPG. This game, Bio-Shock, and the first 
 Halo, have impressed me more than any other games. But let me say.. this game is by far the most 
 addicting. At the end, you aren't satisfied.. I mean the ending (s) are great, but you REALLY are 
 wanting more.
  
  I'm looking forward to Mass Effect 2, 3, etc... as many as they come out with!
  
  Don't rent 
 it.. BUY IT. If you have it collecting dust, put down or finish whatever other game (s) you are 
 playing, and complete this one! You won't be disappointed if you are someone who enjoys a high 
 quality game with a brilliant storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eas022
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  The game is more than meets the eye. Its good great graphics accompanied by great voice acting. 
 The BGM can get a bit monotonous at times but they do catch the mood of the scenario.
  
  One of the best parts of the game is customising the face, so basically you can sorta play the 
 game seeing yourself as the hero. It could've had a few more options in facial characteristics 
 but it was a great start to the series.
  
  The camera angles were good throughout the game except for a couple of points in the game and if 
 you're unlucky to explore a tight area, you might get stuck! But that was not a big bug. The game 
 ran very smoothly for the amount of graphics, only at one point of the game did it slow down but 
 that was just at the end of the mission so it didn't have any negative effect.
  
  Overall its an excellent game, I played it a few times over to catch the different endings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyberfreak7
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the latest game released from Bioware, the creators of 2003's Game of the Year, 
 Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. 
  The game features a new communication system that's a thousand steps above Bioware's previous games. 
 Instead of picking responses from long sentences, you simply choose your intent and your character 
 will respond accordingly. 
  Bioware's amazing skill with RPG elements shines through here, as well. There's a lot of different 
 techniques and items with which you can strategize to make sure you succeed in the universe.
  The game's unbelievable attention to detail is truly something to behold. Any question you could 
 possibly have about the game's logic, history, or what have you is answered through your Codex, 
 which is basically a guide to the Mass Effect universe. It contains explanations for things like, 
 how the futuristic guns operate, why Turians are so hostile against humans, and even a timeline 
 detailing all the events that led up to the discovery of other worlds.
  The only problems I had were that the gameplay could have been a little more enjoyable, and that 
 there's simply too much to do in the game. It can get a little ridiculous accumulating as many 
 side quests as you do in the game. Especially since you feel almost obligated to go through with 
 them.
  All in all, Mass Effect is a truly immersive game that features the most backstory out of any game 
 created to date, and not only is it informative backstory, it's intelligent, well thought-out, 
 and incredibly interesting. One of the greatest RPGs ever conceived. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dg3215
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. I give it a 10 because I compare it to other games in its series and for 
 a SCI FI RPG this is dare I say as good as Star Wars KotOR 1 or 2. Now obviously some will disagree. 
 Other than the great game play graphics and story. I like how the game gives you again the chance 
 to approach things as a babyface good guy an evil mercenary or somewhere in between. Another neet 
 aspect of this game is how you can reaplay the game with your character still at his level from 
 the first time you beat it.. There are so many choices of what to do that do have a impact on the 
 storyline that it is very easy to play this game through at least two times. I hope the release 
 a sequal to this game soon it will be one of the rare times I prorder a game. If you have not yet 
 purchased this game I would highly suggest that you do, because this game is also quite fun to 
 revisit after a few months and play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrcouch
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  I 'll be honest. Mass Effect was one of those games where I just let it sit by my Xbox for about 
 5 months until one day I was bored and said, "hey, why not?". I was a fool in waiting so long to 
 play this game. I suppose the cover art somewhat turned me off. It just seemed like it would have 
 been one of those games on the original Xbox that had no real game play value and you just run 
 around shooting random aliens. Well, to be fair, you do run around shooting random aliens. However, 
 the depth to this game is almost unexplainable. 
  
  Drew Karpyshyn, know or his writing credits in the Baulder's Gate series and the legendary Star 
 Wars: Knights of the Old Republic has not only outdone himself but in my honest opinion has put 
 himself out on the map. I mean this guy is brilliant. The storyline itself felt like I was reading 
 a fantastic and gripping book, that I just couldn't put down! Only, it was more like one of those 
 Goosebumps: Choose Your Own Ending! books. Well, perhaps that is a terrible analogy because although 
 there are thousands of different choices you can make in game, you are bound to a single story 
 track. There have been multiple complaints about the fact there is only one true path int he storyline, 
 but I did some thinking and in terms of a long term series it is probably better this way. 
  
  The game itself has a very MMORPG feel to it, only without the MMO part. There are times throughout 
 the game where you can totally just see yourself interacting with others at the Citadel, or even 
 grouping up to go explore a new planet and find alternate sources of energy. In the heap of MMO's 
 this is probably one game that could survive and do it well. The story is rich enough, the game 
 play is there and the ability to specialize in different classes tops it all off. 
  
  Because of all the options, you will want to play the game more than once. As for gamer points, 
 more than two or three playthroughs are guaranteed to achieve them all. Luckily the game has excellent 
 replay value, much like the original Halo single player campaign. 
  
  There are a few things I am not fond of. The team AI is pretty poor. Your team mates can't hit 
 anything to save their lives. They also make poor use of their special abilities, i. e. the wrong 
 time. The love story is pretty well developed too, however I found myself missing out on a lot 
 of things within this subplot that other friends seemed to encounter. (I sealed the deal a lot 
 sooner than they did)
  
  WHAT?! How is that a bad thing?! Well, in terms of storyline, it would have been nice to experience 
 some of the extra dialogue and dilemmas. 
  
  The inability to explore every planet was a bit disappointing as well. Planet exploring itself 
 was pretty fun but needed more threatening environments. The Dune-"mocked" Shai Hulud sand worms 
 were a nice touch and completely surprised me for sure, but there could have been more. 
  
  Overall this is an amazing game and quite possibly one the best I have ever played. We know there 
 are 2 sequels on the way and possibly even more after that. If the sequels are anything like the 
 original, we are going to have a hall of famer here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect a reminder of how good rpgs can be, this the perfect example of what should be played. 
 This game while different is also similar to many other real time rpgs, it has the character customization 
 it has the choice of what side you want to be on it even has the choice to let you equipped what 
 armor and weapons you want. But whats different about this rpg is that it capitalizes on all these 
 game play elements and puts them altogether to give you a taste of what space is really like.
 
  
  There's nothing really new about these innovations but thats not really the point or a major flaw 
 it's not even about whats new in it's innovations or about new innovations, it's about that the 
 game-play elements are used in such a way that it makes the overal enjoyment that much better. 
 It broadens the concept spreading it out but not too much where it becomes too spread. But don't 
 misunderstand me there are flaws in this game but like I've said about many good games before there 
 minor.
  
  it's flaws are things like not being able to remove shotguns, assault rifles, handguns, sniper 
 rifles from your back when maybe you don't even want to use sniper rifles, shotguns, handguns, 
 or assault rifles. Another flaw is how you can only go to a certain amount of worlds but you can't 
 go to any of the other worlds that exist in the game. That turned me off somewhat because if there's 
 other worlds in the game like the main ones then you should be able to go to them if you can't 
 why why are they even in the game?
  
  These flaws hinder the game somewhat and make it less appealing but don't mistake me it does not 
 ruin the game or majorly hurt it in anyway. But if bioware had removed these flaws then it would 
 feel more like a cinematic movie then a bookcase display. But aside from all of this bioware still 
 made an extremely good game and the capitalizing on original innovations that have been used before 
 made this game soar really high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clydeknightwind
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all, storyline (which I believe is always most important) , action, characters, 
 and style! This game rocks on so many levels. But there are admittedly some areas of improvement.
 
  Let's start on the good. The storyline is fantastic. The first time you find out who is really 
 calling the shots, it's one of those "HOLY CRAP ON A CRIPPLE!" moments. The story is immersive 
 and the sidequests keep you interested in the game's universe. And one thing I admire in any game 
 is when it has the balls to kill a main character.
  The action is fun and fast paced. Its only fault is the fact that learning some of the finer techniques 
 such as power usage can take some real getting used to.
  The characters are great, each with their own histories and personalities. You really get to know 
 each person as a distinct individual.
  The style is sleek and smooth, a fantastic look on the future. Everything is extremely rich in 
 color, so much so that the 360 has issues keeping up, but not so much as to hurt gameplay. Have 
 the time I was playing I was thinking "this feels like a cut scene, but its not."
  So let's end on where they need to improve on the next game. I'll start small. The main character's 
 voice actor did not do the best job in the world. He (I picked male 99% of the time) seemed a little 
 monotone in almost any situation. Next is a big one. The side quests, mainly the side planets. 
 It just got boring after a while doing the whole travels from one side of the planet to the other. 
 We need more cities and the like that aren't so important to the story. Landscaping is another 
 area of needed improvement. It was painfully obvious that all of the side quest buildings, save 
 the DLC building, was cookie cutter in execution. Lastly, weapons and armor. Let's make them look 
 a little more distinct than just changing the color on 3 different models of each.
  The areas that need improvement are not huge deals as the game itself in a complete innovation 
 in its own sense. A wonderful game with lots to offer that leaves you craving for the next edition. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloadthefile
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This game was, when I first played, going to be this amazing game that I would compare to BioShock. 
 Unfortunately, this was not the feeling that I had the entire time I played. It is a clever game, 
 but reviews really exaggerate the amount of role playing actually done. There are always the group 
 of three people who save the entire galaxy. There is of course the one alien who holds the power 
 to destroy sentient life as we know it, just like 50,000 years before the events of this game. 
 This game lacks AI that can perform the simplest task of following your character. The side missions 
 are boring, considering that a lot of them are in your vehicle, which is big and clunky to say 
 the least. Overall, I am happy I rented it.
  
  There are its strong points, though. The voice acting, graphics, and sound are incredible. That 
 only goes so far, though. It drew me in but I couldn't play it. I would try and wait for a Mass 
 Effect 2, where the developers have all of the bad parts of the game taken out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleodman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Bravo for Microsoft on this one. Although far from perfect, Mass Effect has a lot of what makes 
 a good RPG into a great RPG. An excellent and intricate story that blends technology, space exploration, 
 the military and politics.
  
  I was completely addicted to the this game for the first 10 hours of game play. The main storyline 
 is great with superb graphics and CG animation all along the way. However it is very, very short. 
 Just 5 major missions make up the game which is way too few for an RPG. You could finish the game 
 in under 20 hours easily. The game makers do try to make up more game playing time with countless 
 "Assignments" that earn you experience, weapons, upgrades, or extra information about the galaxy, 
 but none are needed to complete the game itself and some are fairly mundane. Other are fun initially, 
 but after awhile you realise they are all the same (especially those off the Citadel) . Many of 
 the planet landings and building storming missions are monotonous and identical in layout and looks. 
 A poor note for me (they could have at least put an effort to make the inside of the buildings 
 a little different) . An extra major mission would have been better then all the assignments.
  
  These points aside, the detail of the game and the voice acting is absolutely stellar. Some 
 of the best I've heard outside of the amazing Final Fantasy Series on the Playstation sytems.
 
  
  If you like first-person shooters then even this RPG will be enjoyable as you can customise your 
 character to be purely a soldier and solely use your equiped weapon's crosshairs to take out your 
 foes. This should be a great series. Hopefully the second installment will be longer.
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creeping-deth87
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  BioWare's latest contribution to the industry is a remarkably original experience. Mass Effect 
 does a great job of setting itself apart from the developer's earlier efforts, including full-speech 
 dialogue for even the main character that helps bring the story to life. The setting is undoubtedly 
 what makes Mass Effect what it really is. Mankind has discovered a mass effect relay, catapulating 
 our species into a diverse galaxy comprised of several different sentient species governed by a 
 central Citadel Council. Giving away too much of the story would be detrimental to the experience, 
 but essentially you take the role of John Shepherd; mankind's best candidate to enter the Council's 
 Spectre team and take a 'giant leap for for mankind'. However, this is not to say that the story 
 overshadows all other aspects of the game.
  
  
  Combat is in real time, and unlike Knights of the Old Republic and Jade Empire there are no melee 
 weapons to be found here. For all intents and purposes, Mass Effect's combat is a 3rd person squad-based 
 shooter at its core. There is a simple cover system, though it can come off as a bit cumbersome 
 in closer quarters. You can quickly and easily issue commands to your party members to advance, 
 take cover or regroup much like in Freedom Fighters. However, it does differentitate from 3rd person 
 shooter gameplay in key areas.
  
  For example, the game does a great job at making you feel more powerful as you level up and find 
 new weapons and armor. Foes you encountered at the beginning of the game will drop dead noticeably 
 faster as you trudge through the living, breathing universe of Mass Effect. To further differentiate 
 the combat is the RPG-staple of spells (or at least, the science fiction equivalent of spells) . 
 There are a variety of different abilities (called 'biotics') that you and your party gain access 
 to. Some are more useful than others, and a few are truly awesome to behold at higher levels. You 
 level up as you do in most other RPGs, through combat and side quests. In addition to increasing 
 your stats and unlocking new biotics, you also level up certain skills as well (these include security, 
 computers, first aid, and a variety of others) which help you on your way through the main quest.
 
  
  Unfortunately, Mass Effect's shortcomings hold it back from being the truly memorable game it could 
 have been. There are literaly dozens of solar systems and planets to explore, but most are sadly 
 barren waste lands with very little to do and very little to set them apart from each other. There 
 are only 2 or 3 different types of buildings across all of these planets, which makes them feel 
 repetitive rather quickly. They aren't even skinned differently, so there's literally no difference 
 from planet to planet. There are several treasure hunting side quests available once you obtain 
 your own vessel, but the reward for these feels considerably disproportionate to the amount of 
 time you put into completing them. In addition, actually exploring the planets can be a chore as 
 the Mako (your all-terain, all-purpose vehicle for extra-terrestial space faring) can be maddening 
 to control. Combat in the Mako is pretty unsatisfying, and the vehicle itself usually comes off 
 as sluggish and unresponsive.
  
  The graphics and sound are good, although there is noticeable texture pop-in as you explore. The 
 game literally takes a few seconds to clean up the characters, this is most noticeable when you 
 start talking to other characters and the camera focuses on different persona. The sound is mostly 
 good, but there is an extreme lack of variety in the way your weapons sound. All of the assault 
 rifles sound exactly the same, as do the shotguns, sniper rifles and pistols. Fortunately, the 
 sounds they do make give you a good sense of power and kick whenever you pull the trigger. Your 
 other party members will occasionally engage in banter as you play the game, but the music will 
 sometimes completely drown out what they're saying. On the hole though, the voice acting is absolutely 
 stellar and the lip syncing is flawless. Despite the texture pop in, the game looks incredible 
 and the character models sport amazing detail.
  
  The characters themselves are, for the most part, interesting. Wrex, for example, is quite the 
 badass. Should you want to pursue romantic interests, that option is also available to you through 
 another character. They all have their own back story, and depending on your tastes some will come 
 off as more appealing than others.
  
  In terms of value, the game will last you a good 30 to 35 hours on your first playthrough if you 
 go out of your way to do all the side quests. The main plot can probably be finished in a 10 to 
 15 hour time frame. There is definitely replyability here though, as BioWare's trademark of offering 
 players choice is ever present in Mass Effect, particularly near the end where you make some very 
 important decisions with far-reaching consequences.
  
  In the end, Mass Effect is a great experience with a universe packed with tonnes of back story 
 and interesting lore. If you let it, the game will immerse you in its rich story and setting and 
 you will find yourself intrigued by just about everything that has been put into this game. Despite 
 its shortcomings, it is a very entertaining experience. One can only hope BioWare will rectify 
 and refine its formula in the second installment. Until then, Mass Effect offers plenty for RPG 
 lovers to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecrazystud
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  The story is addicting in this game. You can however determine everyone fait along side of you. 
 One minute you call them friend and the next you put a bullet in their head. It's like the dark 
 side and light side of the force. Choose your path and stick with it, the light side has more to 
 offer. You can choose to be a variety of classes such as soldier, adept, or engineer. Or you can 
 mix the classes up and be something in between. The combat play is fairly easy but a lot of fun. 
 There's the main story to play but there's also a number of side missions. It takes me around 22 
 hours for all the side and story now but the first time I attemted the side missions it took me 
 around 46 hours. The reason was I was discovering new worlds and it took some time. Now I made 
 myself a journal and know right where everything is. I highly recommend this game as long as you 
 like RPG's. If you're not into them then don't play and posion the well for eveyone else when you 
 have no idea what you're talking about 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RIDDICK_2005
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  I this game was a start of a series and it started off amazing the story the graphics and the way 
 the game actually worked was very good. The reason i only have it 9.0 and not the big 10 is that 
 whenever the game loaded most of the time the area or the ingame movie still had to load the textures 
 and even then the texture somtimes flikerd for bad to goog. that should not happen never or maybe 
 only a little bit. that and sometimes the speech was delayed and out of place. for example a carature 
 would be clamly saying somthing then another carature would yell for no reason. it didnt make sense 
 to me at all for why the catature would have to yell in that instance.
  
  When i was playing this i was always thinking of stargate atlantis or firfly t. v shows, and in 
 that case this game could have use some comedy. i dont think that i would have troun the carature/mood/game 
 off in any way jut made the caratures more human. could have made some of the caratures more like 
 Joker.
  
  Anyways guys and galls you have to play this game buy dont rent it was worth my 40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wull1977
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  I should hate Mass Effect. As I have previously mentioned in my reviews, I hate when a game rips 
 off dialogue or story from film and/or television. Mass Effect is at its core a homage to every 
 great science fiction epic ever, but somehow manages to maintain that distinct feeling of ACTUAL 
 homage. 
  
  Like most Bioware games, story is absolutely key to the game, so if you're here for anything else 
 you might as well move right along! That's not to say that the gameplay is lacking in any way, 
 but if you let yourself, you'll be completely dragged in by the story.
  
  It is very hard to know where to to start here... I suppose the first thing that leapt out at me 
 was the music. Even before the character selection, the haunting, melancholy music used in the 
 menu screen is amazing (and fits in amazingly when it is used near the end of the game) . But the 
 main theme which builds underneath the opening dialogue up to a fantastic establishing shot of 
 Shepard - the character you just created - and the SSV Normandy is one of the most cinematic moments 
 I've seen in a game. And in a good way! All the music is amazingly done and to my untrained ear, 
 I can pick up the influence of Blade Runner and at one point Dune. I suppose the easiest way to 
 put it is that, to me, the music sounds like what space is meant to.
  
  The voice acting is similarly fantastic, both Mark Meer and Jennifer Hale as the male and female 
 Shepards in particular deliver lines that have to be able to taken in a number of ways. This is 
 because the dialogue system, which is very fluid and relatively realistic has the shortcut of using 
 the exact same lines of dialogue for the "good", "bad" and "let's just get to the end of the conversation" 
 interactions. This isn't a criticism, it is testament to the well written and excellently delivered 
 dialogue. That being said, ALL the dialogue is well delivered and acted. And the cut scenes are 
 meticulously directed. We'll just end there and say that the whole package looks and sounds amazing 
 in an artistic sense!
  
  In a technical sense, things look a little more "choppy". The graphics are amazing with some genuinely 
 attractive female models (I know how tragic it is, but I've spent about 300 hours with them! Tali 
 the Quarian is the hottest, though, if you're asking...) and the vistas on most of the planets 
 you visit are breathtaking. However, the loading of the detail textures can take quite some time 
 and I found that really messed with my eyes. There were also a couple of points with some slowdown 
 (understandable, though, with the amount of onscreen action) .
  
  The sound effects in-game are very good as well, but to be completely honest, nothing particularly 
 jumps out as being excellent, except for the sounds made by the Geth. The weapons sound solid and 
 punchy, which is good enough for me. There also seems to be some issue with the volume and positioning 
 of your squad members during the game where they seem very quiet and the sound coming from the 
 wrong direction. But nothing that mars the game greatly.
  
  At this point there would usually be a big "but" when it came to gameplay... Not this time. While 
 the combat would stand up fairly well in a game of its own, as part of an RPG it is absolutely 
 outstanding. It plays similarly to Gears of War or Rainbow 6 Vegas, with cover being paramount 
 and with an element of squad management. I say "element" because the squad element is very weak 
 indeed and appears very sloppy. 
  
  You can issue commands with the D-Pad, but there is rarely a vocal conformation of what you've 
 done, other than a "You got it!" from a team mate. To be honest, I couldn't remember what all the 
 D-Pad directions did and some audio cue would have helped. A bit. Sadly your squadmates idea of 
 tactics is to run side-to-side along your field of fire when in front of you, and constantly shoot 
 you in the back if they are behind you. While there is no friendly damage, it is very annoying 
 to have your sniper shot blocked by a team mate at the last second, or to be killed either because 
 you assume that the incoming fire from behind is you friend and it's not, or because you leave 
 cover to defend yourself from the incoming fire and it's only one of your friends. Complaint over. 
 It is manageable and not as incredibly annoying as it sounds as long as you send them of to the 
 enemy flanks, or position them to cover you while you flank. On the whole, though, combat is very 
 easy indeed, and the game only truly comes into its own on the two hardest settings when all of 
 a sudden you can see why the galaxy fear the Krogan and the Geth!
  
  Another major part of the gameplay is the Mako APC sections which are actually quite fun in general, 
 bouncing over the scenery and blowing stuff up, but the targeting could have used a little tweaking. 
 The gun fires from a turret on the back of the Mako, so the pretty much can't shoot stuff that 
 is too close because the shots go over their heads. A simple cursor turning red when you could 
 fire (like in Half-Life 2) would remedy it. Also fighting thresher maws gets tired and frustrating 
 very quickly, especially when you kill it, get the XP and it disappears only to reappear directly 
 beneath you with quarter of its health returned. But again, it is nothing that is enough to detract 
 from the game.
  
  My only real beef with the game was how the advertising campaign highlit choices and making serious 
 decisions (even the demo video in the game!) showing two of the major colonies that appear in the 
 game under attack and Shepard having to choose to let one be overrun. As it stands there are no 
 real subtle game changing choices they are all very much "Save This Character or Save THIS character" 
 and the game ends pretty much the way no matter what you do. There may be deeper implications in 
 the sequels, but I felt slightly misled by the advertising.
  
  All in all, though, Mass Effect is a true epic of a game with a strong, clear narrative and excellent 
 gameplay. A completely outstanding game that can be justified being called an event. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anticap
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 5:40 am PT
Review:  This is my Mass Effect review, and like other reviews I've done this is just my opinion.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in this game are brilliant, especially on a HD TV. Everything looks 
 crisp and sharp, and there is a massive attention to detail. It is more realistic than most games 
 out there and the graphics aren't cartoony. The major problem with the graphics on this game is 
 it suffers terribly from texture pop.
  
  Sound/Music:
  
  The sounds in this game are brilliant. Everything sounds just as it should and the voice acting 
 is superb. There are minor problems however, such as on Ilos some of the character voices suddenly 
 become really quiet to the point where you can't really hear what they're saying unless you turn 
 all other sounds off. This only happens once in the game though, and it's on an elevator ride so 
 you don't miss anything important.
  
  The music is brilliant. I enjoyed the soundtrack on this game so much I actually went out and bought 
 it. It comes on at the right times and doesn't feel out of place. The style fits in with a sci 
 fi game too.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is game is incredibly fun, even if it is a bit easy. The combat is like Ghost Recon and the 
 RPG elements are like KotOR. The minigame that you do when picking locks or collecting artifacts 
 can get repetitive, but it takes hardly anything away from the game. There are bugs, such as Geth 
 getting stuck to the Mako, or Thresher Maws that reincarnate after you've killed them but these 
 aren't huge.
  
  The character creator is a little weak, but it does what it's supposed to, and the side missions 
 are a bit shallow.
  
  Story:
  
  This is the best thing in this game. The story is AMAZING and will keep you glued to the game for 
 hours. It's well thought out and doesn't leave many plot holes. Any plot holes it does leave I'm 
 guessing will be answered in a sequel, but it ties everything up nicely leaving as little as possible 
 unanswered.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Mass Effect is easily one of the best games out on the Xbox 360 and well worth your time and money. 
 It has enough freedom to keep most RPG fans pleased, and enough story and direction for those that 
 desire it.
  
  However, people who need rigid direction such as what Metal Gear Solid gives may find this game 
 a little bit too loose and people that want unlimited freedom such as what Fallout or Morrowind 
 gives may find this game a little too restrictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuroganeki
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Solid gameplay and deep storyline make this game a masterpiece. The game is (what I think) story 
 based not really the RPG part or the shooting. The game is very innovative in that way. You are 
 commander sheperd, the first human to be a specter. You find teammates and items along the way 
 as you travel through planets in the milky way. 
  
  Pros:
  
  Deep storyline. Nice Character Customization
  
  Amazing graphics
  
  Large worlds (yes, 
 worlds)
  
  No bugs (That I know)
  
  Some humor.
  
  Fun, team based combat
  
  Easy controls
  
  AI is very smart
  
  Cons:
  
  Cannot chose race in character customization
 
  
  No online co-op
  
  Too little extra content for quality of game.
  
  
  Fun factor: 9.7
  
  Storyline: 10
  
  Classes: 10
  
  Driving 8.5
  
  Final Opinion: 
 10
  
  
  
  (P. S. I have no freakin idea why gamespot rated mass effect an 8.5) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamsteel
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect can be called a squad-based third-person shooter RPG. At it's core it is basically 
 a third-person shooter with characters leveling up with improved stats and abilities. It is a sci-fi 
 story with various sections of the game taking place on different planets located in various parts 
 of the Milky Way Galaxy. Mass Effect is very fun but at least half the game consists of non-essential 
 side quests that you will want/need to complete in order to level up your characters. The core 
 story of the game is a little short itself consisting of only 3 or 4 planet chapters. 
  
  A curious aspect of Mass Effect lies in the fact that you have to go out of your way to talk to 
 your squad members while on your ship in order to really give them any depth whatsoever. Otherwise 
 parts in the game which are supposed to be emotionally engaging seem to fall a little flat. The 
 game has some of the best character skins I've seen in any game but almost always has a delay in 
 loading skins for environment and characters alike which definitely detracts from the quality after 
 a while. Overall Mass Effect seems to be aiming a little higher in story than what it actually 
 delivers. 
  
  The game play is solid third-person shooter using a "sticky cover" system made popular in games 
 like Gears of War. Your two squad-mates do a good job of keeping themselves alive and can be customized 
 to use various skill sets in battle (offense/defense.) Item attainment in the game is a little 
 skewed. At the very beginning you will find that items in the shops are much too expensive to purchase 
 but this quickly becomes irrelevant as the game literally overloads you with free equipment. You 
 will find yourself spending more time selling off equipment in order to make room for more rather 
 than purchasing anything. I made it through the game by only purchasing a couple items and ended 
 up having some of the best armor and weapons in the game for free. I also unlocked the achievement 
 for being rich after selling so much crap! The weapons could have been made to look a little "beefier." 
 Even the most powerful rifles in the game look like plastic nerf guns. 
  
  Overall it is a very fun game but a little too short. It is worth the price of a used copy and 
 will definitely leave you waiting for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BUD007
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  Bioware has brought us a very great game. When I first got it I was addicted to it for hours. This 
 game is just amazing. There's so much to do in this game, not only the main quest but there's a 
 good number of side quests as well. There's many things to buy as well, you can buy armor for your 
 characters, as well as new weapons. You get 4 guns, an assault rifle, sniper rifle, a shotgun and 
 a handgun. You can upgrade your weapons to make them power, more accurate, less overheating, you 
 also get different types of ammo as well. You can upgrade your armor as well to make them stronger 
 for better protection. There's also different brands of armor and weapons you can buy or find. 
 This game goes into depth with character customizations. You can change the face, hair, skin color, 
 ect as well as your characters background. This game has a really great story line with the entire 
 Milky Way Galaxy for you to explore. You can travel to different planets in different solar systems. 
 If your an RPG fan this a great one to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raahsnavj
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  For a brief summary, Mass Effect (ME) will grow on you. It suffers from some poor elements and 
 design issues, but overall comes out to be a good package.
  
  The story line and plots are sure to grip just about anyone that has an interest in Sci-fi, the 
 reason is because most of it is pulled from the best franchises in the sci-fi world and packaged 
 as ME. I am of course using 'best' as a relative term based on my own experiences. It is hard to 
 defend my stand on this because it will spoil most of the plot points. Though I don't spell out 
 exactly what points are ripped from other franchises, if you are at all worried skip the next paragraph.
 
  
  What I can say is: Humans are in the situation equivalent of Star Trek: Enterprise; The main plot 
 line revolves around that of Star Control 2 and 3; The galaxy is ran by a blind council, like the 
 Jedi Council from Star Wars, and even has its Jedi... I mean specters, out handling the situations; 
 Pulled elements from the Ender series from Orson Scott Card; and more... If you can overlook these 
 similarities or haven't experienced these stories before, the world of ME will amaze you. For me, 
 it was still good to experience as these are the best elements from these different franchises 
 and work well together as a whole.
  
  The game play is similar to a 3rd person shooter. You have four types of weapons: Sniper Rifles, 
 Pistols, Assault Guns (automatics) , and Shotguns. There are also two other types of classes the 
 equivalent of a hacking specialist and a biotics user (or 'force' enabled for lack of a better 
 description. Hacking specialists let you break into things or perform operations on computers that 
 will make your life easier. The biotics let you throw things, lift things, put things in statis, 
 put up force fields, that sort of thing.
  
  ME has a 'cover' mechanic that doesn't work very well to add to the game play. In fact it causes 
 more problems than it solves. While you are in cover you can still get hit, so all it really does 
 it make it difficult to reposition your aiming reticule every time you pop-out of cover to shoot. 
 Strafing in and out of cover is a much better tactic. Unfortunately if you strafe to close to something 
 that could be used as cover the game will automatically throw you into cover mode.
  
  You traverse the galaxy alongside two companions that you can only control as one supplemental 
 unit. You can trade out party members depending on the mission, but that will have a negative effect 
 on achievements. For the most part the AI can take care of themselves and on the easier modes just 
 act as a distraction for gunfire or AI controlled people that 'steal your kills' (see why in the 
 achievement section) . They also chime in on occasion with their opinion on the situations you run 
 into, which adds depth to the experience and motivation beyond your own to want to 'resolve' a 
 situation a certain way.
  
  Along the course of your travels you will find all sorts of items to equip your party with, unfortunately 
 the equipment screen has a very poor limit of items you can carry (only 150) and an even poorer 
 method of deciding what is good and what isn't. What is worse is if you ever acquire more than 
 the limit you can carry you get no option to drop other items in trade for those that you picked 
 up, so you find yourself unable to pick up that shiny new Sniper rifle because you are already 
 carrying a crappy sniper rifle. The only way to continue from this point is to turn the good sniper 
 rifle into 'omni-gel' so you can open the rest of the equipment screen to turn that crappy rifle 
 into 'omni-gel' so you don't get bit the next time. 
  
  The equipment problem tries to warn you that you are getting close on the item limit, but even 
 if you clean it out every time you start a new mission I found myself hitting the limit by the 
 end every time. And most times you will end up picking up items from killing enemies, which add 
 themselves to your inventory automatically for pick-up the next time you try to open the equipment 
 screen. All in all, the equipment portion is the weakest and most annoying part of this whole game.
 
  
  Aside from the negatives though all the elements tape themselves together fairly well and provide 
 a good experience overall. The way the designers worked in how 'specters' have the ability to choose 
 how best to handle the situation make it so you can either charismatically handle things or just 
 go in guns blazing. It is a good method for making it able to travel the galaxy yet still be part 
 of the alliance you are trying to protect.
  
  Achievements help you experience the game in different ways and range from use a certain skill 
 or weapon numerous times, to replay the game with different party members to see how the dialog 
 and decisions will change. The achievements also chain themselves together via replaying the game. 
 Once you have beat the game you can start over, keeping the bonuses unlocked from a prior play 
 through. This allows your character, and even new characters, a boost when playing on the harder 
 difficulty levels. The achievements were well thought-out to help gamers that 'find one way that 
 works and rehash it for the whole game' to branch out.
  
  There are some annoying achievements though. The 'play the majority of the game with...' achievements 
 for example. You never quite know how much 'most' means. I get the idea that they are trying to 
 get you to play the game with those specific companions in mind, but they should have added a way 
 to know how much more you have to go, like a game completion percentage... Maybe there is one, 
 but I couldn't find it. Another achievement I also disliked the fact I needed to kill 150 enemies 
 with my sniper rifle and my companions kept getting in the way or picking off the people I nearly 
 killed on the first shot.
  
  I played this on an extended 'borrow' from a family member and would still say that I want to replay 
 it at least two more times, which with all the negatives, still speaks volumes about how much was 
 done right. Personally I had a hard time with the story line being so similar to what I had already 
 played or read about in other fiction and the cover and equipment mechanics. Those that can overlook 
 the story similarities should add at least another point to my score. Which puts this game in 'great' 
 status.
  
  Like I said in my summary, this is the KOTOR of this generation. Which means you should play it 
 despite its flaws if any of the subject material appeals to you. Unless of course you aren't a 
 big fan of WJRPGs or RPGs in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Il_Exile_lI
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a game that had an extremely high standard set for it from the moment it was announced. 
 This will happen anytime a developer such as BioWare attempts to create something new, yet also 
 so similar to that which won them critical acclaim. And while it doesn't quite live up to the level 
 of quality that Knights of the Old Republic did, it is still a very worthwhile game a must for 
 the collection of anyone that enjoys Western RPGs.
  Mass Effect is an Action RPG that has you filling the role of Commander Shepherd, one the top Officers 
 in the Alliance Military, which is essentially Earth's joint military in an interstellar community 
 of dozens of alien races. On the surface, the game plays like a third person shooter, but upon 
 further examination, a deep skill system, upgradeable powers and abilities, as well as tons of 
 loot to find clearly show you that this game is not just a run and gun third person shooter.
  The gameplay would be sub-par if this were just a straight up third person shooter, but fortunately 
 it is not. Though you could choose to play as a soldier class, the game really shines when you 
 choose to play as a class that will have access to some of the many tech and biotic abilities. 
 These are essentially spells that really mix up the combat and take the emphasis off of twitch 
 gameplay and put strategy at the forefront. To use an ability, you pause time and queue up one 
 ability for you and more for each of your party members. This really blends the Action RPG and 
 Strategy RPG genres into a good mix that really makes the combat fun and it won't get old for the 
 30-40 hours you could spend on one playthrough.
  The story in Mass Effect is by far its strongest aspect. This game feels like a top notch hollywood 
 movie, and this fantastic presentation and writing really make you want to know what is going to 
 happen next. You also have many different conversation options, although some of these are just 
 a different means to the same end, if you level up either of your two speech skill (good and evil) 
 you will gain more options in conversation that will allow to resolve some situations in very different 
 ways, though none of these really change the end of the game. As good as the presentation and level 
 variety is when you are playing story missions, it is so underwhelming once you start doing some 
 of the available side missions.
  Side Quests is undoubtedly this game's weakest point. Every side quest is almost exactly the same: 
 1. Land on uncharted world 2. drive to checkpoint 3. Kill everyone inside the dungeon and leave 
 the planet. Almost every planet looks the same, there are probably only about 4 different types 
 of planets and they are just used over and over again. Also, there are only about 5 or 6 different 
 dungeons, and these are all used over and over again. The only major flaws I could find with the 
 game were the extreme repetitiveness of the side quest and the fact that is you only played the 
 main storyline, the game could be completed in about 15 hours, very short by RPG standards. Even 
 with all of the side quests, you are looking at between 35-50 hours, with much of that spent doing 
 repetitive side quests.
  So basically, if you like feeling like you are playing a movie and are a fan of Western RPGs, this 
 is a must have. This is a game that could have been destined for greatness had it been a little 
 longer and had a little more variety, nevertheless, it is one the best RPGs you can find on any 
 of the current generation systems.
  NOTE: I give this game a 9.3, but only intervals of .5 are available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quickee42
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is another in a slew of western-developed console RPGs that seem to have emerged in 
 recent years, mostly great success  KOTOR, Jade Empire and Oblivion paramount among those. Being 
 from the developers of KOTOR and Jade Empire, Bioware, you'd be forgiven for expecting another 
 high-quality, technically fantastic game. In some ways, you'd be right; it almost exudes quality, 
 and it's technically very impressive at times. However, there are more than a few similarities 
 to KOTOR, which, if you've played that game (and you really should have) , will give you a sense 
 of dj vu.
  
  You are initially presented with a reasonably extensive player customisation screen, although the 
 vast majority of these changes are solely cosmetic and have been seen in dozens of games since 
 The Sims 2 set the standard. The reasonably important changes (attributes obviously) are actually 
 not very interesting at all  you'll choose your character class, but actually have very little 
 room for customisation beyond that. It's a shame, because it's a step back from the more complex, 
 branching systems seen in pretty much every other RPG  notably, it's a significant step back from 
 KOTOR.
  
  There are six character classes in the game, but in reality three of those are just combinations 
 of the main three, which each specialise in combat, spells (hidden behind the weak veneer of 'biotics') 
 or 'tech' (which is essentially technology related spells) . A combat specialist essentially gets 
 nothing extra aside from being stronger with weapons (somehow, inexplicably, by specialising in 
 weapons they can make bullets travel faster) and more health. Those who specialise in biotics and/or 
 tech will probably be a little disappointed  the biotic powers just aren't a great deal of fun 
 to cast, although they on occasion have interesting effects, and there's so few of them you'll 
 be plain sick of throwing your enemies by the end of the game. Tech abilities are essentially the 
 same but far less interesting. There's flexibility in terms of spending ability points, but you'll 
 have almost maximised your abilities by the end of the game, meaning you essentially get very little 
 choice.
  
  Your first mission is introduced after a few minutes wandering the ship which you will inevitably 
 be spending a lot of time on later in the game  this prelude to the mission essentially introduces 
 the background to the game, including the politics of human's place in the universe. It provides 
 a strained atmosphere with the aliens onboard the ship, but there's little subtlety about it. The 
 mission involves finding out what has happened to a human colony under attack. It does a reasonable 
 job of walking you through the controls, and provides a solid introduction to the combat in the 
 game, as well as the story.
  
  The combat is fairly simplistic, over-the-shoulder shooting spiced up by the occasional ability. 
 On the normal difficulty I played through the game with it's very easy though, which is a bit of 
 a shame really because it's actually solid, if unspectacular. The only time you'll dislike the 
 system is when it gets to close combat  it's difficult to turn fast enough, and the slight delay 
 between pressing the trigger and shooting becomes very pronounced. The biotic/tech abilities do 
 a little to make it more interesting, but more variation in those abilities would have made it 
 seem less repetitive (the system will feel quite stale by the later parts of the game, especially 
 if you've gone out your way to do all the side-missions) .
  
  The other element of the combat  vehicular combat  emerges later in the game, and is actually 
 very weak. The only vehicle is limited in what ways it can aim, but the cross-hair doesn't show 
 this  you can still move the cross-hair up, but not shoot there, leaving a lot of your missiles 
 to go somewhere you really didn't expect them to go. The movement of your vehicle is, somehow, 
 even worse; it's erratic and close to being uncontrollable at times. Fortunately, the combat is 
 so easy that these problems won't stop you from getting through the game. They just stop you enjoying 
 it.
  
  Unfortunately, the vast majority of side-quests involve vehicular combat/movement. They're in fact 
 very poor beyond that as well, since they all follow the same formula; meet someone/get message, 
 go to planet, travel for ages until you reach an obscure base on said planet, infiltrate base, 
 escape. There's a few side-quests that are based solely on certain planets, but really these don't 
 add much and serve more as extra diversions from the main storyline.
  
  The main storyline though, is actually very good. Cut-scenes are very impressive, dialogue throughout 
 the game is superb, and the characters are quite good (although they are, inevitably, a step back 
 from KOTOR) . There are a few decisions surrounding morality in the game that aren't so clear-cut 
  some of these will be around whether or not you're actually doing the right thing, because the 
 antagonist provides some thought-provoking questions and is far and away the best character in 
 the game.
  
  The new conversation system actually adds a lot to the telling of the tale though. Rather than 
 being given a couple of straightforward responses when the other character has finished speaking, 
 you can choose to interrupt them, and respond according to the gist of what you want to say rather 
 than being given an option and then having your character read it  it's a fresh system and makes 
 the conversations seem a bit more flowing, although you might sometimes have very long pauses which 
 the NPCs don't seem to notice. The romance sub-plots rely heavily on these conversations as well, 
 but at the rate the characters go about things, they'd be married with twelve kids before they've 
 completed their first full conversation. Maybe that's just nit-picking, but it does seem slightly 
 odd.
  
  For every good point, there's something to stopper it though, and here it's the structure; whereas 
 in KOTOR the planets each had their own races and atmosphere, the developers have gone for quality 
 over quantity this time round, with only one planet being at all interesting and the many others 
 being completely devoid of life. This could have been because the developers wanted to give the 
 player a sense of scale, but the vast environments seem pretty needless and just take time  the 
 travelling combined with the infuriatingly long elevator rides probably add one or two hours to 
 a fifteen hour (with side-quests it could hit thirty) game  very short by RPG standards.
  
  The cut-scenes are helped immeasurably by the strong graphics. These also help with the characters; 
 some alien races are made far more interesting by the excellent art design combined with the graphics. 
 On the main planet (imaginatively titled the 'citadel') , impressive vistas will come close to taking 
 your breath away  these little moments are a huge boost to the game, but the quality is diluted 
 by the drab planets you'll find yourself traversing to get to each side-quest.
  
  Overall, there's clear potential in this game, but the awful side-quests, horrible inventory system, 
 weak vehicular combat along with numerous other issues come very close to making this game no fun 
 at all. Star Wars: KOTOR is actually a better game by a long way, and for Bioware to have taken 
 so many steps backwards in five years is unforgivable really. If this game had some of the glaring 
 errors resolved, it could have been great. As it is, it balances out just above average.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evratto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 12:22 pm PT
Review:  State of the art game. One of my best choices.
  
  Graphics, music, effects, innovation and the whole issue is pure art materialized in an RPG. This 
 ugraded rpg will be the one that mark an era in RPGS, as once did the successful final fantasy 
 sequels, innovation achievement mark the time. 
  
  The game takes you out of this planet, literally and in any way you see, the history system development 
 surprises and entertains you at all times, some long and boring parts that go with the progress 
 and also parts as well of extreme action,. more than once you will have to overdo a chapter adding 
 more strategics and aggressiveness to fulfill it. 
  
  
  Definitely every game has many aspects that could be improved, like freedrive the normandy or land 
 and investigate every planet, we can speak and criticize much of this... I believe that every good 
 game deserves the right to be perfect.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dendrosteve
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Good storytelling mixed with fun combat make this an enjoyable game worth purchasing as its price 
 drops below $39. I've read different reactions about the combat, but I find it enjoyable and the 
 special abilities (biotics and tech skills) make the combat more enjoyable even if they are typically 
 not necessary. There is a decent amount of character customization from body features to the large 
 amount of guns/armor/other upgrades available from scattered boxes and fallen enemies. In fact 
 so much is dropped that I stopped really caring about what I was finding as it just seemed to clog 
 up the inventory. Everything runs smoothly with no frame rate issues or load times that are too 
 long.
  
  The only problems I found were with the missions. The main campaign is very short, but fun. You 
 only need to visit a small number of the games locations to beet the game. The many optional missions 
 also don't seem to add too much to the game. Many of these side quests get fairly repetitive and 
 I completed them just to get the experience points.
  
  I did enjoy the game and have beaten it several times since I bought it last month. If you're looking 
 for an RPG that you can play for 30-60 minutes at a time and accomplish something then this is 
 a great game. If you want something bigger like Oblivion then maybe wait for something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flames344Life
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is easily the best RPG that I've ever played. I'm a guy who hates the turn-based RPG's, 
 so Mass Effect's gameplay has a fresh style to it that kept me playing until I beat it in a week. 
 Took me about 40 hours, and I plan to play it through again. Mass Effect's best feature is easily 
 the way that your choices in communicating with other characters can drastically affect the storyline, 
 how you're character is viewed, etc. I loved the visuals, I loved the massive universe that you 
 could explore, and I actually loved the gunplay, especially the skills such as damping and overload. 
 an awesome game. THere are 2 minor gripes I have with this game that prevented me from giving it 
 a 10. 
  1. The fact that in some instances of the dialouge, the passive choice and the assertive choice 
 would result in the same dialouge, which destroyed the purpose of choosing.
  2. The fact that you could only go to one planet per solar system. I mean come on, there are so 
 many terrestial planets that you can't go to. What gives?
  
  Other than that, this game is flawless. Go buy it, even if you generally dislike RPGs, because 
 this one doesn't play like one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unorthodox1978
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a sprawling and beautifully detailed role playing game brought to us by Bio-ware. 
 The game takes place in the distant future and Earth has attained intergalactic seafaring abilities 
 brought to them by the Protheans, and enigmatic extinct race often mentioned in the game. Without 
 giving away too much plot, which is considerably dense, the game is ultimately about one man (or 
 woman depending on how you play) redeeming the universe from a machine-like race of sentient beings 
 hellbent on destroying all life in the known universe. Yeah, we've been here before and you're 
 right it does reek of Terminator fandom, but the story line is original, trust me. 
  
  Players can customize their character to look anyway they wish. The character can be African American, 
 Asian, Latino, White, old, young, male, or female. The graphics are stunning and the game play 
 is solid enough. This isn't a straight up shooter, it's an rpg, so when you level up, it becomes 
 necessary to spend skill points to strengthen your character -- which can come in one of six classes. 
 
  
  The game isn't without it's flaws, load times are horrendous and sometimes in the middle of the 
 action, there are more load times which cut away from the immediacy of the moment. Also, there's 
 a lot of chat -- quite a bit of it in fact. Which brings me to my next point. What makes Mass Effect 
 so great is also it's Achilles' heel. You can control the story by either being a Paragon (good 
 guy) or Renegade (bad guy) . Based on your actions, the game adjusts itself and the story line compensates 
 for your words and deeds. There is a moral code throughout the game and if you want, you can be 
 a combination of both paragon and renegade. There isn't much fun in being a renegade, because for 
 the most part, you get yelled at a lot -- just like in real life if you're a jerk. But because of 
 this story mechanic, the game has quite a bit of dialog. It's recommended to go through all of 
 it to get the most out of the story, but sometimes you just want everyone to shut the hell up so 
 you can blast something. 
  
  Overall, the game is great. Great customization, great graphics, and interesting plot. Definitely 
 worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8732_YoungJeezy
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  Ok well at first I gave this game way to little credit until i started playing it again. I just 
 just saying wow after i finished it, the story was just so amazing and the game play was one of 
 the best for an rpg. I thought oblivion was the best till I gave this game a try and yea, I love 
 mass effect now.
  
  The graphics are amazing and i like how everything is in real time. I hate the turn base system 
 but this game lets you take cover and shoot down your enemy, it just doesn't get old. There is also 
 so much to do like exploring other planets and doing tons of side quests. The best part of it all, 
 it's not confusing and you can actually understand the game. I also loved the speech part of this 
 came because, you can choose what to say and it can change the conversation or you can choose to 
 let a person die or live in some cases. All there is to say is get this game a. s. a. p. because your 
 missing out on a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoSapphire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is another BioWare game, so if you've played any of they're games you know how they 
 usually are. This ones got the cool space aspect, and feels and looks very alive.
  
  Characters: The cast is good, I felt myself wanting to talk to them more and more, and probably 
 had the most fun doing so. Its a shame they aren't fleshed out. Fantastic voice acting.
  
  Story: Basic stop an evil threat destroying the universe scheme, but the sidelines involved in 
 the overall quest really make the experience worth it.
  
  Music: Blade Runner for the win!!! Awesome music that gives the game a unique feeling.
  
  Gameplay: 
 Fun. The fights can feel a little old after a while, and the settings are pretty bland except for 
 the major game areas, but still well done.
  
  Felt flat after a point, because after about half-way through you've witnessed everything gameplay 
 wise, but its still a great game. Worth Playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SergantCross
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  The good: Great start from the game, difficulties match to people on how good the people play, 
 Benezia is a fun boss to toy with than where you first encounter saren, so many planets and surveys 
 are tragic.
  
  The bad: The story is almost short to say the least from the primary objectives, main objectives 
 are boring and weak to take (Too easy to handle) , up to 10-20 hours on harder difficultys you can 
 able to finish this game if you dont want to do the secondary space objectives (But i refuse to 
 do it anyway) some stores sell too expensive equipment at start which is a little tedious, vehicle 
 combat is weak and lame as if your bored of shooting, ram into geth troops or others for more fun 
 than wasting time, graphics can load too long to make the game mediocre.
  
  Actually i finished this game for 8 hours because i couldn't be asked to do the secondaries, so 
 i think this game is like bioshock or oblivon, so it's not that strong as them but according to 
 the combat while in a person shoot, it's way better than veichle combat, and squad memebrs from 
 the citadel are uniqe but Liara as trapped in some weird planet but she is way more useful than 
 kaiden as he is a sentiel, according to most of the squad Tali and wrex are perfect to combine 
 in useful combat and if you pick garrus for secondary objectives along with liara your mako wont 
 be in bad shape when you repair it much as you level more.
  
  Codex is more better exploring than combat because if your really into 100% achievements then you 
 need to do every secondary objective what your given before you go to Ilos and thats it so i will 
 igve you this hint.
  
  If you want to finish everything do all secondary objectives first before going to Ilos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fightgarr
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Bioware is a maker of excellent RPGs that look great and have some kind of odd moral scale to choose 
 from, which ranges from kill the puppies to Jesus Christ himself. Mass Effect is an excellent game 
 if you play it the right way, but even then that doesn't take away the fact that the game has a 
 good many gameplay issues.
  
  Mass Effect's main issues lie within its menus and combat. Because of the weak menu design and 
 horrible micromanaging systems, it makes it hard to appreciate the role-playing game elements of 
 this title. The combat as well, plays like a 3rd person shooter but my allies appear to be f*cking 
 retarded and the enemies seem to all want to tackle me judging by the way the run up and hump you.
 
  
  Certain other issues arise in the game as well. Firstly is that the car you drive, which looks 
 like some boss from Twisted Metal, is far too good for the amount of combat you do in it, I suppose 
 this is balance by the fact that its controls may as well have been reversed the way it handles, 
 but that is all lost once you figure out that every fight is easily one because you have a f*cking 
 rocket launcher on your car. Secondly is the side missions, which are all identical and all a waste 
 of time since this game suffers from the Oblivion complex of "levelled enemies".
  
  On the other hand, Mass Effect's story become quite involving once you get the hang of the hour 
 long conversations that take place in the game. Thanks to its choice system you can build your 
 character up to be either a racist a**hole or a big lovey-dovey p*ssy Bioware's system of having 
 good and evil on different scales in this game however doesn't make a lot of sense since you end 
 up with both bars filled eventually, defeating the entire purpose of them and since you can't lose 
 points it further defeats their purpose.
  
  Play Mass Effect because it is an experience; a game that will suck you in and spit you out 2 days 
 later with a 200 page novel in your brain. Overlook its flaws for the sake of a good story, and 
 develop your own character to be a consistent amount of a d*ckbag for the best experience. I've 
 also heard its better on PC so I guess do that, especially if your some PC gamer with the PC gamer 
 god complex you all seem to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawno32
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Well, to start things off. I'm always the type of guy who likes to create/customize his character. 
 So the fact that you can physically mold your character is a great start for me. Even if the customization 
 process may not be as sophisticated as other games I've seen. It was more than satisfying for this 
 type of game. And I liked the fact that you could choose a background story for your character. 
 The variety of different weapons and "magic" abilities is also impressive. The small let-down for 
 me is how short the game can be if you don't interest yourself in side missions. If you attack 
 the main story full-on then you'll end finishing it within 8-10 hours easy. And the gameplay difficulty 
 is rather disappointing, it's a small challenge at first but things don't get harder. Once you 
 learned how to play you the going gets just as easy as you'll start finding stronger guns/armor 
 which will just help you kill things easier and finish your missions faster.
  
  But the universe and the story just makes it worth playing 
  trough the game. Well, if you're 
 someone like me that always likes a great story in a game, you'll find that the easy difficulty 
 won't stop you from putting it back in it's case just yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mixelplixed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  There are plenty of reviews out there for this game, but I'd just like to say that this was one 
 of the most anticipated games for me last year ever since I saw it at the microsoft demo-booth 
 at PAX. All I can say is it lived up to the hype (for me) , and I'm very excited about ME2.
  
  The combat system is kind of new, and different. There are a decent variety of ways you can 
 kill your enemy ("powers" vs. ammo) . The team aspect of the game also works very well, although 
 sometimes the AI might not be as sharp as you would like. 
  
  There is a great mix of RPG elements as far as leveling the characters up. You might focus on powers 
 for yourself, while the rest of the team focuses on straight up guns.
  
  The story is as good as it gets in the video game world. There are some great twists, and some 
 cool spots where you have to make a snap decision. Honestly, these are the things that make gaming 
 very enjoyable.
  
  I only gave it an 8.5 because of some of the repetitive locations within the game, and some quirkiness 
 every now and then. Otherwise, it's solid! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EverteMax
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2008 1:06 am PT
Review:  Quality games from a quality studio. Mass Effect is quality... from Jedi Knight (Knights of the 
 Old Republic) to Kung-Fu master (Jade Empire) , BioWare is now bringing us to the stars. Mass Effect 
 is an excellent choice for your RPG repertoire for the x360.
  
  Game play is still done in 3rd-person mode. It deters from its other series like KOTOR and Jade 
 Empire which allows your characters some close-up melee attacks into mostly ranged combat. Whether 
 you choose to be soldier or adept (sort of like their magical class) , you will be involve in using 
 some kind of gun (be it pistol or rifle) , even your biotic skills will have to be aimed and fired 
 at a range, so combat will be pretty much in a distance.
  
  Character development is an extremely satisfying aspect of the game play. 6 classes to choose from 
 and dozens of skills to improve, you can be sure that you will pick the controller up again for 
 a 2nd play through because every class is different. BioWare has once again captured the essence 
 of multiple classes and infuse it in the game. Skills development and the edge they give your character 
 in this game really does make a noticeable difference unlike some other games, like better handling 
 of the rifle, more powerful biotic skills.
  
  Story wise, although not their best in the series of games released (KOTOR had one of the best 
 twist in the plot) , the universe that was weaved is deep. The background stories and the present 
 ones unfolding as you play along in the game will make you really dive deep into uncovering more. 
 You will feel like the world of Mass Effect is alive and it exists. However, their story this time 
 was a little linear, probably because it's the first of the trilogy. Side-quests are available 
 and in abundance. Some of them even reveals some background stories.
  
  In the department of graphics, Mass Effect delivers some of the nicest settings of alien star systems 
 and character modeling that was not in previous games. Character models are the first things that 
 will catch your eyes when you play the game. Their animations and expressions, although not really 
 to the point of life-like, is pretty close. They have definitely spent a hefty amount of time in 
 making the world of Mass Effect more real than any other game.
  
  Given its outstanding elements in the equation, Mass Effect does suffer from bad elements. One 
 that really stands out is the long elevator rides to mask their loading. Sometimes these rides 
 really feel way too long to be overlooked. Sometimes the combat will also feel slightly sluggish 
 due to the character's preprogramed movement. Frame rates also do suffer a bit when your screen 
 gets choked with too much combat (the enemies, animations) . However, they aren't as bad as the 
 elevator rides.
  
  With such an excellent start, BioWare has instilled confidence in us that the next part in the 
 story will be almost the same, if not better. Live the first part of an epic story now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taffyell
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect has great game play.
  
  I like it how your able to get xp and cash to upgrade your stats and character and also your team's.
 
  
  Its Good how your able to choose your team in certain places due to their specified techneiqus 
 which can help you during the game.
  
  Mass Effect has a good stroy line with a huge map and able to do mini quests as well as the main 
 missons.
  
  The 'start' button page is great so you can be updated on your misson and find about more in detali 
 about certian things through out the game and find your way around on the game.
  
  Personaly i think that the maps could be more advansed where you could type in where you want to 
 go and it gives you the quickest route to your destination also i dont like the sensitivity of 
 the controling of the vehicals, could be alot better.
  
  rate it 9 / 10
  
  Taffyell
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomPhoot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  I love RPG's. I love how they throw you into the shoes of someone with responsibility and give 
 you a memorable tale. I'm also a fan of Sci-Fi, so the combination of RPG and Sci-Fi is a win-win 
 for me. Let me tell you this: this is one of the most intriguing Universes ever made. You'll grow 
 to like the different races of aliens, and they're the most creative and likable yet: from the 
 rough and tough Krogan to the sleek and wise Asari, never have aliens been this cool in a video 
 game. Time for me to break it down:
  
  GRAPHICS: Amazing. The character models are entirely believable and fall into the Uncanny Valley, 
 where they look so good that you end of liking them instead of rejecting an awkward attempt at 
 realism. You can sense the emotion and actually take them all seriously. Lips sync perfectly to 
 the dialogue, and the end result are conversations you can feel. The environments are pretty good 
 looking as well, but they tend to be linear and repetitive (especially on planetary missions) . 
 While the graphics are amazing, there still is the issue of pop-up especially when loading new 
 conversations and environments. Other than that, the game is AMAZING.
  
  SOUND: Some of the coolest music you'll ever hear. The soundtrack is complete with heavy synthesizers 
 and sometimes epic scores. When you explore worlds, expect a light and ambient tune to play in 
 the background as you trek in your Mako. When you get into combat, the music takes an intense turn 
 and you'll find yourself performing better to the sheer awesomeness. The dialogue is expertly crafted, 
 and you'll actually find yourself drawn into conversation, a feat rarely accomplished in video 
 games. The only issue with sound is when fighting. Combatants will frequently repeat "I'LL KILL 
 YOU" and "I WILL DESTROY YOU" and "YOU MUST DIE" etc. etc., but it doesn't hinder the fun at all.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: The combat is a mixture of RPG and Shooter that's pure awesomeness. You'll spend your 
 time on menus equipping your teammates with various armors, weapons, and upgrades for the two. 
 The menus are a bit difficult at first, but as you progress through the game you'll learn to love 
 them. Now the real fun begins: COMBAT!! The combat is fun. You'll have various weapons to switch 
 from at will (although some classes are not good with some) to your preference. Based on your class, 
 you can use various abilities known as Biotics and Tech, which are basically force-like and hacking 
 powers to toy with items and foes. While hand-to-hand combat is very challenging and enjoyable, 
 the Mako combat is ho-hum. The Mako is a pretty cool vehicle for exploration, but when in combat, 
 targeting enemies becomes hazardous and clumsy (it's sometimes easier to run foes over =D) .
  
  STORYLINE: I'm not over-exaggerating when I tell you that this is one of the best storylines 
 ever told in video-games or in any media form. Not only is the Milky Way such a fascinating galaxy 
 to explore, but the characters are what makes it shine. I've never played a game that made me make 
 some of these decisions that I made in Mass Effect. As per BioWare RPG's, dialogue options are 
 vast and account toward your Shepherd's personality. You'll make decisions that are just so tough 
 you'll always feel regret. You'll fall in love (quite literally sometimes ;] ) with the various 
 characters and allies, and you'll even grow to question the motives of the main villain, Saren. 
 I'm not spoiling anything, but let's just say that you'll play it over and over again to experiment 
 with different options. Yeah, it's that good.
  
  OVERALL: Mild flaws don't stop this from being my new favorite video game. It proves that video 
 games are a media format just as valid as television or movies. Play it and enjoy, my friend =D 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckizard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge PC game player, while the 360 is mostly for the kids. Though I do dabble in a game or 
 two when they catch my eye. This game cuaght my eye immediately and never let loose. I didn't think 
 so much fun could be packed into a 360 game and still have yet to see another game with so much. 
 The individual storyline that you change based on your responses to situations; the customized 
 skill set-up for your characters; choosing a varied group of partners to follow you on missions 
 are all incredible features that make for unlimited replayability. Graphics push the 360 to its 
 limit and make you stare in awe. Combat system is one of the best I've encountered with an incredible 
 mix of abilities that make the game an absolute blast. Ton of missions and side-storylines to keep 
 the action coming. The only down side to the game, in my opinion, would be the vehicle/planet missions, 
 which seemed very repetitive and boring. These mostly were side-missions, however and you didn't 
 have to do them if you didn't want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Star-One
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Yes indeed, another game where you must save the galaxy, and this time its a ruthless android army 
 commanded by a turncoat... (cue the voice over of a ragtag fugitive fleet on a lonely quest...)
 
  
  UNIVERSE:
  Despite the obvious allusion to Battlestar Galactica, Bioware has created a fascinating universe 
 for you to romp around. You will interact with genuinely interesting alien and human characters, 
 engage in the politics of the universe and even have romantic entanglement (should you choose) . 
 The game is a full experience. People other than you and monsters exist here. The technology of 
 your equipment is explained (should you read it) and everything is given a solidity through sharp 
 dialogue and a story that you can engage with as little or as much as you wish.
  
  MAIN MISSIONS
  The term "cinematic" is far too often applied to games which do not deserve it. 
 In this case it is precisely what you will get. Your character is the hero, he is fiercely loyal 
 to his commander, there is a plot to uncover, aliens to kill and later there may be gum chewing. 
 Don't get me wrong, if there was a ever a universe you wanted to save, this is it. The environments 
 of the main missions range from soaring skyscrapers to destroyed outposts and ancient ruins, each 
 unique. While there are elements of exploration it is a tight and sharp experience.
  
  SIDE QUESTS
  The side quests are where the game begins to stumble. Between main missions you 
 can go to any available planets on your (very pretty) galaxy map. You unlock planets through learning 
 about them through hacked terminals or NPCs. However, artistically the extra planets are usually 
 desolate worlds with a single outpost (2 different models of outpost) . To compensate you can reassure 
 yourself that this is set in a universe where most planets are in that state, they have no large 
 civilisations yet and many are in the process of terraforming. However, it would have been nice 
 to visit some more cities, or maybe a planet with trees..... To add some interest often these planets 
 usually have some back story to why there are mercenaries, evil cyborgs or bugs attacking you, 
 but this is largely irrelevant. But don't write them off just yet. The scant information you do 
 obtain on each planet collates as you progress, and a sinister side story is revealed.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Graphically this game is stellar. The citadel (like the London of the Milky Way) is 
 particularly impressive. Character models are very sharp, however I would use the default model 
 for Shepard as other variations don't look very realistic. The aliens and technology have a definite 
 "look" which adds to the authenticity of the universe. There is occasional texture pop-in and frame 
 rate dips and this is rather jarring. To compensate the colours are vibrant and explosions could 
 easily have come from a sci fi film.
  
  COMBAT
  Combat relies on traditional firearms reinvented for the futuristic universe. Obviously no one 
 would think to use bullets in this universe, so weapons fire metal slugs railgun style. There are 
 the typical variants, pistol, AR, shotgun and sniper rifle. Personally I never found a real use 
 for the sniper rifle but you may, and I recommend speccing up the shotgun to include a handy rocket 
 launcher which is lots of fun. Complimenting the conventional weapons are "Biotic" skills which 
 are the techno justification for magic. Force push and lift, handy shield and armor boosts and 
 general explosive assists you in chopping your way through the enemies. To acess these skills you 
 use a handy choice wheel which freezes time, and thus incorporates some turn based elements to 
 break up straight gunfighting. You'll get the hang of it. Combat varies depending on which class 
 you pick at the start, Biotic, Solider or Engineer, and subsequent blends of each. In all honesty 
 I am unsure why the engineering classes are there they are rather silly, and are support characters 
 at best. You are the leader, the commander; you should not be playing from afar. My personal choice 
 would be "Vanguard", a blend of soldier with biotic abilities, for the rough and tumble of star 
 war-ing. There is a modicum of tactics involved but these are fairly limited to directing your 
 2 squadmates to attack specific targets. Gripping stuff....
  
  INVENTORY AND EQUIPMENT
  Oh dear, it was going so well. 40 hours in and the inventory still is clumsy and irritating. Some 
 crazy person decided that it didn't require a back button when modifying equipment, and that really 
 when cleaning your inventory of loot you ought to return to the top *grumble grumble* Its not game, 
 breaking, but does make you want to roll your eyes. Equipment is solid and fun to pick between. 
 Upgrade and modify your weapons and armour with whatever you feel like, usually to match, as you 
 do have to carry all your weapons visibly on your back....
  
  THE CONVERSATION WHEEL
  Deserves its own section. Having played Oblivion and despised its painfully dull textual answers 
 this was an incredible upgrade. Rather than a stop and start system, conversation flows, properly, 
 and you can pick how nasty you feel that day, you can be diplomatic or sock them in the face. Wonderful. 
 Rather than the entirety of your statement, it gives a few words to describe the gist, so you do 
 not simply hear what you read on the wheel.
  
  OVERALL IMPRESSION
  Mass Effect is at its greatest and adventure with intense combat, high stakes and everyone loves 
 saving the universe. At its worst, you roam around in your ATV (and I mean ALL, this thing can 
 scale cliffs) going "oh look. A rock." But don't be put off, these last only a few minutes as long 
 as you resist the urge to check out the ? on the edge of the map, which is always ALWAYS a rock. 
 Don't bother. As for the game, bother, my word bother, I love it, and you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of the best rpg's out there. It combines a great story, with rpg elements, and 
 an intense third person shooter. This is one of the best games I have played, and easily one of 
 the best games that came out in 2007.
  
  You play Shepard. A human the you customize. You are called into action when a Specter goes rouge. 
 You are in charge of finding him, finding out what he is doing, and killing him. This is a game 
 that will take you across tons of planets, fighting cool aliens, and finding out the secrets of 
 the galaxy. I'm not going to go into a lot of detail from the story, because, I do not want to 
 ruin it if you have not played it, or are still playing 
  
  The game play in Mass Effect is a lot like other third person shooters. Most of the time, you will 
 be getting in these intense fire fights, but there are time when the action cools down, and you 
 have to go around talking to people. The gun fights are fun, and there are lots of weapons to use 
 on your enemies. You have an assault rifle, pistol, shotgun, and sniper rifle. But you also have 
 a bunch of different powers, like biotic powers, that let you pick up enemies and throw them, depending 
 on what class you pick. You level up all these skills like in all rpg's, and you get even more 
 special abilities. Like with your shot gun, one of the skills you can get is an extra power shot 
 after you fire a normal shot. There are tons of different skills, that all branch of into different 
 things.
  
  The controls in Mass Effect work really well. The player controls are smooth, and everything is 
 easy to pick up. You have this vehicle that you ride around in on planets, and the controls for 
 that get tricky. The vehicle moves funny, and will some times turn way to fast, but after a little 
 bit of driving around, you will get use to them. The canon on the vehicle is tricky, because, what 
 your cursor is on is not always what you are shooting. You can't be to close to enemy that you 
 are shooting, or else you can't hit them. Over all, the controls in Mass Effect work really well.
 
  
  The graphics in Mass Effect are amazing. The problem is that there are a lot of texture loads, 
 but once everything loads, this game looks amazing. The planets and environments look awesome. 
 The character models, especially the faces look amazing. You can see every detail, in every one's 
 face that you talk to. The mouth movement in this game is amazing. The character mouth forms into 
 every shape to make every sound, and every word that comes out of their mouths. The frame rate 
 can be a bit choppy at times, but it does not happen a lot.
  
  The sound in Mass Effect is amazing. The music sounds really good, and has this nice futuristic 
 feel to it. The voice acting is amazing. Every voice in the game sounds good, and matches their 
 character really well.
  
  Mass Effect is an amazing game that any one who like stories, third person shooter's, or rpgs needs 
 to play. It will blow you mind. Now, I can't wait for Mass Effect 2. But Mass effect is a game 
 that you will want to go through again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Hermes
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Calling Mass Effect a "game" is almost misleading, it truly is an interactive experience that oozes 
 with depth and masterful story telling that rivals and sometimes outshines much of what is offered 
 in film and literature of the same genre, and this is just the first of a trilogy! 
  
  The game plays much like BioWare's previous RPGs like Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic and 
 Jade Empire. Dialog with characters is key and so are various branching paths that the player chooses 
 to advance the story. There is a heavy third person shooter influence in the game but it's not 
 fair to call Mass Effect a shooter, this is no Gears of War nor is it trying to be. While "skill 
 with a gun" has a bigger role in Mass Effect than other RPGs, the game still uses your character's 
 background stats and experience points to determine how well you truly do and leveling up is essential 
 to learning and using new skills. 
  
  At its core Mass Effect is an achievement in interactive story telling and an interesting take 
 on the RPG genre and a classic example the "Space Opera." Aside from some characteristic BioWare 
 technical shortcomings (clipping, pop-in textures, etc...) the game is a fantastic experience and 
 a worthy buy for anyone who'd like to see the unique way video games can tell a story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teobeo94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I don't really like sci-fi kind of games and this is my first sci-fi game for my xbox 360!!! this 
 game turned out to be very hard in the beginning of the weird control but in the end it was very 
 original and drew me into the game... the graphic of this game is superd but sometimes it doesn't 
 appear fast enough and the elevator is just too too slow for a futuristic game. the replay value 
 plus the long gameplay makes this game a valuable game. Overall this game is a really good game 
 with its story on the top I would give a 9.5 instead of the 10 I intended to give this game.
  I'm also disappointed since this game didn't deliver as much as what they promised since they took 
 out the action in the dialog and the ability to control your other members but this game is still 
 one the best game no matter what... THE END 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illtihid_dude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of the greatest games on the Xbox 360, combining innovative roleplaying with 
 a solid shooting system. The games begins with a bang, you are on your ship when a distress call 
 is received. Needless to say, by the first hour you should have gotten more done and had more fun 
 then if you played the average game through to the finish. If you thought The Elder Scrolls IV 
 was the epitome of role playing games, you were wrong. Everything about this game is fluid and 
 well thought out. The voice acting and facial animations are the best I have ever seen, and unlike 
 Oblivion, the characters actually do things when they talk to you instead of standing and looking 
 strait into your eyes. The only bad thing I would have to say about Mass Effect is that when it 
 comes to the side missions, the architecture and the planets are all the same. That one small nagging 
 detail should not stop you from buying Mass Effect, the greatest game on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kokoyasu
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Before i start, i would like to say this game was made by the developers of the old "knights of 
 the old republic"/"jedi outcast" games. As you probably know, this game is a very in-depth rpg 
 whose storyline can take days to complete. Completing all of the game's achievements will take 
 a bit more time after that. Fear not though, the other achievements and sub-quests are just as 
 fun as the storyline and often you will get sidetracked before going back to finish the story.
 
  
  In similar fashion to the KoTR games, the game is set in the future where humans and other alien 
 species are part of a galactic republic and you must travel the galaxy in order to save it from 
 a rogue agent who made a powerful discovery.
  
  The great thing about this game is you can choose the outcome to more than one events in the game 
 through actions or things you say as you progress along. For example, if you choose to be a bada$$, 
 then you will be more intimidating to some people and stores may sell products for cheaper prices. 
 However, if you are a good-guy, then you will receive the respect of your fellow crew members.
 
  
  As you begin to load the disc, you will have the opportunity to fully customize the looks AND personality 
 of your character. By choosing his/her background story, you are already sculpting your adventures 
 because the character's background will affect the actions he takes in the future. Also, you will 
 choose the character's 'class' or occupation. For example, choosing to be a soldier will give you 
 weapon/armor upgrades whereas choosing to be an adept will mean you get to use telekinetic powers. 
 
  
  As usual, this game allows you to equip an incredible variety of weapons depending on your choice 
 in the style of gameplay. You can also upgrade your character's stats as they gain levels by gaining 
 experience just simply through playing. 
  
  In my opinion, this game can match any of the japanese FF or other RPG games in terms of content 
 and gameplay. Did i mention the realism of the voicing? Hurry and go buy the game. It may be a 
 bit dated, but this game will survive the test of time. Plus, the price is going down, so why not 
 give it a try. Im sure it will bring satisfaction to any of you adventure-goers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achaean728
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is, indeed, one of the greatest RPGs to ever grace the Xbox360. It seems to do everything 
 a great game should do; the story captivates us, the gameplay is addicting, the graphics are superb 
 and the soundtrack and voice-acting set the perfect tone to the game's visuals. Unfortunately, 
 despite this level of near perfection, the game is not without its own set of problems and issues. 
 
  
  STORY: The story is, to simply put it, captivating and immersive. Playing through the game, the 
 player experiences an almost cinematic experience in its story telling and presentation. The characters 
 are memorable and enjoyable. The story has everything one would expect from a Hollywood screenplay, 
 even though its a game: action, betrayal, love, and thrills. Mass Effect's good/evil classification 
 allows the player to make decisions during the story (some choices good, some bad) that can have 
 adverse effects on the story and how it plays out. These choices greatly add to the sense of immersion. 
 Despite this immersion, however, the story does seem rather short, as the main the story can be 
 completed in what seems only 15-20 hours or so. Nevertheless, the story does lead us into a (hopeful) 
 sequel. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Lets start with combat. Combat is straight forward and shouldnt be hard to get the hang 
 of. The in-game tutorials are also helpful for newcomers. Combat is done from the third person, 
 in real time, and has the feel of a tactical shooter, similar to GRAW. Although it might feel like 
 a tactical shooter, its not. Spells and skills play an intricate and important role in combat. 
 Playing it as just a shooter, the player will find themselves dying quite a lot. Picking spells/skills 
 is a breeze in combat. Bringing up the in-combat spell menu pauses combat, allowing the player 
 to make an intelligent and strategic decision on what spell/skill to use. This integration of a 
 tactical shooter with spell/skill use makes combat pretty addictive. 
  
  Just like in any other RPG, leveling and gearing your characters is almost just as important as 
 combat itself. You'll have loads of equipment to choose from as you progress to give to your various 
 party members. Equipment and weapon add-ons add a sense of customization to this. Essentially, 
 players are allowed to choose different add-ons for armor (like shield and armor bonuses) that 
 will benefit them in combat, they can also pick the ammunition that their weapon of choice uses 
 (radioactive bullets, armor-piercing and explosive rounds) .
  
  Another aspect of the game that adds a sense of immersion is the player's ability to traverse the 
 galaxy and explore a variety of alien planets, some of which the player can actually land on. Landing 
 on planets allows the player to use the Mako, a combination of a tank and armored personnel carrier. 
 In this suedo-tank, the player can drive all over this planet and engage in combat. Probably one 
 of the biggest gripes with Mass Effect are the controls that govern the Mako. To put it frankly, 
 they're horrible. The driving controls will drive you crazy, and driving and firing at the same 
 time will be a very very frustrating task. To make things worse, many of the weather effects on 
 the various planets you land on can hinder how far you see in the Mako. This is problematic when 
 taking on missile turrets that can see you before you can see them, making it very difficult to 
 destroy them. 
  
  GRAPHICS: Amazing. The graphics are simply amazing. The character models and the detail that goes 
 on them are truly breath-taking. The facial movements and body motions will send chills down your 
 spine at how real they look. Nearly all the environments in the main story share the same level 
 of detail that the character models have, and again, this adds to the sense of immersion that the 
 game gives the player. The environments on your planet hopping adventures, however, will be less 
 then spectacular. They are rather dull and boring and lack any unique features, such as trees, 
 ruins, buildings or water. Every planet that you choose to land on (with the exception of the planets 
 in the main story) have the same look: a desert with mountains. The only difference between them 
 seems to be weather effects and the color of the ground.
  
  SOUND: The soundtrack is wonderfully done and is what helps to add that cinematic feel to the game. 
 The voice acting is superb. Not only are the main characters voiced very well, but the side characters 
 the player comes across are done superbly. 
  
  TECHNICAL: For the most part the game runs very smoothly on the Xbox360. The framerate seems to 
 be consistent with only a few minor hiccups here and there. The load time isnt bad either. The 
 environments tend to take some time to fully render however. Although this only happens occasionally, 
 it tends to happen at intricate parts of the story and the rendering times seem to take several 
 seconds, detracting from the game's sense of immersion.
  
  All in all Mass Effect is a great game, worthy of any RPG fan's collection. Although it as a few 
 technical and gameplay issues, the shear scope of the immersion any player will experience with 
 the game, and its "cinematic-esque" story telling will definitely make this a very unforgettable 
 adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riddick92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  i only had 11 problem with the game - it is kind of a corny ending .but it is still the best RPG 
 i have ever played (well apart from the elders schrolls) . The game would be fantastic and not just 
 great if they made the ending a bit more less corny than it was it didn't realy exite me it was 
 obvious shepard was gonna come out the reckage at the end. i also think there needs to be a wider 
 range of planets you can LAND on and not just see them. i was pretty dissapointed to see you cant 
 land on earth but the rest of the game cancelled that out. i know my review was a bit more bad 
 that it was good but it is still a great game but i think the improvments i said and that will 
 make this game a classis. it would, dare i say it as well known as halo. but that is my opinon. 
 i am glad to hear that the game is going to be a trilogy and i just hope that number 2 and 3 are 
 as good as this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cetrie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  This game i thought at first was a bit dull and filled with far to much dialouge. But after my 
 friend played it and showed me a bit further on in the game i couldnt wait to get back to play 
 it. The game is a must have for fans of the "Knights Of The Old Republic" fans. The legend that 
 is Drew Karpyshyn (lead writer for the first KOTOR game) wrote this game (and books) . This man 
 is one of the most imaginative minds of our time. The shear fact he can make up, or sorry create 
 Alien races and then come up with religions and back stories for all these races is nothing short 
 of fantastic. 
  
  That alone made the game worth playing for me. I would deny nobody the chance to play this game.
 
  
  You start off with the chance to customize your character to just about anyway you want. That starts 
 off a whole trend of choices for a game that redefines the word choice. Also with all the choices 
 you make (or dont make) throughout the game, they are carried over into the next mass effect game 
 in which your save can be carried across. So the game does not end at the credits. 
  
  You can play through again with your same charcter and make different choices. Different romance 
 sub-plots, and side qquests make this game interesting and attention seeking. 
  
  So thats just a small re-cap of what this game is like without giving away any real story line.
 
  
  If you read this thank you very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llSapphyrell
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  This game has alot of places to explore and beings to interact with. It has abundant missions. 
 There are also alot of actions where its outcome depends on your decisions. It is a long and exciting 
 game. It is one of the best games of Xbox 360.
  
  I have noticed features which needs further improvements. The game is a masterpiece and there are 
 only but few that I have seen missing in the game.
  
  Further improvements should be made with regards to purchasing and changing of armors. When buying, 
 there should be a screen to visualize what the armor looks like. This will help the player choose 
 what design he likes and what armor will his character wear. In the equipment menu, there should 
 also be a screen where one can view what the armor one looted in battle looks like. This will help 
 the player decide whether to wear the armor already or not. Having this feature will further give 
 the player freedom and creativity in the game.
  
  Furthermore, there should have been markets where there would be alot of vendors offering various 
 goods and services. The systems were all big but lacked markets where a player could have spent 
 time browsing for goods or trying out outfits and accessories.
  
  Choosing weapons, upgrades and gadgets was not fun because one depends on the statics and logos 
 and lacks visualization of the item. There should have been a screen where one can view a 3D picture 
 of the gun or upgrade. It's much adds excitement to the game when one aims to hunt for cool-looking 
 gun and stash it in his cabinet as a collection. It would add to a player's curiosity for an item 
 if it has a 3D image ready for viewing once the item is bought or looted. Items were represented 
 by names with statistics on the equipment menu which made it boring to choose what to use and what 
 to install as an upgrade.
  
  There should have been gunshops where players could testfire weapons before purchasing. I have 
 noticed too that there's not much customization with the guns. The designs of the weapons was too 
 futuristic but less personalized. We should have been given choices to upgrade to scopes, lasers, 
 nightvisions, or silencers, or better yet, gold plated and platinum guns.
  
  The equipment cabinets were small and lacking the feature where a player could browse what his 
 equipments looks like. The cabinets were also piled close together which lacks individuality. There 
 should have been dressing rooms where we can swap armors, helmets and accessories.
  
  In the game, the player could only play as the lead character. He could only command the other 
 2 members of the party with regards to using a certain skills and weapon, and moving to tactical 
 positions. It would be better if the player could shift into the other members. For example, the 
 player is a lady, and she decides to use the woman characters instead. If a player also likes to 
 use the alien races, with a press of a button, he could easily play the alien races. There should 
 have also been more alien races to choose from.
  
  The customization of the lead character's features was alright but it would have been better if 
 there were more choices in customization. It would have been cool to be able to change the lead 
 characters height, race, complexion, accessories, etc. Games were meant for us players to express 
 our creativity and personality, so I hope in the next Mass Effect, more customization features 
 are made available.
  
  Overall, Mass Effect is one of the best games because it is one of few games which involve leveling 
 up. Level up games are fun and is worth to spend on because it is game which lasts long. It takes 
 a lot of hard work to build your character. The game involves use of tactics and search for strong 
 items that could make you and party strong.
  
  I can't wait for Mass Effect 2. It would surely break barriers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picodill
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Although it is not without its shortcomings, Mass Effect is overall an excellent game. One of its 
 strongest points is the main story, which is compelling and original. It is well-paced and full 
 of just enough plot twists. There is also a tremendous amount of well-thought out background for 
 all the planets, races, and enemies.
  
  As good as the main quest is, many of the side quests tend to be dull and extremely repetitive. 
 I don't know how many times I ransacked the same exact bunker on planets so similar the only difference 
 is their color. What may have worked better here is some more original side quests or getting rid 
 of some of the side quests and adding more content to the main quest.
  
  The basics of the game are a highpoint. Mass Effect combines role-playing elements (leveling up, 
 talent options, and a huge amount of upgradable equipment) with a fast paced, first-person shooter. 
 The result is a good amount of character development and enough action to really make the game 
 enjoyable.
  
  Also, the voice acting and visuals of people are just great. You really feel that you are interacting 
 with everyone. 
  
  Probably the game's biggest failure is the Mako. The Mako is essentially an armored dune buggy, 
 which should be really cool, but it's controls are so unwieldy and the targeting is so bad, that 
 driving the vehicle is not fun at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebomb1993
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  this game is compelling in way few games before or since have matched. the universe is massive 
 and expansive, and instead of just having the main story worlds as Bioware did with KOTOR, they 
 added uncharted worlds that you can explore and map items and complete side-quests on. the gameplay 
 is challenging forcing you to think on your feet as enemy AI is rather intelligent. also the environments 
 are beautifully rendered and all the cut-scenes are not pre-rendered but run off the games engine 
 showing what this games grafix are capable of. the gameplay is a amazing a great combination of 
 elements of a great RPG and FPS wrapped up into one amazing package. my only real complaint about 
 this game are the uncharted worlds get a little repetitive and start to look too similar and you 
 on occasion get stuck in the game's geometry which rarely happens. this and a few other minor glitches 
 are annoying and prevent me from giving the game a perfect 10. but seasoned hardcore gamer or causal 
 gamer you will get many hours out of this game and you can pick it up used for $29 so i honestly 
 think this game is well worth it, perhaps on par if not better than the original KOTOR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devil_Vergil
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an RPG game from BioWare, the developers of the hit series "Star Wars: Knights of 
 the Old Republic" the game takes place in the year 2183 CE where space travel is like taking a 
 trip to the mall. you assume the role of Commander Shepard a male/female commander of the Systems 
 Alliance Military. The game starts out as a routine run to the Planet Eden Prime things get complicated 
 when you run into. . . . .a problem.
  
  The game starts off with a list of options. You can only have one game saved at a time this causes 
 some frustration in case if you missed something or wanted to change what your character looks 
 like, oh yes! Just like the KotOR games you can customize your person's face/eyes /hair anything 
 you'd want in an RPG to make it feel that much more. . . . of an RPG.
  
  I made my character have a huge scar on his eye and a mustache that went up to his sideburns. He 
 was pretty awesome looking. After you choose your apperance you can choose the backstory of your 
 character. . . either they were a war vetran, survivor, or ruthless hero. I went with the survivor. 
 Ass soon as your done with that you can then choose where you were raised either space ports, colonies 
 or if he was just raised on good ol' earth. After your finished with the most appealing parts of 
 your character you then go to what type they are. You can either choose to pick technical, Pychic, 
 or just a plain soldier. Each type offers you different abbilities and weapon speciality I personally 
 choose a plain soldier.
  
  When your finished with that you can then go into designing your character's stats their attack 
 their sheilds how much you can charm the ladies and men or. . . .if you prefer intimidate them. 
 
  
  The gameplay is solid. Its your basic shooterpg you can think of. You have 4 weapons A pistol, 
 an assult rifle, a shoutgun, and a sniper rifle. You also get grenades that will be so valuble 
 to you in your asdventures. Guns can be upgrasded modyfing the bullets you shoot to the scopes 
 you see through. Customizing weapons is a key part to the sucess of completing your mission as 
 commander and then some. Grenades will do different things depending on what you have equipt to 
 them some freeze others will incinderate the choice is yours on how you want to do the most possible 
 amount of damage EVER. 
  
  The targeting system in the game is easy to understand. Crosshairs change depending on what weapon 
 you choose. Ammunition is infinite but with all heat powered weapons your guns will overheat after 
 constant use some faster than others. When targeting with some guns (ei the sniper rifle) your 
 hands will shake so it looks like the commander isn't to skill with a sniper this of course is 
 fine I dont know many sharpshooters who can stay as steady as Master Cheif. Guns become stronger 
 throughout the game and its your choice to make sure your asenal is at the top of its game. 
  
  Along with shooting there is running as well your allowed a short burst of addreniline for 
 you to dash out of harm's way or into the fray whichever is your style 
  
  The armor in the game is interesting and vast of course in some cases the best offense is a good 
 defense and Mass Effect delivers. There are different armor skins that trick out your person in 
 sweet looks but remember sometimes the best looking armor isn't always the most secure so remember 
 that when your outfitting your allies and yourself. Armors also have upgradable with extra plating 
 to add onto your sheilds and other little goodies.
  
  As for the life you have a certain amount of sheilds that protect you from blast then you have 
 your life life. Life is easilly replenished with "Med Gels" these allow you to heal yourself or 
 any wounds your allies have. 
  
  Other gameplay modes are the Shooterpg with the vehicle called the "Mako" the Mako is a huge armored 
 tank that makes you enebled to explore unknown plantes in search for treasures and take out extremelly 
 evil and big foes. You have one main cannon that fires of rocket like blast that are not rapid 
 and then you have your plasma cannon to simply wipe out any straglers that you might have left 
 behind. Since the mako is so heavilly armored that you can acually ram down your enemies. This 
 is good because you dont have to worry about "Getting damaged" even though the mako does take damage 
 it can easilly stop in its tracks. . . .and use "Omni-gels" to repair your tank of doom and death. 
 Also to get into a tight squeeze your mako can use its rocket boosters to rise up and evade enemies 
 of all sorts.
  
  The story allows you to traverse the space in freedom for the most part in a fairlly easy way you 
 first choose your galaxy then your inner system of planets and then finally you choose what planet 
 you want to board on. The majority of the planets all have some cold or poison atmosphere to them 
 so you'll usually explore the planet in the comforts of the Mako (though you can exit the mako 
 whenever you feet the urge to just remember your helmet)
  
  The story is revolved around the Prothian race a long since extinct line of beings. There ar eother 
 races that join you in your adventures such as the Thorians, Asari, and Krogan these only list 
 a few of the VAST amounts of races that populate the world. . . . . errr universe of Mass Effect.
 
  
  Your main enemies are the Geth highlly hostile AI beings that stop at nothing to turn you and your 
 comrades into mindless husks something any gamer does not want.
  
  Character interaction is nice. All characters have a certain personality about them some more memorable 
 then others but in the end the game brings together a whole universe of people you'll meet and 
 speak with.
  
  Mass Effect has brough back something that KotOR did so well is the voice acting and conversations 
 you can choose to etither be a badass or a nice guy. I went with whatever situation was best. The 
 best thing about these situations are the fact that there is no good or bad meter its just you 
 and your decisions simple as that which is a system I love personally 
  
  Relasionships can be forged and broken in the game normally leading to some action between crew 
 mates so if your into that kind of stuff then its got it all in here XP 
  
  all and all Mass Effect ties in the best a space ShooteRPG can offer this game should be apart 
 of any Xbox 360 owner's collection and should not be missed so check it out
  
  Mass Effect for the Xbox 360 gets : 9 out of 10 keep it up Bioware 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-Tyrael
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 1:56 am PT
Review:  Hate Science Fiction? do alien girls trying to look hot make your stomach curl? does the idea of 
 living in space not being the top of the food chain just feel appalling?
  
  if so then the majority of this game's charm will be kicking the titanium auto-recycling bucket 
 and that would be a lot of waste as it seems the creators spent ages on end to deliver a believably 
 huge and diverse world (or galaxy as it turns out)
  
  through a number of texts (major ones narrated) of your handy codex, you could almost build your 
 own FTL drive, or be an ambassador without failure to the majority of the alien communities at 
 large, this combined with cinematic graphics and lovely art direction give a sense of realism that 
 few other games (or movies for that matter) can portray,
  rather than turning joe shmoe green with big eyes, other races look distinct, ranging from the 
 all-female asari diplomats, the slate-faced turian military, to the 
  bad-ass mercenary Krogans, all with properly explained governments, biology, and general culture.
 
  
  overall there's enough fiction here to start a nerd cult
  
  but if all of the above simply goes by as the scenic route than gameplay will not disappoint, but 
 beware first lesson is that if you try this like a regular halo shoot-em-up your adventure will 
 cut to the grave soon enough,
  
  While a few of the powers and weapons will go to some people unnoticed (i personally think hacking 
 and assault rifles are completely useless) its a decision completly left to the player on which 
 ones to use as none are "necessary" for anything.
  
  the range of difficulties and auto-aim settings make this hard to be ignored under the guise of 
 being to hard on "casual" gamers, but higher settings are worth bragging about as actual skill 
 of strategy and some reflexes are required so the "core" gamers wont be disappointed either
  
  This combines to make most players have an individual style of strategy and profile customization 
 unseen in most games
  
  all this with a storyline and plot worthy of the big screen (and a few golden statues)
  plenty 
 of unnexpeted twists and political issues that clash with your own agenda, make saving the universe 
 a ride to remember
  
  Alas, it is far from a perfect game, while nothing lacks in the fiction and general plot, there 
 are a few annoying flaws that deter form the general experience one of them being Mako the tank, 
 the floating tank as it were, since gravity has no hold over its bouncing wheels and amazing suspention, 
 being forced into it every time you land on the fifty so identical retextured planets can become 
 a chore in the mid-game, also managing your inventory on the spot is a strange hassle that simply 
 shouldnt exist, of course you can skip most of these problems and cut to killing Saren quickly 
 enough, who by the way could have had more screen time
  the AI of your partners while usually efficient, will occassionaly force you to use your squad 
 management options, (Garrus stop staring at that wall and shoot the monster chewing your leg!)
 
  additionally all those amazing graphics come at the price of some serious texture load, but i 
 think thats a minor and completly ignorable
  also a few times the sudden switch from verbal chaos to world peace after charm employment can 
 be a bit weird
  
  In the end it has some gameplay issues but hardly enough to keep me from playing more than a few 
 times through.
  
  this ones a keeper to me, and anyone who enjoys fast strategic action or plain sci-fi fun will 
 probably enjoy it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael39238
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is probably one of the best games I have ever played due to the fact that it does many 
 things well.
  
  A couple hundred years into the future humankind is part of a galactic civilization spread across 
 several species. Of course, not everything is perfect, and as Commander Shepard you're handed a 
 pretty nice ship and free reign as to where in the galaxy you want to take it.
  
  Mass Effect gets kudos for being able to dramatize every interaction - whether its facial expressions, 
 camera angle, or the thrill of watching your protagonist rough up one of the seedier elements you 
 come across.
  
  This richness to interaction - of which you are able to find in numerous locales, just walking 
 around - ads a depth to your missions from both the mundane to the epic.
  
  Somehow along the course of the way - call it good voice acting, good story, whatever - you start 
 to get a distinct feel for each of your characters in a way other games seldom seem to achieve.
 
  
  And we haven't even gotten to the shooting yet.
  
  Mass Effect's combat system involves a 4-weapon, multi-talent wheel which you can switch during 
 combat to take control of a variety of skills, from weapons skills to physics-based actions (lift 
 and throw are just COOL) - as well as technical attacks, such as disrupting a machine turret.
 
  
  It's alot, which is probably why the action wheel freezes combat - a minor detail you learn to 
 overlook. Normally one might use the D-pad for such changes, but that's used to order your squad 
 around.
  
  Did I mention the graphics are fantastic? When you're running around with your 3-person squad you 
 go through tons of well detailed areas, and your relatively smart AI team members typically look 
 pretty cool in their armor and weapons stack on their back.
  
  With your team, your ship, and all the gear you can shake a stick at, you head out on an epic storyline 
 to literally save the galaxy from a madman. Of course, you don't know where he is, so its mission 
 after mission of dealing with the evil sentient robot army - and associated side factions - that 
 just like to get underfoot.
  
  While the main story plot itself has some linearity, you can do things in any order you wish - 
 this makes for some significant dialog and interaction changes.
  
  In addition, this is one of the rare games where following a train of conversation really influences 
 the outcome of things. For example, when faced with a terrorist pointing a gun to the head of a 
 kidnapped politician, do you just order open fire? Or try and talk him out of it with reason or 
 intimidation? These choices all have consequences later on, a fact which really immerses you in 
 the experience.
  
  The game UI is nice although there needs to be a better way to deal with the inventory of 7 team 
 members with a little less list scrolling. Its very well done, but there is just a lot of detail 
 - the place its noticeable is when you are trying to sell off unwanted gear.
  
  There's more to go into about this game but it would take a couple pages to capture it all. As 
 you'll notice just from walking around the levels, interacting with characters and getting into 
 combat with a variety of diversely skilled opponents, there are a few new concepts in this game 
 that really fill it out. Some of these concepts work and some which don't quite work and could 
 use some more flushing out. Hopefully Mass Effect 2 will see those pieces ironed out and take it 
 to the next level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustBlaze13
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a decent game although on harder difficulties it gets frustrating. Some parts of 
 the game are really annoying such as the fact you can't skip cutscenes and every time you die you 
 have to go through a pretty annoying animation. Another thing is that due to the great amount of 
 planets you can venture to a lot of planets start getting repetitive and look similar to other 
 planets but with different colors. The RPG element of the game is good and isn't difficult to understand. 
 The Character Creation is alright, although there aren't many options toward the creation there 
 are still a decent amount of options that you can choose from. This game does have a good storyline 
 and pretty decent graphics and is fun to play although the game could have been better than what 
 it is but it is still a good game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netgameboy
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  What game gives you the ability to live inside of Star Wars and Star Trek at the same time? What 
 game immerses you so deeply you forget what planet YOUR on? When I first popped in the disc I knew 
 I was playing something I had not only never saw before, but would never see the same way again. 
 Mass Effect for me is number 2 behind next-gen games behind only Bioshock. Do yourself a favor, 
 rent it, buy it used, whatever own it. Then take a jaunt from the Citadel and land on Feros, this 
 one mission alone will show you the depth of Mass Effect. I still leave this game, after playing 
 it through over a year, wishing I was in the worlds I get to land on and explore. I really can't 
 think of any type of gamer, including many FPS friends of mine, that wouldn't find something in 
 this game for them. For me, this defines great gaming. Grant it, some side quests are hokey but 
 this is not part of the big picture so yeah, 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkey23KING
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  The game is extremely well developed, from high end graphics to simple lighting & shading effects. 
 Great storyline game play to endless side missions. Put you right into a long series of movie, 
 with you (the player) as the main actor. Great dialog & interaction between AI players. You don't 
 want to miss this game if you're into ACTION / RPG / FANTASY / SPACE genre. Definitely recommend 
 this over GTA series.
  
  Game play control is simple & fast to react. System menu lets you control not only the main character 
 but the whole entire TEAM. You can equip & customize your teammate to support any given situation.
 
  
  Getting to control & explore different universe with different planets & objective is just AWESOME!! 
 Different class to start with & develop makes everything else so much more to enjoy.
  
  If I have to pick out one thing to complain about Mass Effect is that the game is missing the capability 
 of playing via XBOX LIVE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom1989
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  RPGs are a delicate art form. You can't just say here's a character base, here's some missions, 
 knock yourself out. Mass Effect does do this, but with a quite effective technique about it.
  
  First things first character class. Mass effect gives you 6 classes to choose from (more like 
 3 and 3 mixes) , each have their pluses;
  Like engineers are quite useful for unlocking things, but lack in real firepower and if you aren't 
 at least partially an engineer you have to rely on a NPC to be in your squad who is good at electronics.
 
  Adepts are very fun to play but there is always that problem with weapons combat and electronics 
 being difficult to deal with.
  Then there are soldiers. They are all gun. It gets quite boring unless you have played as an adept 
 or engineer and unlocked talents, so you can mix it up.
  Then there are the combination classes, which are for people who can't make up their mind but can 
 choose 1 they don't want.
  
  Next up is character customization. There is a wide array of different facial features, hair and 
 of course you can be male or female. Although, there are a fair few limits that could be extended 
 to make it more personal with the player. For example body type, you only have one option, reasonably 
 buff. Of course if you gave it too much freedom, you would get those tards that would be a woman 
 just to make their arse and boobs massive.
  
  Then there's game play. The movement is rather simple and reacts reasonably well. The weapons and 
 talents interfaces take a bit to get used to but they become second nature after a half-hour or 
 so of combat. Your squad members however, are complete boulder-brains. Occasionally they'll do 
 something on their own free will, but half the time they just go for whoever you're going for and 
 steal your kill. At other times they may as well just act as distractions (although sometimes it's 
 distracting you by standing in front of you) although that can serve its purpose. Fortunately they 
 had the foresight to put in an option for you tell them what to use, when to use it and who on, 
 and of course the option to tell them to bugger off.
  
  I don't want to dwell too much on this subject... Vehicles. One choice, the Mako. At first it's 
 a bit tricky to drive, and just when you think you got it mastered it throws combat in your face. 
 Whose idea was it to make there a turret that can't aim up or down, when 99% of the time you aren't 
 on level terrain with them? Also, the climbing is more inconsistent then the quality of the newest 
 Simpsons episodes.
  
  That's enough of that. Level design is very nice and artful, except for the side quests which are 
 interesting at first then you notice it's only really four levels, just with different objects, 
 terrain and enemies. Speaking of quests, despite this taking up so much time, there isn't really 
 much length to the main story. There's only about five planets that you go on in the main plot 
 and most of them are pretty much force linear environments not that different to each other than 
 aesthetics.
  
  In all (despite me only pointing out the bad) Mass Effect just grows on you and you'll have lost 
 a day of your life to it before you even notice. Ah, my first review over and I managed not to 
 mention the sex scene... Damnit!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marklarmer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  After endlessly tweaking Shepard's appearance you're able to choose more important attributes of 
 his/her background and personality and these choices certainly have a large effect on the weapons 
 and skills available to you throughout the game. 
  The customisation and his/her squad is what really makes Mass Effect shine and I felt being more 
 involved in choices Shepard made including what he/she looked like and the skills he/she possessed 
 certainly made the game more immersive.
  The weapons and armour are upgradable throughout the game and its very tempting to go in search 
 of matching weapons and armour for all of your squad. Ammo types for your weapons can also be changed 
 at any time and some thought has gone into this as certain ammo types do alot less/more damage 
 on certain enemies. I was especially fond of being able to make these decisions for the whole squad 
 in real-time rather than at the start of each mission, this becomes essential on harder difficulty 
 settings. Sledgehammer rounds being a personal favourite of mine. 
  The combat and story were definitely engrossing and on harder difficulty settings I found myself 
 using the special abilities of my whole squad alot more to tip things in my favour.
  The vehicle sections helped add some variety to the combat and although tricky to handle, I did 
 find great enjoyment in having to think about which direction to approach enemies because of the 
 Makos limited turret movement rather than just driving straight at everything and blowing it to 
 pieces.
  Graphically Mass Effect packs quite a punch with fairly amazing character models of some very 'unique' 
 looking alien races. The environments of the main quest are simply stunning, especially when you 
 reach the likes of Ilos. Though Perhaps Bioware were a little optimistic with some of the textures 
 and loading times, gameplay-wise this doesn't have a great effect apart from the occasional slowdown, 
 but does mean short cutscenes may be over before the textures have finished loading!
  Mass Effect is certainly immersive and the customisation will keep you playing through the game 
 over and over again. Though Its gripping story does leave you very eager for the next instalment. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sierra_118
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  Character creation in Mass Effect is one of the best I ever experienced, like all of Mass Effects 
 positive points it is extremely positive. Other high points include character development, both 
 in terms of skills (further specialization on your classes is an especially nice touch) and in 
 terms of morality, although a little more difference in how the story and game universe pans out 
 with your choices would be nice, although stopping short of Commander Shepard developing Fable-esque 
 horns/halo as time goes on. 
  Exploring the universe is also especially fun, and you can actually have fun just by pottering 
 about looking for crashed satellites rather than pursuing the story. The story is (usually) another 
 of the high points, the characters, the social interaction and the storyline itself are all fantastic. 
 
  However the game is not without faults. The combat itself plays like a fiddly and slow version 
 of Gears of War, and although Biotics and tech abilities add a nice mix, simple combat isn't so 
 much fun. The only grievance i have with the story is the various possible romantic subplots. It 
 is a good idea, but surely if something like that is worth doing it is worth having the voices 
 sound like there is some emotion related to expressing your deepest love to your lieutenant/gunner/blue 
 skinned androgynous science officer. Even KOTR sounds more realistic. They should either have not 
 had it at all, or should have made it believable.
  Finally the whole game has a feel of a missed opportunity. The setting and vision of Mass Effect 
 was so epic and detailed in terms of story and new features that they have missed out some of the 
 solid groundwork required to make the game fun as well as awe inspiring, which Mass Effect still 
 does manage to be.
  Hopefully by the time the sequel comes out the playability issues will have been addressed since 
 frankly those are all that stop this game being an absolute masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Saiyan999
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Mass effect is a unique take on RPG's. Made by the brains behind titles such as 'Baldur's Gate' 
 and 'Neverwinter Night's.' Yes you guessed it, Bioware. Mass effect is set in space in the far 
 future; you play Commander Shepard part of the alliance navy. Your first mission sets the plot 
 for the rest of the game as a civilian witness witnesses a Spectre murder a fellow Spectre. Spectres 
 are the right hand of the council, who oversee everything in the galaxy. Eventually you are granted 
 the title of Spectre and are given the task of tracking down this rogue Spectre in a race across 
 the galaxy. Mass effect gives you the opportunity of creating a male or female version of Shepard. 
 There is a unique dialogue wheel in Mass effect containing 'Paragon' (the good ones) and 'Renegade' 
 (the bad ones.) The more and more you use the certain options the more your paragon/renegade meter 
 upgrades, which allows for even more options in dialogue. This is a great addition to the game 
 which allows for many different endings to certain events in the game. Speaking of dialogue, it 
 is excellent. The actors really play their roles well. There are several classes in Mass effect 
 which will make you want to come back again and again. All in all, Mass Effect is a solid RPG, 
 but is fairly short by RPG standards. If you ever wanted to save the entire galaxy by 'sticking 
 to book' or just plain 'getting the job done,' this is the game for you. Fairly cheap now and is 
 definitely worth a purchase. Games like this truly represent what the 360 is capable of. Bring 
 on Mass Effect 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antman117
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best Xbox games i have played to date with the ability to shape you characters 
 , gender and backstory this is just the Tip of the ice burg when it comes to the choices you make 
 for character along the story.
  The games plot is gripping and well planned allowing you to visit certain worlds in various orders 
 but all linking together to form a climatic ending. The graphics are impressive, not to the same 
 standard's as gears of war or halo 3 but the game carries a certain beauty that is not found in 
 other games . Another thing impressive about this game is the voice work where all the characters 
 are able to carry their roles convincingly through the work of the various voice actors. The Game 
 is able to keep most gamers busy for at least twenty hours with various side missions for the player 
 to take care of if they choose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceball69
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect sucks you in right off the bat. As Commander Sheperd you will explore multiple galaxies 
 in search of the evil Saren who is trying to destroy all life. Most of the game takes place in 
 space or on a planet inhabited by aliens of multiple races. Mass Effect plays off of the Good/Evil 
 aspect giving you choices throughout the whole game. The decisions you make will affect future 
 gameplay as you progress. You travel with a squad of teammates who range from Humans to Krogans 
 to Turians to Asari. Battle is real-time, though you can "pause" by going to your powers menu to 
 strategize. Sheperd does have powers for your alien killing pleasure, though depending on which 
 class you pick at the beginning, your powers will differ. Powers range from Biotic attacks to Technical 
 attacks. Your powers, as well as your crews powers, are crucial to your survival during the course 
 of gameplay. Graphics are one of the main reasons Mass Effect is such a great game. Lips move to 
 match sounds and details are unlimited. Besides Sheperd's main mission, you'll be given a series 
 of side-missions that you can choose to complete, or completely ignore. This is a comparable game 
 to StarWars: Knights of the Old Republic. Overall, this game rocks. Replay value is very high concidering 
 the plethera of choices that are given to you, the six classes you can choose from, the Good/Evil 
 aspect, and the great gameplay all together. A fabulous game indeed that deserves to be played 
 by millions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssr1995
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  I was amazed when I first read about this game. It sounded like something that would blow my mind 
 and give me that warm fuzzy of RP goodness.
  
  And, if I'd never played KotR, I'd have loved it. I ended up with a huge case of "Been there, done 
 that". It wasn't innovative at all, the graphics weren't that good as all the reviews said, the 
 storyline was derivative and uninspired, and the universe was rather boring considering the infinite 
 possibilities that were available. I really had high hopes that this game would be incredible, 
 considering the massive amount of hype that it got. And of course, since it's from a big name company, 
 Gamespot loved it. Of course. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, it was fun for about 10 hours or so. I guess. I was very disappointed. At least 
 it wasn't some anime Garb where the cut scenes take up about 10 hours of the gameplay, so it has 
 that going for it. If you liked KotR, and you're sick of Star Wars, then it might be worth a purchase 
 from the used section. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TechtRonin07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Expanding upon gameplay that served it great in the last generation Bioware unleashes its opus 
 on the 360 flexing its design and story telling muscles. Like Knights of the old republic you take 
 command of a starship and travel the galaxy with several companions. Comparisons stop there however 
 as bioware introduces new combat and character interaction mechanics which elevate it to a status 
 all its own. Mass Effect could be summed up as a "hybrid rpg" as it fuses the role playing genre 
 with the shooter, complete with an over the shoulder and cover system liken to Gears of war. This 
 is really a game for fans of both genres as it is an rpg at heart with a customized protagonist 
 option and lots of leveling up. The galaxy is huge (much like the real one) with plenty of planets 
 to explore, and while you can't land on all of them, there is a staggering amount of exploration 
 to be done with many side quests. The graphics are amazing with a grainy film quality that gives 
 the game a look all its own, music is also top notch with a lot of synth and ambient sounds blending 
 perfectly with the futuristic setting. The completely revamped good vs evil system really shines 
 in this game as the cast that accompanies you is probably the best in recent gaming and often elicits 
 a feeling of actually caring about their fates and how you interact with them. That could also 
 be said about the story and how your decisions will affect the world around you, its no longer 
 so simple to be good or evil. This element gives the game an enormous amount of replay. The only 
 thing keeping this game from a perfect score are things like slow down and frame rate drops. While 
 this really didn't bother me that much (because I was having too much fun) I know how some people 
 can be perfectionist when it comes to graphics. If your a fan of rpgs or any of Biowares previous 
 work you owe it to yourself to play one of the best rpgs ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drewdogg58
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  What can one say about this epic new start to RPGs everywhere?
  I love this game, its definitely my favorite out of my entire collection, it is a sci-fi shooter 
 that lets you customize who you are, and choose your class out of many to choose from, you can 
 completely customize your facial structure as well as your race, facial hair, and body structure. 
 You can create your name but your last name has to be Shepard, which is still a pretty awesome 
 last name. You start by working in the military on board the fastest ship in the alliance fleet 
 called the Normandy where your pilot is voiced by the great Seth Green, and your captain is a cool 
 guy who can be very helpful throughout the entire game. You work your way through the system to 
 eventually get your rank of SPECTRE.
  It allows to have no rules in the vast galaxy you can visit allowing you to kill who you want and 
 do whatever you feel like. You get an arch-enemy called Saren who is a alien dude who is trying 
 to destroy the council (the form of politics) and take over the world with a AI robot army who 
 clears the galaxy of most life every 50,000 years called the Reapers. There are so many different 
 endings you can play throughout the game depending on what you do and say. The greatest thing is 
 that however you finish Mass Effect, you will pick up from there with your character in Mass Effect 
 2, so its a very vip experience while playing made just for you. You definitely HAVE to play this 
 game if you are an RPG fan because it is the best made of all time for a sci-fi adventure/shooter 
 game.
  FULL 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingVenetian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Bioware's popularity among Xbox fans began with the release of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, 
 or KOTOR, and continued with the release of Jade Empire a couple years later. Now in the age of 
 the Xbox 360, Bioware's first release for the console is Mass Effect, a completely original space-based, 
 action RPG that's roughly based 200 years into Earth's future. Bioware's talent at creating amazing 
 cinematic presentations certainly shines though in Mass Effect, but has it been worth the wait? 
 
  
  At the outset of the narrative, a human colony known as Eden Prime sends a distress call to the 
 Alliance military and it's intercepted by the SSV Normandy, an Alliance stealth ship using experimental 
 drive technology. As the main character, you are sent down to the planet to investigate the invasion 
 of a synthetic alien race called the Geth. When it's determined that a Turian named Saren is behind 
 the attack as well as attempting to unlock the universe's oldest and most dangerous secret, you 
 are launched into a heroic saga and epic battle to save humanity from extinction. And that's just 
 the opening! The rest of the review will be story-spoiler free. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The character creation menu is the very first screen that appears when starting a new campaign. 
 Bioware cleverly masked it as accessing classified files on an Alliance database. John Shepard 
 has been pre-created for you if you wanted to start off with a straight soldier. Those who are 
 more familiar with the character presets should head into the custom mode to create their own. 
 You can alter the first name, but not the last as characters will call you Shepard constantly. 
 After choosing a male or female, facial options can be altered to give the character a unique look. 
 I found the facial customization to be on par with other titles like Oblivion, but unfortunately 
 without options to adjust the shape of the body.
  
  There are six types of classes in the game, three of which are hybrid combinations. Soldiers are 
 excellent at gunplay and get to wear heavy armor. Engineers are more about directing combat and 
 de-buffing enemies. Adepts are biotic experts; which allows them to alter and cause damage with 
 the environment. The last three classes are combinations of the main three classes, each with specialized 
 benefits. The easiest hybrid class seems to be Vanguard as you get the raw power of Adept mixed 
 with the hardened qualities of the Soldier.
  
  The main character and six crewmates can be outfitted with a variety of weaponry and armor. Each 
 character carries a pistol, shotgun, assault rifle and sniper rifle, but they aren't necessarily 
 trained in the weapon. The main character also gets to carry grenades, but they are a bit unwieldy 
 to use and slightly underpowered. Armor ranges between light, medium and heavy as well as custom 
 builds for specific alien species. Additionally, weapons / armor can be custom fit with modifiers. 
 For instance, you can alter the type of ammo to increase damage on organic life forms or increase 
 the fire rate at expense of the accuracy. You can custom fit nearly every piece of equipment in 
 the game with these modifiers. 
  
  Biotic and tech talent powers offer more entertaining styles of combat. Biotic abilities allow 
 you to lift unsuspecting enemies high in the air or create a massive field that rips apart the 
 evildoers. You also have an ability to provide an extra layer of protection or create stasis fields 
 to trap enemies. Tech powers can disable enemy weapons, overload shields and hack into robotic 
 enemies for some unlikely assistance. They are also the backbone of breaking into various encrypted 
 devices like storage lockers and errant laptops. As long as you have someone in your squad with 
 these abilities, you don't need to invest skill points on your main character. Also, any one biotic 
 / tech power can be mapped to the right bumper for quick access.
  
  As the character levels up, adding skill points in the correct places can boost damage, improve 
 defense, add talents and open up new armor / weapon options. Skill points are awarded after gaining 
 enough experience to level up. It's very easy to understand and Bioware included the auto-level 
 function that was found in KOTOR. I used it frequently for managing the development of teammates. 
 The Skill screen does an excellent job explaining the abilities and the benefits for upgrading 
 each step of the way. Experience points and total health are also viewable here. 
  
  Opposite from the turn-based combat in KOTOR, Mass Effect is in real time and uses a variety of 
 squad commands to direct teammates. The squad commands are very basic and are certainly nowhere 
 near Rainbow Six: Vegas caliber. Commands consist of move, rally, target and take cover on the 
 directional pad. The first three work well enough, but take cover seemed to be redundant if you 
 used move correctly. The cover system works fairly well for the main character. You basically just 
 push up against any object to hide and peek out occasionally to pop off a few shots. The sprint 
 function is also an interesting inclusion, but becomes shorter with heavier levels of armor. It's 
 also a bit difficult to use on a regular basis.
  
  Due the various types of enemies, the A. I. took on different actions based on the race of the attacker. 
 Geth attackers would use cover and attempt to fire from far away while the Krogan warriors prefer 
 to charge directly at you. There are also a variety of zombies in the game that just kamikaze themselves 
 toward you to explode or spew acid. Unfortunately, the enemy A. I. is vastly smarter than the friendly 
 A. I. If you don't give squad commands immediately as well as choose talent powers for teammates 
 to use, they will be picked off very quickly on the advanced levels of difficulty. 
  
  After killing a batch of enemies, Mass Effect uses an automatic looting system. The main problem 
 with this setup is the menu screen for item acceptance. You only have two options, accept everything 
 or convert 1 item at a time to omni-gel (omni-gel is used to open objects and repair the Mako) . 
 There's no option to just leave stuff behind or batch convert items to omni-gel. After accepting 
 all looted items in too many instances, you will hit the 150 item inventory cap and be forced to 
 spend time making room in the inventory. While it's nice to reap the moolah from the sale of inventory 
 items, you will be receiving so many credits in the later stages of the game that it's just not 
 worth the effort.
  
  When you aren't shooting down Geth, you will be in constant conversations with people in the Mass 
 Effect universe. Conversations require a great deal of attention and choosing a response is never 
 a hasty affair. You usually have the option of asking further questions and altering the tone of 
 the ongoing discussion. Additionally, charm and intimidation options eventually open up as blue 
 and red responses respectively. Often they will lead to the same goal, but the tactic is severely 
 different. While there is an amazing amount of dialogue options, I found conversations to be somewhat 
 lacking in the amount of humor that made KOTOR so entertaining. Still, listening to the dreary 
 Elcor announce their emotions before speaking a sentence is utterly hilarious. 
  
  Mass Effect is very much structured like KOTOR in terms of decision making as you get points for 
 good and bad deeds. They are referred to as Paragon & Renegade and can been seen on the character 
 skill's page. They also open up options for further charm and intimidation conversation choices 
 as you progress in either category. It's very easy to tell which actions / words will award the 
 points. I was a bit disappointed with the lack of the payoff. I obtained 100% of my paragon points, 
 but didn't receive anything for being such a goody-two-shoes. KOTOR had the luxury of offering 
 Force benefits for 100% achievement, but there's nothing like that in Mass Effect. 
  
  Within the pause menu, you will find two excellent resources of information; the journal and the 
 codex. The journal keeps track of the current and finished missions. Each mission description is 
 easily accessible at any time and often helps guide the way. The codex is a shockingly vast collection 
 of information on nearly every subject within Mass Effect. Everything you learn about alien races 
 will be input into the codex for further review. With the multitude of planet descriptions and 
 the data in the codex, I can't imagine the amount of time it took Bioware's writing staff to create 
 and compile all that information. It's beyond impressive! The pause menu also contains the save 
 function which I'm happy to report is specific to location. You never have to restart at a checkpoint. 
 
  
  Space Travel
  
  Similar to KOTOR, the Normandy serves as a place to modify equipment and move the character subplots 
 along. Teammates are spread all over the ship and require some investigative legwork to find them 
 all. The Normandy also has an area to sell and purchase new supplies, Alliance military issue anyway. 
 While the Normandy's layout is suited to science fiction's take on spaceship design, I really didn't 
 care for riding the slowest elevator in the galaxy down to reach the loading bay. Bioware should 
 have included a simple set of stairs. In the loading bay, you can modify your team's equipment 
 via a locker system off to the left of the elevator. That's one of two areas of the ship that can 
 be interacted with, the other being the map system. 
  
  When accessing the three dimensional space charts in the upper deck of the Normandy, you will be 
 amazed how far Bioware has come from the KOTOR navigational map. You have the ability to zoom out 
 from planet, system, cluster and eventually end up looking at the entire known galaxy. When selecting 
 a system, the Normandy will shoot off to the new area. You can then travel to each planet, but 
 are limited to surveying most of them. There are typically only one or two planets that can be 
 landed upon in any given system. Additionally, the map can locate spaceships and asteroids to identify 
 and possibly interact with. 
  
  Once you land on a planet for the first time, the Normandy enters a low trajectory drop and allows 
 the Mako infantry vehicle, or rover, to drop onto the planet's surface. Planets all look pretty 
 much the same in terms of structure, but offer different types of terrain like grass, lava and 
 snow. A quick peek at the map will highlight out points of interest in the nearby area as well 
 as any mission objectives. You have the ability to leave the rover for mining, looting damaged 
 spacecrafts and entering structures. Occasionally, the planet will put a limit on the amount of 
 time spent outside the rover due to poor weather conditions. 
  
  Unfortunately, visiting planets is easily the most boring aspect of the game. Perhaps it's due 
 to the lack of visible life on the worlds, but driving around looking for rocks to mine just isn't 
 much fun. Occasionally Geth enemies or a sandworm creature will pop out when you near an anomaly, 
 but it's not enough to keep planet travel exciting. It's like being stuck inside Val Kilmer's Red 
 Planet, but less entertaining and more aimless wandering. While I can appreciate the quick influx 
 of cash / XP for mining and plundering broken equipment, I'd much rather head to the sub-story 
 objective on the map and skip everything else. But I would like to send Bioware a giant fruit basket 
 for putting a "Return to Normandy" option in the map screen. 
  
  The shielded, 6-wheeled Mako is outfitted with a machine gun / cannon as well as jump jets to pop 
 out of a tough incline. The jump jets also come in handy when the rover's undercarriage gets stuck 
 on a rock or seems to be dragging Geth bodies. The Mako handles moderately well, but becomes a 
 little shaky at high speeds. Also, the camera angles are difficult to get a hang of when attempting 
 to back up. My poor Mako suffered so many rocket blasts and plasma bursts because it didn't kick 
 into reverse very easily and the camera angle didn't want to work with me. 
  
  Achievements
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Due to the obvious absence of multiplayer, the achievement set is designed for increasing the number 
 of times you play though the story. Total kills are added up over a series of run-throughs and 
 some achievements are awarded for finishing on specific difficulty levels. There are also a couple 
 quirky achievements like completing a romance subplot or finish a run-though with more shield damage 
 than health damage. On my first complete run through the campaign, I racked up about 300 to 400 
 gamerscore points. All in all, it's a solid, challenging set of tasks to complete and somewhat 
 adds to the replay value of the title. 
  
  Graphics
  
  At first glance, Mass Effect is an absolutely stunning example of the raw graphical power of the 
 Xbox 360. Similar to Gears of War, the sheer level of detail will impress anyone within visual 
 range of the high definition television it's being displayed upon. The facial appearance, especially 
 on the aliens, is top notch and brings each character vividly to life. The lighting effects for 
 the biotic powers are brilliant and illuminate the area with gorgeous purple plasma power. The 
 character animations are absolutely fluid and react appropriately with rag doll physics to changes 
 in the environment. 
  
  There is a downside to pushing the 360 to these limits though. The frame rate can slow to a chug 
 during the large scale battles, especially with lots of talent powers flying around. It's enough 
 to affect the gameplay and become annoying during a fight. It also can happen when you turn your 
 character around too fast. The game pauses for a few seconds to load before you can continue. When 
 you move too fast though an area or conversation, textures won't load quickly enough and you may 
 be staring at a blur until it finishes. I also had problems with the rover land vehicle on planets 
 and the last few levels. Specifically when taken off a steep jump, the front hull of the rover 
 would become embedded in the ground and I couldn't move or exit the vehicle. I can't imagine it's 
 designed to force reloading an old save, so it must be a problem with the hit detection system.
 
  
  Interestingly, Bioware gives you the option to turn off the film grain and the motion blur effect. 
 On a high definition display, the film grain really makes the image pop with realism. I found turning 
 off the film grain brings out the flaws in the facial visuals, namely sections around the mouth 
 and eyes that become spotty. Turning off the motion blur wasn't as big of a difference, but it 
 will make the visuals appear more like a video game rather than a 23-hour science fiction movie. 
 It does help the troubled framerate though. 
  
  Audio
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  I can't 
 rave enough about the ensemble of voice actors that have been put together to bring the characters 
 to life. Most of you have recognized Keith David's (Saints Row, Halo 3) voice as the captain from 
 the trailers, but you will also find celebrities and KOTOR nods in the mix as well. Star Trek: 
 TNG actress Marina Sirtis does an excellent job portraying Saren's second in command and Raphael 
 Sbarge, who many of you will recognize at the voice of Carth in KOTOR, does a solid job for the 
 voice of Kaiden; a crew member on the Normandy. One aspect of the voice cast that's highly under-utilized 
 in the game would be Seth Green (the Normandy's pilot) . His comical jabs would have been perfect 
 beyond the ship and the number of his recorded lines is far and few between. I'm not much of a 
 Seth Green fan, but his character portrayal of Joker is dead on. Overall, the sheer amount of recorded 
 audio is enough to make your head spin and Bioware deserved major kudos for pulling together such 
 a fantastic cast. 
  
  The musical score is tremendously expansive and accurately matches the broad nature of the narrative. 
 There are moments that crescendo to an absolute frenzied pace, much of which is due to the moving 
 orchestral tracks during the major plot points in the game. The epic quality of the score reminded 
 me very much of the music in Wrath of Khan or, to a lesser extent, Serenity. The melodies invoke 
 real emotion from the cinematic portions and it translates incredibly well via the video game medium. 
 The sound effects all match the space theme and seem to portray their designated actions correctly. 
 This is a title begging for a directional sound system if you don't already have one. 
  
  Conclusion
  
  I was surprised to find such a high level of commentary on bigotry and racism 
 within the game. Many times, the main character is asked their opinion concerning the relationship 
 of humanity to all the alien races in the world. There is even a political party rally towards 
 the end of the game that wants Shepard to endorse their "pro humanity, anti-alien" candidate. Don't 
 get me wrong, it's never preachy, overbearing or attempting to establish a correlation with current 
 times. It's just an ongoing debate on the direction humanity should take. I found it to be a refreshing, 
 highly intelligent aspect of the story that's rarely, if ever, seen in a video game. 
  
  I completed the single player game on a combination of Normal and Hard difficulty at character 
 level 42 in a little over 23 hours. I'd imagine folks could possibly blow through the single player 
 story in 12 to 15 hours if they avoided all the side missions, but they would miss out an enormous 
 amount of entertaining material. For those who are wondering about the possible trilogy aspect, 
 be assured that you will receive a clear, decisive ending to this portion of the tale. It's extremely 
 satisfying and still does a great job of setting up a sequel. 
  
  
  With a mass of achievements still waiting for me, I've already started working on my "evil" character, 
 which is much more of a Biotic talent junkie. I am saddened to find out most of the character responses 
 are exactly the same on the opposite end of the conversation spectrum, but it has opened up a couple 
 new side-story options. Also, I'm very intrigued to change the main storyline choices that I made 
 to discover the various, different endings. 
  
  Mass Effect certainly has flaws, but it's easily the most enthralling space adventure that's ever 
 been created for a video game platform. It honestly makes the Halo narrative look like amateur 
 hour. Much of the credit goes to a writing staff that incredibly created this world with nothing 
 more than pure imagination. While Mass Effect isn't a revolutionary step for Bioware, it's certainly 
 evolutionary. Combining the elements that made KOTOR so entertaining with a combat system that's 
 much more accessible to the teeming masses of shooter fans will make for a highly successful combination 
 on the Xbox 360. I can't imagine anyone being without a copy of Mass Effect this holiday season.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlefront23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Overall I've heard a lot of people say this game had weak combat. I think quite to the 
 contrary. The combat is unique because it mixes some usual TPS cover mechanics with some awesome 
 magic and engineering powers. It feels somewhat similar and somewhat unique to Gears of War junkies 
 like myself. I had a lot of fun blowing things up across the galaxy trying to catch Saren. The 
 only downer is the fun but very unpredictable Mako, the vehicle that your party uses. Half the 
 time its incredible, and the other half you'll swear that you'll want all Makos destroyed. One 
 thing that I loved is the leveling system. Utterly destroys Oblivion's leveling system in my opinion.
 
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  Story: This and sound are the two flawless areas of Mass Effect. Unlike Gears or even Halo, I was 
 intrigued with my character's "ruthless" persona. It was quite awesome being a sci-fi version of 
 Jack Bauer. Also this game plays a lot like a movie, except that the actor who is Shepard (you) , 
 is improvising his lines at every take. It had a very satisfying finish and it left it quite open 
 for a sequel. Also so many interesting alien species to socialize with (or kill) . The side characters 
 who join you in your quest are very fun to talk to, especially Wrex and Garrus. (sp?) And also 
 depending on whether you're a renegade or paragon, your teammates will react accordingly. Another 
 thing it did really well is create its own story that is not very similar to Star Wars or Star 
 Trek. I was pretty impressed with the game's uniqueness compared to most sci-fi games who just 
 borrow elements of Star Trek and Star Wars . Overall, one of my top 5 story games. 
  
  Story: 10/10
  
  Sound: The dialog in this game is literally jaw-dropping. The characters actually 
 feel alive. When you threaten to kill them, they act like they should; very VERY scared. Also the 
 music was pretty epic and original. Heck they even had Seth Green as Joker. That was pretty sweet.
 
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Value: Overall to complete the campaign with no side quests should take you between 11-15 hours, 
 depending on how skilled you are. But considering how depending on what character class you are, 
 what background you are, and how you handle things, you have a game that you could easily give 
 5 to 6 play-throughs. Overall it was way worth the $30 I spent on it.
  
  Value: 9.5/10
  
  Overall: This is a game that is so good, that when you see the small but annoying flaws it 
 makes you want to call Bioware and ask why they didn't fix that stupid error. Overall this is a 
 10, but due to the errors, I'm giving it a 9.5.
  
  Overall: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKim89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  mass effect is an rpg set in space. this is oneo f the most fun games i've ever played.
  
  gameplay:
  since its an rpg, u get to make ur own choices. however, unlike elder scrolls oblivion, 
 you dont get to explore a fully explorable terrain. but you do get to choose what words you'll 
 say which can affect the consequences. you can play as a soldier who's good at all weapons, or 
 play some other class that can use tech skills or biotics to attack the enemy. u also get to choose 
 from 6 squadmates wherever you go. each one is unique in skill and character. first time playing 
 thru should take 20+ hours.
  
  story:
  very fun storyline, better than most, maybe even better than halo. basically you ahve to hunt down 
 a rogue agent called Saren who hates humans. but there are some huge plot twisters in teh game 
 that u prolly wont see coming. you can also pursue "romantic" adventures with some of ur crewmates, 
 whether they be human or blue-skinned aliens.
  
  graphics:
  gorgeous graphics, and cinematics and character conversations look great. customizing ur character 
 also is very fun. however, for the xbox 360 there are a lot of graphical glitches. almost always 
 after loading u'll see the graphics load in like 10 seconds after the game starts, which gets kinda 
 annoying.
  
  sound:
  really good voice acting, altho some characters speak monotonously. music background is also superb. 
 everything is believable.
  
  this game is primarily 4 those who aren't into huge multiplayer battles and enjoy playing a nice 
 solo adventure at home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainmaker395
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I have spent a large amount of time playing this game and I truely enjoyed it. This is one of the 
 best RPG games I have ever played. But then it is made by Bio-ware so of course it is a good RPG
 
  
  The Good: very high replay value (if you want all the achievements you have to play through two 
 or three times) , a lot of fun and a beautifully crafted story, kinda random but i like how the 
 news in the game talks about your recent accomplishments when you ride the elevator, i also enjoy 
 the fact that this game is going to carry over into the next game, the beautiful scenes such as 
 when you come over the moon and can see the earth, i also enjoyed the voiceovers
  
  The Bad: the exploration of planets can get very annoying and tedious due to the repetitiveness 
 of the added planets, load times got annoying at times but it was worth it, one annoying detail 
 is getting the extreme gamer achievement which requires a massive amount of time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reo-117
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 8:17 pm PT
Review:  to put it simple mass effect is a immerseve and innovative rpg that makes this game a must buy
 
  
  you start off a commander shepard and you have to go against saren a specter gone rouge. Im not 
 going to tell you the rest since its one of the best parts of the game. if you played star wars 
 kotor then you will find some similarities like you can choose to be good or evil and you get to 
 choose whatever commander shepard says for example you can either kill a person or you can spare 
 him. They do give you more veriety than that. and the gameplay is like gears of war. All the characters 
 are one of the best in video game history. the diologe has been improved over kotor and jade empire 
 by using a diologe wheel which is much more easier to use than in kotor because its faster to use 
 and instead of scrolling down the possible choices there just right in front of you and you also 
 seth green plays a role in the game
  
  Now ill name some of the problems of the game. The vehicle you ride on the mako has poor controls 
 Also the pacing in this game is terrible, almost 2/3 of the game has diologe that you have to go 
 though its not boring but for people who just want action all the time might not like it. Even 
 though the game may be like gears of war its not as fun but its still enjoyable Even if you take 
 out all the diologe and rpg elements it would still be an average shooter
  
  graphics: 9/10
  
  i think this is one of the best looking games on the 360
  
  sound: 10/10
 
  
  the cast for mass effect is amazing and the music is just as good
  
  control: 8/10
  
  every thing controls nicely except for the mako
  
  gameplay 8/10
  
  the shooting portions 
 of the game are fun but short and the diologe is great but very long
  
  Overall even though mass effect is a game with flaws it still is a game to be remembered
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brasslvlonkey55
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game, I couldn't put it down. It was absorbing. I had a lot of 
 fun with the first KotOR, so I expected the same from this.
  
  The gameplay is similar to the action-RPG genre, in that you run around with your party, killing 
 anything that's in your path, thus earning EXP, money, weapons, and armor. However, this game, 
 being in the future, revolves around energy weapons, psychic powers, and technical abilities. The 
 battles are all real time; you aim your gun, you pull the trigger, hopefully the enemy goes down, 
 and all the while your teammates and other enemies are still moving around, guns blazing.
  
  The graphics in this game were pretty good, including well-done lip-syncing. Everything looked 
 good, the motions were fluid, and explosions and projectiles looked great. The lighting was also 
 done well, as some planets were far from their star and therefore dark, while others were bright 
 and lively.
  
  The thing that really gets me though is the extreme lack of replay value this game offers. This 
 is solely my opinion, as I'm sure plenty of other people are still playing this game. However, 
 this game was very repetitive: a lot of the side quests were as follows: intercept a transmission, 
 investigate some random planet, drive around on your car, shoot some stuff, and leave, with no 
 real interesting or involving story. Therefore, if I want to go back and play through the game 
 again with a different kind of character, I will have to repeat the exact same quests I had already 
 done for hours before with absolutely no interest in doing so, but playing just through the main 
 story isn't grabbing enough to make me want to spend hours on the game again. I guess I will just 
 have to wait for Mass Effect II for something different.
  
  All in all, it was a really fun game for most of the time I spent playing it, and I'm sure that 
 many other people find playing through it again just as fun as the first time through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharkboya
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a game that allows you to explore the universe and interact with many races and 
 civilsations of the universe, you can keep logs of all of your discoveries in the codex which is 
 located in the pause menu. The missions in Mass Effect feature battles with enemy races such as 
 geth which are the most common enemy, the geth race are lead by a evil alien called Saren (end 
 of game boss fight enemy) . you play a man or women called commander Sheperd who starts of as a 
 normal N7 soldier but then becomes captain of the fastest and most stealthed like ship called the 
 Normandy, and then you save the citadel from a giant alien ship piloted by the geth, so you really 
 become a universal superhero. in Mass Effect there are many galaxies which you can discover which 
 contain planets and space stations or ships which you can scavenge and learn more about the Mass 
 Effect universe. Unfourtunately mass Effect does not feature multiplayer but with a game like that 
 it is pretty much impossible to have multiplayer but it does feature downloadable content such 
 as new missions or new galaxies or anything like that for a couple of hundred microsoft points. 
 Mass Effect features a new next-gen combat experience which allows you to select who you want in 
 your squad and what weapon they use while you are in open combat, it allows you to select what 
 weapon you and your squad has and what biotic powers they will use you can also issue simple commands 
 like stay here or follow me. Mass Effect also features next-gen cutscenes, rather than read through 
 piles of dialog you can actuallly interact with the cutscenes by select what your character says 
 or whether they initiate a confrontation, but be careful saying the wrong thing could lead to starting 
 a war or a battle. I recommend that you buy Mass Effect if you own an xbox 360 or if not buy a 
 360 and buy Mass Effect. I give Mass effect an 8.
  Features downloadable content.
  
  sharkboyswimmer2. piczo. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbremgartner
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Nice!!! This game is nearly superb, storyline, graphic, weapon feature, enemies AI and much more, 
 Utopia!!! 
  Nice!!! This game is nearly superb, storyline, graphic, weapon feature, enemies AI and much more, 
 Utopia!!! 
  Nice!!! This game is nearly superb, storyline, graphic, weapon feature, enemies AI and much more, 
 Utopia!!! 
  Nice!!! This game is nearly superb, storyline, graphic, weapon feature, enemies AI and much more, 
 Utopia!!! 
  Nice!!! This game is nearly superb, storyline, graphic, weapon feature, enemies AI and much more, 
 Utopia!!! Nice!!! This game is nearly superb, storyline, graphic, weapon feature, enemies AI and 
 much more, Utopia!!! 
  Nice!!! This game is nearly superb, storyline, graphic, weapon feature, enemies AI and much more, 
 Utopia!!! 
  Nice!!! This game is nearly superb, storyline, graphic, weapon feature, enemies AI and much more, 
 Utopia!!! 
  Nice!!! This game is nearly superb, storyline, graphic, weapon feature, enemies AI and much more, 
 Utopia!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingandCitizens
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  A game with gears of war-like cover system, a great story, a bad ass main character (or not so 
 bad ass: you choose) , and a soft-core porn scene. This game is fantastic.
  
  The gameplay of Mass Effect was the best thing it has going for it. The shooting, the cover, the 
 running, walking, whatever; its all done near perfectly. I can't comment much more on that.
  
  The graphics speak for themselves, look at the screen shots. Amazing, but what else would you 
 expect. Remember this review when you are traveling through Virmire.
  
  Music was heroic and decent otherwise, to say the least. Voice acting, however, was the best of 
 any RPG i've played. Somehow Oblivion gets a 9.6 rating and yet there was 2 people who did the 
 voices for all the men and women. I was fairly sure I talked to the same man over a hundred times. 
 Thats neither here nor there, well maybe there, but anyway Mass Effect sound was very very good.
 
  
  I could play through this game 95 times. Simple.
  
  I wish I could give this a 10, but the game was just a tad too short. Not saying you won't get 
 near 20 hours, but after your done, you cant go back and do sidequests. I don't know. I'm pretty 
 sure you can't. However stop reading this and go buy Mass Effect now that its cheap. I want to 
 give this a 9.8, but these guys changed up the rating system on me.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirsafar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Right, I'll break it up into sections:
  
  1) Single Player Story- The single player story is awesome. There is just so much to do, i love 
 it. The story is great and keeps you wondering all the time. The main quests arent all though, 
 there are many side quests and many planets to explore. Overall, 9.5 /10
  
  2) Multiplayer-None, but thats not a bad thing, as the SP is one of the best ive played.
  
 
  3) Graphics- IAmazing, i mean WOW, best graphics on 360 to date IMO, but there are a few frame 
 rate issues, which tbh is very easy to ignore and wont bother you too much. The water is very good, 
 i mean i think its better than bioshocks and man that game had awesome water. 10/10
  
  4) Sound- The sound is pretty good. I mean the music gets more intense whilst in a fight, and the 
 voice acting is pretty darn amazing. Guns sound good and the water sounds good too. 9.5 / 10
  
  5) Gameplay- I think the controls are perfect. The game plays out very nicely. The squad based 
 action is pretty easy to get used to. The levellign up system is pretty good too, and with points 
 for being bad and good, you can choose either path. Its worth going through the game a few times, 
 maybe once being good, and once acting bad to people. The shootouts are really fun and easy to 
 get hold of. The cover system was fin. No problems there. 9.5/10
  
  6) Achievements- For those who are interested the achievements are pretty good, and require you 
 to play the game multiple times as different types of people, eg Soldier, or someone who does special 
 powers such as Lift.
  
  Overall, the game is defo a buy. You can replay it many times and you wont get bored of it, it has 
 an amazing single player expericance that no one should miss out on. It took me about 20 hours to 
 complete my first playthough so the game is lengthy.. Overall score, 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Regulator0013
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  RPG's are fun, so are 3rd person shooters-but could they both exist in the same place at the same 
 time? If they are Mass Effect the answer is yes. This is a finely crafted game that stands out 
 in almost every single department. The graphics are great, the action is fast paced and engaging, 
 the story is high quality, and the technical aspects of the game are almost perfect. 
  
  Story-wise, Mass Effect shines with a different take on the standard RPG story "You must save the 
 universe." It puts you as Commander Shepard-a human you can fine tune from appearence to history-an 
 interesting feature which plays into the actual story. As a soldier you are tasked with stopping 
 a rogue agent from bringing the destruction of the galaxy-no small feat and though it has been 
 done before, Mass Effect doesn't make the story feel cliched.
  
  The main quest and side quests involve you going planet to planet resolving situations and learning 
 about the tasks at hand. There is plenty of dialogue and plenty of combat as you go through the 
 game.
  
  The action is great-battle is carried out in the 3rd person perspective where you and two AI teammates 
 engage in gun battles with your foes. You aim and you shoot, take cover, heal teammates and use 
 powers to alter the battlefield by lowering shields or messing with mechanical enemies. There are 
 no stupid invisible dice rolls-if you can hit the enemy you hit it and how much damage you do depends 
 on your weapon and stats. The battles are fast paced and challenging without being overly hard. 
 You can run and gun or strategically go about the battles-either way it's alot of fun. You can 
 issue minor commands to your squad (go to a location, take cover, attack, fall in) which helps 
 in the heat of thick battles given that your AI teammates will often run into your line of fire. 
 You level up like other RPG's-but there is a degree of customization. After you get the necessary 
 experience points to level up, you get talent points which you put in certain skills. It's been 
 done before, but it works in this game.
  
  Alot of the game involves interactions with other people-your choices have consequences and though 
 it skirts the good/evil mechanic it does use a paragon vs renegade system which is akin to good 
 vs evil but in reality is more like good vs morally ambiguous. These interactions can open up new 
 quests and opportunities as well as reward and sanction. The conversations are well done-the voice 
 acting is awesome and the topics aren't at all boring. Though there is a lot of dialogue, you'll 
 find yourself interested in what is going on-particularly watching how your character reacts and 
 what they say in response to the prompt you chose.
  
  The graphics are great-there are countless alien worlds to visit, each of them small in scale, 
 but rather unique in terms of sights. Some are earth-like paradises, some are barren worlds made 
 up of minerals, but they are all interesting to look at and exciting to visit. The character animations 
 are rather detailed-the facial expressions and animations for each character are some of the best 
 I have ever seen-they truly convey the emotion and mental state of each person. The cutscenes are 
 used appropriately and are done incredibly well. They are brief enough not to break up the action 
 but detailed enough to add more depth to the story.
  
  The controls are pretty good. Moving around isn't hard, the aiming mechanic is effective, issuing 
 squad commands is easy, and the menus aren't terribly cumbersome. Changing weapons and using powers 
 stops the game which is kind of a pain, and selecting dialogue options can also be a bit annoying 
 because of how you use the stick to select choices. It's not too terribly bad, but it is a little 
 loose.
  
  The only bad spots that I found aren't too terribly bad. The story has been done to death, the 
 game pulls it off with interesting and deep characters, cool locations, and a solid battle system. 
 Your AI teammates are pretty much there for flavor. They helped, but only by a little. There is 
 one teammate who uses "biotics" which is akin to magic-she could really tear things up, but the 
 other characters were hit or miss technically but still very deep and fun to know. The aiming mechanic 
 is on for the most part-except for sniper rifles. I understand that you should have to raise your 
 skills in order to become proficient with any weapon, but when you zoom in with the thing and you 
 are unskilled-your aim goes all over the place as if you were drunk. I can see the point-but if 
 you are a battle hardened soldier like the game says that you are, it's kind of hard to believe 
 your aim with a rifle is that bad. 
  
  The strengths of this game minimize the weaknesses-it is solid from start to finish though the 
 game is just a little bit short, but still very fulfilling. The achievements are numerous and some 
 are easier to get than others, you really have to earn them, but they aren't all impossible. 
 
  
  This is one extremely fine game, I'd give it a 9.75, but GS won't let me. It is about as close 
 to perfect as it gets without getting there. If you aren't a fan of the genre, it still has enough 
 crossover appeal to be more than satisfying to most gamers. This game rapidly became one of my 
 favorites and I give it my full endorsement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMcCarty75
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Every once in a while i find an RPG i like, well when i heard bioware was makin a new sci-fi one 
 for the 360, i knew it was gonna be good. But this good? well kind of, but it still blew me away.
 
  
  The story is rich and so in-depth that it is worth at least 5 times to see most of game in botth 
 good (paragon) and evil (renegade) ways. Much like bioware's other sucess it follows the decisions 
 that KOTOR gave us. 
  
  Graphics are great, however every once in a while it takes a second for it to fill in the full 
 details. You will know what i mean when you play it, but when it is totally filled the game looks 
 amazing. 
  
  The Sound is perfect, every scene has a different sound that either hints at an intense battle 
 just around the corner or calm music leading you through the citadel.
  
  Just like every other good RPG this actually delivers free roam decently, with a dozen different 
 systems in the galaxy that lead to a sub-galaxy and finally into a cluster of planets you will 
 find your self trying to go to all the planets. 
  
  However this game is really lengthly and filled with a lot of conversations. The cutscenes are 
 unable to be skipped, and when you die you may start 15 minutes back or have to watch the same 
 2 minute cutscene before moving on. You will experince the longest elevator rides of your life 
 too.
  
  This game is worth every dollar and has great replay value. this is on my must play list for anyone 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tancred8120
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an action role playing game developed by renowned RPG developers, Bioware. It is 
 one of those games that has an emotionally gripping storyline but backs it up well with top-notch 
 action. Welcome to the immersive world of Mass Effect!
  
  Our friends at Bioware are some of the best storytellers on the market, and they sure haven't disappointed. 
 You play as Commander Shepard, the soon to be hero of humanity. Mankind is in somewhat of a pickle, 
 you could say, and you're the best thing they've got. It immediately lunges you into the preparations 
 of your first task. This mission is to investigate a Prothean (an ancient civilization) beacon. 
 The other objective of the mission is that you will be tested if you are worthy to become a Spectre, 
 an elite status that the Council only rewards to the best of the best. Accompanying you will be 
 Nihlus, an alien called a Turian, and also a Spectre. He will be evaluating you on this mission. 
 However, the plan gets hitched when you receive a transmission from a soldier on Eden Prime; the 
 whole colony is under attack by a synthetic race called the Geth. You separate with Nihlus at the 
 beginning and later find him.. unfortunately, dead. A witness said that he saw a Saren, a fellow 
 Spectre, shoot him right in the back. You follow where the witness said Saren went although you 
 are too late; Saren has left. But the Prothean Beacon remains and when you got too close, it filled 
 you with violent visions of he past.
  
  When you return to report your mission to the Council, of course the death of Nihlus bears down 
 on your shoulders, along with the destruction of the beacon during the vision transfer. They refuse 
 to believe that their top agent has gone rogue so you must find some hard evidence. Finding the 
 proof you need isn't going to be easy, so you need to find some sources; some of which will end 
 up joining your case. When you are finally able to prove that Saren is a cold blooded traitor, 
 the Council appoints you as the first human Spectre and given that, your task is now to take down 
 Saren and the army of Geth at his disposal. And so, the real adventure begins.
  
  From here on out, you are free to do basically whatever you please. By selecting the galaxy map 
 on your ship, you can travel wherever, whenever. The planets of which are parts of the main quest 
 are pointed out, but you can go to the countless other clusters and Solar Systems to embark on 
 side quests. You can hear about these from various different humans, or even alien races, and also 
 from the broadcast intercom on elevator rides. The side quests are a lot of fun and they can even 
 add a twist on the plot, as well as supplying you with some extra credits (money) along the way. 
 Some side quests are more on the passive side, as in collecting or surveying certain things where 
 there are more action oriented quests where you are sent to investigate some situation gone wrong 
 and things of that sort.
  
  The dialogue is spectacular and conversations flow even better than they did in Kotor. When you 
 are spoken to, you have a few options available to you, but mostly you've got Nice, Mean, and something 
 in the middle. Being nice will get you Paragon points while being mean will reward you with Renegade. 
 This is similar to the Light/Dark side in Kotor, except for the fact that it is not based on a 
 single fulcrum. They each have their own bars, which you can fill up by getting points from either. 
 There are also the Charm/Intimidate skills. When you level you level up and gain XP (more on this 
 later) , you will get the opportunity to raise either the Charm or Intimidate stats. Of course charm 
 would be more for the Paragon folk and Intimidate for Renegade, but they can both resolve some 
 tough situations. There are even some story related, life threatening situations that Charm or 
 Intimidate can get you out of, but no spoilers here.
  
  The character customization in Mass Effect is insanely detailed and practically endless. You first 
 get a choice of your origin, or how you ended up in the Alliance Military, and then what was significant 
 about your military service. Thereafter you can choose your specialization, as in, your character 
 cIasses. There are three main cIasses, Soldier, the weapons specialist, Adept, the biotic specialist, 
 and Engineer, the tech specialist. There are also hybrids of the main cIasses, if you want to get 
 fancy. But probably the most in depth part is your actual appearance. You can change pretty much 
 everything, from how much your cheekbones stick out, from the variety of different scars available. 
 It's amazing how much detail they jammed into this; it's awesome how you can note the fine line 
 between a relatively normal person and some freaky dude. Hopefully that doesn't resemble you though.
 
  
  The combat in Mass Effect turns out to be a whole lot of bloody fun. When you run into some enemies, 
 you will automatically draw your weapon, being either a Pistol, Assault Rifle, Shotgun, or Sniper 
 Rifle. You can't just run and shoot them though well actually you can but it wouldn't be such 
 a good idea "strategically". BioWare designed a pause/action screen developed to help you survey 
 the battle and take action. Holding the Right Bumper will bring up you and your squad mates' powers 
 and abilities. By choosing one and targeting an enemy with it, you can let go of the bumper and 
 you or your squad mate will be using that ability. By holding the left bumper, you bring up a similar 
 screen, only this time displaying weapons, where you can switch you or your squad mates' weapons 
 the way you see fit. These bumpers make it incredibly easy and fun to pull off Biotic and Tech 
 powers in the middle of a fight. And yes, you can control your squads' weapons and abilities usage, 
 but you can set it to where they do this on their own when first starting the game. When using 
 abilities, there is no "Mana Points" that they take away from, or anything like that. Instead, 
 you have a modest recharge time on each of your powers.
  
  There is a vehicle in the game called the Mako, used to be dropped in on uncharted planets and 
 to get across long distances. It is quite a cool rover; you can climb almost impossibly steep mountains. 
 It's got a machine gun turret, which is also equipped with a missile launcher type thing, and it 
 can hover, awesome right? Well almost awesome. In combat it can be rather frustrating at times. 
 You see, where you point the crosshair and shoot isn't necessarily where the shots will hit all 
 the time. . You might not have too much trouble hitting targets above you; targets below you will 
 prove to be more difficult. The turret doesn't really like to point low, making it nearly impossible 
 to hit them. Probably the best part of all Mass Effect combat though is that you have unlimited 
 ammo. Well, you can't just be burning through your ammo like it's nobodies business though; fire 
 too much without stopping, your gun will overheat. This causes your gun to be active for several 
 seconds, and that's always a bummer. But still, having unlimited ammo is just zetta sweet.
  
  Like any other RPG, Mass Effect has a level system. You level up by gaining XP, which is earned 
 primarily by taking out enemies, but you can also get it from completing quests and opening crates 
 for items. What's interesting is that you actually play somewhat of a minigame to open these crates. 
 In this minigame, you are tasked with hitting the face buttons with the correct timing, mind blowing, 
 right? If you end up failing, which is almost impossible, you will have to resort to using a certain 
 number of Omni Get, which are basically hacking tools. If you find some ownege weapons, you can 
 equip you and your squad with them. What to do with the old weapons? You can either sell them for 
 credits or salvage them for Omni Get. Back to the XP, however, when you gain enough XP to level 
 up, you can raise your stats, along with your squad mates', if you choose to do so. The stat raise 
 options that you get are mainly based on cIasses. Biotics raise their awesome powers, Engies raise 
 their leet hacking skills and Soldiers raise their brute strength.
  
  Along with insanely detailed customization, you need insanely detailed graphics, right? Yup, the 
 visuals in Mass Effect are incredible. The facial models are some of the best that videogames have 
 ever seen, and most everything else looks just as fantastic. The frame rate does dip a bit when 
 in big fight, especially when using Biotic Powers, but it's easy to find it in you to forgive. 
 Also, the game does present another problem, that being pop in. For example, right after you go 
 through a load time, you'll come to see the visuals as flat and bland, and then slightly better 
 graphics will pop in, and then the true graphics pop in. It isn't a major issue, but it's just 
 one of those annoyances Mass Effect tends to poke at you with.
  
  The sound work is quite possibly the best in history as well. The music has a tremendous effect 
 on the mood. In a tense situation, the music builds slowly, while on a serene planet, the music 
 is more of a relaxed mood. All of the tunes also give off the sci-fi feel; perhaps like Star Trek, 
 except updated and not quite as cheesy. The voice acting is also excellent; Mass Effect features 
 an outstanding cast. The humans of course sound very realistic, and the actors did a great job 
 on the aliens as well. They don't actually sound like they were voiced by humans. Like you'd expect, 
 the hefty Krogans have a deep, husky voice, while more slender Salarians have slimy voices. Characters 
 also make many different body expressions when speaking to make an overall more believable experience.
 
  
  It isn't hard to get totally immersed the huge galaxy of Mass Effect and you'll likely be playing 
 non-stop from beginning to end. Speaking of that, if you blow off all the side quests and play 
 the main storyline only, Mass Effect will last you about 15 hours. But if you want to play through 
 many of the side quests and explore, you could easily rake in 40 or more. There are many reasons 
 for another playthrough, such as Paragon/Renegade, love interests, exploring new cIasses, and more. 
 If you happen to be an achievements hog, you'll have to play through Mass Effect multiple times 
 if you want most or all of the achievements, but it's likely you'll want to play again for the 
 incredible experience as well, and not for just them points.
  
  So after saying all that, Mass Effect is indeed a fantastic game, expanding upon the library of 
 360 RPGs. Bioware has done what many other developers would stride for- making a game that truly 
 succeeds in almost every category, whether it's the game's fantastic voice acting or the engaging 
 storyline. It is appealing to someone looking for a great RPG or just someone looking for a deep 
 experience, but either way, it needs to be in your game collection. Mass Effect is extraordinary, 
 and any claims otherwise will be justly resolved with a Biotic Throw off a cliff.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhh34c
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  For me Mass Effect is the best Bioware game to date. It combines the best of all the AAA games 
 they have made and they even add a polish to it to give it a unique feel. It's an FPS, RPG, Action 
 and text based puzzle game all in one. 
  
  You Play Commander Sheperd, the hero (or villain) of the story. You navigate the Normady (your 
 space vessel) through the different solar systems and unfold a winding plot as you progress. 
 
  
  Play through the story, or discover new planets. Kill the enemy, or show mercy. The choice is yours. 
 Endless sets of options are presented to you and you decide how the game unfolds. You can finish 
 the game as a hero, and start and new one as a villain and have a totally new experience. These 
 kind of options coupled with exellent visuals, intense FPS Action, and RPG customization, easily 
 make this one of the greatest games of all time. 
  
  My only regrets.... no multiplayer. But Bioware is known to improve on perfect and Mass Effect's 
 ending opens up much more than it closes. I will be waiting for the next installment of one of 
 the best games of the year. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I was never a fan of the RPG genre including with Bioware's other critical acclaimed titles like 
 KOTOR, but their latest title Mass Effect is truly one my best gaming experiences ever to date.
 
  
  Graphically the game like so many others on the 360 is superb and shows off the power of the next 
 gen consoles with fantastic looking large areas such as the citadel and open ground on alien planets. 
 However the cut scenes and chat scenes are where the game shows off its true power in the graphics 
 department. However this aspect of the game is not totally perfect because the game can suffer 
 frame rate issues due to the graphics and they could of used a little bit more variety for planets 
 and buildings/ships for side missions.
  
  The game is just as stellar for sound with a wonderful collection of musical scores, which are 
 good enough to be in Hollywood box office movies. Acting wise the characters all sound good and 
 its hard to find out any weakness in the voice actors used. My only gripe is that weapon noise 
 could sound a little better but that's only a very minor issue and takes away nothing from the 
 whole audio experience that Mass Effect delivers.
  
  Bioware carries on the good work by successfully mixing RPG elements with FPS elements to deliver 
 some of the gameplay ever seen in a game to date. While there may be better shooting engines out 
 there, Mass Effect's certainly holds it own and with the ability to pause so you can plan out your 
 attacks, the action is always enjoyable and keeps you coming back for more. Also using words to 
 defuse tense situations in the conversation scenes are just as rewarding as using your guns. Customising 
 your squad adds more depth to the gameplay and allows you to prepare for any situation you may 
 face. Combat is simple to handle but never to easy and using the biotic powers to lift and throw 
 your enemies never gets boring. However there are some issues in the gameplay, mainly with the 
 MAKO sections due to it being a little uneasy to handle at times though with time it can grow on 
 you.
  
  The AI is the weakest part of Mass Effect but I wouldn't call it bad, just not as impressive as 
 other areas of the game. Your own team can handle themselves well and use biotic powers smartly, 
 plus they are good shots so it feels like you are actually part of a team and not just dragging 
 dead weight along with you. However they have the habit of running off during combat and not always 
 listening to orders, which can lead to frustrating times. Also why I would not call the enemy AI 
 dumb, I would say they could be smarter but they can surprise you at times and the enemy can use 
 Biotic powers quite well to give you a problem.
  
  The biggest plus of this game is the overall value of Mass Effect, as with so many side missions 
 the entire game can take over 35 hours to complete and for the most part, the side quests are enjoyable 
 and with the XP level up system they are very rewarding to take on and complete. The main plot 
 is fantastic and is easily one of the best written plots from any SCI FI theme game. Despite having 
 no multiplayer, the game has huge re-playable value due to there being more than one way to complete 
 missions and how your character can evolve over the course of the game. The announcement that Mass 
 Effect 2 will be shaped by how you play this game gives Mass Effect a huge amount of overall value 
 and desire to complete the game more than once to choose, which one you prefer best.
  
  Despite some minor issues and bugs, Mass Effect is not only one of the best games in recent times 
 but of all time and must be played by any 360 owner in my opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rikuide_Furame
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  Bioware have a well established reputation within the gamin community for their ability to consistently 
 produce games (RPGs) of high quality, blending solid gameplay with epic story-telling. Mass Effect 
 is just another piece of proof that they haven't lost their touch. In short the game is incredible.
 
  
  The plot of Mass Effect, as with any Bioware game, is fantastic. You play as Commander Shepard, 
 the first ever human Spectre (beings who have permission to go above and beyond the law in order 
 to protect the galaxy) on the tail of a legendary Spectre turned rogue by the name of Saren. As 
 you progress through the game you will discover more of Saren's motives and you will also discover 
 more information regarding the Reapers; a group of machines that come every 50,000 years to annihilate 
 all that exists within the galaxy. The plot pulls you into the game and just refuses to let you 
 go. Even after completing a massive slog of a planet, you still want to carry on and find out just 
 what is going on as another piece of the puzzle is revealed to you. The finale to the game is brilliant 
 also. Being the first in a triligy of games, I have to admit that I was a little apprehensive when 
 it came to rounding out the plot but Bioware have nailed it. There is more than enough action and 
 enough of your questions are answered leaving you satisfied whilst still seeking the full truth.
 
  
  The first detail of Mass Effect that you notice instantly is the graphical prowess of the game. 
 The game looks incredible and some of the sets that you will explore (such as planets and ships) 
 are simply beautiful to behold. This game has a huge amount of polish to it and it's obvious that 
 Bioware have spent plenty of time on getting the look of this game just right. Being an avid follower 
 of the game, I have seen many of the concept art pictures and the realisation of those images is 
 frighteningly accurate. The animations within the game are also incredible and really help to sell 
 the notion that this is a "space opera". This is even more so prominent in cutscenes. The detail 
 on characters faces convey their emotions perfectly - you can even see the reflections of the nearby 
 area in their eye.
  
  The gameplay mechanic is a far cry from the days of the mighty Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic 
 (henceforth refered to as KotOR) and whilst I am a huge KotOR fan, I have to say that Mass Effect's 
 gameplay works, and works well. Whilst still relying on the character's stats to determine various 
 aspects of gameplay such as damage and their success ratio, these numbers are convered up as much 
 as possible allowing the game to be more accessible to those who find number crunching a little 
 daunting, or even just boring. You will command a group of three (yourself included) in Ghost Recon 
 Advanced Warfare (GRAW) fashion. Each member of your party will have access to variable weapons 
 (pistols, shotguns etc) as well as talents (special abilities ranging from increasing weapon proficiency 
 to being able to lift enemies into the air) . The dialogue itself is even a great aspect of the 
 gameplay allowing the player to select their options from a list of six via a cirular dial and 
 even allowing the player to interupt the NPC. As a KotOR fan I do miss the depth of the gameplay 
 but there can be no doubts that it is a lot of fun and as mentioned previously, the exclusion of 
 such a heavy number system has probably helped the game to sell to a wider audience.
  
  The main storyline will take you from around 15-20 hours dependant on higher difficulties, but 
 there are a lot of side missions to tackle and planets to explore. Then ofcourse you can always 
 replay the game as different classes and alignments to see how the games plays for each. All in 
 all, this means that Mass Effect has a huge replay value if you are interested in such a thing 
 and if not, then the once over approach will still require many hours of your time.
  
  Overall I would thoroughly recommend this game to anyone who is willing to give it a try - you 
 will not be disapointed. Once again Bioware have created a thing of beauty - a real credit to the 
 games industry that combines thrilling combat with a rollercoaster ride of a storyline. This is 
 the future of gaming, and a benchmark for all future titles to be measured against. This is the 
 Spectre of the gaming world.
  
  -RK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skaifox
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  WHAT'S IT LIKE?:
  Coop-with-cpu, but with lazar guns!! D:
  
  THE GOOD:
  -Great custom character system; you design your own face, first name, and pick your own class. 
 Unfortunately I was immature enough to name my character after a particular part of the male anatomy. 
 _
  -Excellent controls; for me, they were pretty easy to get used to, with the exception of the interface. 
 Aiming is a bit annoying though, at times. That's why the PC version probably works better.
  -Interesting characters; a lot of the characters you encounter in-game are pretty interesting ones, 
 and thankfully your party isn't full of useless douchebags.
  -Brilliant rep. system; Be a renegade or a paragon, it's up to you. (In other words, Be a total 
 rogue that everyone's scared of, or be a goody-two-shoes who everyone likes to be around) This 
 can have a dramatic effect on dialogue and some options.
  
  THE BAD:
  -Poor interface; in my opinion, selecting a weapon, changing equipment, shopping, upgrading your 
 characters and giving commands to your party can be exceptionally confusing, and it takes quite 
 a while to get used to it.
  -FAR too much dialogue; the things spews out a billion words a minute and you just lose the will 
 to read it. The game seems to dislike you using the 'X' button while it's talking to you, though.
 
  
  OVERALL:
  8.0. Good gameplay and absolutely stunning graphics, but the dialogue is unfortunately enough to 
 put you off, especially if you don't like reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timeaisis
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is simply a great game. It combines Tactical Shooter with RPG, and creates an exciting 
 combat system that is customizable and tactical. The combat system truly is quite cool, although 
 near the end of the game it seems to revert to 'been there done that' while your just going through 
 the paces.
  
  The squad-based combat system allows for 2 other characters apart from Shepard (whom you control) 
 to defeat hordes of enemies. It plays like most 3rd person shooters. Left trigger aims, right trigger 
 shoots. You've got grenades, and you can take cover. The magic comes when you have an array of 
 skills and abilities to use depending on your characters class which you decide upon at the beginning 
 of the game. Besides just controlling Shepards skills and abilities, the game puts you in control 
 of how you're squadmates use their powers. So if you chose a class that doesn't have access to 
 "biotics" (Mass Effects version of magic, basically) , you still have the ability to play around 
 with it using your other team-mates. Combine that with straightforward squad command setup using 
 the D-pad, and you have an exciting battle system. That, and the vast amount of armor, weapons, 
 and customizations you can attach to each (like upgrades, armor piercing bullets or a kinetic stabilizer 
 for your rifle that reduces kick) .
  
  The real magic of Mass Effect lies in the way it tells its story. The story itself is quite charming. 
 Some could say its a tad cliched here and there, but ultimately its a rewarding experience with 
 plenty of great character development that makes you really feel for everyone involved. The best 
 part of Mass Effect, by far, is the ingenious "conversation wheel" which lets you basically direct 
 what Shepard says during a conversation. Don't think this is just a gimmick that plays a part in 
 few important sequences, though. The conversation wheel is part of ALMOST EVERY conversation in 
 the game, and what you say will ultimately have an effect on your character, and the character 
 of your teammates as well as NPCs. This open-ended way of telling the story, truly makes Mass Effect 
 so extrodinary. Its greatest ambition, in my mind, lies in the way it manages to give you so much 
 freedom in the way that you get to shape your character (gives true meaning to the genre "role-playing 
 game") , but still does not at all sacrifice a solid, linear, compelling storyline. Let's face it, 
 games like Fable are awesome in the way you get to decide the fate of your protagonist, but ultimately, 
 you sacrifice some from the story you get to tell. Mass Effect is impervious to this, somehow, 
 as there's just so many variations to the story, but then, all of them don't ultimately fail to 
 result in the final conclusion. It's hard to explain, but BioWare did an amazing job at letting 
 the player make so many story-shaping decisions, but still being able to tell the same compelling 
 tale. You could play this game literally dozens of times and not go about it the same way. And 
 when I say that, I don't mean subtle dialogue changes by small, unimportant decisions. You could 
 literally change the way your character does things, go from a total saint, to a cold-hearted rebel. 
 Not to mention the character customization at the beginning of the game. Don't like Shepard's default 
 appearance? Then change it! Make him look however you want... or even make Shepard a her. BioWare 
 really wanted to make sure that when you play this game, you are truly playing the role of the 
 protagonist, and they've done an excellent job. It's one of the few role-playing games that I've 
 played that I can say that I've actually got a chance to shape the character, while completely 
 enjoying the story.
  
  Mass Effect does have its small problems, though. Some minor bugs occur every now and then. Some 
 small interface problems get in the way when customizing, upgrading, or equiping. That and the 
 somewhat mundane activity of exploring the planet with the Mako, Mass Effect's all-terrain vehicle 
 and having to fight in it sometimes, makes the game sometimes bland. But these little problems 
 are remedied when you find your way into the heat of battle again, progressing through the story, 
 and making decisions that might even impact the lives of your crew.
  
  Add in a heaping portion of side-quests that aren't just thrown in for laughs (they actually give 
 more of the game's backstory, develop characters, and unravel the story) , and you've got an excellent 
 gaming experience. Did I mention you can decide where Shepard was born and how he joined the military 
 at the get-got, and each of these combinations effect the dialogue options you have and how everyone 
 views you? No... well, thats just to show you the scope of the possibilities that this game has 
 to offer. It truly is an excellent, ambitious start, to hopefully a very successful 360 series.
 
  
  With a little more polish, some tweaks to the menu system, and getting rid of unnecessary "Mako" 
 sessions, the next Mass Effect is something I eagerly await for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdzisBack23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  This Game was very Impressive I am familiar with Bioware as i own NWN 1&2 and they have managed 
 to make a superb job of this game which offers dedicated gamers an interesting adventure throughout 
 you certainly get the feel you shape the world your in yourself and that certain amount of freedom 
 that it offers. Im hoping in the next game it will be even more free roaming based and EVEN more 
 hours of gameplay also I love the story it was very imaginative as Bioware usually are.
  
  Another appealing part of the game is interaction with other characters and surroundings there 
 is hardly anything that you cant move, Pick up or push to make something happen the Characters 
 always present there own personality very well especially your team mates who develop along with 
 you. Exploring the gae with the ship which is given to you is also fun landing on Unkown planets 
 to investigate stuff or just to take a look around. I loved the Vehicle you get to drive aswell 
 a very fun tweak to exploring was jumping upside the planets with the vehicle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair1337
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Sci-fi role-playing games seem to have become increasingly popular amongst developers given that 
 the fantasy angle has been almost done to death. Mass Effect which has already been released on 
 the Xbox 360 to high praise is here from developers Bioware but will PC gamers find it as appealing.
 
  
  
  Mass Effect places you in the role of Commander Shepherd a member of the Alliance Military, who 
 along with the rest of Earth are members of a galactic council. Commander Shepherd soon uncovers 
 a plot by one of the council's elite spectre agents to destroy the galaxy, and this embarks you 
 on a mission to stop the rogue agent and reveal his plan to the council, taking you to various 
 systems across the galaxy.
  
  
  As mentioned above, Mass Effect takes you on a journey across the galaxy, allowing you to visit 
 multiple planets, which you travel between in a prototype ship the Normandy the fastest in the 
 alliance fleet.
  
  
  Like Bioware's highly acclaimed Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, Mass Effect is a party 
 based role-playing game. You start the game with two party members but add more members as you 
 progress through the game, as you would expect each character that joins your crew has their own 
 unique set of skills and abilities that can come in useful in various different situations, such 
 as combat, technical skills and so on.
  
  
  Whilst the game allows for large scale exploration, it is considerable more combat orientated then 
 most RPG's and some could say that it is a genre crossing third person shooter come role-playing 
 game, but that's not a bad thing as the game features an excellent combat system. Weapon selection 
 is all controlled via the left bumper, and unlike in some other games you start off with a considerable 
 arsenal which includes an assault rifle, shotgun, sniper rifle, and pistol, whilst it may sound 
 like a "present time" selection of weapons, they do feature enhancements that run with the games 
 time-line, another bonus is you don't have to worry about ammo as the game employs an overheating 
 fire restriction like in many popular games.
  
  
  As you travel between planets you will also come across various different weapons which are more 
 powerful or efficient variations of the ones mentioned above, you can also upgrade weapons to improve 
 them, although each upgrade usually comes with a draw back so being picky about which upgrades 
 you use is a must.
  
  
  Combat wise the game offers a decent challenge, enemies aren't dumb and will attack in force taking 
 cover behind various objects around the games environment. They will also advance at you throw 
 explosives and charge at you given the opportunity. To aid you in battle sequences the game also 
 includes an excellent cover system which allows you to take aim or blind fire at enemies. All you 
 have to do is move to an object with your weapons drawn and your character will automatically take 
 cover with out the need for you to worry about pressing buttons allowing you to concentrate on 
 battle.
  
  
  Party AI is good, however your squad members can occasionally get in the way or get themselves 
 into trouble but for the most part it's good to have them around. Mass Effect features an excellent 
 way to issue orders, simply using the D-pad and issue the command you want one of you party members 
 to perform. This also pauses the game meaning you don't have to worry about getting shot while 
 doing it. All in all it's a very good system that works well.
  
  
  The games inventory system has been kept very simple and unlike other RPG's Bioware hasn't littered 
 the game with items and objects that you're never going to use so the main collectibles are weapons 
 and upgrades. These are all categorised in your inventory into the different weapon types. Any 
 excess weapons can be easily shared out between your party members on the games equipment screen 
 or sold to various weapons dealers you will encounter throughout the game.
  
  
  One thing that stands out in Mass Effect is the use of a vehicle in the shape of an armoured personnel 
 carrier. This is used to explore various planets you can land on and also comes in useful for engaging 
 any enemies that you may encounter during your explorations. The games vehicle sequences allow 
 you to explore vast areas on many planets and you can get in and out at anytime during the action 
 to take a closer look at any thing. The personnel carrier is fairly rugged and is able to scale 
 mountain faces and such allowing you to reach otherwise hard to get to areas. On the whole the 
 vehicle action is a nice touch that adds to the variation on offer in the game.
  
  
  Of course no role-playing game would be complete without the ability to develop your character 
 and this is no different in Mass Effect. The game employs a fairly simple system for character 
 development, with number bars that represent your characters ability with certain weapons, fitness 
 and so on. Each time your character earns experience and levels points are awarded to you which 
 you can spend improving your skills, at certain point's new abilities are acquired to use in combat. 
 Some attributes will also unlock new attributes that will allow you to further learn new abilities. 
 The games character development system is very simple to use and you always have a clear idea of 
 how you are developing making it easy to customise your character to your playing.
  
  
  Performance wise the game runs pretty smoothly and you shouldn't have any trouble running it on 
 your Xbox 360.
  
  
  Visually Mass Effect looks fantastic, character models are highly detailed with fantastic facial 
 movements during the dialogue captions. Combat animation is also fantastic, with highly realistic 
 movements and excellent weapons fire effects. Environments are fairly varied offering a huge level 
 of detail, especially the massive Citadel Space Station and your space cruiser Normandy.
  
  
  Sound in Mass Effect is also excellent, voice acting is of the highest quality and not once 
 did I encounter a character that was unconvincing or annoying. Music is pretty tense and fits in 
 well with the sci-fi action of the game as are the games sound effects. The gunfire and explosions 
 sound great and nothing sounds fake or annoying.
  
  
  On the whole Mass Effect offers a great playing experience with lots of opportunity for exploration 
 and intense shooter action. The games storyline is gripping and will keep you wanting to play and 
 as the game is set in a galaxy the game offers a lot of value. Mass Effect has an excellent re-play 
 value, being able to virtually change everything about your character, you're going to be playing 
 this game over and over. Overall an excellent action role-playing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlecHP234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I played KotOR, and loved it. So I was pretty excited about Mass Effect before it was released. 
 I couldn't wait for the game. I read the book before the game came out, and I had high expectations 
 for the game. When the game actually came out it met or surpassed all my expectations. There were 
 a few disappointments though. And if it weren't for these small disappointments this might have 
 been my all time favorite game. It still is one of my favorites though.
  
  This game probably has the best story of any video game. You get very into it. And they do a good 
 job of making you care for the story, and the characters. You care for the characters. And I like 
 the improved dialogue system from KotOR. They simplified it so you don't have to read through piles 
 of text. instead, you choose the option that shows the gist of what you want to say, and your charcter 
 then talks. And the voice acting is great.
  
  I also like the combat system. It has all the fun action of a 3rd person shooter, but retains some 
 of it's RPG elements to make it more tactical. You can pause the game at any time during a battle 
 to use your tech or biotic abilities against an opponent. But the AI in the game is pretty bad. 
 If you use your teamates right, they can prove to be a little useful though.
  
  The main story of the game is great. And the side quests are fun, at first... I did like the side 
 quests when I first started playing. Most of the side quests are on maybe about 2 dozen side planets. 
 They're usually barren, uncharted, and mostly unhabitated worlds. I found this realistic. I felt 
 like I was actually landing on a remote alien world. and the scope of exploration in the game is 
 just amazing. But after a while the side quests get repetetive. You basically do the same thing 
 on each of these planets. You go to the planet and land, then find the pirate/research/whatever 
 base you're looking for, then kill everyone inside, and leave. over and over again. It's fun at 
 first, but after a while it gets old. but still, it never gets totally boring. I would like to 
 see more varied side quests in Mass Effect 2 though. But I would still like to see some unchartered 
 world type side quests in the second game.
  
  The game has a lot of very minor, but annoying, problems. All the small problems add up. First, 
 the texture pop-ins. It is annoying, but it's a minor problem that can usually be easily overlooked. 
 Another problem is that the inventory system is horrible. Some of the problems with it are just 
 stupid, and it makes me wonder who didn't have the common sense to put simple common sense features 
 in it. you have to go to your inventory to delete a lot of random crap that you don't need often, 
 because the inventory has a limit of 150 items. usually, the worse items are put at the bottom 
 of the list. this is very annoying because the scrolling is very slow. it doesn't speed up the 
 more or the longer you push up or down on the analog stick, which is very annoying. Also, every 
 time you delete an item it puts you all the way at the top of the list again. I don't know why 
 they did this. It's like someone purposefully tried to make the inventory system painful to use. 
 deleting all your excess crap can become a chore, and a long one at that because of how the inventory 
 system works. Also, the auto-save feature in the game is useless, so you'd better save often. When 
 I first got the game I'd forget to save, and when I'd die I'd have to go back an hour because the 
 auto-save hadn't saved in so long. This can be frustrating, so you just have to save a lot.
  
  I also would have liked the main story of the game to be longer. If you only do the main story, 
 and no side-quests, the game can only take maybe a little over ten hours. if you do all the side-quests, 
 however, the game can last over 30 hours. So the side-quests last twice as long as the main story. 
 I would have preferred it to be the other way around.
  
  Overall, Mass Effect is a great game with some minor flaws. But what makes mass effect great greatly 
 outweighs the game's negatives. the story and characters are amazing. The dialogue and voice acting 
 is great. The game makes you feel like your choices in the game are important, and can have huge 
 consequences, and they do. Mass Effect also has very high replay value, as you're always finding 
 out new things when you play the game again, even if it's your 4th or 5th playthrough. The game 
 can also play out very differently depending on how you play it. The scope of exploration is amazing, 
 and the game is amazing overall. I also wanted to say real quick that the soundtrack is amazing. 
 It's definitely my favorite game of 2007, and one of my favorite games I've ever played. If they 
 fix most of the problems of Mass Effect in Mass Effect 2, then we'll be looking at a near perfect 
 game. So, I'm really looking forward to Mass Effect 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer169
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Ok I LOVED the game. The game does grown on you and is highly addictive. I played this game everychance 
 i got when i got it. Graphics Are GORGEOUSE. Gameplay is good. Few glitchs here and there was one 
 glitch that screwed up my 360. I dunno what happened but i started my 360 and put mass effect in 
 and then i went to the main menue and if screwed up. THis also happened to my friend so iit wasnt 
 only me. If **** his 360 up to. So did mine. I Love this game, great game, awesome graphics and 
 gameplay. I would recommend it but just be carefull.
  
  Graphics- 10
  Gameplay-8
  Sound-9
  Story-8 (you kept goin back to the same play over and over and to some it will fustrate 
 you)
  
  Overall i will give it an 8.5
  the reason it is an 8.5 is because of all of the glitchs. It screwed up mine and a friends 360. 
 Great game exept for that glitch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  When Bioware announced in 2006 that it would be straying away from the KOTOR series (which we're 
 all pissed about) and wanted to stay in the space and sci-fi genre and create literally an entire 
 galaxy right at your fingertips and combat more action orientated. This new project was referred 
 to as Mass Effect. I was a bit skeptical at first as to what this title would allow us to accomplish 
 and the lack of a new KOTOR game really hurt my brownie points for Bioware, but I was nevertheless 
 intrigued as a hardcore gamer would be. Alas in late 2007 we finally receive the finished product 
 and it stands and delivers just as promised even with being delayed a couple of times along the 
 way.
  
  Gameplay:
  This time around Bioware tends to stray away from the more semi-turn based combat as in the KOTOR 
 series and just as in Jade Empire introduce a more action orientated gameplay system. The combat 
 in Mass Effect is simply this. You are captain Shepard and are a member of an elite squad and have 
 command over your crew as well as access to a vast arsenal of advanced weaponry and biotics that 
 give you extra sensory powers and can vanquish enemies with ease. However, if you think immediately 
 "Wow I have guns, lets pull out these real RAMBO tactics!"... you'll be dead first before you even 
 come close to the finish line. Just because Bioware implemented guns and pistols doesn't mean they've 
 excluded strategic combat from the gameplay. You now have to take cover, command your squad and 
 coordinate attack patterns of the enemy before you can zero in on that kill. I found that even 
 with the game on Easy mode it was still challenging. A nice array of upgrades are available as 
 well as new biotic powers. The galaxy is literally yours to explore and you can touch down on nearly 
 every system in the milky way galaxy and even Earth is listed, but you cannot touch down on the 
 surface. But there is an extreme amount of depth in the exploration and story as you'd expect from 
 a Bioware game. 
  
  Graphics:
  Possibly the best looking graphics to date in a unique sense. It almost is up to par with the Unreal 
 III engine in terms of lighting, realism on character models, and more than gorgeous and breathtaking 
 environments and locales. The textures and smoothed polygons on character faces alone will have 
 one's jaw dropping in awe at how beautifully rendered the graphics are in this game. Bioware really 
 pumps out all it can to deliver us a true next-gen Action/RPG experience. However there are yet 
 again some issues with pop-in and dropping of framerate as you would inevitably expect from a Bioware 
 title. The environments are so big that naturally there would be some texture hiccups and pop ins 
 but they occur way too frequently sometimes. Other than this flaw the graphics are near perfection.
 
  
  Sound:
  Once you pop in the disc and hear the main title theme, you'll be more than impressed as the sound 
 from a cunning musical score to superior dialogue and a story worth becoming enthralled in and 
 losing 20+ hours in this game thanks in part to a wonderful display of accurate sound effects and 
 an appropriate musical performance. The voice acting is more than brilliantly done, and the fact 
 that the main character actually SPEAKS even if you customize him and change his appearance is 
 more than impressive especially for the lack of voice acting from the main protagonist in a Bioware 
 game.
  
  Control:
  Moving Shepard around and his squadmates may take some getting used to at first being that there 
 is a tactical interface to the gameplay aspect of this game. Shooting, commanding squade mates 
 and taking cover as well as performing biotic power attacks will seem fresh yet complex at first, 
 but after about 2 hours into the game is when you'll adapt to these controls and will use them 
 with ease as the story progresses.
  
  Overall:
  Mass Effect packs quite a punch with delivering more than satisfying visuals, a newly designed 
 gameplay and combat system as well as offering quite possibly the largest and most vast space exploration 
 system this planet has seen in the gaming industry to date. If the next KOTOR game allows you to 
 explore a galaxy this large, I'll be undoubtedly moved to a point of near exasperation. If you're 
 looking for a deep and eccentric Action/RPG then look no further for Mass Effect delivers a worthy 
 performance that last for 20-30+ hours and will definitely bring you back for a 2nd and 3rd time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natanku
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  I have had this since it came out back in Nov. 2007 and can say that it has been one of the best 
 games I have ever owned. I have only replayed it 3 since I bought it, but that is saying a lot 
 seeing as I almost always play through once and then sell my game on eBay (GTA4 included) , But 
 Mass Effect is different, Bioware has utilized what made the Knights of The Old Republic (KOTOR) 
 games fun and involving and opened up accessibility to a greater audience. The graphics are good 
 and the sound design is solid, but what you really focus on from beginning to end is the story 
 which is on par with some of the better ones out there. However there are small gripes when playing 
 through a second or third time that began to bother me. Specifically the storyline which at first 
 seemed to have had an endless amount of decisions and results really only has one or two variables. 
 Then comes the level design which you noticed was sparse the first time around, but really is so 
 minimal that it makes the worlds you travel to lifeless and much more of a chore to travel around. 
 But these are small things and ME is still a great game, I can barely contain myself for the next 
 installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethuss
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect has the greatest story of a game that i've ever seen, its so detailed and complex that 
 is hard to realize that is a fictitious world, the creators thought in every little thing from 
 this huge puzzle that is the Mass Effect universe. I have completed 2 PlayThroughs in Mass Effect 
 and i just can't get bored of the game, every time you play different things occur. The graphics 
 of the game are amazing and the shadows are very detail. The system of conversation is revolutionary, 
 you feel inside the game, talking to the characters. The main quests are quite short, only 10-14 
 hours of gameplay to accomplish, but the secondary quests fill up this need of more gameplay, to 
 complete all this quest you can take from 8 to 15 hours. You got dozens of planets to explorer 
 and hundreads of items to find. Combat system is not that good and complex as those seen in Call 
 of Duty 4 or Gears of War but Mass Effect isn't supposed to be an ordinary shooter, it's an RPG, 
 witch combat does not matter that much. But in the same way the combats are very intense, realistic 
 and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackattacka
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  One of the main, awesome things I've noticed while playing Mass Effect, was the dialog. The way 
 you, yourself can shape the conversations, and even outcomes of the game in just this way. You 
 can distribute gained skill points into portions of your personality, to really shape your character 
 how you want him to be. Whether it be a raging bad-ass, or more of an intellectual leader.
  
  All the scenes, and the talk is worth going through because it really keeps it at a nice flow, 
 and makes you want to keep watching. It's a very enjoyable experiencing, and this is all outside 
 of the actual game play.
  
  When you start off, you can either play as the already made character they give you, or make your 
 own. Shaping his background, his looks, and his personality before you even really get into the 
 game itself. What you choose here, will reflect on how people act towards you throughout the entire 
 game.
  
  You can choose from a number of classes. Soldier, etc. Some based entirely on weapons, others mixed 
 with spells and weaponry, while others are based completely on spells themselves, with a mixture 
 of using a pistol.
  
  As you go through the first part of the game, it may seem tedious to make money. Quests may seem 
 like they give little financial reward, and it just might seem like you are making little progress 
 outside the main story-line. Believe me, when you get further into the game and really start tapping 
 into things, money will be flowing at you. You'll easily have enough towards the end of the game 
 to afford all the greatest weapons and armor, and really kick some ass.
  
  To put this bluntly, the story-line is short. That is the biggest downfall of the game. It pulls 
 you in so drastically, and makes you wish it would go on forever because it really immerses you 
 below the surface. But then it ends, and it doesn't even seem like it will. But believe me, when 
 it does end, set-aside the fact it was a short adventure, it will seem like you have been through 
 PLENTY. And you have.
  
  All-in-all, if you just plainly follow the main story, and don't do any side-quests, or much exploring, 
 you could finish the game in about 10 hours. Of course there are plenty of planets to explore, 
 and plenty of side-missions you will be given, that will boost the game-play well up over 20 hours. 
 Believe me. 
  
  So what happens when you beat Mass Effect? Well, you can either put the disk back in the box, and 
 pat yourself on the back for beating an awesome game, and living it out. Or you can go back to 
 the title screen, and start up a new game. But the term 'new' isn't all it's fashioned out to be 
 in this sense. The difficulty will automatically be lifted, so it's harder. You keep your level, 
 you keep your stats, and your equipment and guns. You just play the game over again. ONLY this 
 time, you get to go through whatever you missed, and already be a bad-ass when you're playing as 
 if for the first time. It will just be harder.
  
  I fully recommend this game to anybody, of any taste to video games. It's real fun, and provides 
 a great adventure you won't forget for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siddarth0605
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Bioware is best known as the Square Enix of the United States. They have published many epic titles 
 such as Neverwinter Nights and KOTOR. Now they are creating a new franchise in Mass Effect. This 
 game follows the story of Commander Sheppard a soldier who uncovers a beacon containing a cryptic 
 message and tries to solve the mystery of the message while pursuing a rouge Spectre called Saren 
 uncovering a larger threat in the process. 
  
  The Good:
  
  Mass Effect's greatest strength is its story. The game has one main storyline but at the same time 
 there are multiple side stories that provide depth and history not only to the main characters 
 but also the alien races as well. These are all backed by a terrific voiceover cast as well as 
 one of the most badass villans in videogames. The story is also helped along by the new dialogue 
 system which makes the conversations very real and authentic. The Good and Bad system from KOTOR 
 makes a return but this time serves a much bigger part in affecting not only this story but potentially 
 the story for the next game as well. The combat is also very nice offering a lot of customization 
 and unique and fun biotic powers to use. The graphics are also beautiful and each world is rich 
 and alive and really gives you the sense of being a space traveler.
  
  The Bad:
  
  One major problem with this game is that loading times are quite frequent and long. This also affects 
 the graphics because more detailed textures are not immediately present causing you to detract 
 from the realism for a moment. Also navigating through the menu's especially the weapon/armor customization 
 menu can sometimes be very daunting.
  
  Overall Mass Effect is arguably one of the finest role-playing games ever created and is one that 
 should be in every 360 owner's library 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BreakingSpecter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  The gameplay and graphics on this game is pretty good. The layout of the game is also good but 
 it could have been better. There were alot of planets but you couldn't go everywhere on the planet. 
 Of you could go everywhere the game would be pretty big so they probably wouldn't have done it 
 but they could of let you go a little farther on the planets. Some of the things that ticked me 
 off in the game was: the citidel looks really big and probably is but u cant go everywhere on it. 
 I think u should have been able to at least go to that city that u see through the windows. Another 
 thing that ticked me off was that earth was in the game BUT YOU COULD NOT LAND ON EARTH. You could 
 see it but you couldn't land on it. You should at least be able to go to one city on earth. Even 
 if its a military base I wouldn't care as long as I could be on my home planet.
  
  The weapons that are in the game all looks the same except for some they changed the colors. But 
 thats the only pretty much difference bettween the guns. The guns are: the assault rifle, the sniper 
 rifle, the shotgun and the pistol. The weapons I used the most in the game were the assault rifle 
 and the shotgun. Oh and if u want to kill the geth fast put an ammo upgrade on your assault rifle 
 that will hurt synthetics. You will be able to kill them really fast with out getting hurt too 
 much. Over all I say that this game is pretty good but it could have been better. I just hope that 
 in Mass Effect 2 you will be able to land on earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_269
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of the best games of 2007. An engrossing plot and a solid combat system come 
 together along with a well designed yet simple level-up system. In addition, the multiple classes 
 and promise of more DLC expansions add tons of replay value. The game world includes visitable 
 planets, however the repetitive design of these planets limits the amount of time that you will 
 want to explore them. Like KOTOR, the game has both normal and "magic" weapons in the form of biotics. 
 These biotics can be used in a paused mode similarly to KOTOR, only not quite as advanced. The 
 normal weapons, which include pistols, assault rifles, sniper rifles, and shotguns, are used like 
 in any other third person shooter. There is also a cover system which is done well, and works sort 
 of like the one in GRAW. Also like KOTOR, the game allows you to have control over two AI allies, 
 whom you can send to locations and command. Besides a few technical shortcomings, such as texture 
 pop-ins and lackluster planet designs, Mass Effect is both an excellent sci-fi RPG and shooter 
 that is sure to keep you entertained for many months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: styymy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  For those gamers that miss KOTOR or any other great RPG, this is a delightful experience. I initialy 
 had misgivings about the combat system but was won over by it. There were some shortcomings when 
 it comes to depth for the plot but Bioware otherwise deliverd on a good storyline which will span 
 a trilogy. There is a vast array of weapons configuraions, upgrades and fittings. The classes are 
 flexible enought to allow for a balanced squad for the missions an quest. There is much to do as 
 far as quest throughout the galaxy and on the Citadel are concerned. You have free reign of the 
 environment within the Citadel areas such as the Embassy, Flux, C-Tec and Council Chambers. 
  
  The game starts with you being a commander that has a good reputation and record in the eyes 
 of humans and other races, but you are relatively untested in the realms of intergalactic space 
 and government affairs. Don't fret, you'll soon get that experience once you've completed initial 
 quests on the Citadel and given clearance to take on missions off-world. If you have not played 
 Mass Effect yet, give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragek1ll589
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  "We are eternal. The pinnacle of evolution and existence. Before us, you are nothing. Your extinction 
 is inevitable. We are the end of everything."
  
  Mss Effect, created by the critically acclaimed developers BioWare, gave us one of the best, if 
 not the best, gaming experiences this generation. Elements from Third Person Shooters and traditional 
 RPG were utilized to create this great Action-RPG game. 
  
  To compliment the gameplay, an outstanding "space opera" story was developed and forced players 
 to make tough decisions, which tinkered with such elements as morality and vengeance. On top of 
 the stellar gameplay and story, an awe-inspiring atmosphere was created through incredible voice 
 acting and soundtrack. Interactive cut scenes were enhanced by the talented voice acting from the 
 likes of actors Seth Green, Lance Henriksen, Marina Sirtis and Keith David as well as numerous 
 cartoon/video game voice actors. The Blade Runner and Dune inspired soundtrack, created by Jack 
 Wall, Sam Hulick, Richard Jacques and David Kates, invigorated the numerous climatic moments throughout 
 the game.
  
  All of these elements combined created an outstanding game which will go down as a benchmark for 
 video game story telling. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MondiBlue
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  I've rarely beaten a game that took over 20 hours to complete and wanted to immediately begin playing 
 it over. So many agonizing decisions that I could make differently. So many scenarios that I'd 
 like to see done again.
  
  A game that truly lets you choose your path and make decisions. I was concerned that it would be 
 annoying to choose a character's dialogue the entire game, but it played out extremely well. 
 
  
  The only downside to the game is driving the Mako. It is okay, but not the best that they could 
 do. It gets annoying and has a steep learning curve. It wasn't until I was on the third mission 
 that I learned about the missiles. Before that I thought all I could do was use the crappy machine 
 gun.
  
  I didn't realize how to use the powers until my third planet as well. I thought that if I just 
 leveled up Overkill that it would automatically kick in. I played through the first game as a soldier, 
 but can't wait to play as a biotic to throw people around.
  
  If you own a 360 get this game and it will become highly addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cii-Lence
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  This game has alot of places to explore and beings to interact with. It has abundant missions. 
 There are also alot of actions where its outcome depends on your decisions. It is a long and exciting 
 game. It is one of the best games of Xbox 360.
  
  I have noticed features which needs further improvements. The game is a masterpiece and there are 
 only but few that I have seen missing in the game.
  
  Further improvements should be made with regards to purchasing and changing of armors. When buying, 
 there should be a screen to visualize what the armor looks like. This will help the player choose 
 what design he likes and what armor will his character wear. In the equipment menu, there should 
 also be a screen where one can view what the armor one looted in battle looks like. This will help 
 the player decide whether to wear the armor already or not. Having this feature will further give 
 the player freedom and creativity in the game.
  
  Furthermore, there should have been markets where there would be alot of vendors offering various 
 goods and services. The systems were all big but lacked markets where a player could have spent 
 time browsing for goods or trying out outfits and accessories.
  
  Choosing weapons, upgrades and gadgets was not fun because one depends on the statics and logos 
 and lacks visualization of the item. There should have been a screen where one can view a 3D picture 
 of the gun or upgrade. It's much adds excitement to the game when one aims to hunt for cool-looking 
 gun and stash it in his cabinet as a collection. It would add to a player's curiosity for an item 
 if it has a 3D image ready for viewing once the item is bought or looted. Items were represented 
 by names with statistics on the equipment menu which made it boring to choose what to use and what 
 to install as an upgrade.
  
  There should have been gunshops where players could testfire weapons before purchasing. I have 
 noticed too that there's not much customization with the guns. The designs of the weapons was too 
 futuristic but less personalized. We should have been given choices to upgrade to scopes, lasers, 
 nightvisions, or silencers, or better yet, gold plated and platinum guns.
  
  The equipment cabinets were small and lacking the feature where a player could browse what his 
 equipments looks like. The cabinets were also piled close together which lacks individuality. There 
 should have been dressing rooms where we can swap armors, helmets and accessories.
  
  In the game, the player could only play as the lead character. He could only command the other 
 2 members of the party with regards to using a certain skills and weapon, and moving to tactical 
 positions. It would be better if the player could shift into the other members. For example, the 
 player is a lady, and she decides to use the woman characters instead. If a player also likes to 
 use the alien races, with a press of a button, he could easily play the alien races. There should 
 have also been more alien races to choose from.
  
  The customization of the lead character's features was alright but it would have been better if 
 there were more choices in customization. It would have been cool to be able to change the lead 
 characters height, race, complexion, accessories, etc. Games were meant for us players to express 
 our creativity and personality, so I hope in the next Mass Effect, more customization features 
 are made available.
  
  Overall, Mass Effect is one of the best games because it is one of few games which involve leveling 
 up. Level up games are fun and is worth to spend on because it is game which lasts long. It takes 
 a lot of hard work to build your character. The game involves use of tactics and search for strong 
 items that could make you and party strong.
  
  I can't wait for Mass Effect 2. It would surely break barriers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xX-PopoviC-Xx
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the announcement of Mass Effect, it has easily been one of my most anticipated game. 
 When the game came out, I rented it Day One. The game really started in a very interesting way. 
 You get sent to a planet to investigate an artifact. One of your comrades gets killed already right 
 in the beginning. The plot starts out great, where most RPGs lack. 
  I am a BIG RPG fan, it's my favourite genre so that explains why I wanted to play Mass Effect alot. 
 
  I'll start by talking about the Good things about Mass Effect, and the Bad Things.
  
  GOOD
  
  -Mass Effects storyline is one of the greatest ever made. It is a great sci-fi story 
 that you will want to see to the end
  -The characters are all done create, from the looks of the characters, to their personalities. 
 Each character is unique and has his/her own significant part of the story
  -The combat of the game is done well, the game can be easily be put in the 3rd Person Shooter genre 
 and I would believe it. 
  -Mass Effect looks beautiful, from the textures to the cool lighting. 
  -The Biotics are amazing 
 and fun to use
  -It has a large massive GALAXY for you to explore filled with many planets. It's just too bad that 
 you can't land on Earth
  -Along with the storyline and the insane amount of quests, you'll be playing this game for a LONG 
 time
  -Great Dialogue that includes good voice acting
  -Rex KICKS ASS
  
  BAD
  
  -Vehicle combat is terrible. 
  -Grenade button is put in the worst possible place ever. (The 
 'Back' button)
  -Some pop-in textures.
  -Not alot of variety to the art. Alot of places in the universe will look the same. You'll only 
 see your snowy, volcanic, or rocky areas
  -Weapon varietly sucks. They is really no inovation to the weapons. You just have your Assault 
 Rifle, Pistol, Shotgun, and Sniper Rifle
  -Although combat is good, it just doesn't satify you enough at the end of the day
  -You'll be 
 doing the same thing over and over again. Land on this planet, go to Point A, kill guys along the 
 way, then go to point B. With the occassional stupid vehicle rides. 
  -Only one vehicle, THAT SUCKS.
  -Squad really isn't that helpful
  -Only one major city, no 
 thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LrdofArmageddon
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  POINT OF GAME: You are Commander Shepard (which you can customize to any image and/or gender you 
 wish) . You are on a mission to stop Saren and the Reapers from destroying the entire galaxy! Your 
 choices will reflect who you are what your destiny will be as you take part in this epic and damn 
 near flawless adventure that can be called the next best thing to Star Wars.
  
  GRAPHICS (10/10) : Absolutely superb! Everything looks incredibly realistic in this game and the 
 character animations are fantastic. The facial expressions and lip-syncing when the characters 
 talk are so realistic that they don't seem like computer animations, but rather actual real-looking 
 people. The aliens look extremely cool, too. The environments are very beautifully made and really 
 captivate the player into this well thought out universe. It's obvious that BioWare really outdid 
 themselves with the graphics.
  
  SOUND (10/10) : The musics, sound effects and dialogue... some of the best I've ever heard in a video 
 game. The music fits the game's sci-fi genre very well, it's kind of like Halo music, except to 
 a more adventurous and alien-like kind of way. The dialogue is better than anything Hollywood has 
 to offer and the ability to choice from a variety of dialogue really sets up the game's story very 
 well. The sound effects are also very sharp and sound really cool.
  
  CONTROLS AND PLAYABILITY (9.75/10) : Controls take a bit to get used to, but they're solid and they 
 work. The combat is in real-time, but pauses when you're selecting a weapon or choosing an ability 
 or Biotic Power. Combat can end in a blink of an eye sometimes, but is otherwise good, except when 
 the AI of your companions breaks down every once in a while. The way you fight can vary: you could 
 run in with your guns blazing, use guerrilla tactics, or even kill guys with Biotic Powers. If 
 you're feeling really creative, you can merge all three or even create your own numerous ways to 
 fight the forces that serve Saren.
  
  ENTERTAINMENT (10/10) : With a million ways to play out the story and a varied game time (18 to 
 30 hours) , this can keep you occupied for a long time. The entertainment begins almost immediately 
 when you start creating your very own Commander Shepard. You can choose anything: your character's 
 first name, facial features, hair, gender, race (of human) , childhood life, military background, 
 etc. Making your character's personality is also fun, you can choose to be a real nice person, 
 a decent guy or just a plain jerk. The combat will keep on your toes (especially on harder difficulties) 
 and the numerous side quests will have you glued to that T. V. screen for a long time. This game 
 is entertainment at it's finest.
  
  REPLAY: 5 out of 5 
  This game will be a fun and timeless classic for years to come. It's just that good. Playing the 
 game thorough numerous times is necessary to unlock all achievements and even then, you'll still 
 want to play this game over and over again.
  
  THE GOOD: The graphics are just to die for, very slick, very beautiful and very creative. The sound 
 quality is superb, the music is great and the dialogue is some of the best I've ever heard in a 
 game (and even in real life, for that matter...) . Controls are nothing too hard, yet are not too 
 easy, which makes the game's control-scheme very impressive. The story is just plain fantastic, 
 as it can play out in numerous and sometimes even unexpected ways. Playability of the game is entertainment 
 for hours on end and you'll just never get tired of this game with all the numerous planets, side 
 quests, cool looking aliens and a universe that's so fantastic, you'll never want to take your 
 eyes off the screen.
  
  THE BAD: The AI is impressive, but can sometimes brain-fart. During a battle, you'll kill an enemy 
 in your own homemade fashion and enjoy the game on itself, but then you'll feel a little uneasy 
 when you turn around to see one of your crew-mates firing at a wall directly two feet in front 
 of him or her. Most of the time the AI realizes it's mistakes and resumes kicking some tail, but 
 sometimes it won't even straighten up it's act until after you finish the fight.
  
  THE BOTTOM-LINE: BioWare has done it again! Only one phrase can possibly describe a game of this 
 caliber: "Absolutely Incredible!" It's so good, you'd swear it was made by George Lucas. The game-play, 
 the entertainment, the sound and replay all score high. If you haven't played this game yet, then 
 you have been deprived of something worth your time. The AI of your companions can make a few mistakes 
 at times, but more than likely you will take control of the combat situation yourself, instead 
 of relying on your companions. This game even has down-loadable content, adding more the entertainment. 
 Take this advice: Just buy it! You won't regret it!
  
  SUB-SCORE*: 9.93 out of 10
  
  FINAL SCORE: 10/10
  
  *Not rounded to nearest quarter-point.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretcheese
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect was a very fun game. I loved the different types of people you could be and the levels, 
 weapons, and armor. I also loved how your past that you selected, effects you in the game. The 
 game was fun and allowed free roam. There were also some pretty cool side missions. You could also 
 choose who you want on your team. My favorite part is, if you play again as the same character 
 that you played as the first time, then you will still have all of your stuff, and your level will 
 be what it was at the end of your first time through. It was a very fun game, and I liked trying 
 the different types of fighters. I also liked the tech and biotic attacks, like lift, carnage, 
 sabotage, etc. I also liked the armor and bullet upgrades. they worked effectively and created 
 a big advantage over the enemy. I loved it and still play it today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainHarley
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the only game I've ever played that gave me the feeling that video games can become 
 more than just games. I've played Metal Gears, Final Fantasies, and what have you. To me, they're 
 all just games. Very good ones (well, MGS at least) but not 'art' as some people are so desperate 
 to classify them. I understand that some feel video games are a form of high art as much as a classic 
 painting or symphony, but I've never felt this way. To me, a game was a game. No game has ever 
 been truly inspiring to me, or totally immersed me in it's plot and story as a total aside from 
 the gameplay.
  
  Mass Effect was a turning point me for on this subject. It's the first video game I've ever played 
 that I would consider real art. It's like a better version of most sci-fi novels that will come 
 out this year, a deeply detailed and feasibly-presented universe where you understand the boundaries, 
 but surprises are still everywhere. The game features a nice cast of diverse characters and settings. 
 The plot itself is great, assisted tremendously by fine voice acting and the awesome storytelling 
 system where you select your character's dialog. The score, which is for the most part basic (largely 
 composed of electronic tones) and invokes retro feelings (flashes of Star Control II) , really works. 
 The main menu song along is, for a reason I can't pin down, special.
  
  All in all, I could explain Mass Effect in more detail but you've gotten the idea probably already 
 from other reviewers. I figure, save yourself the wondering and buy it. It's just an amazing game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lias444
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I bought Mass Effect solely because I wanted to play a good RPG on the xbox 360. It surpassed my 
 expectations far into another galaxy. If you are like me and waiting for Fable 2 this game might 
 even make you forget about it for at least a month.
  
  This game is huge. A whole galaxy with hundreds of different planets is waiting for you to explore 
 it. Mass Effect has an exciting, gripping and powerful story and excellent RPG elements that sets 
 a high benchmark for other RPG's. You play as Commander Shepard, but gender, looks, speech and 
 morality is all in your hands, and everything else in the game compliments how you play it. As 
 well as a great story Mass Effect has very good graphics, especially character animation, a handful 
 of futuristic weapons, profound voice acting and score and 20+ hrs. of missions and fun.
  
  Mass Effect is the best pure RPG on the xbox 360 and the 4th best game on the xbox 360. It truly 
 is a game and galaxy worth exploring in the long wait for Fable 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanLink
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of the greatest RPGs I have played so far. When I just started the game I was 
 astounded by the music and the graphics. Mostly this is one of the original games so I thought 
 it was great. The voices sounded like they were part of the game at most points which I thought 
 was well done and executed for that moment. As for real time combat I thought it was easy just 
 on casual but on normal itself I thought it was a great improvement. For the storyline I was amazed 
 at how well it was kept together and crystal clear. At some points I even guess on what would happen 
 next and when I found out I was blown away at what was the truth. The Paragon (Good) and Renegade (Bad) 
 thing I was kind of disappointed about that. For Star Wars KOTOR it was a challenge because if 
 you said the wrong thing for your alignment then it would increase or decrease. For Mass Effect 
 it just has two seperate bars so if you said something for Paragon you would get it and it wouldn't 
 decrease for Renegade. I was hoping for something like KOTOR in Mass Effect but it is still a great 
 game and is very original which I hope is what everyone expects in a game. If you own or know someone 
 who owns a X360 I would recommend purchasing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the first installment in BioWare's new role playing franchise and it's a very ambitious 
 game through and through.
  
  Game is filled with interesting characters and that's what makes it so interesting, because the 
 story itself is basically just another "save the galaxy from an ultimate evil" plot. You play as 
 Commander Shepard (which can be either male or female) and lead an experimental space ship called 
 SSV Normandy in order to stop a powerful Turian named Saren. Of course this is only the basic setting 
 and changes numerous times in the course of your 30 to 40 hour space adventure. Still I wish to 
 warn you: story starts pretty slowly and only after about 10 hours it begins to be really interesting.
 
  
  Graphics are not the best what next-gen has to offer, but still the overall quality and the amount 
 of details is good and facial expressions have received many hours of attention. Unfortunately 
 the frame rate takes a serious hit every single time there's some action on screen. This usually 
 doesn't affect the experience that much, but you will definitely notice it many times over. Another 
 technical issue is the frequent popping of textures.
  
  Sound design has some clear influences from Star Wars: Knights of The Old Republic and this is 
 only a good thing. Effects do their job in creating a sci-fi world, although they're not that remarkable 
 either. Musical score is fully orchestrated and it has a few very memorable pieces. Voice acting 
 on the other hand is top notch quality and since there are so many conversations in moving the 
 story forward it's nice that BioWare really paid attention to voice acting. Almost every character 
 you meet in the game has his or her face, voice and behavior patterns. Every galactical race speaks 
 English this time around instead of their own language like they did in Knights of The Old Republic.
 
  
  Gameplay begins like any other deep RPG: by creating a character. You can choose a gender of your 
 liking and create personal facial features. More important choice is your class and you have six 
 of them: Soldier, Engineer, Adept, Infiltrator, Sentinel, and Vanguard. In your first playthrough 
 I recommend to choose Soldier and then develop strong diplomatic skills in the course of the game.
 
  
  You have other characters in your party as well, all of which have their own personalities and 
 abilities and you can develop their skills anyway you see fit. Be also prepared to make some tough 
 choices along the way and bare the consequences. BioWare has always known how to create good characters 
 and in this respect Mass Effect doesn't disappoint.
  
  As I said earlier there are a lot of conversations to do in Mass Effect and you have many different 
 options on how to approach a situation. Do want to solve everything with just pure violence? Do 
 you always prefer the use of eloquent diplomacy? It's entirely up to you. In many ways this game 
 plays the way you want it.
  
  The biggest change in previous BioWare games is that combat is now in real time rather than the 
 usual turn-based affair. It works most of the time, if you give yourself enough time to learn how 
 to use it effectively. You can give orders to your team mates, but usually it's better to let them 
 do their own thing.
  
  Combat handles as a third person shooter pretty much like in Gears of War, where pulling the left 
 trigger brings the angle closer and lets you take a better aim. One huge plus is that you never 
 run out of ammo, but your gun can overheat rather easily (if you fire continuously and not by using 
 controlled bursts) . All guns, grenades and armors can be upgraded in many different ways. If you 
 choose to use Biotic abilities, which are equivalent to Star Wars' Force powers, you can do it 
 too. Mostly you do just fine by using an upgraded weapon as Soldier. There's also a specific cover 
 system but forget it: it's hard to use and you don't need it.
  
  Unfortunately the enemy AI as well as your team mates' AI is not perfect and you'll see all of 
 them doing stupid things pretty regularly. For example at times your team mates are shooting you 
 in the back and enemies might just stand there and do nothing. Just like in other technical issues 
 in Mass Effect the AI does not ruin your experience, but still you will notice it.
  
  As you might expect the actual gameplay consists of completing missions and side quests. This time 
 they are clearly divided so that you'll immediately notice which mission is "just" a side quest. 
 Still if you wish to experience all that Mass Effect has to offer AND want to gain lots of experience 
 points I recommend you to do all available missions. Quests that move the main story forward are 
 usually longer and require the use of all abilities at your disposal, which means travelling either 
 by foot, a land vehicle called Mako or a spaceship Normandy, combat skills and of course conversations. 
 Side missions are a little varied ranging from simple diplomatic negotiations to straight forward 
 seek and destroy missions. 
  
  As I said earlier there is almost always more than one way to solve the challenge in hand and depending 
 on how you have developed your character and what choices you wish to make earns you either Paragon 
 or Renegade points. These choices also effect on how the game will eventually end.
  
  Aside from technical issues the map is not very clear and sometimes it makes navigating a little 
 too hard than it should be, and for some reason you can't skip a cutscene. This is especially annoying 
 when you need to repeat a boss fight after game over screen and are forced to watch the same cutscene 
 again and again. Luckily this doesn't happen very often, because the difficulty setting can be 
 adjusted even in mid-game just like you might remember in Jade Empire.
  
  Even it took 35 hours to play through Mass Effect it still left me wanting more and luckily this 
 franchise is supposed to be a trilogy. If you have liked BioWare's previous games or just like 
 RPGs in general then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  Where do you start with this game? I'm assuming "Mass" stands for Massive, because this game is 
 enormous and deep. Mass Effect is a futuristic, third person shooter set in space where you take 
 control of Commander Shepherd (whose gender and appearance can be customised) who is given the 
 task of hunting down a rogue "SPECTRE" attempting to revive a long dead race of alien beasts. The 
 Spectres are special, elite soldiers of mixed race under the command of the inter-universal council 
 that governs the known universe. Starting out as a simple human soldier (your background history 
 can also be altered at the start of the game) you start your looking into the rogue spectre, and 
 that is where the story begins. The Story is excellent. The plot line is very well scripted and 
 well combined with interludes of action and dialogue. The dialogue is highly interactive so your 
 reputation and skills in "Charm" and "Intimidation" can dictate the outcome of a "cut scene" or 
 conversation, thus altering the initial way the game plays out. Characters come and go according 
 to your relationships with them, like wise species and planets can become at the mercy of your 
 decisions. This makes the compelling, and action packed story even more fun to play the second 
 time round considering you can do things differently the next time around. The whole game feels 
 much more like a film than any other game to date. The story has excellent characters, and a story 
 with plenty of twists and turns interspersed with action packed fighting and driving sequences, 
 most of which can be approached in different ways. The visuals are also astounding at times, often 
 when cruising the surface of an unexplored planet in search of a distress signal, you might find 
 yourself simply staring at the sky as moons, stars and planets blink overhead. The main story, 
 if missions are done back to back, would take approximately 14-15 hours, however the number of 
 side quests that are open to you are as vast as the universe you have to explore and easily double 
 that time. 
  The game also has a well integrated and surprisingly deep upgrade system. While armour and weapons 
 all look virtually identical, your character and squad can all be manually upgraded and improved. 
 The experience is much like a racing game; hardcore players choose manual gears, while the casual 
 take auto. Should you choose to manually upgrade yourself and your squad, you can truly make your 
 team into the exact fighting squad you want, choosing what they are best at, what weapons they 
 are most accurate with and what to magic to cast. Once understood, the experience system adds a 
 completely new dimension to the game play. This is very cool, so while you choose to master your 
 favourite weapon or spell should you come across a situation where these aren't useful, you've 
 prepared your team-mates to cover for you. This brings me to the team game play. Your control over 
 your two squad mates is limited to D-pad instructions such as "take cover", "protect me", and "attack" 
 and "move", these become very handy deep in combat, especially if you've taken the time to make 
 your team exactly what you need to work with your play style. For those who want to delve deeper 
 into the game play, this is the option for you, however like I said if you want to set it to auto, 
 you can play the entire game without ever having to upgrade skills. 
  Now we get to the flaws. Despite having awesome visuals, there is the occasional rendering issue 
 where the textures will not fully load and its takes a few seconds for the game to catch up with 
 its-self. These are not a problem, and don't hinder the game play whatsoever, however they may 
 irritate players who demand perfection. The producers also didn't do a very good job in hiding 
 loading screens. At least, they hid them well, but that doesn't make waiting around for the game 
 to load any easier. In the game, you will encounter many doors that take a while to open and also 
 elevator journeys you have to sit through. In this case, I believe that these are hiding loading 
 screens for the next section of the game; however standing around in a lift, waiting to arrive 
 at your desired floor can get tedious, particularly in a rush. Likewise, when in a combat situation 
 after intense action you might find doors more like an interlude between fights that's just a little 
 too long. While the story is astounding, sending you to the far corners of the Milky Way galaxy 
 with each mission vastly different from the other, the side quests don't share the joy. Side quests 
 can often feel very repetitive, not in terms of objective, but in the repetition of locations. 
 A lot of the planets and space stations look very similar. The best way to play the game is by 
 dispersing side quests in between the diverse main story. 
  Another flaw, although this depends on the pickiness of the player, is the fighting. The learning 
 curve for the combat is quite long should you choose to manually controlling your squad, popping 
 in and out selection tabs changing weapons, spells and moves. Should you choose to have you squad 
 fight and use their equipment manually, they will do so and you never need to tell them what to 
 do. I believe this is not making the most of the fighting potential and but may be easier for more 
 casual gamers. My problem with the combat is that the weapons don't feel all that powerful, and 
 likewise don't seem to deal the damage you desire when pulling the trigger. I don't mean that the 
 weapons are weak, (because these too can be upgraded and improved while your training with it also 
 affects your accuracy and control) but that when your character unloads a series of rounds into 
 an opponent, he/she doesn't seem to react with the appropriate bodily response. As in they don't 
 react when you shoot them. It's only mildly annoying, but may bother some people. 
  In conclusion Mass Effect is awesome and has a great deal of replay ability. It has one of the 
 best story lines to date, excellent voice acting, graphics and dialogue, compelling action sequences 
 and fighting. There are moments where the game falls, however for every flaw there are a dozen 
 awesome features that make up for it creating an epic gaming experience. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mimmi1234
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a huge game with a lot of gaming hours, beautifull graphics and the music is very 
 nice to hear. Plus awsome characters and deep story and voice acting. You can even geth a bit romantic 
 :o)
  
  Could it be any better , well yes the very few cons. this game has, is that the controls could 
 be a bit better and the learning curve a bit more easy in the opening of the game. but you wil 
 learn it very fast indeed.
  
  And when you drive a vehicle , the controls could have been better.
  But anyway there is no game 
 out who dont have it pro and cons, and with these smal ones this game have you really dont notice 
 them in a huge negative way, wich is very good.
  
  Bioware has done a really great job with this game, both for newcommers and for advanced rpg players.
 
  
  It has my warmest recomandation , do try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packersfan46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  mass effect is one of the best rpgs i ever played . it kinda reminded me of knights of the old 
 republic but really supped up . the story line is great but i do agre with the review it is a lil 
 haloish. with that that the voice acting is amsining. theres so many different things to do that 
 you can go through the game a couple of times and still be intertained . but it dose get a lil 
 hairy sometimes. when ur fighting a lot of emenys thats when the game tends to slow , theres a 
 lil bit of frame rate porblems when this happens . but i do not agree with the review because i 
 ahd no problems playin it as a third person shooter , in fact you even get a award when ur shelid 
 damage was higher than your heath damage if you play it the way i did. The menu screan dident give 
 me a problem at at when playin it . but the thing taht got on my nerves the most would have to 
 be when your car cammer view was messed up from turning an your car would be rolling backwards 
 at a slow crawl while everyones shootin at you. but all in all mass effect is everying i expected 
 , and it had a great core story line . cant wait to play mass effect 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFurious78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  It's not surprising that this title was developed by Bioware, since the similarities to the KOTOR 
 games is apparent from the beginning. The difference being that this game is like KOTOR on steroids. 
 The sometimes dull, turn based pseudo-action fighting sequences have been replaced with and excellent 
 3rd-person shooter dynamic. This makes you feel like you're more part of the action. When this 
 is combined with an unparalleled plot, rich character development, and a sometimes awe-inspiring 
 and incredibly detailed visual experience, you get a truly unforgettable and highly addictive game. 
 The galaxy that you're given to explore is so immersive, that I actually found myself wanting to 
 complete all of the side missions just to prolong the overall experience. This is not a perfect 
 game though either. It does have its faults, the most obvious one being the sub-par AI of your 
 teammates. Often you cannot rely on them too much to contribute in battle, and occasionally they'll 
 even run into your line of sight, cutting off the shot you were aiming for (very annoying) . Another 
 fault can be found in the item management system for the game. Much like similar titles, 'Mass 
 Effect' has a enormous amount of items to manage throughout the game, including four different 
 types of guns, both human and alien armors, and modifiers for all of these. Keeping all of your 
 characters equipped with the best possible gear can be a somewhat annoying task, especially considering 
 that you usually cannot view every team member on the same inventory menu. Overall however, this 
 game should go down as one of the early classics for the XBOX 360, and I'm definitely looking forward 
 to the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nala2624
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  First, BioWare has brought us some very fun games with new aspects. Star Wars: Knights of the Old 
 Republic is one such game. Mass Effect plays along the same lines but with different settings.
 
  
  You play as Commander Shepard, the second in command on board the good ship Normandy. You play 
 through many different worlds, fighting humans and aliens to uncover the secret of the Prothean, 
 an extinct, 50,000 year old civilization that disappeared with no explanation. The mystery runs 
 deeper than any one expected and threatens to completely wipe out all life forms in the entire 
 galaxy. Along the way, you are joined by a multitude of aliens to assist you and follow where ever 
 you go. Among these are the wise Asari, ruthless and burly Krogan, and 2 other humans. 
  
  There are WAY too many weapons to list, but they all fall into 5 categories: Assualt Rifle, Shotgun, 
 Sniper Rifle, Pistol, and Grenades for use only by the player. Each individual weapon has unique 
 stats but most of them are fillers and plainly crappy. The best weapons aren't available without 
 going through the game 2 or 3 times where your items and Exp are carried over, or by cheating. 
 The armors are less plentiful. They are more useful and the top shelf brand armor can equip multiple 
 upgrades over the one upgrade from off brand armor. 
  
  This game has just what BioWare does best: choices that effect the WHOLE game. A decision you make 
 in the beginning can change something at the end. Your decisions also influence your followers, 
 or more precisely, those of the opposite gender. That's right, there's romance here too. This game 
 is just like a space opera, just without the cheating on coworkers with the mailman or something 
 like that. Another feature Bioware has incorporated is the classic light/dark sides. Yet instead 
 of being two sides of the bread or whatever kids are saying, they each stand alone. You can have 
 the good AND bad meters filled at the same time.
  
  All this shiny new stuff doesn't come without it's tarnished spots. There are a few inconsistencies 
 and technical problems in this game too. The PC users have it easy, they are eligible for patches 
 via Gamespot's wonderful downloads. 360 users also have patch downloads through Live but they will 
 probably come much later then the PC ones. Any way, back to technical appraisal. The only major-minor 
 one I have seen is after killing a certain boss, a door doesn't open which should. This results 
 in restarting the level over again but with auto-save on, I don't have very far to go. Another 
 glitch, although smaller, is after landing on a planet with a thresher maw, a giant subterranean 
 monster, the maw pops out of the earth which results in an instikill or being stuck in the maw's 
 geometry effectively failing the mission. Other very minute inconsistencies involve the character 
 not facing the correct direction when riding an elevator or keeping their weapon draw in the same 
 instance. Neither glitch really hurts any thing, the weapon one might actually help by cutting 
 the time it takes to actually draw your gun, but they are real mood killers.
  
  
  
  All in all, this game is definitely worth buying and playing many times over. Each time offering 
 more possibilities and more skills to use not only in combat, but also just for kicks. However, 
 it does get to the point where you can go entire levels without help from your teammates, but they 
 won't listen, they're not trained to "stay" when told to "stay". At level 60, the maximum, you 
 can go the entire game alone with decent level comparable armor, weapons, and upgrades. If you 
 see this game in Wall Mart or Gamestop and you have the money, please buy it, this game is really 
 worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkPhoenix142
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Personal Comment: It was Christmas 2007 and I was hoping to get Dead Rising because I love it :D 
 Instead my parents bought me the next game on my wanted list, Mass Effect. I commenced to get engrossed 
 in an incredible space age epic that I enjoy to this day.
  
  Review: Mass Effect puts you in the shoes, or should I say boots, of Commander "Insert name here" 
 Shepherd. Shepherd is a "Insert class here" in the Alliance Military in the year 2138. Shepherd 
 is a soldier serving aboard the Normandy, a fast moving prototype ship constructed by the humans 
 and the Turians. When a distress call from the colony of Eden Prime forces the Commander and his 
 comrades to go to the surface of the colony to combat The Geth, an alien race bent on universal 
 domination. They are led by one of the greatest villains ever, Saren. Saren is a Turian who used 
 to be one of the top agents in the universe, a Specter, but is secretly leading the Geth in their 
 quest for domination. When something goes awry with the beacon that Shepherd and his team were 
 sent to recover the story really begins to get good. I won't get into anymore because I want you 
 to play it and experience it yourself. Through the course of the game you will run into a diverse 
 cast of human and alien characters. Several of which will become allies who you will take on missions. 
 These include the Biotic Kaiden Alenko, the Turian C. Sec. Agent Garrus Vakarian, the Krogan Battlemaster 
 Urdnot Wrex, and the Soldier Ashley Williams. There are a couple more but talking about them could 
 be viewed as a spoiler. The entire galaxy will soon into the game be open for you to explore, when 
 I say the entire universe I MEAN the entire thing. From the Earth's moon to the farthest spiral 
 arm of the Milky Way galaxy is yours to explore. The story of the game is unbelievable. Usually 
 with these games you get a cookie cutter story with a good guy trying to save the galaxy, but Mass 
 Effect does this kind of story so well that you forget sometimes that you are playing a game and 
 think you are watching a movie instead. There in lies the true attraction of the game, the look 
 and feel of it. The company responsible for the game, Bioware, also made the equally impressive 
 KOTOR games. Some of their trademarks from KOTOR are here too, 3 man squad tactics, being able 
 to stop the action and direct your comrades, epic battles, and great voice acting. Mass Effect 
 features some of the best voice acting and animations I have ever seen in a game on characters. 
 There are some big names in the game for voice acting and it shows. This game is worth every penny 
 you pay for it. The only problems I see are that the occasional pop in of textures can be a little 
 annoying and the Mako driving sequences, while they break up the usual shooting, are a little unwieldy 
 and can be frustrating at points. Other than that, this is a wonderful game that you will not be 
 disappointed with.
  
  Pros: Incredible voice acting and animations, great action, movie qualities, very engrossing story, 
 makes you wonder what else is out there, not too hard on RPG elements, and has some very memorable 
 characters. (And a great bad guy in Saren)
  
  Cons: Occasional texture pop in, Mako scenes can sometimes suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phxsns1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is truly one of the best RPGs ever, because it combines alot of things. You have a 
 great sci-fi story, action, and third person shooter elements all in one game. You play as Commander 
 Shepard, either a boy or a girl, and you are sent out to stop Saren, an alien who has gone rouge 
 and wants to bring back a machine race called the Reapers. They will kill every single species 
 in the universe and you can't let that happen! The universe is so detailed and complete that you 
 just want to explore. There are many different alien races, which most of them will help you. There 
 are lots of planets, but most of them are all the same. They'll almost always just be the same 
 wasteland over and over again. Like most RPGs, you will have alot of side missions along with the 
 real objectives. If you ignore most of the side missions, you can run through the game in about 
 18 hours. If you finish all of the side missions, it can be around a 30 hour experience. The combat 
 system works alot different than most RPGs. Instead, it's basically a third person shooter. 
  
  
  Of course, there are some problems with the game. One being the auto save feature. Really, 
 there is no real autosave system. You just have to save the game yourself. Sometimes, you will 
 get stuck in one stop and have you load the last checkpoint. It doesn't happen alot, but it can 
 get kinda annoying. 
  
  Don't let these small problems ruin the experience for you. This is and incredible game that shouldn't 
 be missed by anyone with an interest in video games. Hopefully, Mass Effect 2 will fix most of 
 these problems and make this amazing game even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cube_of_MooN
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a tough game to describe. It does many things right and many things wrong, yet the 
 things it does wrong seem insignificant in comparison to the things it does right. The game's story 
 is one of the best I've seen, the combat is fun and engaging, and there are just so many things 
 to do and people to meet. All told, Mass Effect is a gem, if a slightly imperfect one.
  
  Mass Effect's protagonist is Commander Shepard, a soldier in the Earth Alliance Navy. Commander 
 Shepard's appearance and first name can be changed through a character customization screen that 
 pops up before the game gets underway. There are a surprising amount of options available to change 
 Shepard's appearance, from adding a scar to making Shepard into a woman. Shepard's gender plays 
 little importance in the overall game, other than a male love interest as opposed to a female one. 
 After tweaking Shepard's appearance to your liking, it is then necessary to choose a class for 
 Commander Shepard. The six possible classes are based off of the game's three main forms of combat: 
 Biotics, Tech, and Combat. Biotics deal with a freaky mind power that seems like magic. This power 
 set allows the player to push the enemy backwards, lift him up, along with many other possibilities. 
 The tech form of combat involves sabotaging enemies more than anything else. The skill allows the 
 player to damage enemy shielding, overheat their weapons, along with other useful abilities, such 
 as being able to open containers with more complex locks. The combat form deals with weaponry and 
 heavy armor, with abilities focusing on shield recharging and weapon power boosts. 
  
  From these combat styles, six classes are made. The soldier class, pure combat, is able to use 
 every gun available (sniper rifle, pistol, assault rifle, and shotgun) along with medium armor, 
 with the option of unlocking heavy armor later. An engineer is a pure tech class, and is able to 
 use every tech power. However, the only weapon they are trained in is the pistol. They can use 
 the other three weapons; however these weapons will have limited effectiveness. An adept is a pure 
 biotic class, and like the engineer, is only able to use the pistol effectively. There are three 
 other hybrid classes that combine the abilities of two combat classes, though they lack the specialization 
 of a pure class (e. g. an infiltrator (combat/tech) is not able to use the more advanced tech powers 
 that an engineer could use, but can use a sniper rifle.) 
  
  After Commander Shepard has been thoroughly customized, the story starts off immediately. After 
 a few conversations the player learns of the Protheans, an ancient race from which modern technologies 
 and modern space travel are derived. The player also learns of an attack on Eden Prime, and it 
 is here the game's first battles occur. It is here that the game's main enemies, the Geth, are 
 encountered and fought. On Eden Prime the Geth seem a bit tame, which seems to stay true throughout 
 most of the game. It is disappointing that the game's main enemy turns out to be its easiest, even 
 on higher difficulties, but there are other enemies to be found throughout the game. Also, the 
 game's villain Saren is seen and perhaps a greater, future enemy Strangely enough though, Saren 
 is rarely seen throughout the game. The game's focus is finding clues to his whereabouts and intentions 
 rather than chasing him. It's an interesting change from the norm that adds a feeling of mystery 
 and uncertainty to the game.
  
  From Eden Prime on, the story begins to pick up. The player goes to the Citadel, the center of 
 galactic politics. It is here that the player becomes deeply involved in the said politics and 
 the journey that takes Commander Shepard across the galaxy begins. You are allowed to talk the 
 Galactic Council, a council with no human members, a change from games where humans have all the 
 power. The main goal is to persuade the council that Saren, a Spectre, is a traitor, and should 
 be stripped of his rank and status. The Spectres are like Galactic super cops that act on the Council's 
 authority. The whole process is fascinating and done well, and from here on, the story only gets 
 better. However, going any further into it would spoil things. 
  
  For such a large and important station, the Citadel somewhat disappoints. There are only two distinct 
 areas the player can go to, and neither area is particularly large. There are plenty of things 
 to do, from scanning strange alien keepers who maintain the station, to saving a doctor in distress, 
 and even posing for pictures with a fan. It would have been nicer to see a larger Citadel with 
 even more side missions and people walking around, as most seem to remain rather static. However, 
 Mass Effect makes up for this with the rest of the game.
  
  After the initial storyline is complete on the Citadel, the player takes control of the Normandy, 
 the game's main ship, and is given basically free roam. A galactic map comes up with plenty of 
 places to go explore. The average system can be explored for minerals and ores and searched for 
 artifacts, while usually having a plenty to land on, though some have derelict freighters to search. 
 On each planet there usually is some side mission to do, as well as at least two ore deposits to 
 find for another side quest. Exploring the galaxy in this manner can take hours on end and is one 
 of the game's strongest points. The main disappointment on the planets is the vehicle used to explore 
 them, the Mako. The Mako can be buggy at times and its controls can be unwieldy. It is not a terrible 
 vehicle by any means, but obviously one Bioware should have looked at more carefully.
  
  The main story planets are very well done. They each contain a unique storyline with a unique experience. 
 In one your team may be searching Prothean ruins and in another your team may be storming a huge 
 base using diversionary tactics. Each main planet has its own Mako phase that can be frustrating, 
 but these phases do not last too long. There are also a few instances when there are two or more 
 ways of accomplishing a mission objective, which can mix things up a bit from time to time. Even 
 though two of the four of the main story planets has side quests, they seem disappointing. Bioware 
 seemed to make them more story driven, which is good and bad. It is good in the sense in that there 
 are fewer distractions to sidetrack you from completing the main goal, which sometimes seems time 
 sensitive (even though it really isn't) which does add a small sense of realism to the mix. However, 
 this is also bad in the sense that these content full planets have nothing to do on them after 
 the main storyline on it has been finished. Still, there is enough content in the game to satisfy 
 what is lacking on the main planets.
  
  Mass Effect's battles and conflicts are very fun. The combat is very tactical, especially early 
 on, and running around playing the game as a shooter will likely result in death. Instead, it's 
 most important to find cover and disable a few enemies while focusing on others. Even if your player 
 is a soldier without biotic or tech abilities, you are allowed two companions who will be with 
 you in a party-like mode. Their abilities can be used by order of the player, or set so that they 
 will be used automatically. It is also possible to arm them with whatever weapons or armor that 
 are available to the player, but they are bound to the restrictions of their class, like the Commander 
 Shepard would be. 
  
  No particular weapon or power seems too powerful in Mass Effect. Everything seems at a nice balance. 
 Naturally, some powers are stronger than others, but after use, each power has a recharge time. 
 Even soldiers have certain abilities, such as shield recharges, that can be used in a similar fashion 
 to biotic or tech powers. Each of these powers is used in combat through a wheel that pops up when 
 a bumper is pressed in or out of battle, which pauses play. One-third of the wheel is dedicated 
 to each member of the party, with it listing their available abilities. When a power is selected 
 it is then used in combat. The fact that the game pauses upon selection adds to the strategic element 
 of the game, making combat just that much more interesting. It is also possible to use squad commands 
 with the D-Pad, but I found myself almost never using them. The friendly AI is decent enough to 
 need constant corrections most of the time, though it does have its issues, such as not getting 
 into cover during battle, resulting in a rather quick death.
  
  Mass Effect has a very simple leveling system. Once enough experience has been gained through defeating 
 enemies, hacking containers, or finishing quests, a level up notification will appear. The player 
 can add points to skills that are available, which increase the power of that skill, and in certain 
 cases, unlock new ones. It is a simple system, but it works fine. It is important to spend the 
 level up points wisely however, because it not possible to fill up every skill entirely. Also, 
 as the player becomes higher and higher in level, the points are fewer and fewer, reaching one 
 per level up near the end.
  
  Although there never seems to be any section of the game that needs to be replayed over and over 
 due to difficulty, the game isn't quite easy either. Enemy AI seems brilliant at times and stupid 
 at others. Sometimes they will rush when they have an advantage, and at others they will simply 
 stand in the open. The five difficulty levels seem appropriate steps up from one another. The highest 
 two difficulties must be unlocked, so if you want to see Mass Effect at its most difficult, you 
 have to play through it a few times, though higher difficulty levels simply make enemies stronger. 
 There are achievements available to those who can complete the game on these difficulties, so such 
 an endeavor is not without reward. Mass Effect has enough content to make these replays worthwhile, 
 especially when the paragon/renegade factor is added in.
  
  The paragon/renegade factor is Mass Effect's good/evil system. By making certain choices in conversation 
 and in action, the player is awarded Paragon or Renegade points, which are shown on a meter in 
 the player's status screen. The two are not mutually exclusive of one another, and the player can 
 gain points in either. It is disappointing that there is no reward for being strong in either alignment, 
 but the different events and dialogue options are good enough to make the system interesting.
 
  
  Mass Effect's visuals are of very high quality. People and aliens in the game seem almost lifelike. 
 Their faces show emotion; their lips match the words they speak perfectly. The environments look 
 lush and realistic, this showing up particularly well on the polar worlds. High winds blow around 
 the Mako limiting visibility while snow it kicked up from the Mako's tires. Explosions are spot 
 on. Biotic powers create this cool warp effect around the enemies and in some cases the screen; 
 it's all very engaging. If it were not for a few texture pop-ins now and then, I'd have zero complaints. 
 The pop-ins seem to happen the most on the Normandy, as certain areas can stay unloaded and blurry 
 until the ship is left and reentered. These pop-ins can be frustrating at times, but they are uncommon 
 enough not to be a major issue.
  
  The sounds of Mass Effect are equally as impressive. Simply put, the voice acting is some of the 
 best I've seen in a video game. Characters show emotion and there is no real weak link in the acting. 
 Voice tones change as certain demands are made and as certain conflicts arise, making for a very 
 engaging experience. Combat sounds feel right. The game's sound track, though limited, is also 
 very good. Though it does sound a bit corny at times, it fits the mood of the game and only adds 
 to the experience of the game.
  
  Another feature of Mass Effect that shines is its dialogue system. Different choices lead to different 
 outcomes, some resulting in the death of a main character, while others leading to a peaceful resolution. 
 The choices are rather clear-cut between good and evil, especially with the persuade and intimidate 
 options. These options appear as alternates in the conversation tree, and appear if Commander Shepard's 
 persuade or intimidate skill is high enough. These usually lead to different outcomes, which add 
 to the game's complexity and depth.
  
  Mass Effect's biggest issues happen to be the little things: the glitches, such as the already 
 mentioned texture pop-ins, and small flaws in certain important areas of the game. The item organization 
 screen is simply atrocious, as it is impossible to organize any items. Every item gained gets thrown 
 into a category until the 150 item limit is reached. Items can be converted into omni-gel, a currency-type 
 of item with many uses, such as quick hacking. It is this process of conversion that is insane. 
 The less effective items, which naturally would be gotten rid of first, are kept at the bottom 
 of the list. However, once one of these items is converted, the list rests to the top. It is then 
 necessary to scroll all the way down again and repeat the process. Also, when installing upgrades, 
 there is no way to back out of the screen without selecting an upgrade to install. Once a power 
 has been selected in combat it cannot be unselected, it can only be changed to a different one. 
 The Mako cannot shoot downward. The autosave feature seems nonexistent, so it is necessary to save 
 manually most of the time. I became stuck on level geometry and had to reload on more than one 
 occasion. Understandably, these little things can be maddening.
  
  In the end, it may not sound like Mass Effect is anything special. However, it certainly is better 
 than the sum of its parts, and although it may be that Bioware overlooked too many little glitches 
 and gameplay issues, Mass Effect turns out to be a great game. It deserves a purchase from any 
 RPG fan and at least a rental from nearly anyone else. Mass Effect is such a complex and engaging 
 experience that it certainly deserved to be a contender for Game of the Year. A normal playthrough 
 without visiting any side planets may take around 15 hours or so, but a complete playthrough may 
 take more than 30. Mass Effect can certainly be played through more than once, (I myself playing 
 through it five times) and features a wide variety of achievements that encompass every aspect 
 of play. At $60, mass Effect feels like a bargain.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rogue505
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  The main story almost completely makes up for the relatively dull side missions. Don't get me wrong 
 - the missions vary greatly where their objective is concerned. However to accomplish this objective 
 the player usually goes through a relatively uniform and monotonous environment. The planets themselves 
 are different enough, but it still means that you usually have to crawl over landscape, then get 
 to a facility which looks like all the others in order to eliminate someone (just for example) .
 
  
  Combat is in my opinion well designed, because the different power-ups force the player not to 
 take a completely ad-hoc approach. In fact you will come to greatly rely on your special abilities. 
 While there may be no reloading, this was cleverly solved by causing the weapons to potentially 
 overheat. 
  
  Graphics are superb, as is voice acting. I did not feel there was anything special about the music 
 though. Loading times are well within acceptable limits. 
  
  Whereas there have been some critiques about the interface I found it quite well and logically 
 designed. It just take some time to get used to it, but once you have it all figured out I think 
 it's a very efficient approach.
  
  As far as role playing is concerned there are always several options on how to deal with a situation. 
 You may convince an enemy to surrender by convincing them that there is no need for anyone to get 
 killed; you may intimidate them into surrendering; or you may just blow all of their heads off.
 
  
  If you like RPGs with a great main campaign and if you also like sci-fi then I would very much 
 recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robheisel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  mass effect is one of the 10 greatist games i have ever played ok from the guys that brought you 
 jade empire and star wars: knights of the old republic
  brings you mass effect is proably one of the best games to ever be made the story sets in space 
 much like in other science fiction video games in the game you can costumize your charcather named 
 sepheard you can name your first but not the last name and much like in other games this one of 
 the best games to ever be made your trying fight saren ah human hating alien bent on destruction 
 trying to summon the these aliens called the reapers with help from the geth now theres alot of 
 great gameplay i meant it the concept is just great combing an rpg with ah third-person shooter 
 now if your not famliar with other out of this world movies like stars wars star trek or even the 
 famous flash gordon and buck rogers ok ok it sounds cool and all that later on you get this thing 
 called the galaxy map that you can go in some planets for bonus missions like destroyed ship or 
 fighting aliens you can choose your own classe like solider or whatever this one of the best games 
 to ever be made theres side quest and even ah huge inproofments in the game even though the a. i. 
 is pretty medicore but theres also great voice acting with seth green keith david and whole alot 
 of great voice-actors and cool aliens to play with theres not alot out there but overall i give 
 this game.
  
  9.5 out of 10.
  
  The Good: the story is amazing with awesome voice-acting side quest and alot of cool enivorments 
 to explore this very good game.
  
  The Bad: car controls on the mako are terribly fustrating with not very a. i. annoying as heck thrasher 
 maws.
  
  The Ugly: when will mass effect 2 come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades10_29
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of favorite's games in terms of role playing; the fact is that I am huge KOTOR 
 fan and if you ask me this game has a strong KOTOR touch and feel. Personally I strongly believe 
 this game was meant to be a KOTOR or Star Wars related game that ended for one reason or another 
 as a new franchise.
  
  Now getting to the review, the history can get confusing the first time you play this game, actually 
 when I realized what was this game about (in terms of history) I was almost finishing the game. 
 So the game wont be that clear the first time you play it so be patient. This is why I strongly 
 suggest you to play it more than once (easy to do if you are a RPG lover) .
  Combat and Game play are very easy going and straight forward. So you will find it very friendly 
 especially if you have played KOTOR before. Dialog options are just nice (and funny if you want 
 to be Rebel) . 
  Romance plot, well just do a Google search, there is enough online info, so I wont spoil here. 
 
  
  What I hated the most was the huge amount of time I had to expend (notice that I did not say invest) 
 is the MAKO, I really hated that thing. It was horrible, driving that thing through long distances 
 in several planets to get to missions or explore for minerals was just annoying. I did it just 
 because this meant more experience points. 
  
  One more thing, if you really want to master your character to top experience quickly, do ALL the 
 side missions. The MAKO makes this almost impossible but is worthy, just because of the EXP points. 
 
  Overall (besides the MAKO) I loved this game (I am going through my second round with the Soldier 
 I created and second round with the Sentinel) .
  
  Ahh! Talking about the class, hey! Select whatever you want to be, just keep in mind a Soldier 
 won't have access to biotics, but its a tough guy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B2E5
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a great adventure/action/role playing game type. But there are some things that 
 bother me a bit. The FPS (Frames Per Second, not First Person Shooter) could have been worked on 
 more. There was no need to rush and release the game as soon as possible.
  But despite all of this the game is rather enjoyable. I'm still on my first profile and haven't 
 beaten it yet. I like how your allowed to make your own choices like a normal role playing game 
 should be. Your choices could affect how much Paragon (good) or Renegade (bad) you get and each 
 have their own achievements for unlocking 75% of each.
  This leads me to my other point, length. This game is great if you want to play it over again. 
 In fact, to get every achievement you have to play it at least a second or third time. One that 
 is hard to get is Level 60. The side missions are the key but you also must kill every enemy possible. 
 Getting this achievement will take a few tries.
  But if you have had a few second thoughts about this game, buy it. It may not have that good of 
 graphics or not auto save that much (im on save 30 or 40 something) but its worth the time to play 
 over again just to get those precious gamer points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makchady
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  With a resume including baldur's gate, neverwinter nights, star wars knights of the old republic, 
 and jade empire Bioware undoubtedly had their work cut out for them in order to live up to their 
 reputation of being arguably the most prominent rpg game creators out to date. Mass Effect, from 
 Bioware, could have potentially been one of the greatest role-playing games of this generation, 
 yet ultimately it fails in delivering on all levels.
  
  Mixing traditional third-person shooter elements with traditional role playing elements is a tough 
 feat for anyone to undertake, and while Mass Effect rises to take the challenge it only marginally 
 succeeds, yet still is a valiant first effort.
  
  The single greatest flaw of Mass Effect is that it simply is incapable of making firing a gun any 
 fun whatsoever. Thus, the third-person shooting element is broken. This is a shame because a good 
 portion of the game is shooting. Genetic enhanced abilities, or basically Mass Effect's equivalent 
 to force powers from star wars, are decent, but do not compensate for the poor combat. On top of 
 all this, the Mako, or your multipurpose vehicle, is the single greatest abomination/ disgrace 
 of a vehicle to ever have been created. The Mako is atrocious. It drives terribly, it fires horribly, 
 it is unresponsive and does absolutely nothing right. The very definition of frustration should 
 be two words: the Mako.
  
  Mass Effect's saving grace lies in it's story. A member of an elite group that gets direct orders 
 from essentially the highest form of government of the galaxy decides to go rogue and attempt at 
 ending the galaxy as we know it. In comes Shephard, the main character in which you control, to 
 take the rogue members place and hunt him down. It's not the most original plot, but the new universe 
 and races are still interesting and progress the story nicely.
  
  Here is the question you have to ask yourself though, is a videogame story enough to keep you playing 
 for 12-14 hours if the gameplay isn't fun? I initially thought that my answer was yes, but Mass 
 Effect proved that i thought wrong. Either that or the story just wasn't that good, and personally 
 i feel the story, while good, wasn't good enough to keep me playing.
  
  It's not good when you're playing a game just to get to the next cut scene and rushing reluctantly 
 trough the actually gameplay, however this is the case in Mass Effect. After about 9 hours i gave 
 up, tired of playing due to that reason. I stopped until a friend and i were talking about Mass 
 Effect and he told me i was literally on the second to last level. So, i popped in the disc just 
 to get the game over with and beat it in an hour or two. I was dissatisfied that there wasn't a 
 big twist in the plot like in star wars kotor, and overall felt the game was a big let down.
  
  I enjoyed certain parts of Mass Effect but was disappointed by other parts. The graphics are 
 very well polished, and the voice acting is great, but side missions are un-inspired and generic, 
 so i didn't feel any obligation to do more than a couple. The leveling system is great and there 
 are a good amount of options to customize your character, but the menu system to outfit your armor 
 and guns is clunky. The branching dialogue system is well incorporated and you feel as if you really 
 are Shephard, but the game's longevity is meager. So, as you can tell for every positive aspect 
 there is a negative.
  
  I truly am hoping that Mass Effect 2 will fix the aforementioned issues, because i'm a huge fan 
 of BioWare, mainly because of there baldur's gate series. Eventhough Mass Effect had many flaws 
 it still was an above average game and deserves to be played, but it could have been a masterpiece 
 and may be with the next installment.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haywirea
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  mass effect is to say the least... outstanding. bioware already known for making the popular Star 
 Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, a part of the star wars series infamous to the space adventure 
 culture, have excelled far and beyond that. Mass Effect pits the player as commander sheppard in 
 a race against time to save the universe from an eternal machine race while making allies with 
 the human races sworn enemies in order to unite as one against the ultimate enemy. if you are interested 
 in an immersive RPG, a fun game, another game to get achievements, THIS IS THE GAME FOR YOU. the 
 game is evenly spread out with an RPG system, an awesome combat system that feels similar to that 
 of evenly awesome Gears of War, and i cant help but get nostalgic of board games like risk when 
 viewing your galaxy map. as far as characters go, only a few have problems. there is Liara the 
 Assari who infamously became known for the potential lesbian love scene possible, who is nothing 
 short of an annoying -- im sorry, but i just dont like her. however, characters such as Wrex are 
 nothing short of a deserving future video game icon. his voice is perfectly cast, his back story 
 and mentality are excelently placed throughout the story. i will say there is one problem with 
 the game. during combat situations or almost anywhere, the game has difficulty retaining a flowing 
 frame rate. it takes a little getting used to however, during combat, you hardly notice it and 
 in my opinion, makes the combat feel more intense. in closing this game is utterly amazing. let 
 me tell you, with the sequel on its way, i believe the Mass Effect trilogy will go down in history 
 with the halo trilogy. EPIC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  Hey GS,
  
  Id like to put down how I Score games (this is important if you want to understand why my score 
 is so 'low') :
  1 - Utter rubbish
  2 - Utter rubbish
  3 - rubbish
  4 - average
  5 - Good
  6 - Pretty good
  7 - Great
  8 - Greater than 7
  9 - Awesome
  10 - so great 
 ill never review a game that's this good... period.
  
  So, as you may or may not know, i love bioware. They made the Bauldurs Gate series, the Knights 
 of the Old republic AND Neverwinter Nights... oh and Jade Empire... but we wont talk about that disappointment. 
 Now Mass Effect is there latest game, but does it REALLY live up to the standards? We shall find 
 out.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Graphically Mass Effect is great. The character models look realistic, they move realistically, 
 the environments although occasionally bland and linear do look really nice and fit in well with 
 the feel of the game. The two best parts of the graphics have to be the effects and the conversations. 
 The 'magic' in mass effect looks really, really good. Its has a awesome reality bending look for 
 all of the adept magic, for example if you cast Barrier parts of your character will start to phase 
 out whilst the energy is swirling around him/her. The conversations are also fantastic. You can 
 tell how the character is feeling by the emotions shown on there face. It is the first game i have 
 seen that has proper moving eyes. Eyes that show exactly how a character is feeling which adds 
 so much immersion its unreal. You can also see just how good the graphics are in conversations 
 because its a close up, and once you have see Wrex, your jaw will drop... he is possibly the best 
 looking alien ever constructed. 
  
  However all of this does come at a cost. A very HIGH cost. There are constant slow downs and drops 
 in the FPS. It wouldn't be a problem if there was only a few here and there but you manage to get 
 them everywhere, even when there's nothing there. Along with this is the texture pop ins. You can 
 constantly see texture pop in during the cutscenes, conversations, during gameplay ect. Its really 
 rather jarring. You have a great looking game that only look great after you see how bad it could 
 look. Its like saying "heres how i used to look, here how i look now... i just like showing off 
 my awesomeness by showing how crappy i looked before hand in comparison. All of this takes away 
 the immersion that Bioware tried so hard to put in in the first place which is a real shame.
  
  SOUND
  
  Mass Effects sound track is very impressive. Its all a sci-fi space music type 
 thing. It fits in really well and although its really good, it never gets in the way. Its feels 
 like its content on staying in the background and giving you a discrete listening pleasure. The 
 sound effects are also to a good standard. All the explosions sound good, the guns sound high tech 
 and powerful and the disturbance in the universe caused by magic sounds awesome as well. My one 
 problem with the effects has to be the fact that all guns of the same type sound the same. So 1 
 rifle will sound identical to the next. It would be nice to have some variety but how it stands, 
 its pretty good. Finally, theres the voice acting. Which in all honesty is done superbly. Although 
 everyone speaks English and not some awesome alien language that is translated the actors do a 
 good job of making each race sound unique. The merchant jelly fish things (cant remember there 
 names) speak in a mystical sort of tone and refer to themselves as This One. For example "This 
 one want you to get something." It sounds cool and makes you wonder what they really are. The Turians 
 all sound stuck up, the Asari sound like they are all mighty women of the universe filled with 
 knowledge of eternity whilst the Krogan sound like your emotionally devoid bounty hunters... until 
 you get to know them. Overall, sound is very well done. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Now we are at the make and break part of any game. Mass Effect is a mix of 3rd Person action and 
 RP. Bioware have tried such a thing before on a game called Jade Empire. It didn't work very well 
 then but luckily it works pretty well now. You aim your gun at an emey and shoot like say in Gears 
 of War then you gain exp to level up and you select what attribute you want to improve to unlock 
 new skills, abilities etc. This is really indepth and depending on what you pick really determines 
 how you play. If you pick intidation for example on the first level you unlock a hole new convo 
 with certain characters and gain more exp and items to start with. 
  
  Like most RPG's you get to pick a class. The classes are VERY restricted. You cant give an adept 
 heavy amour for example. But it gives a totally unique experience when playing through as each 
 class. There are 3 pure classes and 3 hybrid. Hybrids are a mix of to pure's to make a entirely 
 new playing style. You also get to redesign your characters face to how you want it. Its in depth 
 but could have been done better by adding more options. 
  
  Combat is generally fast paced and rather challenging. Using cover is implemented well and your 
 team mates are smart enough to do the same thing. However your team mates are very limited to what 
 you can order them to do. You have no direct control over them and they do often just run infront 
 of your gun and die due to cross fire. Overall however, the RPG mix mentioned earlier and the averagre 
 team bsaed mechanic make the combat enjoyable. 
  
  Story is what mass effect is all about. I wont tell you the details, but i will say that it is 
 good. The twist is fantastic... if you get into the story you may feel slightly upset when the choice 
 twist occurs... i no i did. With the main story comes SIDE MISSIONS!! These are very bland, boring 
 and take you to the same bland boring planets to kill something or find someone. Its not very interesting 
 but if you want the achievements, be prepared to do all them... and theres hundreds...
  
  Finally, there is character interaction. You cannot talk to comrades during a mission, but once 
 your back on your ship you can learn about characters and there dark mysterious past as well as 
 get them to change there personality. The more you do this the more the story gets you... i advise 
 it because its interesting and give you some interesting missions to do. 
  
  OVERALL
  
  Mass Effect is a good looking game hindered by flaws but gameplay does make up for it. If you enjoy 
 a great story with average combat i would recommend. However dont buy if your looking for a solid 
 3rd person shooter or a pure RPG... you may leave disapointed. If you have a mythical PC i would 
 recomend it over the xbox version... but whatever.
  
  6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IIJuggaNottII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is Wow. That it. Of course I'm going to follow that up with the review..... but okay... one 
 more time, WOW! I'll start by stating that Im an over 30 gamer that puts a great deal of time in 
 at the infamous J. O. B. Mass Effect was one of the few blockbuster games on the 360 that I missed. 
 I usually get the games eventually. I am very happy and pleased that I purchased this game (actually 
 a drop dead bargain from a friend... THANK YOU) . I got the game eventhough I cant stand RPG's.... boy 
 has my mind been changed. 
  
  Lets start by saying that Mass Effect is nothing short of an Epic. It starts out epic, You instantly 
 know the game is going to be special when your setting up your character. It blew me away at how 
 much every aspect of your creation plays a part in the OVERALL story . I created my character and 
 off I went . I ended the game in around a week, but it was not a letdown because I became addicted 
 to the story and gameplay .. poof... it blew by. Now for my ratings...
  
  Gameplay. This is an RPG, so Im overall greatful that it wasnt the Dreaded TURN BASED RPG. This 
 game could be a nice shooter, nice but not great. You have upgrades that you can add to your character 
 as you get better throught the game. Its not corny.... Its total fun as the game goes along, and 
 the missions get more critical. The controls are easy as heck, though it does take at least an 
 solid hour to figure out what your doing with the Powers and abilities of your squad members. Its 
 a bit confusing to start, but as stated... if you spend a solid hour dabbling around with it, it 
 becomes easy as pie. 
  Rating=8.5
  
  
  Graphics. The graphics are the only thing that I believe let me down. Thats only because I was 
 so hyped to see the graphics after reading so much abou the game I was let down a little. STILL, 
 these can easily be some of the greatest graphics on the 360. Not the BEST as I thought they would 
 be. As far as the characters and the overall animation of EVERYTHING.... OMG... this is a beautiful 
 game. I'll only knock points off because the game has a few seconds from time to time where they 
 need to load in. Even with that, Mass Effect is a near perfect game in this catagory. 
  Rating=9
  
  Story. I believe that the story is the area that this game shines the most. It 
 has to, It has no multiplayer. Still, the game from beginning to end gives you the feeling that 
 your are embarked in something big. You feel the tension, the drama. The best part.... you get to 
 give your own influence by selecting how you respond. With your responses, they is no Good and 
 Evil.... but you can be Ruthless or Diplomatic. You can be the Nice Guy, or the tough as nails type. 
 This adds for an instant playthrough. When I talked about the ending with a friend who played the 
 game as a nice guy, we had two total different endings. That alone makes this game inovative and 
 the story worth while. Im still scratching my head wondering how they put all of content in one 
 game. They raised the bar. 
  Rating=10
  
  Ending the game made me want MORE. With that being said, the replay value of Mass Effect is very 
 high because of the simple fact that the way that you go through the story AFFECTS the story differently. 
 If you save someone at one point of the game and ignore something else, the second time around 
 you can do it differently the next time. Trust me, every answer and response makes a difference 
 toward the story. This is an instant classic, and that is coming from a gamer who can not stand 
 RPG's. I have to type it one more time................... WOW!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Story/Gamplay: 10/10
  - This game offers one of the most solid and intriguing stories that I have every played in a game. 
 The title refers to 'mass effect' technology. which basically is a technique of using mass-manipulating 
 alien jump-gates to travel through the universe, and for use in many of your weapons and tools. 
 The whole game is spent in huge citadels and traveling the universe to complete various missions 
 and your main mission.
  
  Environment & Immersion: 10/10
  - The environments are interesting and differ from planet to planet. One of the best things in 
 the game is the way you talk to other people, It gives you the RPG style "pick what you want to 
 say" speech. You can be neutral in conversations, you can be very nice, or you can even be a jerk. 
 The RPG side of the game really opens up the availability in what all you can do. There is also 
 a huge selection of items and weapons that you can find or get through the game.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 9/10
  - Graphics were up to current standards for being great, however there 
 of course is still better out there. Regardless, the graphics and physics are great, especially 
 both environmental and combat graphics.
  
  Sound: 8.5/10
  - Music was good and the environment and combat sound was even better, but the best was the speech. 
 The voice quality in the game is among the best I've heard. Seth Green plays the voice part of 
 Joker in the game.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 9/10
  - No bugs to be found here but it was possible for a crash, during the entire gameplay the game 
 crashed about twice, luckly the autosaves will bounce you back to where you were. Performance was 
 great, no lag or choppiness in any part of the game.
  
  Replay value: 8/10
  - The game is pretty long, roughly 20 or more hours of gameplay. After playing you probably won't 
 instantly want to play through it again but you might consider it more being the way you played 
 you character on this one will supposedly effect you character on the next one. What this means 
 is that you could essentially create a character of every style to be able to see all sides of 
 the story and the alternative endings.
  
  Value/Originality: 9.5/10
  - Game is certainly original in both its style, story and mix of genres. I would definitely suggest 
 going out and buying this whenever your ready for your next game purchase. I really hope somemore 
 games are released with as deep of story line and as good of style soon.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - Absolutely, 
 this game certainly left a good mark with most gamers.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Anyone who owns a Xbox 360 and now anyone who can 
 play it on their PC.
  
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 9 - This is by far one of the best current games for both Xbox 360 and PC. I highly suggest 
 getting this Sci-FI Action RPG! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digiuser2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  I liked the game, it was good albeit heavy handed. There's a lot less fighting and actual action 
 and somewhere around 2 thirds of the game appears to be conversation.
  
  Though not a true "cinematic" conversation is extremely well scripted and very interactive, but 
 it's not stimulating enough to be considered game play. The hype promised dynamic relations between 
 you and your shipmates, and while it is true that when you talk to them on board they remember 
 you've had the previous talk, what you actually said doesn't come into it much, how much they liked 
 what you said does. Pissing them off makes almost no difference but if you are kind to your female 
 companions you may unlock the romance plot line. Unfortunately the rest of it is almost exactly 
 the same as Knights of the Old Republic without them "Looking worried or distant."
  
  Menu's are extremely frustrating, scrolling through what seems like hundreds of items is very common 
 place and items of the same kind never stack. There's a limit to how many items you can hold (150) 
 and cleaning house so you can obtain new ones is nearly impossible, you don't know what will soon 
 be obsolete and what will stay useful forever. Modding weapons is very complicated when applied 
 to entire groups and it's easy to lose track of your assets. Possibly the most unsettling part 
 of items is that when you open a box or check your auto-loot, you can't leave to drop items and 
 come back. every item in the container must be dealt with before you can manage your inventory, 
 leaving you to destroy or discard what could be very very useful. Not to mention that while you 
 are looting an items statistics or description is not displayed. 
  
  The combat is a gears of war wanna-be and numerous cover and spell problems await you. Instant 
 death with little warning is frequent on higher difficulties, on lower difficulties your shield 
 is the only thing taking damage and there's no real middle ground between them. It's almost impossible 
 to intelligently organize your squad movements without either not getting it right or having your 
 people die.
  
  Instead of writing a whole angry paragraph, I'll just say that the vehicle sections are not cooperative 
 with what you need to do.
  
  Many, many problems are in the game but it's still a good quality feature. It is an entire universe 
 and you can spend days, maybe even weeks non-stop searching every nook and cranny.
  
  If you enjoy plot driven RPG's try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  *** MASS EFFECT ***
  
  THE GOOD 
  -Excellent story
  -User can change parts of the story with his/her actions
  -Superb leveling system
  -Good battle 
 system
  -Lots of good weapons and accessories
  -Incredible graphics
  -Great sound
  -Good music
  -Replay value
  -Plenty of fun and interesting side quests
  -Awesome voice acting
 
  
  THE BAD
  -Minor frame rate issues
  -Vehicle navigation and combat is terrible
  -A. I. sometimes has some hiccups
  
  OVERVIEW
  Mass Effect is a great sci-fi action role playing 
 game. The game takes place in 2183 AD. A few years earlier, human-kind discovered some ancient 
 Prothean (extinct species) technology which enabled the people from Earth to escape their solar 
 system and travel to other systems in the Milky Way galaxy. Shortly after, humans made a "first 
 contact" with another alien species and quickly found out that a whole wide range of beings exist 
 in their galaxy. The more popular beings are the Turians, Salarians, and Asari which have formed 
 a Council (galactic government) to bring peace and order to the Milky Way. You quickly find out 
 that Council politics can get a little shady at times. 
  
  In Mass Effect you play as Commander John Shepard of the Human Alliance Fleet. You have the option, 
 in the beginning, to customize John's background, appearance and skills. Upon completion of your 
 customization, the game begins. Shepard starts aboard the SSV Normandy on a mission, directed by 
 the Council, to investigate the attacks to Earth's first colony, Eden Prime. Shepard finds out 
 that the Geth (synthetic beings) are responsible for the murder of many humans on Eden Prime. Later, 
 Shepard becomes the first human Spectre, which are the Council's elite warriors, and is tasked 
 to stop Saren (a corrupt Turian Spectre gone rouge) . Through out the story you'll find out why 
 Saren is helping the Geth, explore new worlds, and defeat the real evil that is trying to destroy 
 all the living life forms in the galaxy. Fortunately, Shepard doesn't have to do this alone. He 
 is aided by a great cast of characters including Ashley Williams (Alliance soldier) , Kaidan Alenko 
 (Alliance biotic) , Liara T'Soni (Asari biotic) , Garrus Vakarian (Turian sentinel) , Urdnot Wrex 
 (Krogan Battle Master) , and Tali'Zorah nar Rayya (Quarian engineer) .
  
  The overall story and each of the sub-character stories are well written. Plus, as you progress 
 through the game you'll get to decide what kind of path Shepard will follow. You can choose to 
 help people and become a Paragon or help only yourself and become a Renegade. Your actions can 
 greatly shape the lives of your crew and the lives of others in a positive or negative way. Mass 
 Effect goes to great lengths to make you feel like you're a part of the story.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Battling in Mass Effect combines sci-fi third person shooting with role playing elements. 
 You are in control of Commander Shepard at all times but you are accompanied by two computer players. 
 Just like a leader in battle, you can give orders to your teammates using the D-pad like taking 
 cover and attacking certain targets. Unfortunately, the A. I. sometimes will do funky things like 
 getting stuck and shooting at walls. This can get really annoying so just be aware of these problems. 
 Along with attacking you can choose to use character specific skills or change weapons in the middle 
 of a battle using the RB and LB buttons. When you do this the game stops and a menu appears. You 
 are able to choose the appropriate weapons and skills by scrolling in a circle. You have the option 
 to trigger certain skills manually for every battle or you can set the computer A. I. to automatically 
 use them. This is a very nice feature and speeds up the fighting. Throughout the Milky Way galaxy, 
 you'll encounter all sorts of beings from synthetic to organic. Keep in mind that some skills will 
 only work on certain enemies. Fighting is really easy to do in this game. The RT button fires your 
 weapon and LT toggles your zoom. Every character has four different weapons which include the pistol, 
 shotgun, assault rifle and sniper rifle. Certain character classes will earn extra bonuses per 
 weapon. In Mass Effect you don't have to worry about ammo but each weapon has a certain limit until 
 it overheats. If this happens take cover and wait for your weapon to cool down. There are plenty 
 of great weapons and armor, in Mass Effect, that you can purchase at stores, pick up off of enemies, 
 or obtain through hacking locked storage containers. Aside from fighting on foot, this game also 
 lets you control a land vehicle call the MAKO. The intensions were good but the execution was terrible. 
 The MAKO controls can make an experienced gamer look like a drunk driver. Whether you're navigating 
 or fighting, the MAKO will make you go insane. Aside from some frame rate issues, A. I. hiccups 
 and the terrible MAKO, the battle system is still very good and does a great job of making you 
 feel like a commander in battle.
  
  The leveling system, in Mass Effect, is simple yet effective. You can gain experience from just 
 about anything in this game. Killing enemies, completing missions and assignments, and discovering 
 anomalies are some of the ways to gain experience. The nice thing about the experience gained is 
 that it is shared with all your teammates. This opens up the option to change your team at anytime 
 and not worry about having weaker characters. You have to option to level up your characters automatically 
 (computer assigns skill points) or manually. If done manually, a menu appears with the characters 
 skills and every point put towards a skill increases its effectiveness and may unlock other abilities. 
 Shepard earns a few extra skills that can increase your dialog options and combat ability. As more 
 dialog options open up, you'll see different outcomes to situations.
  
  Playing through the missions (main objectives) are fun and exciting but only account for half the 
 story. There are plenty of extra side quests to complete that further extend the story. Some of 
 these side quests involve your crew and you'll learn more about the other characters in the game. 
 Each side quest can also prove to be rewarding either by obtaining better weapons, gaining experience, 
 or collecting money. This is a great way to get rewarded for stretching out your legs and exploring 
 every nook and cranny in Mass Effect.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The visuals are amazing for both the cut-scenes and in-game. There is plenty of detail in the characters, 
 vehicles, and everything else in the Milky Way galaxy. 
  
  SOUND
  BioWare really stepped up and put some great voice acting together with some notables like Joker 
 (Seth Green) and Admiral Steven Hackett (Lance Henriksen) . Each voice fits the character and greatly 
 enhances the personality of Mass Effect. The sound effects and music will engulf you in battle 
 and make the cut-scenes even more intense.
  
  CONCLUSION
  Mass Effect succeeds in accomplishing what sci-fi action role playing games should be. The story 
 itself is well written and since the user has the option to change parts of it, it becomes personal 
 to the gamer. That coupled with great gameplay will offer a lot of replay value. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone. So, the only question that remains is how you will choose to play Commander 
 Shepard, down the path of righteousness or malignant 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabez_R
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  
  
  Mass Effect is just brilliant. 
  
  Let me give you a bit of a quick start. Mass effect is a 3rd person shooter RPG with a whole load 
 of well....... everything. You'll start as Commander Shepard (the face can change but not the surname) 
 second in command on the most advanced plane in the navy The Normandy. The story kicks off with 
 a rogue spectre called Saren (spectre=Special Forces, team leader etc.) who unleashes a Synthetic 
 race to get what he wants so he can conquer the universe. Basic Stuff. You have to stop him (of 
 course) while gaining trust, enemies and guns. There is a Dark Light system Paragon and Renegade. 
 Throughout the game you'll meet people who want to help you and are willing to join your squad 
 of 3 including you. There are many quests along the way that you'll be actually at times very happy 
 to do and love to see the end of them. But now the Game.
  
  Graphics: Brilliant quite a few glitches but they won't affect the gameplay but they sure are funny.
 
  
  Sound: Great sounds the music's is awesome and very cool sound effects
  
  Gameplay: The Gameplay just rocks. The controls are very flowing and easy. The menu to access weapons 
 and powers is well Slightly Irritating.
  The Enemy AI is great you'll be saying how cool that one krogan guys shot was how u just slumped. 
 And not to mention how the galaxy map is quite cool. Problem is The Mako Sometimes it's awesome 
 sometimes it just sucks and you can actually move the crosshair but not so much the controls will 
 come to you after your second time still fun sometimes
  
  Story: One of the best stories I've ever played (and better than some I've read ;) and completely 
 alternate you'll just wanna do this again and again just to see what happens. And youll get loads 
 of quests that just make this great game longer.
  
  Combat: (I'm just doing this to tell you more about it) Well you choose your class of combat that 
 has different qualifications. You can just use your guns old school style. Or you can Use Biotics 
 The most awesome stuff (sometimes) . And you get the option of making it squad based so you can 
 control everything your team does and you need team strengths. 
  
  BOTTOM LINE: Epic Game with everything great combat great graphics great gamplay the only place 
 it falls short is Mako Driving witch when you get around it aint so bad and the "clunky menu" any 
 way this game should be on your shelf and you should cherish it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Bioware has released Xbox classics like Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic. Its pretty safe 
 to say that this game is a classic as well for Microsofts Sequal systeam. Bioware has developed 
 a great story and gameplay.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Graphics and Design.
  
  The Graphics In Mass Effect are beautiful, if thats the word one would you to describe the game. 
 characters look incredably good along with each color is so beautiful. 
  
  The Design.
  
  The Design is amazing. Each person is designed realy good the aliens are realy cool looking 
 as well. The levels in most of the games look increable big blue skys brilliant water effects and 
 clifs. The worst part is that all the small planets are exactly the same but with different colors.
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The Sound and Music.
  The Music in the game is also realy nice as well the score realy fits the moment of each throbing 
 moment in this master pice that is Mass Effect.
  
  The Sound.
  Each gun sounds good along with the vehicles and all other traits in the game. The voice acting 
 is perfect each voice actor delivers in the best way putting on some of the best performences in 
 video game history.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The Gameplay
  The Gamepaly in Mass Effect combines RPG elements with shooter mechanics.
  
  The Game has you 
 create a character, either male or female, and they will be known as comander Sheppard. Next you 
 pick a class some of wich of special powers others let you have more and more weapons.
  
  The RPG elements.
  You can often upgrade your squad and you with new armour and weapons. The 
 game also can have you make your own choices wich can effect the game later.
  
  Shooter Elements
  It works like the over the sholder view and has you often take cover like Gears 
 of War and Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter. It fits in with the gameplay realy good.
  
  The Level Structure.
  Each level has lots of parts in it some of wich you drive and kill people 
 with your realy BAMF vehicle. They Also have you fight on foot, and make some realy deep choices. 
 The Secondary planets wich you can explore have realy no basic value to them besides maby some 
 creatures to fight on them.
  
  The Controls.
  The Controls work realy easy in the game but sometims it gives in to bugs, wich will not respond 
 to your command
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Closing Comments.
  
  Mass Effect is an amazing game that everyone should at least play once. The sound, Graphics are 
 some of the best there are in the gamming world. The gameplay is fun and works but can become dull 
 sometims and can suffer from bugs.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Sound 10/10
  Design 9/10
  Gameplay 9/10
  other misc 8/10
  overall 46/50
  9.5 out of 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: steagles1995
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  At first glance, Mass Effect is merly an action shooter (with some framerate issues) , but this is 
 not so. It has a compelling storyline that is move quality, stunning voice-acting, and great graphics. 
 There are many quests and things to buy. You can journey to some uninhabited worlds via the galaxy 
 map, Pursue love interests with the crew, and gather new crew members. there are 7-8 in all. I 
 reccomend it to any shooter/RPG fan, or even anyone who likes a good story.
  
  graphics 9/10
  there are some pop up and loading phase issues with textures.
  
  Gameplay 
 9.4/10
  responsive controls are nice, but framrate issues hurt the gameplay.
  
  Replay: Moderately high
  After beating the game 2 new difficulty's are unlocked.
  
  Sound 
 10/10
  Great soundtrack and effects. Has the old sci fi movie feel.
  
  If you can look past it's flaws, mass effect is truly massive and great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslayer1111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Ahh another of those choose your own adventure and your a bad or good guy rating system. (I smell 
 Knights Of the Old Republic.) Though different from the Star Wars Edition that this game looks like, 
 this game brings a whole new feeling of "THE WORLD IS GONNA END" situations. Lets see how this 
 game fares.
  
  -Gameplay- 
  Well ,you wait 2 minutes for the create-a-character computer to make you an account so that you 
 can make your female or male character. With alot of features you can change like ,Hair, eyes, facial 
 features, colouring of your skin and such. Then you choose your class, your background and your 
 off.
  Being thrusted in many different enviroments with many different enemies (which I found are like 
 6 different ones) with many different guns, kinda hard to figure out how you wanna kill your enemies. 
 Snipe them with a sniper rifle that burns through skin, or an assualt rifle that tears through 
 robotics like butter, or my personal favourite, lifting the opponents cover and wiping them out 
 with a pistol that shoots really fast. Its up to you. The battle system has a gears of war mix 
 with KOTR which has a steep learning curve at the start but is easy to get used to.
  
  Outside of fighting , the game really goes deep into the Stars War gameplay. Your in a city that 
 you dont wanna be in, talking to locals as fast as you can to get to the next firefight. Later 
 on, you have the ability to fly around in a space ship (Cough KOTR) and touch down on planets that 
 have different kinds of ecosystems, like snowy, volcanic, grassland or desert. Some of these planets 
 require a vehicle called the MAKO which is amazingly durable and can climb the most steepest mountain 
 the world. But the gameplay is great for those that fell in love with the KOTR series, for those 
 that like COD 4, you too may like it. I did.
  9/10
  
  
  -Storyline-
  Your a John Shepard (If you really want to be the default character) a soldier with backgrounds 
 you choose (survivor, war hero, a ruthless mercenary) and where you grow up. These details affect 
 a minor thigns in-game. Anyways, your thrown on a neutral planet thats under seige by the Geth, 
 A synthetic enemy that is trying to bring about the end of the world. Your trying to be the first 
 Human Spectre ,and was sent along with another Spectre. He gets shot in the head by a Rouge spectre 
 and you get zapped by some alien technology that messes your head up. So later your promoted as 
 a Spectre and your on a mission to get back at the rogue spectre , which you find out who is named 
 Saren. 
  
  A good storyline all in all. It keeps you interested and you dont feel like," Uhhh I gotta fly 
 over here.. kill this guy then this guy then this guy to get to the bad guy", you feel that you 
 have to talk to this guy then save a girl whos the daughter of the right hand woman of Saren to 
 get to him but never do. I like the Storyline anyways (Who liked the Romance scene with the Asari 
 alien?) .
  9/10
  
  -Visuals-
  P-E-R-F-E-C-T. Thats the only thing I can say. Absolutely amazing. These graphics look like a 2005 
 cinematic, but they're not, they're actualy in-game gameplay! Enviroments look so beautiful and 
 realistic. A+
  10/10
  
  -Sounds-
  Pretty good, the voice overs are great (Female shepards voice was way to scray for me, didnt match 
 my character at all) The ambient sounds were okay as well. The city sounds were great, with the 
 sounds of things speeding around and stuff.
  9/10
  
  -Replay Value-
  The value isnt terribly high, but there is motivation. When you get achivements for like a certain 
 gun, you can add the extra skill of that gun to a character that has no skill in that gun. (Sniper 
 rifle for a soldier who is specialized in shottys and assualt rifles.) Theres other ones like more 
 damge against robots or humans or more money when you start off. those are for new characters you 
 make. You can also bring back your old character and use him with all the skills and weapons you 
 use in the previous game, intact. I like it cause I love starting off with the best sniper rifle 
 in the game, dunno about anyone else.
  8.5/10
  
  -Overall-
  This is a good RPG for those who wanted to marry their Knights of the Old Republic, this game is 
 for you. Anyone else may vary but this game is a great Sci-fi anyways. So, are you gonna be a good 
 guy or bad guy?
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocketMasterH2F
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the new game from the company, Bioware. Bioware is responsible for games such as 
 NeverWinter Nights or Star Wars Knights of the old Republic. Now Bioware has released Mass Effect, 
 Bioware's first next gen game.
  
  Mass Effect's story is interesting and immersive. You play as Commander Shepard, with a past and 
 military backround of the players choosing. The Story of Mass Effect revolves around Commander 
 Shepard, and a turian named Saren. Saren is a turian, an alien race, and he wants to rid the galaxy 
 of all life. Commander Shepard and his team is sent to stop him. As the story unfolds, you begin 
 to uncover secrets of ancient sentient life-forms called Reapers. The game will take you too many 
 different planets in search of clues to stop saren.
  
  The gameplay in Mass Effect is good. The combat is fun and entertaining. However while traveling 
 the galaxy you will most likely land on an uncharted world. These worlds have basically no people. 
 When you land on these worlds you land in a vehicle called the Mako. While fun at first, the mako 
 becomes incredibly annoying and frustrating. It doesn't help that the mako's turret can not move 
 up or down.
  
  Mass Effect's graphics are great. The character models look excellent and the character's lips 
 move correctly while their talking. However while playing the game I noticed textures not loading 
 quickly. After a load you will see these bland textures that look horrible and then you realize 
 that the textures still have to load for awhile.
  
  All in all Mass Effect is a great RPG and a great game in general. Mass Effect is definitely worth 
 buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameJunkieKyle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Just when you thought the Xbox 360 would never get a decent RPG title... BAM! It get's Mass Effect. 
 Mass Effect truly brings RPGs to a whole new level, never before have I seen in game dialouge and 
 story look so good, and even realistic. 
  
  Mass Effect's story is amazing. pure and simple. the entire universe that Bioware created is breathtaking. 
 It's unbelievable how complex it is. A lot of work was put into this game to make the characters 
 seem real and also to give the player many choices along his journey. I think that any RPG fan 
 would love this game, but because it's a shooter, it may take some getting used to for people who 
 are used to traditional JRPGs. 
  
  There are only a few minor problems with Mass effect, which is a real shame, because i would reallylove 
 to give this game a 10. Many of the side missions are boring and unnecesary. Also, the item system 
 has a relativly large flaw in it. If you go over your carry limit for item, you don't get the opportunity 
 to choose which item you want to discard, you have to throw away the iem you just picked up, even 
 if it's a really rare item. Aside from those little problem, this game is a true masterpiece. I've 
 never played an RPG like this one before..
  
  Great job Bioware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xilerymth
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Bioware did an awesome job at putting this game together. They combined only the best from a story, 
 a 3rd person shooter & an action film to produce the best of all RPG's, if not all games. What 
 you decide in the game will affect your alignment (paragon/renegade) & the outcomes of events throughout 
 the game. Dialogue can also be altered, resulting in different conversations with most characters. 
 While the campaign is relatively short, tasks can be done, which are subsidiary to the campaign, 
 & provide insight to your characters past. Everything about this game is amazing. Customization 
 of weapons is easy & each upgrade produces a different effect on targets & the gun itself. The 
 command interface to control weapons & skills is very easy to use & the AI is smart. What you decide 
 in this game will carry over to the sequel. If you are looking for a new game with excellent game 
 play, I suggest you get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GOML
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  Character creating is lacking in a few departments however the amour and weapon customization is 
 really cool. But i still have that feeling that im being guided to go somewhere, even with the 
 ability to drop what your doing and just go to some other solar system there is usual only 1 planet 
 you can go to. The enemy you fight starts to become repetitive. The visual effect are really nice 
 and the story is the best i have ever seen. its awesome how you control what your character says 
 and it will actual alter the outcome of what you chose. a polite gesture will get you right to 
 the goods or a treating response will put you up for a  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltimaSlayer94
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  If you have played Bioware's games, such as KOTOR 1/2, Jade Empire, and Baldur's Gate, you will 
 feel at home with this game. For others, it may not be what us Bioware fans have labeled it as. 
 Here is a comprehensive review of the epic RPG spanning the entire universe.
  
  Presentation: Production values are HUGE, and that's definitely noticeable. The AI is very good, 
 and will destroy a non-experienced player, even on the casual setting. Controls are very good on 
 foot, but inside the game's only vehicle, the all-terrain Mako, it is hell. Controlling this vehicle 
 is like controlling 1,000 raging bulls loose in a city- it just won't happen, and you need to rely 
 on luck. The UI is good, but the squad commands rarely actually work. Interface is good enough 
 to get the job done, but the inventory system is clunky and tough to use. Story is very good, but 
 load times are terrible. Loads during combat are rampant, but the big one here is the infamous 
 elevator ride. For those who don't know, here's the deal. So, you have figured out how to travel 
 across the planet, to far off galaxies instantaneously, yet elevator rides one floor up take about 
 30seconds. I'm not joking. And no, there's no stairs. This makes the game's main zone, the citadel, 
 a hellhole of loads and framerate skipping. There are the famous and awesome dialogue options from 
 KOTOR, but, as much as I loved them, I'll be honest with you. They're pointless. The story almost 
 always goes the same way no mater how you act, and the little differences that occur usually all 
 cross the same path soon. 8/10
  
  Graphics: One of the best looking games of all time. So much detail, expansive environments, and 
 believeable expressions. I'd say it's the third or fourth best looking game of all time thus far. 
 However, there is a huge drawback to all this-framerates. In some heated battles, there can be 
 as much as 7-second loads before your weapon goes off, due to all thats going on. Even when you 
 are just running around in mountain area with nothing going on, every few seconds you will "lag". 
 Also, textures take forever to load. A good example is a rugged mountain planet you go to near 
 the beginning of the game. It takes about 20 seconds for the textures to actually load. It goes 
 like this: Brown paper, then brown paper with marks and dents, then mountains that look like they're 
 from a psx game, then last-gen graphics, then back to paper, then finally, the final product. A 
 lot of times you can also get stuck in some places, and some parts of the environment disappear. 
 I have no idea why they have all this in a console game. 8/10
  
  Sound: The music in the game is typical uninspired sci-fi, with the occasional emotional RPG track 
 mixed in. The voice acting is great... my friends love to talk like the various species in the 
 game just for the hell of it. Sound effects are nothing special, but do what they're made for. 
 Nothing amazing here, but its great and gets the job done. 9/10
  
  Gameplay: This game is a third person shooter/RPG. It's focused on the cover system, which works 
 well, pressing you against anything you push up against. Occasionally, it can get you killed, though. 
 This game is HARD, unless you're playing on casual- which is no fun. At the very least, play on 
 normal. There are 6 different classes, but, honestly, you have no reason to roll anything but soldier. 
 Everything else is too hard to play at the beginning-middle of the game, and if you aren't a Soldier, 
 you have to rely on cooldowns, which are unnescessarily long in this game. The next best option 
 is the vanguard, but really, I've tried every class in the game with multiple playthroughs, and 
 I just didn't have any reason to play anything but Soldier, and if I did, I would be sacrificing 
 my great damage, survivavability, and utility for a little bit of extra cash and cool abilities. 
 There are four different weapon classes: Assault rifles, pistols, shotguns, and sniper rifles. 
 Pistols are completely useless, and snipers are impossible to aim. Seriously, even if you crouch 
 down, your character will be wildly swinging his gun to the point where I just couldn't hit anything 
 that wasn't huge. Assault rifles are your go-to weapon, and you will be spamming them forever. 
 Shotguns are useful to push certain enemies back, and also have an AoE purpose. The gameplay style 
 is fun, but near the end of the game, it starts to lose it's fun and addictive feel. Another big 
 problem is that you get new items from almost every kill, and usually it will be an upgrade. That 
 means, you will have to open your equipment screen over and over between firefights, effectively 
 taking you out of the action for minutes. 8.5/10
  
  Lasting Appeal: The main game is about 25-40 hours, depending on whether you take the quick routes 
 or the long ones. The game has 35+ hours of side-quests. There is so much to do after you beat 
 the game. In fact, I'm about to say this for the first time, and being a hardcore RPG fan, this 
 just doesen't seem right, but... this game has TOO MUCH to do. At a point where you just want to 
 advance the story and kill that next guy, you have about 50 people asking you to do other stuff 
 that you have to do NOW, and can't do later without big chances of screwing up in dialogue. Even 
 though I have played all of Bioware's games, this just overwhelmed me completely. And the thing 
 is, most of the side-quests aren't very awarding or interesting, so it isn't really worth it. After 
 I beat the game, I tried new classes, did a few of the more-fun side-quests, and called it a day. 
 There is no multiplayer. 9/10
  
  Overall, pick this game up if you are an RPG or Bioware fan, and if you are willing to put up with 
 the many annoyances riddled throughout. It will last you a long time, but at times will overwhelm 
 you with the sheer amount of content and difficulty. A good strategy guide is a must-have for this 
 game. However, I have to say this game is not as good as KOTOR 1 or 2. Still, it's a wonderful 
 game that deserves a good audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narak13
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  Mass effect is probibly the best rpg out for the current generation of consoles. So first the good.
 
  
  -Strong immersive story which hooks you.
  -Action is good, a competent third person shooter
  -looks great, surfaces never look grainy and 
 character models are all well animated
  
  So now the bad....... and its not much but
  
  -The amount of dialogue in this game is huge. the problem with this is that it breaks flow. the 
 pauses between finding an alien and murdering it can sometimes be so long you wnt to murder your 
 console
  -the driving sections, although full of action, are the worst i have ever experienced. This car 
 handles like a qudriplegic donkey with four peg legs!!!!!!!!!!!....... ok so that may be harsh but 
 it is terrible. Also it has a strange ability to defy gravity. it can climb vertically up cliffs!!!!!!!! this 
 is also never explained, so it must be a bug
  -Also there is a lack of a difficultly curve. Even on the highest difficulty setting i found the 
 game far to easy...... but i have played far to many bioware rpg's
  
  So all in all mass effect is an enjoyable experience that i would recommend to all. but just remember 
 its not without its flaws. (btw i rated it 9 because i cant do 8.8, lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_8790
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  To me this game was just right in all sense. It had awesome graphics, perfect storyline and to 
 me it was what i had been looking for these last few years. With that said, i am truly glad that 
 i got this game. IT had some of the best upgrades, and storyline chosing where you can go renegade 
 or good, and the choice is completely up to you. The only thing that i don't enjoy about the game 
 is that they dont have that well of a balanced character, between tech combat and biotics. When 
 i chose my character i chose wisely, or so i thought and it ended up that i could only use the 
 pistol in any way (unless i didnt want to kill em) . But all in all it was a very good game. I am 
 sorry for the late review, but i just caught it at gamestop, and i couldnt believe that i never 
 heard of it even though i watch tech tv frequently and watch e3 and such. Oh well, my loss huh. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yigisina
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  I started playing games in the SNES era, an amazing console packed to the brim with RPGs (that's 
 role playing games not rocket propelled grenades) , where Square Enix ruled as indisputable king. 
 With epic masterpieces such as Chrono Trigger and Final Fantasy VI that introduced some basic but 
 vital mechanisms that we still see to this day in the genre. Sadly in the last few years' quality 
 RPGs have become too few and far between. Relying on the same mechanisms and over romanticised, 
 clich settings starring protagonists with big hair and even bigger attitudes. 
  
  There were a few breakaways such as the Tales series that tried real time fighting on a 2D plane 
 and a personal favourite of mine Baten Kaitos that used a clever card system. Namco provided quality 
 on both accounts and though both had the "sick to death medieval setting", with a typical "villain 
 becomes powerful deity" theme they both were original in both graphical presentation and gameplay. 
 
  
  In an age where I feel constricted by lack of originality and tedious repetition (want a sequel 
 or 3?) , I call out for a hero to save my beloved genre, a reply comes from the west in the form 
 of brave pioneers BioWare, in their hands? Mass effect. 
  
  Mass effect is a futuristic RPG set in the year 2183 AD. You take the role of Commander Shepherd, 
 a unique character whose history and physical appearance you choose at the beginning. You then 
 pick a class that you feel suits you (more on that later) . At the moment some of this may feel 
 a bit familiar bar the setting, however Mass Effect is very different from the conventional Japanese 
 RPGs that many have come to love. 
  
  Already before you've moved your first virtual step, you have made 3 crucial choices and that is 
 what's great about Mass Effect, choice. During the main quest there are a huge number of side quests 
 on offer, none of which is compulsory and there are often numerous consequences and roots for each 
 one. You can follow good ethics to become a paragon or give in to the dark side and go renegade, 
 depending upon how you have developed your character through speech and actions the outcome will 
 vary and with it your reputation. You don't ever feel forced to be either a paragon or renegade, 
 you can follow one over the other, however there is nothing halting gamers from being on the fence, 
 after all not everyone has the same ethics. There will be times when you think twice, there is 
 a great deal character interaction as well as a number of controversial issues such as racism. 
 
  
  In certain situations you can gain crew members for your ship, these members will fight along side 
 you in your quest and each one has a class. The gameplay is very unique, particularly combat. You 
 start a quest by flying your ship to a planet which has fixed coordinates on a map. This is then 
 followed by some clever character interaction and Mass Effect's greatest achievement, combat. Your 
 class can vary from a biotic specialist (think Jedi force powers or a sci-fi black mage) to a soldier 
 that specialises in weapons (think Han Solo or warrior class) . You move in the 3rd person and can 
 aim your weapon over the shoulder ala Resident Evil 4. You can use walls for cover and ask your 
 squad to do the same. 
  
  Weapons can be given specific upgrades and old models can be sold for newer more damaging models. 
 Almost everything can be upgraded; guns, armour even grenades and these can be applied at anytime 
 which is handy as any tactician will tell you. For example if turrets are giving you trouble you 
 can upgrade to increase damage on synthetics. This can be combined with biotic techniques such 
 as throwing opponents aside like an unwanted toy or lifting them into the air before unleashing 
 a deadly shotgun round. 
  
  You can also equip your allies with weapons and appropriate upgrades and direct their biotic attacks 
 when you need a helping hand, though this isn't quite as satisfying as doing it yourself. The number 
 of tactical possibilities for each situation and the variety of the situations keeps gameplay fresh. 
 There are also short vehicle sections which often act as a needed break. 
  
  The atmosphere in this game is equally impressive, with lush graphics and crisp sound. There are 
 some truly spectacular cinematics as well as some stunning water effects and source engine style 
 facial expressions. There are pages of fictional text for your character's journal giving all sorts 
 of details about various races and technologies that are available for you to read in your own 
 time. The attention to detail is incredible and you can tell that a lot of effort went into making 
 the destinations that grab you by the scruff of the collar and pulls you in. You genuinely feel 
 as though you are staring in a sci-fi movie, but the experience is so much deeper because you control 
 the film by acting as a director and the main character. The RPG elements feel that bit more rewarding 
 because you choose the skills you want to upgrade when you level. Yet again you dictate the style 
 of play and with so many options it's hard not to justify more then 1 play through even for the 
 lazy gamer. 
  
  Despite having so many options Mass Effect keeps things simple with a nice control interface and 
 the clean menu interface is easily manageable. This is an amazing game with very few faults but 
 there are a few scratches on this X-wing. I found at times the driving controls were a little jumpy. 
 I also noticed textures popping up half way through cut scenes which reduced some of the overall 
 immersion. Sometimes lifts take a while to get to their locations, this is due to cleverly disguised 
 loading times also the movement of your allies isn't always perfect. They may get caught in parts 
 of the environment though this only happened twice to me. Despite a few minor scratches this X-wing 
 zooms past competition and offers an incredible ride. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpideR_CentS
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Just a little history, before I go into my review of Mass Effect. I am a huge Bioware fan. KotoR 
 and Jade Empire are two of my favorate games of all time. That being said, I will share my disappointment 
 with this game. 
  
  The graphics, storyline and sound on this game are all great. It almost feels like a interactive 
 movie. I also looked forward to the action. Now this is where my disappointments started. While 
 on foot action is nothing to write home about, it is servicable and sometimes even fun. The vechicle 
 parts should have been axed and left on the design room floor. Controlls are frustrating, the mini 
 map sticks, and your gun only goes side to side (not up and down ?!) . I can't even begin to tell 
 you how annoying it was fighting the huge worm creatures. Every once in a while they would just 
 pop up under you and BANG restart the mission. 
  
  Speaking of restarting missions, that is another part of this game that fails. Where is the auto 
 save feature so that 30mins into a planet if I die for whatever reason (tough enemy, fall off a 
 map because of the stupid vechicle controlls) I have to restart from the beginning of the level. 
 Add to this the clunky interface, slow down and horrid menus and you gotta wonder if this game 
 was rushed to meet the holiday season. 
  
  I paid full price for this game the day it came out. It saddens me that I will never finish it, 
 but my gaming time is limited and I don't want to spend it being frustrated over and over. I really 
 would have liked to find out what happened in the story though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaylila
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  The game Mass Effect is a third person, over the shoulder shooter that envelops you in a futuristic 
 environment complete with advanced technology, alien races and plenty of drama.
  
  The game begins with the creation of your character. BioWare has done a complete job of allowing 
 you as a player to be exactly who you want to be; Gender, personality, history, and of course cosmetic 
 attributes all are able to be customized. After that you choose from 5 classes of character. Each 
 one offering a completely different playing experience along with achievements to boot. Once you 
 finish with creation you are then taken right into the thick of the plot and action.
  
  The story line of the game interjects you as Captain Shepherd of the Alliance Military, the human 
 Starfleet of sorts. Each time you are spoken to you have the choose of choosing from different 
 replies and reactions. What you choose decides what kind of person you become and what kinds of 
 story will unfold. While this adds immensely to the plot and replay value of the game it can be 
 a major downplay at times. The cut scenes can become drawn out at points and even more so when 
 you ahve to wait for characters to finish talking so that you can make your selection. While you 
 can speed through what is said it will usually lead to incorrect replies from yourself which can 
 really harm your opportunity of gaining certain achievements. The game offers a main story line 
 of average length but because it offers achievements for completing the game more than 75% it will 
 gently urge you to complete more of the side quests within the game. Even after your first play 
 through the game offers so many customizations of your character and conversation replies you can 
 play the game again and feel as though you are playing it for the first time. Later on you can 
 even add Downloadable content from the Xbox Live market place that adds a new mission and achievement.
 
  
  The voice acting and graphics are a marvel to see and hear. The game offers a few well known voices 
 which really add to the surrealism of the game. As you progress forward you feel as though you 
 are playing in a theatrical motion picture of sorts. This is even more the case as you entire combat 
 environments as they seem to be seamlessly interweaved with cut scenes and exploration. However 
 during some battle moments the game can get somewhat of a "laggy" feel when you start to notice 
 that the frames per second don't always seem to keep up with the action that is taking place. Overall 
 though it still offers a very enticing playing experience.
  
  Mass effect utilizes a "turn-dial" control system that you must use to change weapon, abilities, 
 conversational replies and function through the character menus. While at first it seems foreign 
 after a while you become more familiar and better able to traverse through your gaming. While they 
 have aimed for innovative overall I would say that it misses the mark. In general though it doesn't 
 put too much of a damper to cause any real problems. The game play and combat system function well 
 with a very small learning curve for anybody that has played any shooter game. While the cover 
 system may fall short as compared to other games: requiring you to just walk up to cover until 
 your character takes cover on their own, it can still get the job done. Melees in the game to are 
 left up to chance as you use the shoot button when close to opponents and the game decides for 
 you when it is best to melee. The "boss battles" are fun a challenging with constant action. Mass 
 Effect breaks away from the mold of most games by offering end battles that are unpredictable and 
 of good length.
  
  Final Thought: If you are a fan of sci-fi games then this is the best game out there for you. Even 
 if your not then this is the game you will want to get to introduce you into the genre. While the 
 game can seem to be slow at points the plot and game play offer an exciting visual game that will 
 leave you completely satisfied with your purchase.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Good game , but somehow I didn't understand , how did I finish it?
  At the begining I didn't understand a thing , what was story about and something like that. But 
 in the end I got around with the story , so it was aight.
  Gameplay was a bit complicated , they could done it a bit easier.
  Graphics , well from microsoft 
 game studios it's what I expect.
  Games story - was interesting (when I found out what was happening)
  Selecting your crew it's 
 a fun thing , when you can change your characters.
  Shooting , running and other various things like mini-map weren't the best , I've seen much better 
 , still I don't know how to use scope on your sniper...
  Finding objectives on mini map was so hard , it had me running around for hours.
  This game had 
 it's own bad parts and good parts , but I like this game , even with all the bad things , yeah 
 it's good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_user
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an innovative western action role playing game created by Bioware and available 
 on both PC and Xbox 360. Although there are minor differences in both versions of the game there 
 are no major faults in the game play that will affect your experience with the game enough to give 
 either version a clear advantage. Mass Effect is impressive, entertaining, and innovative. The 
 player is given the option to either create their character or use a premade character; they then 
 decide their character's fictional history and class. The player classes or "jobs" include Soldiers 
 (a more weapon based class; the soldier is similar to the standard warrior in traditional RPGs. 
 If a player chooses this as his characters class the character will be able to take more punishment 
 than characters in other classes and use more weapons, however they will have no telekinetic abilities 
 and a lower amount of skills, usually depending on how the player chooses to develop his or her 
 character. They can also wear any type of armor.) , Engineers (engineers are tech specialist who 
 are able to utilize and control mechanic objects much more easily than other classes. They can 
 only wear light armor and are limited to shotguns, pistols, and assault rifles-but only as a bonus-however 
 they can use unsupernatural special abilities) , Adepts (adepts are apparently beings who-through 
 upragreadable implants-can use biotic and telekinetic abilities to defend themselves in combat 
 as opposed to weapons. Similar to engineers they are limited to light armor and can only use pistols 
 at the start of the game) , Infiltrators (Infiltrators are a sort of combination of the soldier 
 and engineer classes, as such they can use sniper rifles and pistols, however they are limited 
 to medium armor. They also excel in decryption and offensive abilities rather than healing) , Sentinels 
 (a mixture of engineer and adept classes, are limited to light armor and receive no advanced weapons.) , 
 and Vanguards (a mixture of soldier and adept classes, can use pistols, shotguns, and adept abilities 
 but are limited to medium armor) .
  
  Mass Effect also includes an impressive character creation system that allows a player to alter 
 every aspect of their character's face to create the exact face the player sets out to make. This 
 is among the best character creation systems available on a console and certainly worthy of much 
 more acclaim than it has received. Similar to past Bioware video games such as Star Wars: Knights 
 of The Old Republic or Jade Empire the game gives the player choices that will eventually affect 
 the outcome of the game and change the player's character's morality affiliation (in this case 
 good and evil are separated into categories; paragon and rouge) . However it was disappointing that 
 there where so few major choices you could make in the game despite Game Informer's review's indication 
 of a larger variety and amount of choices. Unlike in the previous Bioware games Mass Effect's combat 
 is more action based; in the game the player is given the option to either utilize skills and special 
 abilities (usually only accessed by Engineers and Adepts) that allow the game to play more like 
 a turn based traditional RPG or use weapons (accessed by both Soldier and Engineer classes) that 
 make the game play more like a modern shooter. The game also is the first of Bioware's productions 
 to allow open world exploration allowing the player to travel to different planets; Mass Effect 
 also includes more optional side quests than previous Bioware games, however few are as rewarding 
 or intriguing as the main quest. These are by far the best aspects of the game as it gives the 
 player the option to go anywhere at anytime he or she pleases, which is definitely an advantage 
 over other acclaimed RPGs that force the player to stick to one path.
  
  The combat was a bit disappointing regardless of which class I chose to use. The controls often 
 made combat unnecessarily difficult, and the lack of fire power in even the most powerful guns 
 in the game was at least frustrating. The A. I. in enemy units although impressive at long range 
 the hostile units can also be considered idiotic if one chooses to use melee attacks against enemies. 
 Usually you can order your character to run up and beat a lone enemy and it will stand completely 
 still and literally allow itself to be killed without any resistance whatsoever. Unlike in Star 
 Wars: Knights of The Old Republic a player is not given the option to switch to other characters 
 in his or her party, therefore if your character is killed you have to load a saved game or continue 
 from a recent check point. I also considered it a disappointed you could not order your two additional 
 party members to go to different locations during combat; this causes certain tactics to become 
 unavailable during game play. The combat that was supposedly supposed to be the best aspect of 
 the game according to many enthusiasts anticipating the game was overall mediocre, and alone would 
 make a terrible game. Occasionally you'll have access to a vehicle which can be used to traverse 
 larger uncolinized worlds or just a necessary means of transportation or protection in more hostile 
 or open areas. This vehicle may be fun to drive but steering and shooting is very difficult and 
 it's more complicated than necessary to drive up steep areas. Although the game is an RPG and little 
 can be expected from game play I still found it to be a major disappointment as I expected to be 
 much more entertaining and similar to modern shooters.
  
  Despite the disappointing combat Mass Effect still manages to have a lot to offer for those seeking 
 an excellent space opera and next generation conversation game play similar to Bioware's past acclaimed 
 video games. As usual the graphics are up to par, although there can be some small texture loading 
 issues throughout the game, however every character looks impressive and the animations are among 
 this generations best. The graphics also play a key role in conversations as you're likely to sympathize 
 for more realistic looking characters, the excellent voice acting also helps make Mass Effect feel 
 more like a living, breathing world that you can immerse yourself in. Conversations with NPCs in 
 video games are often overlooked, however in Mass Effect (like in previous Bioware games) they 
 play a key role in both story telling and advancing your progress in the game. It seems as though 
 over %70 percent of the game is discussion based which can be both a blessing and a curse depending 
 what type of games you personally enjoy. As for the story it should be considered one of the best 
 literary works the video game industry has ever seen and in my opinion superior to past previously 
 acclaimed games, the amount of choices-although usually small-can have a big impact on the outcome 
 of the story so be warned to be careful with the choices you make throughout the game. 
  
  Overall I feel Mass Effect is an excellent game although (like most types of entertainment) your 
 experience with the game will vary depending on your personal preferences. If you enjoy action 
 and shooters with quick action you probably won't enjoy this game because of its disappointing 
 combat both vehicle and weapon based. However, Sci-Fi fans and RPG enthusiast will enjoy the immersive 
 story, impressive character customization, realistic characters, excellent graphics, and possibly 
 the conversation based game play. Personally I felt the game had its fair share of flaws, however 
 I did not think that the mediocre combat was enough for anyone to avoid the game. The game is by 
 far one of the 360's best RPGs and had it not been for its close release to Halo 3 the best 360 
 game of the year. The 360 rarely sees impressive or innovative RPGs but Bioware managed to bring 
 a literary masterpiece to the system and I for one feel the game is both often overlooked and deserving 
 of more acclaim. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DhavokBoss
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  This is a great game for people who feel like they want to have more controls of an outcome in 
 an rpg or just in general. The story is great part of what makes this game immersing. The acting 
 for 95% of the time is great and you may notice a few familiar voices. The game is non-linear and 
 gives a bunch of side quests and objectives to the player. You could cause different outcomes depending 
 on what you choose for your character to say. The story is for 100% and the general idea is about 
 85% original for those of you who know what I am talking about. The characters and environments 
 are well detailed. The main-characters and supporting characters have a back-story that can be 
 uncovered at parts of the story that can add a little sense about the world of Mass Effect.
  
  Cons: The combat while relatively good can be a bit choppy in areas like aiming and is a little 
 awkward when you zoom with your cannon on the vehicle and the sniper weapon. The combat is also 
 a little simpler than I had hoped. Some of the places in the side quests seem to be generic and 
 you will notice repetition in architecture. Lastly, you will also notice texture formations occurring 
 when you roam planets etc.
  
  In conclusion Mass Effect is a great game and you will be more than satisfied after your first 
 play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SasukeXXChidori
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This game was really fun and I really enjoyed playing it. I heard it was a 
  hard game but it really wasn't. Mass Effect had a magnificent story line. and the 
  dialogue was 
 great as well as the voice acting. Now the game is an extremely long game if you want to play it 
 too the fullest. You play as a military commander of a space cruiser named the Normandy and the 
 alien council of the new world are ready to grant you the rank of a Spectre the right hand men 
 
  of the council. You travel through the game at first as a regular Commander then you are granted 
 the Spectre status. The Spectre's don't have to obey the law because they work for and only for 
 the Council.
  Mass Effect is a great game with great replay value and side missions I have played the game 2 
 times through and honestly it was better the second time through because I completed all the side 
 missions. I would have to give Mass Effect a 9.7 out of 10 because there are a few rough spots 
 in the graphics. I can't wait for the second in the series to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucien86
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Excellent!, lets get that out of the way first - deeply immersive, great story, looks incredible, 
 feels like a real world, great interaction with characters, etc.
  
  One of the few games that really uses hard SF, so many games and film authors can learn so much 
 from this. Hard SF requires good physics - it needs the people writing it to know about science, 
 and Mass Effect has good physics - better than any SF Space game I've seen in at least ten years 
 or ever.
  
  Complaints are very minor - if anything the story is slightly to linear and a lot of the worlds 
 are quite small, but this is tiny, well worth paying for the quality of the game. 
  
  In terms of RPG's I would only rate three or four above or near it - Fallout II, Morrowind, the 
 Drizzit D'Urden and the Underdark game and some of the old ultima games, and just maybe The Witcher. 
 
  I can't think of ANY other good hard SF RPG that compares - except maybe Mercenary which is truly 
 ancient. Dark Star One is a game I like but its just not in the same league. 
  Of course! Nights of the Old Republic - Mass Effect is still way better.
  
  I don't need to 
 tell you to buy this, but if your in the games industry this is what a top ten game of the decade 
 looks like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  The Best rpg Game i ever played on 360
  People who think mass effect is crap alway downthumb my review :)
  You finaly mix shooter & RPG 
 with 5 LEvel easy : medium : hard : hardcore :insane You have acess to lot of Strategy Squad & 
 dEep Story lines
  about 35-40 hour of gameplay if wanna try someting different 
  well you redo it like you do in elder scroll oblivion
  graphic are quite good but it use unreal 
 engine 3 so sometime it take 15-20 second before graphic phase all load to it max i bet on pc it 
 better does of Better Video card then xbox 360 & higher resolution like 1600x1200 instead of 1080i 
 or 720P if you complete the game you should know mass EFFECt 2 Gonna kick ass i am waiting bioware. 
 Im drooling for Sequel
  
  i heard they making dragonage as priority first i hope it a good game also
  everting bioware 
 releash seem to work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soups24
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an action role-playing game set in the 22nd century. Me personally not liking role-playing 
 games found this one to be awesome. There are tons and tons of custimazation options, whether it 
 is the way your charecter commander Shepard looks or the way he preforms on the battle field. There 
 are also thousands of custimation options for weapons. There are four main types of weapons: pistol, 
 shotgun, sniper rifle, and assault rife. But there are multiple diffrent types of those guns and 
 inside those types are levels of the gun. For example the main gun I used was the Tsunami Assault 
 Rifle VI. The six is the level of the gun. You can either purchase weapons or find them by hacking 
 crates. There are also diffrent tyes of ammunition or grenades you can aquire. The reason there 
 is so much replay value is because the game differs on the descisions you make and the class you 
 choose. The first time I played through I was a soldier which can use all four of the weapons discussed 
 earlier. The second time I played through I played as a vanguard which allowed me to use weapons 
 and magic. Magic is used by pausing the game and aiming at your target and sending him flying or 
 what ever you chose to do. You can then switch to your pistol and gun him down helplessley while 
 he is floating in the air. But the reason mass effect is not a ten out of ten is because of three 
 reasons. There are too many technical hitches such as getting stuck when walking or the loading 
 times in the middle of the game. The second reason is becuase there is too much dialouge i know 
 its a role playing game but when the combat system is that good we want to use it. Lastly is that 
 there is a lack of checkpoints so if you die your going back litteraly ten minutes depending on 
 the level. I remember doing the last level ten times until I realized to save in between fights 
 ( you cannot save during combat) . As a side note the vehicle you use is also not perfect but when 
 you explore the uncharted islands it is amazaing. Overall Mass Effect is an amazing game even for 
 people who arent fans of RPGs. It is one of the best games I have ever played and I highly reccomend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texpsych67
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 21, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I was drooling when I first read about this game. It sounded like something that would blow my 
 mind and give me that warm fuzzy of RP goodness.
  
  And, if I'd never played KotR, I'd have loved it. I ended up with a huge case of "Been there, done 
 that". It wasn't innovative at all, the graphics weren't that good, the storyline was derivative 
 and uninspired, and the universe was rather boring considering the infinite possibilities that 
 were available. I really had high hopes that this game would be incredible, considering the massive 
 amount of hype that it got. And of course, since it's from a big name company, Gamespot loved it. 
 Of course. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, it was fun for about 10 hours or so. I guess. I was very disappointed. At least 
 it wasn't some anime crap where the cut scenes take up about 10 hours of the gameplay, so it has 
 that going for it. If you liked KotR, and you're sick of Star Wars, then it might be worth a purchase 
 from the used section. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visionary1200
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Instead of giving you some interpretation that probably won't help you, I'll just break it down 
 into categories:
  
  Graphics 9.8 (due to abnormalities, hiccups, and lower framerates)
  
  Loading Time 7.5 (elevators really began to annoy me)
  
  Story 10 ( You can't get a richer 
 story!)
  
  Attitude 10 ( There is definately a lot of "coolness" in the actors)
  
  RPG element 8.2 ( there is a fair amount of rpg in the game)
  
  Gameplay* 7.8 (more on that 
 later)
  
  Gameplay Time (eternity) (very long, probably too long!)
  
  Difficulty (Easy) (I had it on the hard level and it was still easy!)
  
  Depending on your 
 personality, this game may anger you. There is long loading times (elevator) , you have to manually 
 save often because the auto save sucks, and the dialogs may seem to take forever... Don't get me 
 wrong, the acting was great and the graphics were superb... but: BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH..... I 
 just want to play the game! anyways... The Gameplay: Here it is: It's no Halo. Why do I say such 
 an obvious statement? Well, because there is no jump and advanced collision detection. The movement 
 may make you feel like you're being controled or actually constrained. There's no crazy action 
 shooting in a blaze of glory and cool weapons that give you tactile feedback. Tactile feedback 
 is the sensation you get when you shoot and you get this satisfaction of feeling and seeing and 
 hearing your weapon and such that confirms that you decimated your opponent. That is sooooooo important 
 to me. It gives me the sensation of almost being there for real. People who like rpg's over halo 
 type games coolness and story will definately like this, but if you want action and glory and coolness, 
 this will probably dissapoint you. I am going to rate this as a person who likes crazy action. 
 This game is stale, very stale. It feels like I'm trapped in a star trek episode and I can't get 
 out. After playing on one planet I stopped playing. If you buy it used at gamestop you will have 
 a week to return it for a full refund... Thats what im going to do tomorrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eriz2727
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect was a pretty good game, but I expected just a little bit more. The game has a deep, 
 politically charged plot to it. Don't get me wrong, the graphics for Mass Effect are amazing, so 
 life-like, it looks like you can reach out and touch it. But I think the battles in Mass Effect 
 just don't grab my attention. There's lots of insanely cool powers you can use to defeat enemies, 
 but it isn't something that really reaches out and absolutely amazes me. When you have vehicles 
 when riding on planets and surfaces, the navigation and controls are very complicated and aggravating, 
 because huge monsters pop out of the surface sometimes, and it makes some things sort of hard, 
 along with having a turret on some vehicles that you cannot move around and you have to be exactly 
 level with your enemy if you want to hit them. The rest of the game was a bit difficult for me, 
 trying to go around and finding the places you needed to go.
  
  Overall, I recommend you rent Mass Effect before you go and buy it first thing. It's a good game, 
 but most of what's in it just isn't there for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak34
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of BioWare for a few years with their Star Wars: Knights of The Old Republic games 
 they were fun but this one tops them all. It feels like a Star Wars game and yet isn't, it feels 
 closer to home rather than 10,000 years ago in a galaxy far far away. The combat system has been 
 greatly improved, instead of stacking certain moves and watching your character execute them to 
 their liking, now have more control, now you can take out your assault rifle and aim where you 
 want. The game looks beautiful, with lush alien environments to a lively metropolis, it's just 
 so visually stunning that you'll be fascinated from start to end and there are some parts that 
 are so shocking and amazing they are guaranteed to make you gasp. If you've played some of BioWare's 
 earlier work you'll most certainly appreciate this game and how much it improves from its predecessors. 
 This games is money well spent and will provide plenty of entertainment so do not hesitate to purchase 
 it, you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fear_Oblivion
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This game was worth the wait and it did look good, but once you play it you feel even more emersed 
 and this game grows on you. The graphics are pretty good I guess... But the team based shooter 
 type thing..... Meh I don't know. The main story of it was pretty straight-forward and entertaining 
 but, it was missing something. It could have been better although it was alright. The weapons were 
 kind of good, but they could have been better. The controls weren't easy to control either. I mean 
 pulling up a menu while in combat and it still continues while your fighting, you get killed easily 
 lol. This game is fun and worth it, but rent it first. I give this game a 7.5/10 because its missing 
 most of the story, could use more weapons and more effective ones, and the menu type thing wasn't 
 my thing. Also the team based combat wasn't very entertaining either. Great game, fun, entertaining, 
 but not OWNAGE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFuryx
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  Here comes Mass Effect. A western RPG developed by Bioware, same guys who did... that one thing. 
 Anyway, the story starts out as Shepard, a dude or girl depending on your choice, you're sent to 
 a human colony to investigate what happened, things turn bad AND now you have to save the world. 
 Mmmk. The plot is deeper then that, but you gotta play it yourself. 
  
  Gameplay is pretty boring IMO, you're on this linear path through these levels, blasting your way 
 through (I played it on normal and veteran, both were easy) , though on harder difficulties you'll 
 find yourself finding cover rather then charging them because of their overpowered weapons... and 
 their infinite health... but w/e
  
  
  To be frank, I really didn't like the game, I mean, it was OK, just OK. It didn't WOW me or anything, 
 just another average RPG. Now I'd say I'm biased, I like JPRGS more then WRPGs (Western RPGS) , 
 but hell, I gave it a shot, I just didn't like it all that much.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  Gameplay 7/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  
  The Good: Firefights are fun and exciting; nice customization options; the ability to choose your 
 responses is a great feature; graphics look amazing; amazing soundtrack with great orchestrated 
 music; a good amount of side quests; exhilarating story that will draw you in; a great shooter 
 and RPG altogether; good amount of value, and a reason to play through again.
  
  The Bad: A few graphical glitches; frame-rate is unsteady during battles; vehicle sequences slow 
 down the action; might take a while to get into the game at first for some.
  
  Mass Effect was one of the most anticipated games of 2007. It basically sounded like Oblivion... with 
 guns. On November 20th, Mass Effect was released for the Xbox 360. It took a while to get up to 
 speed, but Mass Effect was definitely a quality RPG on all fronts.
  
  You start out by making your character; choosing if it's a male or female, choosing his/her facial 
 features and so on. As an added bonus, you can choose where you're from, and what makes you a special 
 soldier. Did you fight off a ton of aliens before help arrived, or are you a ruthless killer who 
 does what he/she has to do to get the job done. You choose, and what you choose reflects how people 
 in the game look at you.
  
  The story's a bit confusing at first, but starts to make sense as you spend time with it. The game 
 takes place in the far future. Humans have access to super fast, Star Trek-like ships and advanced 
 weapons and shields. Basically, the humans are the newest entry in a coalition of aliens and different 
 races. As with every new member of a group, no ones knows whether they can trust the humans, especially 
 when we suspect an alien specter, (the highest rank of a soldier in the coalition) named Saren, 
 of going rogue. The humans must prove that Saren is up to no good, and bring him to justice.
  
  This game is a tactical shooter, even though it may not seem like it. Running into a wall makes 
 your character slap his back against it. You can then press the right trigger to fire over it with 
 four different weapons. One weapon is a handgun, another is an assault rifle, the third is a shotgun, 
 and the final gun is a sniper rifle. You won't have the same weapon for the entire game though. 
 Yes, you're always going to have those four types, but you can buy or find new ones with increased 
 accuracy, firing rate and so on. 
  
  By pressing the left bumper, you can perform special moves. These moves are... supernatural moves 
 that affect your enemy. These are called tech and biotic powers. Basically, they take the place 
 of magic spells that can damage your enemies shields, or make them float. There are many different 
 powers that can be used and upgraded using the game's easy to use upgrade system.
  
  A flaw that really hampered my enjoyment of the game was the frame rate during battles. It goes 
 crazy during fire-fights. The controls are still responsive, and even though its a small frame 
 rate glitch, the game really could've felt a lot smoother if it was fixed. 
  
  The game has a ton of side missions that have been given the same care as the story missions. These 
 side missions can be pursued at any time. They're reasonably fun, but the main story is where it's 
 at. You'll visit a ton of cool planets a meet a lot of strange and cool people, all trying to hinder 
 or bolster your progress.
  
  One of the more unique things that the game offers is the choice to choose your own dialogue and 
 sometimes actions. The game gives a list of responses during conversations. You are able to ask 
 questions, and respond nicely, or hatefully. It's your choice, and adds a lot of different responses 
 that may, or may not affect the game.
  
  Now to the graphics. Let's get something out of the way right now, there's a couple of glitches 
 that'll pop up as the textures are being loaded, but overall, if you can look past that, you've 
 got yourself one amazing looking game. Tons of lighting effects, and awesome textures (once their 
 loaded) really make this game a looker among other 360 games. 
  
  In terms of music, there's a lot of beautiful orchestral scores, and plenty of cool music selections. 
 Where the sound really shines, however, is the voice acting. It's absolutely top notch, and you'll 
 definitely notice each character's distinct personalities matching their voices.
  
  How long does it last? Pretty darn long. Playing through the main game once, will take you a while, 
 and you're bound to play it again, which really adds to the game's longevity. You've got tons of 
 different options to experiment with, so a second playthrough is really just to see what you missed 
 while experiencing Mass Effect's excellent story once again.
  
  Altogether, Mass Effect is an amazing RPG, one that combines a lot of different elements to let 
 you create your own sci-fi adventure. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccbaseball
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  While I usually like reading Gamespot and spend a fair amount of time on here, I do not always 
 agree with their reviews. Mass Effect is one of these occaisions. The big problem with Gamespot 
 reviews is that they focus more on technical aspects of the games they review, and do not give 
 credit to enouigh games like Mass Effect. Sure, it has flaws. Plenty of them from a technical perspective. 
 However, It is one of the best games I have ever played. RPG or otherwise. The story is incredible. 
 Never have I been so sucked in to the goings-on in such a diverse society. The character development 
 is top notch. There were moments in the game where I felt for all of the characters, and it made 
 some later choices very difficult. All-in-all, it is the best game I have played in recent memory. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxBlackSpyderxX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Well, Hi!
  
  This is my first game review and i promise to make it as deep and usefull as possible.
  
  Concept: 
 Make a fully customized character, give him the power to break every law, force him to make extremely 
 tough decisions, and track down a threat to the whole galaxy, (AND I MEAN GALAXY!) all bundled into 
 a Star Wars like Package.
  
  Graphics: Just Plain Beutiful. Just like Gears shocked and awe-ed the world back in 2005, this 
 game broke the charts in graphical terms. Unfortunately, The 360 can't really handle this much 
 while maintaining minimum load times, so it uses a "buffer" system. You don't notice this at first, 
 but it loads like this, first the really basic textures, then the textures get detailed, and a little 
 more, then become perfection. But don't let this become a problem. You really don't notice this 
 until it finishes, because the whole game just sucks you in. (besides, the basic textures are next-gen 
 quality anyway  :B)
  
  Sounds: well, surround sound. Classic sci-fi style musical score. some nice lasers, not the stereotype 
 sounding lasers xD. Voicework is great, and alothough the aliens here are like, !! ALIENS!!, the 
 voices (done by humans i hope) really seem to fit each species.
  
  Playability: Third person shooter. a whole universe to explore! Take Kingdom hearts, replace those 
 sissy keychain things with laser rifles, and map the buttons, so you don't have that retarted menu 
 thing. Weapons and Skills are used like so:
  
  RT: shoot your gun.
  LT: Aim down your gun.
  RB (hold) : (opens up a menu, and "stops" everything) choose a skill (A) 
 to use the skill. Skills include "buffs" (as in, support) and "attacks" (as in CAUSE DAMAGE) You 
 can assign up to three commands (one from each member of your party) and when released, these actions 
 will be performed. Skills include making the enemies gun blow up, or making the enemies blow up! 
 Along with star wars force-like powers. Quite frankly, this game expresses "the force" better than 
 any of the star wars games.
  Every class, (there are 6) has different skills.
  LB: choose one of the 4 equipped weapons types. (you can only carry one weapon for each type)
 
  
  Like KH, this game has level ups, but unlike in KH, level ups give you two points to distribute 
 among your stats. Not all classes (there are 6) have the same stats, however. And no, im not talking 
 "its better to train stat A when your using class A, and not train it when your class B!", Im talking 
 every class has its own stat level ups (some do share some however.) stats include electronics 
 (hacking into systems and enemies) , bionics ( allow you to master the force, padawan :B.) , class 
 specific stats (for example a Soldier Class would have a Soldier stat, making the character more 
 physically adept) , and weapons mastery
  (The soldier class can master all the 4 weapon types, but other classes might only be able to master 
 one or two types, remember that every class has its own battle style, even though all the classes 
 carry the 4 types of weapon on them)
  
  Which brings me to another point, equipment.
  Equipment, like in RPG's is found, or earned.
  
  Certain equipment is better than others, but 
 at the same time, might require a certain stat to be at a certain level before being able to equip.
 
  (like armor: you must level up your "armor" stat in order to wear higher class armor.)
  
  Weapons can be equipped as soon as you get them, and you always carry 4 types. The types are (assault, 
 Sniper, Pistol, Shotgun.)
  
  some classes should master one, and others should master the other, but there is never a limit 
 to which weapon CAN be equipped. 
  
  Now, the bad....
  
  ladies and Gentlemen, The Mako. although people say that falling two inches from the air to the 
 ground will send the Mako flying, it really wont. It all actually depends on which planet youre 
 on. The gravity pull is listed on each planet before you land on it.
  
  What is terrible about the Mako, is Combat.
  
  The turret, is a betch! you cant aim down, which 
 makes sense, but you cant aim up really high! This really sucks in mountain-ish areas. or when 
 you have to fight an enemy whose weak point is its jaw.
  
  I actually get out and start massacring everything on foot.
  
  Hmmm... i think i pretty much 
 covered it... Im 45 hours into the game, and i keep comming back, because it just draws you in. 
 And to add to that, downloadable WORLDS and STORYLINES are available, so im thinking this saga 
 isnt ending anytime soon.
  
  multiplayer wouldve been great, and i have some good ideas in my head, but the games is enjoyable 
 without :]
  
  message me and tell me if you like this review! i need to know what i did! good/bad, you know. 
 a lil too much?
  
  took me an hour to write :0 i type slow!
  
  -XXBSXX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UndyTonza
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  First, the game is unbelievable. It`s story is fantastic, battles are great, you can choose what 
 you want to say and there is many other other things to do. You can do fairly over 100 missions 
 and choose are you bad or good and get a romance. Explore other planets and races on the milky 
 way, you can visit even in the moon. But, there is some bad sides: tech which you can see on getting 
 in wall and partners stuck on boxes or lockers and when you play a lot of that game, and i mean 
 A LOT it gets boring.. You know what happens after that and that. it is not nice. So that's why 
 i can`t give a 10 to Mass Effect. But the story is still good and when you play it on first time, 
 you get hooked on it for long time. The game is good but tech and that growing bored feeling makes 
 the games grade a bit lower.. But it is a game that you must play if you like space drama, good 
 actioned combat and freedom to go where you want this is a game you must play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hightower8655
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the type of game that pushes boundaries and shows what the next generation of entertainment 
 software can be capable of. Though many of this game's elements have been done in some form or 
 fashion in the past, they have never been performed with the same skill or precision that they 
 have been implemented in this piece of art. This game has its share of technical issues, true, 
 but they do not detract from the overall experience. In my opinion, too much has been made of these 
 issues, as they do not truly interfere with the enjoyment this title provides.
  
  HIGH POINTS: First, the story. The story is very compelling and keeps you attached to the characters 
 and the crisis at hand. I do have some beef with a couple of the story elements, but I will address 
 that later. Overall, the universe created by this game is compelling and certainly on par with 
 Star Wars and the like. Conversation choices are fun, and situations are involving and entertaining. 
 Second, the graphics are amazing. Yes, the texts are slow loading at times, but once they fully 
 load, the detail is amazing. Third, the open nature of the game is amazing. Being an astronomy 
 nut myself, the fact that you can travel to different "Solar Systems" and see different planets 
 that have there own stories and ecologies was a lot of fun for me and surely for anyone else interested 
 in the same type of stuff. There are several other high points involved with this game, but I won't 
 waste your time going over each one. Suffice it to say, this game is awesome.
  
  LOW POINTS: I guess I could bring up the tech issues, like everyone else would, but that was not 
 one of the major low points for me. The slow loading textures are a problem, but not so much so 
 as to detract from the overall experience. One issue I have is the fact that the story grides to 
 a halt in the middle of the game. If you engage in any amount of side missions at all (which you 
 should if you want to fully experience the Mass Effect universe) you could go anywhere between 
 8-10 hours or more without any story development. Saren (the antagonist) just fades out until the 
 end of the game, and this hurts the gravity of the final conflict. Second, elements of the combat 
 are weak. Now, let me preface this by saying that I am very glad that they decided to us real time 
 combat in this game, and for the most part, all things considered, it is implemented well. Its 
 not halo, but what do you expect? You are playing an RPG, not a shooter. However, it is impossible 
 to hold ANY Ground in a fight. You can take the automatic rifle and just LAY on the trigger, and 
 an enemy (in the higher difficulty levels especially) will just run through the bullets and right 
 to your position. There is no knock back, and the damage done by the weapons is not enough to kill 
 them before they get to you position. I mean, come on, if I was pumping someone (something?) full 
 of high-velocity slugs, they should get knocked back to some degree. But no, it feels like you 
 are firing a Nerf cannon full of Skittles at an elephant. No effect. Certainly not "Mass" effect.... okay, 
 that was dumb. Sorry, back to business.
  
  THE SCOOP: This is a great game. I have no doubt that the sequel will only improve upon the small 
 issues of this game. Any one who is a fan of space dramas and interstellar warfare will definitely 
 enjoy this one. The story is great (when it is going) and most elements are either performed well 
 or with small issues. Overall, this game is a complete must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bush66
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is now one of my favorite games, mainly because it has one of the best stories that 
 I've heard in a video game. There is not one spot in this game where you are confused about the 
 story because you can gain codex entries which provide you more than enough information about the 
 world of Mass Effect. Another reason why Mass Effect is such a great game is due to its replay 
 value. After a couple run throughs of this game I still don't think I have completed everything 
 there is to do. If ever you get bored of the main quest, then there are about a hundred side quest 
 in which you can partake. This game does have some faults however. There are tons of graphical 
 glitiches which can distract from an otherwise beautiful game, and very annoying elevator rides. 
 Seriously why couldn't they have just put in a short little load screen.
  
  All that aside Mass Effect is a very fun and addictive game no matter what level of gamer you are 
 and keep you busy for hours with all the content which has been packed into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _guenter_26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect is another great RPG from Bioware. Its stroy is absolutely awsome and i love how it 
 can be shaped ny your actions just like KOTOR 1&2. Also it is very well structured and action packed 
 and suspencefull. The character customization is good and does have good depth. The graphics are 
 good, but can be annoying with glitches. The detail is good especially with the characters. The 
 gameplay is solid adn being able to explorer the galaxy is fun, but you eventually have to play 
 the main quest line to unlock more. The TPS aspect and cover system makes this RPG feel sort of 
 like GOW and some people have trouble driving the Mako, but if you zoom in it is much easier. The 
 voice acting is great and i love the sci-fi soundtrack although sometimes it can be sort of creepy. 
 The character interaction is great and i like how they made talking seem more realistic. They one 
 thing that i would have liked added is that you could explorer the galaxy after you beat the game. 
 Overall Mass Effect is a great game with a good story, gameplay, and graphics and voice acting 
 and soundtrack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XPHOBOS666X
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  I have played this game to the end and back at least four times. Every time a little different 
 with a different character with different allies. There so many different ways to play this game. 
 You can blast your way through with guns, or throw people around with the bionics. So many different 
 characters to meet and talk to. The speaking system is one of a kind. Being able to pick what to 
 say before hand helps lead to more realistic speech. The love story in side of the main story is 
 very well done despite the media coverage. The addon through Xbox Live is a great little side mission, 
 worth buying and getting. I've never been one for a RPG, but with style of fighting like ghost 
 recon but the rpg style of Oblivion this game blends great gameplay with a great story to produce 
 one my all-time Favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheese_123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  You are Commander Sheperd. An elite soldier. Kicking aliens (and humans) ass into the 20000th century, 
 and you have a team of aliens with you, how cool! In Mass Effect you can explore the whole galaxy, 
 saveing whole planets from utter destruction. It's a third person shooter/RPG in which you can 
 be renegade (bad) or a paragon (good) , and every decision you make affects the story, even if you 
 bring certain members with you onto certain planets it changes the story. The main story is a bit 
 short but the rest of it (side missions, lovers, random conversations or just plain old exploring) 
 makes up a huge chunk of he game. It starts a bit slow, but really picks up when you get your spaceship 
 and observe the whole area which you can explore.
  
  There are six classes to choose from, 3 backgrounds, 3 milatary carreers, and two sexes to choose 
 from (all of which changes the storyline) . It being an RPG it had to have spells, in Mass Effect 
 they are called bionics and there's no mana to be seen, you just wait for your ability to charge 
 up and you can use it. The leveling up in the game is a really good system, kill and get more exp, 
 I think it may catch on, and when you level up you can improve certain abilities or improve your 
 skill in one type of weapon. The inventory is filled by the fact that you automatically gather 
 items when you kill enemies . There are four different weapons, pistol, shotgun, assualt rifle 
 and a sniper rifle. The achievments don't just give you gamerscore they can actually improve your 
 character like for instance the Geth hunter achievment gives you 10% more shields.
  
  I really think this one of THE best games on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaosKetchup
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  It's true, what they say, with great power comes great responsibility,: p
  
  You start the game off, on a beautiful planet called Eden Prime, though once you get there you 
 realize that it is no longer beautiful as much of the gorgeous landscape has been badly ravaged 
 and set on fire. As you further your journey on Eden Prime you soon find the dead body of your 
 fellow comrade, and not much later you find that he was betrayed. Not by just anybody, but by a 
 member of the SPECTREs, a special forces group, lead by none other than the Counsel Itself. Now, 
 as you sit on your comfy sofa, your interest peaks and from that moment on you become enthralled 
 in one of the most intricate and well presented stories ever to grace the 360. (and as of late 
 the PC too) .
  
  The graphics are amazing, the character dialogue is amusing, The planets are plush and well designed, 
 though i have to admit i had problems with the little issue of texture buffer, but my first playthrough 
 went unhindered by the subtle problem. You have to see the influences taken on by this game. If 
 any of you have seen Blade Runner you could very well see what i mean. especially the design as 
 well as the whole man vs android things thats going on. 
  
  There's not much to complain about, it has an excellent combat system, more than gratifying in-depth 
 characters as well as an incredible story that just may leave you in tears if you are faint of 
 heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a new action RPG developed by BioWare, a company that some may know as the makers 
 of Star Wars: KotoR. It's a blend of third person shooting and role playing that delivers a wonderful 
 gaming experience.
  
  We follow Commander Shepard and his crew through the universe as he searches for clues stop Geth 
 and a rogue Spectre named Saren. The game features and interesting cast of characters and an extensive 
 amount of side quests. The story is very interesting and it really keeps you hooked as you discover 
 the reason behind the Geth's sudden uprise.
  
  The gameplay is smooth and the controls are simple enough. One big problem in the game is your 
 partner A. I. They have an odd tendency to run in front of your cross hairs in the middle of a fire 
 fight. Character customization is deep and you can get lost in it if making the perfect character 
 is your thing. The game loads a lot, some are cleverly hidden elevator rides, which occasionally 
 serve a purpose for picking up quests and some not so subtle... You can play the game as a renegade, 
 which is the bad boy of the game, or a paragon which is the Mr. Nice guy. The game throws some 
 difficult choices at you but they all lead to getting the job done. You can upgrade your armor 
 and weapons with items you find lying around in crates and other things of the like, or looted 
 off corpses. Talking to your team mates can lead to opening up new quests while you learn more 
 about them or open up romance plots if you play your cards right. The game encourages exploration 
 by including things in the environment you have to find, missions and side quests that don't exactly 
 tell you what planet you're looking for. Your Shepard can range be one of 6 classes and can wield 
 a wide range of abilities. Achievements unlock certain stats that a new Shepard may use and stat 
 boosts for older characters.
  
  The graphics is very pretty and the film grain and motion blur really add on that cinematic experience. 
 One issue however, is that a lot of the planets you goto look the same. The sound really adds onto 
 the experience and combined with everything else in the game creates some very memorable moments.
 
  
  This is a game any 360 owner should have in their library. The story is amazing, and the game is 
 fun. The game has a lot of replay value and it really delivers an experience that leaves no gamer 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lpheisel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. It has the engrossing story and all the different planetary systems to travel 
 to, plus aliens.
  
  The Good: Story, story, story. Great job by the BioWare folks. Citidel rapid transit, great idea 
 instead of wandering around constantly. Good character interaction.
  
  The Bad: The Mako sucks. Couldn't hit water with it if it fell out of a boat. I ended up just running 
 things over until I got close enough to **finally** hit them with my weapons. Ditch it for another 
 more usable combat vehicle in Mass Effect 2. The elevators - unless you are loading content, speed 
 them up.
  
  The Ugly: My character was crosseyed! Doubt they could get into the army with dodgy eyeballs! LOL!
 
  
  For Mass Effect 2, new vehicle please. Also, inside the Normandy, you should be able to level up 
 your crew instead of having to go into the airlock.
  
  Anyway, well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolls
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This game just made my top ten list.
  
  The game starts off with the choice to chose the pre-made character or to design your own from 
 the amazing morphing way of designing a character (the usual thing in all EA games) . But it also 
 lets you chose from where you grew up and what you have done in the past. This may sound great 
 but makes no real difference to the game. However your surname will always be Shepard.
  
  The story then begins by throwing you into the action almost immediately with the defence of one 
 of earths of world's colonies with two team mates and a turian spector who is here to rate your 
 performance. Just after you touch down one of your team mates is killed by an unknown enemy and 
 the turian spector is betrayed by a fellow turian spector. (If you want to know what a turian is 
 look it up or play the game) .
  
  As you play through the storyline you will unlock new characters to aid you on your journey, each 
 with there own specialties letting you mix and match who you will have in your party and this works 
 really well.
  
  The game follows a linear path, but does let you choose which missions to do first which makes 
 you feel like your in charge. There is also a good or evil path but it doesn't make much of a difference 
 to the overall storyline however there are multiple endings which will make you play through again 
 just to see them. 
  
  The combat system is good giving you control of what guns and abilities that you and your team 
 mates use which is good but sometimes suffers from an annoying bug where your party members switch 
 to a pistol but this doesn't happen much so isn't to much to worry about.
  
  There is also a leveling up system which is good, unlocking stronger abilities for you an your 
 party as you gain experience from killing enemies, completing missions and the usual stuff.
  
  On the whole the game is excellent with hours of replay value if you want to go back and complete 
 all the side quests, and is definitely the best RPG since Elder Scrolls: Oblivion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_fan391
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: You can choose your class and your look right off the bat, you can be a biotic character, 
 which is using powers such as throwing people or creating shields (the force) . You can also be 
 a soldier which is mainly guns such as an assault rifle, shotgun, sniper or pistol. Throughout 
 the game you will find new armour and weapons and be able to equip them for all of your teamates, 
 which you will be able to have 2 accompany you. The combat is similar to gears of war like the 
 taking cover but far more complex. You can be mean or nice which will have different outcomes on 
 whichever you choose. You can level up like most RPG's and once you finish a play-through you will 
 be able to start over with the same character and so on. The main point of the game is to travel 
 between galaxies and planets and find a man (alien dude) named saren who is planning to kill everything 
 etc. When on most planets will be in your vehicle that is a giant quad with six wheels that is 
 very fun to rip around on thevarious terrain. There are many side-missions which will total to 
 about 20 hours first time. The game does start out very slow but soon gets very good once you get 
 to do as you please.
  
  Graphics: They're pretty good but lags quite a bit when there are a lot of enemies but not a big 
 deal.
  
  Sound: superb, voice acting is great
  
  Overall I reccomend buying this game or at least renting it if your an RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fearless_BadAss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  Amazing game with an excellent story. Combat and most other gameplay is a delight. Top it off with 
 beautiful graphics and you have an instant classic in your hands.
  
  When considering the combat I have to say I was pleasantly surprised at how fun it can be. BioWare 
 is known for making innovative combat systems and this is no exception. Think of it as a third 
 person shooter system with "force" powers and RPG elements. If I had to criticize I would say that 
 the Biotec moves could be more deadly and there were no swords.
  
  Unfortunately, the side quests can be excessively boring. There really isn't much of a change in 
 the type of side quests you do; they all follow a very similar pattern. However, they can be very 
 entertaining and many do allow you to explore more aspects of the overall story than just the story 
 missions do.
  
  You wont be disappointed with this game, especially when you start getting into the story. There 
 were many times when I would play a lot later than usual just so I could hear more.
  
  Hope you Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivekananth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  i don't say this game is too good but its worth playing, the game play is good but it get bored 
 after a while but the graphics, its massive its so real we cant think it is a game, next the story 
 its a rpg game so we don't have to say, its a bigggg story and the story is good too there are lots 
 of missions in this game including side missions so if anyone liked this game you don't have to 
 worry that this game gonna end bcuz part TWO is on the way, ohh i forget to give ratings for game 
 play i give 8.5/10, for graphics9.5/10 then finally story 8.5/10 so over all i give 8.5/10, ohh 
 again i forgot some thing the paragon and renegade the Paragon (good) or Renegade (bad) It doesnt 
 give you the choice of picking which one to go by which is good because you wont have too restart 
 the game to unlock the achievement to get 75% of both of them which is hard enough over all I believe 
 this is a game great for people who like a good a well written and carefully told storyline compared 
 to those who focus on Combat and Killing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngage260
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  First off, I have to say that the game itself is great. Fluid graphics, a great story-line, and 
 a variety of actions that make's the game repeatedly playable are only a few of the many factors 
 that add up to a fun and successful game. Play through the main-quest, and you haven't even scratched 
 the surface of the game. Play it twice, and you only have a vague idea. Leveling can be automatic, 
 a good choice for a beginning gamer, or personalized, a good choice for those of us who have past 
 many hours on such leveling screens, molding our characters into an exact image of the characters 
 we want. 
  One of the best parts of ME that I found was the dynamic effect choices have on the game. While 
 most (if not every) team-based game is relatively straight-forward and single minded, ME has changed 
 that idea forever. Choice can be made that effect yourself, your environment, or your very team. 
 YOu might be asked to make a sacrifice, or make a decision that is either the best for you or another... 
 whatever you do, know that the choice will come back later, and think about it.
  ME is far from perfect though. A sad lack of diversity in enemy units is a strong disappointment, 
 as well as the highly predictable (though still great) story line. Combat is incredible, with a 
 wide range of possible actions (firing, cover, grenades, etc.) until you hit a large group of enemies 
 (almost always Get, bionic humanoids which have come to aid the Reapers) and the frame rate starts 
 to drop. If anyone reading this has ever played a shooter when the screen suddenly starts to jump, 
 you realize that "chaotic" is only the best way to describe it.
  Worth playing at least once, Mass Effect will be a great experience. Looking back however, you 
 may also see a disaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkadima
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Overall it's a wonderful game. Enviorments look great, characters look great. The character creation 
 screen is really good because they make it so your character will always look like an actual human, 
 not some psycho with eyes on the sides of his head. 
  
  I got around 60 hours of gameplay from it and didnt even do 75% of the game. The story is wonderfully 
 layed out and extremely immersive. The attributes screen is nice and full and is really balanced. 
 Teammates are cool and each contribute differently to the plotline. You have tons of abilities 
 per class and combat never gets old because you're always in a new enviorment and always have different 
 or stronger skills.
  
  However, the constant loadin screens will really take you off of the game for a few seconds and 
 take you out of the zone. The enemy AI is sometimes bad, and there is lots of texture pop in. 
 
  
  If you look past those things though, it comes out to be a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staticx416
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is probably one of the most intriguing and addicting games I have ever played, up there 
 with Neverwinter Nights, Thief, and Hitman 2. I initially doubted how good it was and how much 
 fun it could be, despite what my friends were saying. But i succumbed to the hype and fell in love. 
 The first night I played, i played for almost eight hours without even realizing it. I kept telling 
 myself, "oh I'll just finish this mission" or "I'll just get this upgrade". before you know it 
 i had put 24 hours worth into the game in a weekend. Funny thing was the farther into it I got 
 the more i found myself asking for more. The story gets good and stays good. The game play is fantastic 
 save for the driving. and the graphics are good enough you'll think you're watching a movie. This 
 game should be in any gamers stash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: probot6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  When i first purchased Mass Effect, i said, "this should act as a good appetizer to KOTOR III." 
 little did i know that Mass Effect was going to have such an immersive and compelling story. As 
 soon as I got through the couple of initial, getting to know the game levels, i was hooked. i found 
 myself talking to every NPC and trying to learn as much about this universe as i could. As soon 
 as i finished the game, i wanted more. "They can't just leave it at that." i muttered to myself 
 as the credits rolled, "I can't wait for Mass Effect II." At first i was a little sad i had finished 
 the game i had loved so dearly, but then i started to wonder, what if i had done this differently? 
 so made a new character, a bizarro me. i went through the game as a complete bad ass. very few 
 games ever compel me to play through them more than once, but Mass Effect was different. The only 
 one part of the game i felt was lacking, driving the vehicle. for the most part i was trying to 
 shoot from a distance, taking out as many enemies as i could before my shield ran out and retreating 
 to wait for it to recharge. this took me out of the game a little, during the rest of the game 
 i didn't want to leave it for a second to answer the phone or use the restroom. in the vehicle 
 however i would fight, then park somewhere and get a snack while my shield recharged. this was 
 a very small portion of the game however, so 9.5 it is. i really do love this game and will most 
 likely go for a third play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagisterBurner
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Story: "You play through the game as Shepherd, an Alliance Commander. You start the game on a seemingly 
 mundane mission, but some of your crew believe it's more then that because there is a Specter on 
 board. Soon you find out the you are being evaluated by said Specter, for a Specter position. (ZMOG 
 Awesome!) And from there on you get swept up in a grand tale of mystery, deceit, action, suspense 
 and romance. (Niccce...) The story never lets up until the very end, and it's never what you'd expect, 
 this story truly is one of the best Science Fiction stories ever told. Check it out! Really... right 
 now... I think Best Buy has some... maybe Gamestop..."
  
  Gameplay: You can chose from many different classes in Mass Effect, each of them can be very good 
 or very bad, depending on what type of game style you like. There is three base skills: "Soldier, 
 excels in all types of guns, also has health boost and defense-fortify skills." "Biotic (Magic) , 
 Almost the magician of Mass Effect, Biotics may not always be able to have heavy armor-produced 
 kinetic barriers (Shields) they compensate with a Biotic kinetic barrier that you "Cast" also they 
 have "Lift" and "Throw". They also have other talents which can weaken enemies and fortify yourself." 
 "Engineers" or "Techs" use their "Omni-tool" to alter enemy weapons and armor, they also have a 
 very cool ability to hack "Synthetics" then turn them temporally into an ally, very useful." All 
 Classes can be combined "Biotic/Solider" etc. The skills are halved on each base skill."
  You can replay Mass Effect as much as you want, your levels carry over to the next game if you 
 would like them to, as do your skills.
  Also the amount of customizable options is very good. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are stunning 
 in this game, from the detailed planets to each and every face. Other than a few eyelid glitches, 
 it's beautiful. Nuff' said.
  
  So all in all, it's a great RPG, but it goes so far beyond that. To say "very good RPG" just does 
 not give it enough credit, it truly is an amazing game in every sense of the word for all game 
 fans out there, pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordofmorgan
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I love space games, but I hardly ever play them. Like Homeworld and Sins of the Solar Empire, the 
 graphics make my jaw drop and remind me how small we humans are in contrast to deep space. But 
 I what I love more is a intriguing story with rich characters and emotional development. To often 
 these elements have been absent from the space sims. But not here.
  
  Imagine the graphics of Assassin's Creed and personal interactions ten times more rich than Half 
 Life 2. The throw in the depth of the old Sega Genesis game called Starflight. The main story line 
 is long but thorough. Combine the myriad of side missions and this game could easily last you several 
 months of constant game play. Sometimes I feel like I'm watching a feature film and even forget 
 that there is a controller in my hands. 
  
  The voice acting is better than anything else to date. It doesn't just rattle off the scripted 
 dialogue with little or no invested emotion, as so many games out there (Assassin's Creed sadly 
 included) . Crappy voice acting can make a great game suck, while excellent voicing will elevate 
 a good game to a great one. For Mass Effect, both the script AND acting are believable and realistic, 
 making this game surpass great and enter the realm of phenomenal. Hopefully this will set a new 
 (and much needed) standard for game developers.
  
  Another pleasant feature of Mass Effect is the lack of gratuity in anything. Some games go way 
 over the line, trying to fill the voids and mask their lack. This is not to say that Mass Effect 
 pulls punches in the area of war or the often gritty life in space. My jaw dropped many times at 
 plot twists or sudden events (most of them involving sudden death) . While this game is still rated 
 M, I would call it a "light M."
  
  Overall, I think this is one of the best games ever made. Any game that provides a rich enough 
 tapestry for fans to write entire novels from it should get the attention of anyone with a love 
 for a great story. The fact Mass Effect is only the first of a trilogy only sweetens the deal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edlim615
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  I agree with the hype. Great game, and a wonderful start to a new franchise.
  
  I have to admit that when I first started playing it, I quickly got bored while putzing around 
 the Citadel in the introductory portion of the game. I actually put the game away and played Puzzle 
 Quest for a month before I got back into Mass Effect. I'm glad I did, because after pushing through 
 a few quests, I got into space and got to explore a whole galaxy.
  
  I can see now how important it was to get a feel for the Citadel, and how it set the stage for 
 the intra-species conflicts I would see in the rest of civilized and uncharted space.
  
  The aliens, the characters, the environments... all richly conceived. It is a universe that was 
 a joy to explore.
  
  A few guesses for the future.
  
  in Mass Effect 2, we will delve into other parts of the galaxy to learn how to stop the Reapers. 
 It took the whole Council Fleet to destroy one Reaper, so a weapon must be found with the firepower 
 capable of destroying many.
  
  In Mass Effect 3, we will leave the familiarity of the galaxy to hunt the Reapers in cold, intergalactic 
 space. Where will they be found? Maybe Prothean artifacts or the Citadel hold the key. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Absolution065
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  The creators or Star Wars: KOTOR have stolen hours off of our lives yet again, with Mass Effect 
 as one of the most immense video games of it's genre, making poor blokes single once again. But 
 before I start raving about how much I think this game kicks ass, let's get the low down on it 
 first.
  
  It is the year 2183. In the last century, man has landed on Mars, ventured to the furthest reaches 
 of space, and have made contact with extraterrestrial beings. You play as Commander Shepard aboard 
 thee SSV Normandy, one of the fastest space vessels in the human fleet. The game begins with the 
 protagonist landing on the human occupied planet of Eden Prime, on a mission to obtain an ancient 
 Prothean beacon from the recently attacked planet. The Protheans being a race who once inhabited 
 the galaxy until their mysterious extinction. The only traces of their existence have allowed for 
 new races to expand through the galaxy from their advanced technology. Helping Shepard is a Turian 
 "Spectre" named Nihlus, under the orders of the Citadel Council, the representatives of the united 
 races in Citadel space. Things become pear shaped when you discover that the attackers of the planet 
 are an old race of synthetic life forms known as the Geth, under the control of a rogue Turian 
 spectre called Saren, who serves as the main antagonist of the game. It eventually becomes your 
 sole duty as the newly made first human Spectre to track down Saren through space, preventing him 
 from obtaining the valuable information contained in the Prothean artefacts and from destroying 
 the galaxy.
  
  The game uses the main RPG elements you would expect, allowing you to determine whether you will 
 play as a male or female Commander Shepard, as well as being able to fully customise their facial 
 appearance, and selecting what class they will specialise in. The classes range from Soldier (exceptional 
 skill with all weaponry) , Engineer (with the abilities of tech weaponry and hacking skills) , and 
 the Adept (almost like force powers like in SW: KOTOR) . 
  
  As with KOTOR, you have to make morality choices resulting in how your comrades respond to you 
 and the outcome of the game. Your morality is generally affected by who you decide to kill and 
 what you say to others around you. Conversation and dialogue is a huge element in the game, which 
 helps creates a very well scripted story, which may sometimes be difficult to follow, but engages 
 the player with the ability to select the response they wish to make.
  
  The game really kicks off after you have acquired your main party members who assist you on the 
 missions. In total there are six of them, all with their own class and special abilities. They 
 all have their own back story which come into play throughout the game, even resulting in side 
 quests for certain characters. With hard hitters like the Grogan, Wrex, to the more versatile characters 
 such as the Turian, Garrus. What is very interesting is how you can engage in a special relationship 
 with some of the characters, yet again for cinematic appeal.
  
  The combat system is based on that of a 3rd-person shooter, which works tremendously well with 
 a handy cover system, not too different from more recent titles such as GTA IV. Selecting your 
 weapon freezes combat around you, giving you time to select your weapon with the simple menu. However, 
 using special abilities such as Biotic powers seems tedious at times, having to press the shoulder 
 button, selecting your desired attack with the action paused, and having to aim it at the enemy. 
 This gets annoying on occasions when you sometime feel like running in blazing all guns and powers. 
 It slows the action down, but you can't really complain too much as this is a RPG, with only 3rd-person 
 elements.
  
  The story itself is engaging and intense, with loads of side-missions to boot, mainly exploring 
 uncharted worlds looking for undiscovered sites in order to gain experience for your party. These 
 side quests are nearly essential as they make your party stronger for the main story missions, 
 which if at a low level can be really difficult and frustrating. For me, who played almost every 
 side mission as possible, it took me around fifty hours of play to complete it. So this game is 
 not really for the casual gamer.
  
  As you have probably gathered, I could go on for ages about how enjoyable this game is, with minor 
 flaws, made up by a great storyline with plot twists which would make you question just how many 
 monkeys it would take to screw in a light bulb.
  
  
  Graphics: 9.5 - They don't get better than this. HD gaming at it's best.
  
  Game play: 8.0 
 - Great, but not exceptional. Some flaws which slow down the action, but nothing which really hampers 
 the player's enjoyment. 
  
  Sound: 9.5 - One of the best soundtracks for a video game, bringing back the sci-fi sounds of the 
 80s back. Space was meant to sound this good.
  
  Length/Story: 10.0 - With so many planets and solar systems to explore, you'll be blasting at this 
 for a few good solid weeks of play. You'll also want to go back for more to get alternate endings. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ting0065
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  Mass effect is a good RPG with a great storyline decent combat. Its setting is great and is classic 
 sci-fi all the way through.
  The character creation is the best in role playing games, it lets you decide sheppard's first name, 
 gender, class and his apperance. Any shepard you create (male or female) will look great and really 
 belivable.
  The graphics in mass effect are stunning. Character models look revolutionary and the enviroments 
 of every planet and space ship look differant and original.
  The combat is sort of like gears of war, where you take cover and shoot at the enemy. Depending 
 on what class you pick you might be able to use powers that throw an enemy or overheat their wepons. 
 Combat can be frustrating where you die and go back to a point and have to do everything again. 
 Squad comands are poor so you will probably end up not using them.
  Talking to other characters is really fun on Mass effect because shepards responces can be hilarious. 
 You will meet plenty of interesting characters to join your squad. Some have romance side plots 
 and at the end of one of those plots shepard and his lover go to bed together.
  Some of Mass effect's bad points are really long loading times (in an elivator especially) , un-user 
 friendly quest log and buy interface, combat system (at times) and it may crash a few times on 
 your 360.
  Overall Mass effect is a good game (not great) and is worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echonian
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is, to start, a great original setting for a sci-fi game. It takes place a few hundred 
 years into the future, after mankind has discovered alien artifacts allowing travel between the 
 stars, and aliens as well. 
  
  The story has you flying through space in the latest technological achievement in space engineering, 
 the Normandy, which is far more advanced than any ship ever built. After becoming a spectre, an 
 elite agent for the council, a tribunal of alien leaders who rule the galaxy, you lead the crew 
 on missions that unfold eventually into you fighting for the survival of all organic life.
  
  The music is very neat, giving a very good sci-fi feel. Its hard to describe it however, besides 
 saying it is somewhat electro. 
  
  The storyline has tons of side quests and lots of depth, which is hard to explain in this short 
 review. But needless to say, for sci-fi junkies, its worth the money. And the game has enough replay 
 value to last you for a while. Did I mention the storyline is very VERY immersive and just great 
 in general? =)
  
  The one problem I had with Mass Effect was the combat system. While fun for a while, there is a 
 limited selection of abilities. You fight with Assault Rifles, Shotguns, Pistols, or Sniper Rifles. 
 They are almost all identical to every other gun of the same class, however, even with enhancements 
 you can add to them. You can also gain biotic powers (think the force from Star Wars) , which allow 
 you to throw objects and such. But there are only around 5 biotic abilities. There are also electronic 
 abilities, which are basically based around electronic warfare, causing weapons to overheat, and 
 etc. But there are, again, only a few of them. If there was more weapon variety and more skills, 
 the combat would be fine. And it mostly is. Grenades are also very boring to use.
  
  But overall, Mass Effect is a great game. I got bored with it, but only because I didn't like the 
 combat system. It is definately worth a buy unless you strongly hate sci-fi games or RPGs in general... 
 or both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KILLSYOU123
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect starts you out creating a background story for your character John Shepard (or whatever 
 First name you pick) which doesn't happen in most RPG games which gives you a good grip on How 
 the story will unfurl itsself I chose the killing of My parents but you pick whatever you want 
 (its my opinion) the interactibility with the enviroment is annoying sometimes and its hard too 
 get used to the combat but when you do it's realy fun and too add on to those feature they give 
 you a Paragon (good) or Renegade (bad) It doesnt give you the choice of picking which one to go 
 by which is good because you wont have too restart the game to unlock the acheivement to get 75% 
 of both of them which is hard enough over all I believe this is a game great for people who like 
 a good a well written and carefully told storyline compared to those who focus on Combat and Killing 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie_Q
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  BioWare is famous for its sci-fi RPGs. Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic is arguably the best 
 one to date. Their latest effort, Mass Effect, is no slouch either, but some unnacceptable technical 
 issues hold it back from true greatness.
  
  Mass Effect's plot isn't exactly revolutionary: the galaxy is in trouble, and it is up to you to 
 beat the odds and save it. However, there are some twists. Humanity is a mere fledgling in inter-galactic 
 politics, so when you are tasked with saving the galaxy, you are not only representing yourself, 
 you are representing your entire species. Also, because of humanity's status (or lack thereof) , 
 the galactic council does not fully believe you, nor offer their support when you discover that 
 the galaxy is in far greater danger than it is originally thought. What the deceit, heartbreak, 
 and suspense boils down to is an engaging plot that keeps you on your toes from beginning to end. 
 The plot is deep, and chalk-full of surprises, despite being rather linear.
  
  Mass Effect is an interesting shooter/RPG hybrid. While the weapons are the like of sniper rifles 
 and shotguns, you will level up your characters as they gain experience points from defeating enemies, 
 picking locks, and completing missions. When you level up, you obtain skill points that can be 
 used to improve your weapon skills, increase your health, or even open up new dialogue options. 
 The levelling system doesn't have so much influence that it can dictate your success of failure 
 in a certain mission. You never feel like you have to grind to beat the next mission. Rather, it 
 simply makes missions easier or more difficult, depending on whether you are high-levelled or low-levelled, 
 respectively.
  
  As for the actual gameplay, the shooter elements get the job done, striking a nice balance between 
 the simple and the complex. You have four weapons at your disposal- a pistol, an assault rifle, 
 a shotgun, and a sniper rifle. However, only one of the six classes can use all three weapons. 
 There are also tech- and biotic- abilities. Tech allows you to disarm enemies, open more complex 
 locks, or scan more artifacts. Biotic abilities can distort space, stop time, hurl your enemies 
 through the air, or otherwise incapacitate your foe. Each of the six available classes uses a combination 
 of tech abilities, biotic abilities, or weapons to create a unique combo. Fighting with each class, 
 you will have to adapt your strategies to suit its strengths. The Soldier, pure weaponry, relies 
 on brute force to bust through your enemies. Using the engineer and tech abilities, it's best to 
 hang back and disable your enemies while your teammates finish them in close combat. If you've 
 chosen the adept, a user of biotics, you will want to incapacitate your enemies by freezing them 
 or throwing them around, then finish them with your light weaponry.
  
  In addition to the classes, Mass Effect offers a good/evil system called Paragon (good) or Renegade 
 (evil) . Your Paragon/Renegade meter is affected by your choices in conversations and your actions 
 in-game (for example, several times in the game you will have to choose whether to kill someone 
 or let them live) . While this system offers some interesting moral debates, it would have been 
 nice to see it have a greater effect on in-game events. Rather, it simply changes how people talk 
 to you, and alters some cut-scenes. It has no overall effect whatsoever, although your actual choices 
 do. For example, you can be a complete jerk to one of your comrades, but they will still become 
 your partner at the game's conclusion if you speak to them often enough.
  
  During actual combat in Mass Effect, you focus in on your enemies by holding the Left Trigger and 
 fire with the right. To use tech or biotic skills, you hold RB and choose your or your allies' 
 attack by spinning a wheel with the Left Trigger and selecting one with A. Mass Effect also features 
 a cover system that is unfortunately best left alone, due to an alarmingly common tendency to become 
 stuck in the object you have chosen to hude behind (if you do choose to use the cover system, it 
 is activated simply by pushing up against a wall or box) . To open locked crates or scan objects, 
 you play a short minigame in which you have to press A, B, X, or Y according to the prompts. Many 
 times if you fail you'll have to use precious Omni-gel to blast the lock, but once you get used 
 to the game it's pretty easy. Once nerf that detracts from the controls is that grenades are assigned 
 to the "Back" button, which is incredibly awkward and illogical. Fortunately, grenades aren't often 
 used in the game, so it isn't a major problem .All this may seem confusing at first, but once you 
 get used to it, it seems natural and doesn't slow down the gameplay at all.
  
  While exploring uncharted worlds, you will travel in an incredible ATV/tank/jeep hybrid thing called 
 the Mako. The Mako handles like a brick, is equipped with powerful thrusters, and can travel up 
 almost any mountain that slopes up under 90 degrees. It is equipped with a blasting turret and 
 a machine gun that absolutely obliterate your enemies. Unfortunately, the Mako can sometimes get 
 stuck, and the camera can be a pain when it swings under the vehicle or out to the side.
  
  Mass Effect is a great-looking game. Character models, apart from some odd lighting and shading 
 effects, are great, especially Urdnot Wrex, a behemoth alien who's face is a veritable masterpiece 
 of crags, lines, and scars. Every character in the game seems perfectly rendered to compliment 
 their personality and traits. The cut-scenes, too, are beautiful. Facial expressions on characters 
 can sometimes get a little odd, but for the most part are surprisingly realistic. There is nothing 
 quite like the majesty of Commander Shepard's ship, the Normandy, lifting off from a docking station 
 and soaring into the starry sky. And you might even get a little scared when you enter a dark room, 
 triggering a scene in which a hulking monster bursts from the ground with a guttural growl, saliva 
 dripping from it's razor sharp teeth, the usual ritual which signals one of the game's epic boss 
 fights.
  
  In such a large-scale game, the environments are hugely important. Fortunately, they are superb, 
 for the most part. The Citadel- a huge space station from which all intergalactic communications 
 are monitored- is truly a sight to behold with its soaring windows, cavernous rooms, and varied 
 inhabitants. The planets too, look beautiful, from the red glow of volcanoes to the whirling white 
 blur of snowy envrinoments, and thus it is safe to say that developers put a lot of effort into 
 giving each planet its own, distinct appearance. There is a problem with the planet environments, 
 however. It has nothing to do with outdoor appearance. This problem occurs when you enter a building 
 on a planet. Originally, the interior appearances of buildings seems great. From the rough walls 
 made of some foreign material, to the doors that slide open with a pneumatic hiss, to the sterile 
 appearance of white-washed rooms. However, if you do a lot of side-missions, you'll begin to notice 
 that there are only three or four variations on the building designs. You'll see one of the same, 
 recycled appearances within each building you enter, and it just looks lazy. Perhaps this was done 
 on purpose; maybe in the future, there is a company "Buildings Inc." that fabricates pre-made buildings 
 for remote outposts, but if this is so, it is not cleared up in the game. Instead, it just appears 
 that the developing team got lazy and rehashed the same buildings tenfold.
  
  One other thing that looks absolutely fabulous is the sky above the planet you are on. Sometimes, 
 a golden sun shines brightly overhead. If you are perhaps on a moon, you can view a beautiful planet 
 above your head, complete with swirls of cloud and whole continents to examine. Other times, asteroids 
 hurtle through space, trailing fiery trails. Yes, the sky is a beautiful thing in Mass Effect.
 
  
  Mass Effect's sound gets the job done. The music is simply superb, and one tune that really stuck 
 with me is a mournful horn solo that plays as you traverse the snowy peaks of the planet Noveria. 
 The music really adds a lot to Mass Effect, as its orchestral swells are really well done. As for 
 the weaponry, the four guns sound good. The Sniper Rifle emits a low boom that echoes satisfyingly, 
 and the Assault Rifle patters like a jack hammer as you pump your foes full of plasmic-energy. 
 The dialogue is absolutely fantastic. The lip-syncing is the best I've ever seen, and the voices 
 all seem just right, from the monotone of the Elcor to the breathy tones of the Quarians. All of 
 the background noises, like the low chatter of the Citadel's occupants or the clank as docking 
 magnets are pulled back from the Normandy really add to cut-scenes or gameplay. A neat feature 
 is that you can hear whole conversations between people as you trot through the citadel. Sometimes, 
 if you listen in, they can actually trigger small side-quests.
  
  All of this achievement in visuals, acoustics, and overall impact doesn't come without a cost, 
 however, as Mass Effect is fraught with glitches. Far too often in the game, you will get stuck 
 in walls or other material, experience horrendous frame-rate slowdown, or have the game simply 
 freeze and cease to play. One particularly disturbing experience I had was early on, when a character 
 essential to advancing through the game simply failed to load. Without his presence, it was impossible 
 to move on to the next level, and I was forced to restart my entire game from the beginning.
  
  All taken into account, is Mass Effect worth your hard-earned cash? Definitely. With a healthy 
 amount of class options and multiple endings, you are likely to play through Mass Effect two or 
 even three times. Despite a short main quests, literally hundreds of side-quests are sure to keep 
 you busy for roughly 40 hours, if you take the time to enjoy the experience. This is the sci-fi 
 RPG that 360 owners were hoping for.
  
  Despite its technical flaws, Mass Effect is still a great game that sets a new benchmark for storytelling 
 in a video game. It's visual presentation is simply superb, and the gameplay effectively mixes 
 the best of shooters and RPGs, two of the most popular genres of this gen. At times, I felt like 
 this game deserved a mere 7 out of 10 because of its frustrating glitches. However, now that I 
 can look back on my full experience, I realize that Mass Effect is the best RPG this gen, a robust 
 experience with a fantastic plot, fluid combat, a great orchestral score, and beautiful graphics. 
 All taken into account, Mass Effect could have been one of the most engaging and immersive virtual 
 experiences ever, but the inexcusable technical issues hold it back. I award this game a 9/10 and 
 the title of best RPG this gen, and that is nothing to sneeze at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s_vv
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  As this is another space oriented action RPG one may consider that this may be a bit repetitive 
 or similar to the star wars knights of the old republic series well i atleast considered it to 
 be that way, especially since its from the same people Bioware... but i was definitely wrong about 
 that this game makes a big difference and its a welcome break from the monotonous shooters we have 
 been having on the 360 so far hopefully with the upcoming titles of mass effect 2 and the next 
 installment of fable the rpg genre will be making a good impact on the 360. This game is all that 
 its hyped up to be possibly the best rpg on the 360 if you aim to complete every single side quest 
 and extra mission you would probably take around 40-50 hrs to go through one run of the game and 
 the game has high replay value due to the fact it offers several classes you can use to replay 
 the game with and also different ways in which you can do the story. Though i did find some elements 
 similar to star wars such as the usage of biotic powers, traveling from planet to planet on a private 
 ship, renegade and paragan like dark and lightside, i still felt the game kept it interesting and 
 the storyline makes it extremely compelling. Also the fact that the entire galaxy was free to explore 
 and each solar system had a side quest and one terrestrial planet to land on was amazingly deep 
 though i would say the exploring of new worlds lost its charm after a while and got a bit repetitive 
 towards the end of the game. This game is a must play for fans of Bioware RPGs and any general 
 rpg or action genre fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahmean187
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  pros:
  Mass effect sounds great. the voice acting is fantastic. Mass effect plays great and looks great. 
 it has one of the best stories ever. the conversation wheel works extremely well and the rpg elements 
 are truly second to none. the game is short but it can be long if you do all the side missions. 
 the combat is extremely fun once you get it done w/ all the biotics and guns and stuff. the squad 
 commands could have improved but they are still pretty effective. this is the best rpg ive ever 
 played.
  
  thats a lot of pros.
  overall this game is amazing. i gave it a ten bc the story is great, its like watching a movie. 
 there are some cons though. mass effect has a ton of tech issues. the framerate isnt great and 
 there is a lot of pop in. if you can ignore these flaws this game is a ten, if not, then i feel 
 sorry for you cuz you are missing a truly great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxKing_Leonidas
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a great game with great gameplay, stunning visuals, and one of the best stories 
 ever. 
  Gameplay: Mass Effects gameplay is amazing. With all the gun fights, the interactive cut scenes, 
 everything comes together so great. The gameplay is so ridiculously addictive you won't want to 
 stop until you've beaten it (multiple times) . There are many different classes you can choose from 
 and experimenting with them all also adds to the enjoyment. The squad feature also makes the gameplay 
 that much more addicting. You can choose two squad members and between all the choices they have 
 a lot of different abilities. You'll want to experiment with them all and see which match your 
 play style. Not to mention that you have an entire galaxy of missions and tasks to complete. 
 
  Visuals: With all the different environments throughout the galaxy Mass Effect has some of the 
 greatest visuals ever. From frost covered mountains to dead dry planets there is also a huge verity 
 of environments. 
  Story: Mass Effect has one of the best stories a game has ever had. It is well thought out and 
 works so well. Rouge Specter teams up with a super power machine to destroy all who live; it's 
 just a great story. 
  Overall: Mass Effect is a great game that is for anyone who enjoys games. Also rpg fans and even 
 Science Fiction fans will enjoy this game as well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj2kl2d
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  I loved this game one of the best games I have played for my 360 yet anyone who was a fan of the 
 KOTOR series or Jade Empire will find the conversation experience familiar except that now you 
 can cut off your team mates responses which at some times can be entertaining in its self. A few 
 problems I have with this game is for anyone who really talked about this game or heard about it 
 before the release found themselves expecting a massive universe of hundreds of planets to explore 
 sadly the game just did not deliver on this there are many systems you can visit but for the most 
 part each only have a few planets you can actually land on for missions or plot advances the game 
 was too short for me and did not live up to the reputation that everyone had been giving it. All 
 that aside this game was fun and addictive you can play through with different skills and classes 
 and char. customization was great and the in game conversation was well done and at some moments 
 was dramatic enough to deliver chills. In my opinion a gream game to add to your 360 collection 
 and if Bio Ware puts out downloadable content such as extra worlds missions and upgrades this game 
 will be as good as the amazing graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Splincir
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Ah yes. Mid May and I finally finished Mass Effect (better late than never) . First off, if you've 
 ever played a Bioware RPG just go out and buy this if you haven't already.
  
  Mass Effect is an awesome game; there is no doubt in my mind about that. But this doesn't mean 
 it is without faults. The barren planets and repetitive tasks, chalked up with the minor technical 
 defects add up to enough for them to be noted, and for me to knock off the 10 points.
  
  However the sweeping score, great voice acting, beautiful graphics, and good story all but make 
 up for it. 
  
  I wrapped up the story and most of the side quests in about 32 hours played so it's not ridiculously 
 long, and I'm sure you could finish much faster. It would be a great experience even if you went 
 through just main story line.
  
  The combat is satisfying enough to keep me going, and creating another class of character would 
 seem to create a new experience at least on the combat side of things for another play through.
 
  
  The conversation system is pretty impressive and everyone has something to say to you. Sometimes 
 more than you really want to hear. 
  
  Keeping this short though overall it was a very enjoyable experience and is even worth a least 
 two play throughs. In my book that's saying something for an RPG. 
  
  So there you have it. Not the best American RPG ever but it's definitely worth buying especially 
 if you into Sci-fi.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abczby
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a truly incredible game. The first thing that is noticeable about Mass Effect, is 
 how detailed and massive is really is. The huge galaxy in the game is at your disposal to explore 
 when you want and go wherever you want. Not only is the game massive, but you can do so many things 
 and interact with almost everyone. Mass Effect has a great way of leveling up characters, and a 
 great loot system. The look system is so great, because whenever you kill an enemy, if they drop 
 something, it always goes right into your inventory so you don't need to wonder if you checked 
 that body or not. Also, there is great customization with the loot. All your armor weapons and 
 gadgets can be customized with hundreds of different attachments and add-ons to them to make a 
 very large amount of customization making gameplay always fun. The combat in Mass Effect is extremely 
 fun with the combination of biotic and tech powers, shooting, and commanding your squad. In Mass 
 Effect there are many awesome tech and biotic powers that make the combat in the game a lot of 
 fun. The cover system in Mass Effect works great and is very essential on the harder difficulties. 
 The cover system works almost exactly like Gears of War's cover system, except Gears of War's is 
 a little more fine tuned in some areas. The next thing that makes Mass Effect so amazing is just 
 the environments. In Mass Effect you will experience some Incredible moments that will make you 
 say WOW. Some of the most amazing moment in Mass Effect are when you are on Earth's Moon, and in 
 the background covering a good portion of the screen you see an incredibly detailed Earth with 
 clouds that actually move on it. Another amazing WOW moment is when you are on Feros and you are 
 going along the highways way up in the clouds with only the tops of the tallest buildings sticking 
 out, scared from the battles between the Geth and the council that have been going on there. Another 
 WOW moment is whenever you are going up the elevator shaft sideways in the very end of the game 
 in the Citadel, and at the very top you see the massive reaper. One of its arms are 10 times bigger 
 than the corpser from Gears of War. The most amazing WOW moment though is probably when you are 
 on the next to last mission on the final planet and you first land, the scenery of the 50,000 year 
 old planet is truly breathtaking. Mass Effect also has the greatest storyline of not only every 
 video game ever, but also of any Sci-fi movie. The storyline is so amazing and you never know whats 
 going to happen next, because there are so many clever and amazing twists and turns. On that note, 
 Mass Effect is one of the greatest games I have ever played, everything about it is great, and 
 the storyline is the best of any game ever. Mass Effect will go down as one of if not the best 
 RPG ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game with intentions of a masterpeice, it was far from it, as i thought, the story 
 was too political, you were limited too much, i had originally thought that this would be an open 
 ended world in which you could do anything, but it ended up to be more of a story based game with 
 fantastic visuals, interesting weapons and armour and some really good combat and squadplay action. 
 i stopped playing for a while and eventually went back to it, and i got hooked 4 hours straight 
 of playing in which i beat the game, i was dazzled at the ending of this and because i was renegade 
 i was happy to hear what happens at the end about those stupid politics that call themselves a 
 council (pfffft...) . the end boss battles are amazingly awesome and the visuals in the game are 
 fantastic aswell as its original soundtrack and replay value, i just wish you could still play 
 after you beat the game but as i said earlier it is more of a mission based game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyC25
Rating: 4
Date: May 15, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  With high expectations I played this hyped up game that everyone was raving about. The beginning 
 is indeed promising, too bad a promise can be broken. After spending hours and hours talking to 
 people back and forth you finally acquire your own ship. I thought from that point on out you were 
 able to explore the universe as you please, trying to find clues for the main mission. NOT!
  You can only 'explore' a couple of planets and when you do, everything is pre-animated, you don't 
 control your ship nor your crew, every time it is the same damn scene when you travel. Once you 
 land on the planet, you HAVE to do the told mission.. 'exploring' is limited to a little area... It's 
 just a little more interactive then point & click games like 'Dreamfall' or 'Syberia'. Also the 
 game has alot of technical difficulties (very noticeable) , textures sometimes don't load up in 
 time and framerate sometimes drops below average. When the price drops below $10 in my local video 
 store I'll pick it up, just to own it to show other people how ridiculously over hyped this game 
 is... it's certainly not worth $39.99 used let alone $59.99 for a new copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manwithaplan42
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the game that anyone who used to watch Star Trek: The Next Generation has been waiting 
 for. Letting you zip, zap and zoom around the galaxy in your spaceship is certainly one of the 
 games greatest selling point. Whilst doing so however, I began to feel that this part was actually 
 tagged on, and the more and more planets I came across, the more I found sniper rifles in alien 
 probes and the more I came across written text describing something rather than an actual cutscene, 
 I began to lose interest in this aspect of the game.
  
  However, despite being one of the games biggest lures, its failure does not detract from the whole. 
 The story is absolutely superb, what it lacks in originality (the story is pretty standard mainstream 
 sci fi fare) it makes up for in execution and punch. Far outshining the story however, is its setting. 
 The game takes place in a rich universe and as your galactic codex will demonstrate, a *lot* of 
 thought has gone into the backstory and the tiniest detail has been documented in this Readers 
 Digest for space adventurers.
  
  The gameplay is fun without truly standing out from other RPGs. Its particular failure is the combat 
 which, while technically competent, lacks zing (particularly with the bunny fart grenades) . For 
 an RPG, there are a *lot* of shooting missions, with very little puzzle solving or non violent 
 solutions. The side quests themselves can be a bit repetitive at times, with basically the "run 
 in and kill the pirates/mercenaries/biotics" rigmarole repeated ad infinitum simply wrapped up 
 in a different story each time. This is in stark contrast to the depth found in the codex, as these 
 missions can be a bit shallow and seem to only exist so you can bulk up your character.
  
  The graphics are stunning and as such, the 360 chugs a bit. Framerate issues and technical hitches 
 dog what would otherwise be a completely immersive experience. The linearity of the game bits as 
 well, particularly in the main story, which is essentially a trudge between the primary worlds, 
 with the only choice given in what order you do it.
  
  So while Mass Effect may be hindered by technical issues, repetitve side quests and average combat, 
 *get the game anyway*. You will not find a more involving and evocative storyline which, though 
 not delivering entirely on the freedom promised, stands in a class of its own when you take it 
 out of the equation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 11, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect to me is what would happen if gears of war and KOTOR somehow mated and had a video 
 game baby. Seriously though this game is one of the best rpgs of 2007. The voice acting and conversations 
 really keep you into the game. The answers are somewhat easily chosen since there are neutral, 
 good, and negative answers. The graphics are great as the sci-fi theme is shown with characters 
 bright constumes and bright armor that shines. The environment looks great and really gives you 
 the sense that your on a different planet allowing you to actually want to travel and explore the 
 galaxy that you have at your fingertips. The sounds are great and you really get the feel that 
 your in an epic story. The game plays well and the A. I. is a great help even though you will spend 
 more time worrying that your alive and allowing them to die in the process. The game allows you 
 to carry pistols, grenades, shotguns, sniper, and assault rifles all at the same time. You can 
 also use those or choose to be biotic or more "phychic" with magic powers or the use of technology. 
 On the negative side of the occasion you can't help but notice that the game feels as if it was 
 rushed for launch. The game could have used a few more months for polish as the beautiful graphics 
 sometimes take a sec to show up and your left with the outer palate to look our for a small time. 
 The game somtimes slows down and allows itself to catch up at certain moments in the game the break 
 up the action sequences. Another pain that you have to go through is the lack of checkpoints in 
 the game. You can actually explore an entire planet and there will be no checkpoints until you 
 actually leave it, allowing plenty of time for you to lose if you somehow die or some bug locks 
 the game up. Fortunately the game has never locked up during gameplay for me. With all the technical 
 issues the game still shines above others and is worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 9, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Okay, so I know that the whole hype about the game was that you can choose how to interact with 
 the people around you, whether it be from a bad-ass renegade mindset or a more heroic stance, but 
 I found, at least in my several playthroughs, that the end result is the same. Sure you can customize 
 your character, choose his/her background story and area of expertise, protective armor, and social 
 interactions, but all of that has little effect on the end result of the game, as far as I've seen. 
 I don't know... perhaps I need to play through again to see if I can achieve a different ending 
 this time. Maybe if I play the game as a female, I can get a different storyline. And I don't think 
 there's quite enough to do in the game... you help strangers on mini-missions, collect armor and 
 weapons, roam around, and follow the main storyline -- there's not a lot of substance to the actual 
 playing part of the game, believe it or not. Also, I find that the in-game music becomes very repetitive 
 and somewhat annoying, and the elevators take WAY too long. I could fall asleep waiting to go to 
 the next level of a building for christ's sake! I mean, in the future, our elevators will probably 
 be so quick that our stomach's nearly fall out our asses, yet in this game, they seem to have reverted 
 to some ancient elevator technology, perhaps being hand pulled by an alien slave. Anyway, dispite 
 the several issues I had with the game, it still made for a mostly exciting playing experience, 
 and I'll surely play it again, regardless of the outcome. After all, I suppose one can achieve 
 a slightly different playing experience each time, I'm just hoping that I get a better ending the 
 next time I play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axe_336
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why I've waited so long to review this game: I bought Mass Effect when it first came 
 out, played through it at least four times, and generally enjoyed even the replays as repetitive 
 as they became. Even having not played it in a couple months now I can still remember how excellent 
 it is.
  
  The game starts by either choosing a prefabricated character (Boo..) or customizing yourself a 
 character from fairly extensive character creation tools (Do it!) . I personally believe that the 
 voice actress for the female Cmdr. Shepherd is superior to the voice actor for the male version, 
 and thus would recommend having a female character. Also, unlike some games where character customization 
 is a useless chore (I'm looking at you Oblivion!) in this game your character will actually be 
 getting a lot of face time, so make sure you like their looks. The other options for your character 
 aside from look is their class, of which there are 6 with varying levels of proficincy between 
 the Soldier, Engineer and Adept skills. You also get to choose your character's backstory which 
 comes into play through various conversations and even some optional missions. Getting back to 
 the classes, perhaps one of the biggest factors in play when choosing between classes for a new 
 player to the game is that only classes that are in some way Soldier class influenced can use weapons 
 other than a pistol and equip armor above Light. While for a more advanced player the skills you 
 receive from an Engineer or Adept can more than make up for these, as you are still learning and 
 especially if you come from an FPS background, it is in your best interest to choose a character 
 with some soldier influence or you may not enjoy the game entirely.
  
  The next aspect of the game you will come in contact with is the generally very good music and 
 voice acting in the game. Sure some of the background music for common areas can get repetitive, 
 but none of it is grating. And the voice acting for all the main characters is quite good. Captain 
 Anderson is voiced by the fellow who voiced the Arbiter from Halo 2 & 3, and the aforementioned 
 female lead has numerous voice credits including Naomi Hunter and Emma Emmerich from the Metal 
 Gear Solid series (Also Prier from La Pucelle, but fortunately not too many people know about that 
 game...) . Seth Green is even in the cast as the smart mouthed pilot. Connected to voice acting 
 is the innovative conversation system. Those who have played Knights of the Old Republic or Jade 
 Empire may be familiar with the variety of conversation options that Bioware generally presents 
 the player and their ramifications upon the game's morality meter. In Mass Effect there are two 
 meters reflecting your personality: Paragon or Renegade. These fill based upon your actions, and 
 the increase of the meters will open the ability to purchase associated abilities which grant advantages 
 in dealings with merchants and open options in conversations to turn difficult situations too your 
 advantage (Though, perhaps it makes some situations to easy?) . The game also features rather smooth 
 flow of conversation and a radial selection menu for your answers which sure beats the menu selection 
 style of previous titles. Oh, and something else interesting is that the conversation option isn't 
 exactly what your character says, but more the attitude they will be taking towards the remark 
 or situation.
  
  The graphics are both good and sometimes a let down. To be sure the character animations and appearance 
 is top notch as are many environments. However, I often felt the areas tended to feel somewhat 
 desolate or lacking in fine details. Also there is a tendency to be some texture issues alla Halo 
 2. They usually fix themselves in a second or two and may simply be an attempt to bring up scenes 
 more quickly, but when the rest of the game looks good, even small problems are off-putting. Perhaps 
 the greatest flaw in the game is the understandable, yet regrettable repetitiveness of optional 
 mission environments and their general lack of satisfying conclusions. For example, there is one 
 optional quest involving a corrupt secret organization, but after you reach the end you don't really 
 learn that much, nor does it seem to have much effect on anything. But since BioWare is thusfar 
 living up to promises for Downloadable Content, I will hope for expansions on this and other stories... 
 But I was talking about graphics. Not the best on the console, but the characters really do shine 
 (And not because of over abudance of lightbloom!) .
  
  So what about the meat of the game? I think some people complain about the combat, but I personally 
 find it very usable and fun (Biotic power lift is awesome fun) . If it was meant to be purely a 
 Shooter then I would say it has problems, but given that it is an RPG with shooter style combat 
 I say it works well given the real time nature and the easy integation of Biotic and Mechanical 
 powers. Oh, in case you're scratching your head, Biotics are sort of like the Force, but they don't 
 harness the fabric of the universe. Another aspect of the game is the travel to other systems and 
 planets which is one of the most interesting aspects. Travel to a new system, survey most of the 
 planets to earn money and experience points and then land on the one or two planets that have some 
 sort of a mission on them and roam around in your awesome land roaver which CAN take damage and 
 you can engage enemy forces in. Some pretty epic battles against your main foes, the Geth, take 
 place in this vehicle. My only complaint about the roaver is you can't upgrade or customize it. 
 Its firepower and armor seem to upgade as your characters level up and its radar range increases, 
 but besides that its pretty much the same vehicle you start with. Speaking of leveling up, the 
 ability system is pretty versitile. Early in the game you get a lot of points with each level up 
 allowing you to spread between some options and experiment and therefore letting you decide where 
 you want to focus later when you get fewer points. For example, if you're a soldier maybe early 
 on you aren't sure if you want to specialize in Assault Rifle, Sniper Rifle or a Shotgun so you 
 spread points betwen the three. Later on you realize that you're using the Sniper Rifle less often, 
 delegating the task to a team mate who specializes in the combat form, and so you put more points 
 in Assault Rifle and Shotgun. You also control ability point allocation for your team mates... 
 Or you can just do the auto level up, but thats rather boring isn't it? As is standard for an RPG, 
 you control the equipment of your party, altering and upgrading weapons and armor. However with 
 this game you can modify you equipment with, well mods. Things like boosts to electical damage 
 to fry robotic enemies, or adding additional force to the shot to increase the chances of knocking 
 an enemy down (Which is more useful than it sounds) . You can also obtain implants to boost your 
 Biotic or Mechanical skillz.
  
  Finally, the story is just awesome. There hasn't been a Sci-Fi movie with a story this good in 
 a daggon while, and while I can't really speak for the literary community, I'm guessing the narrative 
 would pique their interest. The universe itself is vast and rich with data files on the different 
 races in the game that are well worth the read (Though, I'm a setting nut, so I really dig background 
 info) . Unfortunately I don't want to give away to much story so I can't tell you too much except 
 to say that the game starts you on a mission to test your abilities as a candidate for an elite 
 group and you experience something on that mission that sets you on your path to save the galactic 
 civilization as you know it. So its not really a cliched "Farmer to Hero" story, you start as a 
 skilled officer who would likely be a hero or, depending on the background you choose, may be considered 
 one already. And hey, no amnesia plot device so thats a plus right? Aside from the main story, 
 which is rather flexible in how you unravel it, there are a number of side stories that you encounter 
 along the way, the best being on planets where main plot stories take place of course, but even 
 on my fourth time playing through I managed to find a new way to take one of the flexible mini-storylines. 
 Another BioWare staple is interaction with your team mates between missions. These conversations 
 are well done and, if nothing else, help further flesh out the interesying universe. Also you can 
 pursue romance with certain character, though to save some readers the trouble, I was diasappointed 
 that no romance can be pursued with Tali (Ah my beuatiful cyborg looking woman, why is our love 
 not meant to be?) . One of my main wonderings about the story is the promised carry over to Mass 
 Effect 2, and I wonder if the romance will carry over or not. Obviously things like "Were you Renegade 
 or Paragon at the end?" will matter, and other key elements I won't disclose.... But what about 
 those little things? Will the developers care whether I retrieved Wrex's familiy armor or not (And 
 more subtley, whether he was there when I got it back or not) ? We'll find out I suppose.
  
  If you own an Xbox 360 you should buy this game just to have it in your library if for no other 
 reason. Obviously I think you should enjoy it. The only complaint I can lay against it aside from 
 the few I have before is the dang slow elevator ride inside your ship. Sure its a realistic lift 
 elevator, but still... Really annoying. Its not like it has interesting conversations or news casts 
 running like in the Citadel elevators.
  
  So, final tally:
  
  Good:
  +Great voice acting
  +Great textures on the characters
  ++Storyline is awesome
  +Enjoyable 
 character customization
  +The female commander
  +Lift Biotic is awesome
  
  Bad:
  -Some texture issues
  -The story loses something after you've played through once and alternative 
 options can feel hollow
  -Repetitive optional mission environments
  -No romance with Tali
  -On ship frickin' slow elevator
  
  Meh:
  =Combat system that some 
 people complain about, but I think works well.
  =New Game+ characters can't earn achievements.
  =Music great in some places very forgettable 
 in most common areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redmerc
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 7, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This game for all the hype in many ways failed in my estimation to live up to expectations. The 
 graphics were amazing while playing the story line. However, most of your time is spent on the 
 side quests (at least if you are going for the achievements) , which left me with the impression 
 that the developers rushed through the side quests and placed most of their time on the main story. 
 That being said the new content was much better in terms of side quests and made me feel that the 
 developers are making good on their promise to equally pay attention to the side quests as well 
 as the main story line. So hopefully next time around we will see a better game from Bioware. All 
 in all I'm going to have to say that this game is good but it could be better and am curious to 
 see the next installment in the chapter of Cmdr. John Shepard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkpiggy17
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This is, plain and simple, the best rpg i've ever played. Bioware always makes good games, but 
 they really outdid themselves this time. There's always so much to do in this game, there are so 
 many side quests, etc. that you can play this game for 30 or so hours before beating it, then play 
 it through like 3 more times and not get bored. It's awesome. You just have to play it. Because 
 it will make you happy. YAY HAPPY!
  Detailed Review
  Graphics- 9/10
  Gameplay- 9/10
  Controls- 7/10
  Story- 10/10
  Lasting Appeal- 9.5/10
  Utter Awesomeness- 11/10 :D
  This 
 apparently has to be 100 words long, and i'm still not entirely sure i'm there yet. So heres some 
 pointless rambling. BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH. Oh, and just a bit of advice, go pick up Call of Duty 
 4, Halo 3, and GTA IV. Those are probably some pretty obvious suggestions, but i figured what the 
 heck. I'll let the kids living under a rock for the past couple of months in on a little secret 
 about those games- theyre all pretty much awesome. Okay that should do it. Peace guys :) kthxbye. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KOTORkicker
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Intro
  
  Lets start by saying that Mass Effect is almost certainly KOTOR in a different setting. As was 
 Jade Empire. Sorry. Had to get that off my chest.
  Mass Effect is Sci-Fi, possibly another reason why I like it.... but it still is an excellent game.
 
  
  Overview
  
  Okay, the character customization process isn't as deep or unparalelled as BioWare hyped it to 
 be, but it still is fun to use and see what you can get out of it. All elements of this game are 
 solid and stable, if with the same repetitive framework used constantly.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The interface is intuitive, and the various powers can be accessed very easily. The shooting system 
 is also easy, and it seems to me that GTA4 took some cues from it..... The interaction interface 
 is also streamlined and simple. But there is a problem with the dialogue. Everything you do seems 
 pulled back on the reins and the effects lessened. For example, if you wanted to be brash and reckless, 
 your character would almost come across as sheepish and unwilling to actually display emotion. 
 I hope that Mass Effect 2 rectifies this problem.
  
  Storyline
  
  The storyline is your archetypal Officer-Becomes-Galaxy-Hero fare, but delivers it with panache 
 and flair. The locales are nice and well mapped-out, but they suffer from the KOTOR framework ; 
 places on the map that are well visible and should be accessible, but are not are a common occurrence. 
 The last 3-4 hours are blockbuster worthy, and pull off all the stops.
  
  Difficulty
  
  The difficulty is very easy, because most people will not want to grind their way through a first 
 playthrough. More likely people will ramp the difficulty up on the second/third playthrough for 
 the achievements.
  On only one occasion is the game extremely hard or frustrating ; a boss. A gravemind, if you will. 
 I will not reveal any more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benpark1
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 2:27 am PT
Review:  Seriously, this game is very, very good indeed. It absolutely pushes the boundaries of what Games 
 offer in terms of an overall experience. It's as close as you'll get to a movie right now in terms 
 of producing an empathetic response, whilst delivering bucketloads of large-scale action. When 
 the final credits ran, I actually felt disappointment that I wouldn't get to spend time with the 
 characters any more. I wanted to further develop my relationship with the Asari. I wanted to level 
 up my character another 50 levels, and get increasingly powerful kit. I just didn't want to stop 
 playing. I had to, of course, largely because GTAiV has just been released! :-)
  
  Mass Effect is not perfect. There is considerable graphical texture pop-up, occassional frame-rate 
 issues, and the levelling system occassionally feels arbitrary. It would be nice if there were 
 more skills to obtain and explore, and the combat, whilst very, very good for a game ot this type, 
 lacks the finesse off the dedicated 1st person shooters like Gears. The planet-side sections can 
 occassionally become repetetive as well, with many locations clearly re-works of others. It would 
 be nice if there were further variation to the plant surfaces, with more 'furniture' to make them 
 interesting.
  
  However, these are minor quibbles for what is arguably the finest piece of interactive fiction 
 ever produced.
  
  Roll on Mass Effect 2, I cannot wait, literally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nosferatu94
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  this review won't be long or detailed cause i'm sure by now most people have heard of the game. 
 basically this game is perfect, other then a few technical glitches which by the way all games 
 do have this game is fantastic. i'm so ready for the next 2 games to play and see how the story 
 plays out. the graphics are ultra realistic and the music helps add to the epic sci-fi setting 
 you are in. the game really draws you in and you begin to invest feelings into your character and 
 party members. if you've played any previous bioware games especially kotor then you know they 
 go for broke and create a big story that grows on a grand scale. i also recommend downloading any 
 of the new missions from xbox live, i played "bring down the sky" and definately liked it. just 
 take my word and play it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabrielsoe
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  A beautiful universe to explore. fast action ,amazing graphics and a good story.
  "Mass Effect" is worth your time. although the game itself was a lot of fun playing. I always felt 
 a bit lost. there is no real sense of direction or in other words the player is not driven to a 
 certain mission or area.
  
  the game would have gotten 9.5 from me if it was not for the driving bits of the game. there was 
 no need for them what so ever.
  the driving experience is not user friendly and frustrating, mind you that did not stop me from 
 playing the game twice.
  
  the game is perfect for those who like to explore vast worlds with many sub missions.
  
  it's 
 worth buying the game just for the soundtrack. but the game offers plenty of gems for everyone. 
 (final fantasy gamers will find this title refreshing) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dentedhalo
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of RPG games for most of my gaming life now starting with FFVII years ago. Among 
 my favourite games are those of the Baldur's Gate series and when I heard Bioware was producing 
 their own IP I was excited (well, indifferent is probably closer as I managed to miss all the publicity 
 that went along with this game prior to release) .
  
  None the less, once id heard of the game and read a bit I was excited and had very high hopes of 
 this new series - I wasn't disappointed.
  
  I played through the full game within 5 days, playing almost all of the side quests as well as 
 all of the four main worlds. This game is huge - I spent most of the first couple of days trawling 
 through the universe picking off the side quests that came up just as I was wandering around.
 
  
  There really is a huge amount to do and, as a long term player of RPG games I was more than keen 
 to spend some time levelling my character up before tackling the main missions. The game does have 
 quite a high learning curve at the start with some areas being very difficult to complete without 
 spending time levelling Shepard. For example, the first of the main missions I went to was Novaria. 
 This is a pretty difficult level and it was patently obvious that I should have done Feros first. 
 That being said, sticking to it will likely get you through, as long as your patient.
  
  The game is stunning. It has been beautifully designed and rarely disappoints but you will have 
 to suffer frequent load times as a result. To be fair to Bioware this is a fair compromise and 
 the load times are not so intrusive to be really annoying. The most obvious example of the games 
 exceptional design is the Ilos level which is flawless and stunning in every way. The worst thing 
 about this level is that you don't really have the opportunity to explore very much and spend very 
 little time there.
  
  There are flaws in the game.... several. The silly mini-game you have to play every time to use 
 decryption, the woeful dodgem car, the very irritating way you have to interact with the galaxy 
 map are among the most prevalent problems with the game. The problem is, the game is so engaging 
 the even the problems with the Mako can be forgiven - I have identified a number of problems while 
 playing but quickly forget them with the newest twist in the games epic story.
  
  I was pleasantly surprised to see that Bioware have announced already that they play to produce 
 a trilogy with this IP and, more recently they have hinted it will be sometime soon - I would love 
 to think they mean this year but I think Mass Effect 2 will likely be with up by Christmas 2009. 
 My only concern is that Bioware may call a halt to the franchise after 3 games - please don't!!
 
  
  If you're a fan of RPG games then you will almost certainly like this one and I recommend it highly 
 to everyone. If you're not really an RPG person and you're going to play this, give it a chance 
 and focus more on the main story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abassler
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  I purchased this game at the time of its release but haven't gotten around to reviewing it; as 
 I was too busy playing it and other games that are sending our country into a moral decline, that 
 can only be solved by forcing science out of the classroom. 
  Now if you haven't heard this game feature full digital nudity which is partially what makes this 
 the greatest game on the sexxxbox 360. A small part since in the over 40 hours you'll be playing 
 the game the nudity which amount to seeing a butt, is around 40 seconds long. this really shows 
 the limitation of not only the game itself but the designers. Certainly by now we could have be 
 using analog sticks to control the thrusting of our digitized avatar's pelvis regions.
  That's really the only complaint one could have with such a masterpiece of interactive video gaming. 
 The game play in Mass Effect is so immersing that it brings outs the submissive sado-mashochistic 
 nature of us all. It's no guilty pleasure of mine watching my female Shepard counterpart cock her 
 rifle and kill a Geth. While I act out my own suppressed homosexual tendencies by t-bagging that 
 Geth. No it's not a guilty pleasure I love these things! It's just so much psycho analysis, one 
 can't help but be utterly confused, by its big words and lack of empirical evidence that they end 
 up agreeing with whatever was said, so they don't look dumb. 
  I've covered the violence and sex and honestly that's really what makes for a good video game. 
 Don't listen to the Adam Sessler's and Geoff Keighley's of the world who tell you that what's important 
 is the game play, or the graphics, or the story. No what's important is does this game give me 
 an erection. Ladies the answer is a perfect ten!
  I did have my problems with the game of course the combat is uneven, the hiccup-y loading times 
 that interrupt your rhythm, and like many RPG's the grinding nature is so repetitive that your 
 wrist will hurt. Call a doctor if your erection last over six hours. Mass Effect isn't for everyone, 
 and may not be suitable for younger gamers, thats why theres a mature label on it. (My problems 
 with the ESRB for it's De facto censorship aside.)
  If this review gets someone to actually play the game for themselves a word of advice the Auto-Save 
 sucks balls, so take it into your own hands and save often.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinguin14
Rating: 8
Date: May 2, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  A real good game with lots of potential and creativity. I thought it was gonna be one of the greatest 
 games ever until I played it for about 3 days. It gets pretty boring after awhile, or at least 
 I thought so. And I kinda wished I could be an alien, but that would ruin the storyline, so oh 
 well...
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a
  
  Pinguin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jalem01
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  When you think Roleplay Game you typically think of a fantasy setting with swords, spells, and 
 magical beasts. Though an RPG taking places in more Sci-Fi setting isn't unheard of its still refreshing.
 
  
  The story follows Commander Shepard and his quest to solve the mystery of an attack on the most 
 successful Earth colony named Eden Prime. The notable aspect of these attacks is that they were 
 carried out by a self-aware robotic race called The Geth. The story delves into these attacks and 
 progress down from the chain from a mere attack by a race which hasn't been seen for a very long 
 time and the political struggles of Humanity in the new galactic community to your "Save the Galaxy" 
 sort of adventure you come to expect from RPGs. Its pulled off in an epic manner that manages to 
 avoid the word "stereotypical."
  
  Something notable about the world Mass Effect throws you into is that Earth isn't a superpower. 
 Though considered a sleeping giant of sorts by the galactic community Earth has no real political 
 power having only made contact a few decades ago. Part of your job while searching for answers 
 to the Eden Prime attack is to represent Humanity and prove that they are worthy of high responsibilities 
 (and thus powers) within the galaxy. It is there that Bioware does an excellent job of making you 
 feel like you're having more of an impact than you really are, but the illusion is fun and pulled 
 off very well.
  
  The characters within Mass Effect are well done to say the least. Though some are significantly 
 less detailed than others, all have personalities and stories which can play into the game depending 
 on if you talk to them often enough. Some characters will make you laugh and others you'll probably 
 dislike, but all will feel like members of the team in some form or fashion.
  
  Combat can either be one of Mass Effect's strongest aspects or weakest depending on who you are. 
 The game is a basic third person team shooter. As such you have basic options such as giving basic 
 commands to your allies and taking cover. In order to spice things up you're given biotic attacks, 
 which is basically magic. The attacks show of the physics engine as it has enemies floating up 
 in the air limp or being thrown backwards as they are hit with an invisible force. In order to 
 use these abilities (or those of basic combat) you press a button and a combat wheel pops up that 
 lets you pick which spell or ability you want to use. Its easy, its quick, and it doesn't disrupt 
 the flow of combat even though it pauses it to let you pick your ability. Nothing here is fancy 
 or new, but its fun and refreshing for an RPG.
  
  Another thing worth a mention is the achievement system, which sometimes offers in game rewards. 
 If, for example, you master the use of rifles with one character than the next character you make 
 will have the opportunity to be proficient with them. Or if you use a certain ally throughout most 
 of the game you get a steady, passive, heal while in combat. Its a very rewarding system that makes 
 getting achievements all the more fun.
  
  However for all of this Mass Effect does have its issues. The graphics are beautiful but cause 
 the game to hiccup, and the loadings which are cleverly disguises as elevator runs can run a bit 
 long sometimes. The game has also been known to get the "This Disk is unreadable" error seemingly 
 out of the blue. Finally, the saving system is weak and requires the player to actively save often. 
 All these issues you can deal with but do take away from a great game. The biggest weakness is 
 that despite all the depth to the world there is feel that there is a lack of things to do. As 
 one quest you are asked to survey minerals for The Alliance (Humanity) , but your rewards for finding 
 these minerals are a handful of xp, some credits, and a little text describing that you found it. 
 Its a bit pathetic.
  
  Mass Effect is a brilliant game from character to creation to the climatic, cinematic, ending. 
 It has tons of replayability and leaves the player thirsting for the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanReuben
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Ever since playing Baldurs Gate 1 and 2 I have been such a fan of Bioware. With Mass Effect it 
 goes without saying. The combat mechanics, storytelling, dialogue tree, branching storylines, nonlinear 
 questing are all included in mass effect, with a little polished 3D graphics to boot. This game 
 is very addictive and engaging and its versatility sinks you in for hours on end. Mass Effect has 
 one of the most developed settings and stories I have come to realize. Bioware has definiltely 
 learned from baldurs gate in making a solid and meaningful world/galaxy to explore. Its story is 
 very intriguing and complex and i am glad tha it wasnt revealed all in one game. There are tons 
 of alien races to interact with. The Asari race and Matriarchy is very similar and remniscent of 
 the Matriarchical Drow race in Baldurs Gate. I just can't wait to fully understand who the Quarians 
 are, or when I finally get to visit Earth, or finally reveal the Reapers, the meaning of mass relays, 
 the Protheans, and Biotics. I can't wait for the next two sequels to come out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commander515
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat, I must say that Mass Effect is my favorite RPG since KoTOR. I have been a huge 
 fan of Bioware's games for many years, and I was one of those people who followed ME's development 
 from announcement to release and ordered it the instant it was available. 
  
  
  Mass Effect has no doubt drawn numerous comparisons to both KoTOR and Oblivion, but it really stands 
 on its own. While it draws some elements from its Star Wars-based predecessor and shares others 
 with its prominent, fantasy-themed competitor, it truly is its own game. Although it tends to be 
 more focused than Oblivion's open-ended, giant sandbox-style gameplay, it has enough plot-related 
 and non-critical content to provide for a good fifty hours or so of adventuring. 
  
  
  With Mass Effect, Bioware has created a game with all the richness and detail of KoTOR, but done 
 it entirely on their own, without an independent intellectual property to draw from. It is clear 
 that a whole lot of very creative people poured a ton of imagination into this game, because it 
 is based around a world that is amazingly complex and realistic. Mass Effect's background universe 
 combines the depth and diversity of Star Wars' with the sort of gritty, 'present-day future' feel 
 that Babylon 5 captured so well. This is not a nice, 'everyone-gets-along' kind of galaxy... pirates 
 and terrorists lurk in the fringes beyond civilization, and even in the 'safe' areas, everyone 
 has their own petty rivalries and political intrigues.
  
  
  The diversity of the gameplay is impressive, as well. Mass Effect features no fewer than six classes, 
 and although three are little more than 'cross-classes', their unique skillsets allow you to specialize 
 in any way you want. Your companions' abilities are varied enough to let you build a balanced and 
 combat-effective squad regardless of your own character's skills, and every ability is useful in 
 some way. The combat system is fast-paced and feels more tactical than KoTOR's, with its emphasis 
 on cover and careful use of abilities to manage sometimes overwhelming odds. 
  
  
  Another of Mass Effect's great qualities is its inherent replayability. Every 360 game has Achievements, 
 but Mass Effect's have more weight than simply bulking up your Gamerscore for bragging rights. 
 At least two-thirds of ME's achievements provide you with a tangible bonus effect during play, 
 from increased shields and health to cumulative XP bonuses. Using certain weapons and abilities 
 enough times allows you to unlock that skill for use on future characters, letting you add some 
 extra versatility to a character that otherwise wouldn't have it. Of course, since the powerful 
 tech and biotic abilities are available to only certain classes, you'll have to complete the game 
 with several characters to unlock them all. Combine that with the wide variety of dialogue options, 
 the large quantity of sidequests, higher difficulty settings, and the ability to take an existing 
 high-level character into a new game (a kind of 'New Game Plus' feature) , and you have a game that 
 encourages (if not requires) multiple characters and multiple playthroughs per character.
  
  
  Mass Effect's sound and graphics are impressive, making full use of the 360's inherent 
 power. The game looks, sounds, and sometimes even plays like a film, with dialogue and cutscenes 
 intersecting seamlessly. Characters' faces and lips move with amazing realism completely in-synch 
 with their dialogue, all of which is very well-acted. The game's sound effects are distinct and 
 colorful, from the blast of the assault rifles and rockets to the strange synthetic speech of the 
 geth AIs. While most of the game's techno-esque music is short and simple, some of the game's more 
 dramatic soundtracks are on a par with KoTOR's stirring score. 
  
  
  If you haven't tried out Mass Effect yet, and have a powerful enough PC, you might want to pick 
 up the soon-to-be-released PC version, which contains the new 'Bring Down the Sky' mission and 
 a number of gameplay upgrades. While the new mission is available as DLC via Xbox Live, we can 
 only hope that the PC version's improvements to the combat controls and inventory menu will be 
 released in a future patch for the 360 version. Either way, if you're an RPG or sci-fi fan, you 
 definitely owe it to yourself to give Mass Effect a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordkory
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is how some RPGs should be made. Its well crafted story and believable characters (teamed 
 with the excellent voice work) draw you into the universe to where you actually care about your 
 crew members.
  
  Although not a traditional RPG with random combat rolls and turn based elements, its use of real-time 
 combat - with the ability to pause and issue direct commands to your team mates - give the game 
 a proper balance between action seekers as well as slow strategy guys.
  
  The dialog options are one of the most important additions for the title. By having a simple 6 
 word or less summery for a players choice in dialog, it allows conversations to flow naturally 
 and easily, and also add to the cinematic effect since you don't know exactly what your character 
 will really say or do. There are a few rare moments when your choices don't come off the way you 
 expect, but the whole system is light years ahead of old full response written out for you.
  
  In addition to the rich background and story is the plethora of uncharted worlds that the player 
 can explore. Although optional, they give wonderful bounties of discovered mineral surveys that 
 earn you credits, and also offer plenty of vehicle and ground combat to advance your level.
  
  Unfortunately, the game does have its flaws. There are numerous technical issues with the game 
 that can sometimes cause minor frustration, hurt the immersion, or even force you to reload your 
 game. Texture pop-in when loading a cinematic or a new area is horribly common (An issue with the 
 Unreal 3 Engine I've heard) and rarely the collision can be finicky, allowing your character to 
 become stuck in the floor or other nearby props and forcing the player to reload a saved game to 
 recover from the bug.
  
  Another major flaw is the primary vehicle that the player controls - The Mako - is a horribly frustrating 
 thing to drive around. It is terribly bouncy, and will turn in unexpected directions during the 
 worst moments of combat. My guess is that Bioware tried to copy some of the feel of the Warthog 
 from Halo and transplant it into their title. Needless to say, it didn't work out too well.
  
  But those technical and game-play issues are a minor inconvenience to experiencing the full 
 story and interactions. The game is just damn fun and very addicting, making me very eager to get 
 my hands on the promised two sequels to continue the story in the Mass Effect universe. If you 
 like RPGs, character interaction, and some well thought out combat, grab this game and play it. 
 You will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f4tb0i18
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I was not looking forward to this game at all when it was being hyped. This is my first RPG, and 
 might I say its the best one I ever played. And probably ever will until Fable 2. This game is 
 Beautiful. Just love looking at the cut scenes Every character with exception of Captain Anderson 
 (Keith David) has specific and detailed characteristics making them their own. Character customization 
 isnt as in depth as Id expect but good enough. The combat system is really good which is what made 
 me want to write this review... Cover system is good. Im only in the first driving mission on Theorom 
 or something like that... and its really frustrating.. the driving is as frustrating as Kevin Vanord 
 said. The animations with the vehicle is so sweet to look at. They animate the hydraulics and one 
 tire will be higher than the other due to the rough terrain. It just really goes in depth. The 
 voice acting is done extremely well I thought I was watching a movie. Which that is what it feels 
 like. The story is exceptional. Its about corruption and investigation, betrayal and war. I wouldnt 
 be surprised if it was taken from a book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrillyum
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect was overall a very fun game. But at certain points it became annoying because i would 
 constantly get lost and not have the slightest clue how to get back to where i started. A lot of 
 the maps were really expansive and that made it a lot of fun, but they sometimes became frustrating. 
 It has a nice balance of the good-guy/ bad-guy meter like in Fable and it also has a certain amount 
 of customization options like Oblivion. But the leveling up was sometimes meaningless and it lacked 
 a lot of depth. As was the paragon/ renegade scale. The game had a great story and was a lot of 
 fun. I am not sure that i would play through it again, but its a fun game to play if you want to 
 be lost in a story. If you dont have this game, and you like rpg's and shooters, go buy this game. 
 It will keep you entertained for a while.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartancrzy01
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Wow. That's all I can say about this game. I never thought a game could tap into my emotions as 
 that one did. Every thing that happened. I truly felt sad for Saren when I discovered why he was 
 doing what he was doing. That was just the theatrical part of the game. The game play is unbelievable, 
 no matter what class you are playing through as. I love the recent character part as well. Customization 
 was fantastic, as well as the leveling system. I recommend having Wrex and Garrus on your first 
 play through. Achievements also put a big emphasis on playing the game again, which is where previous 
 characters can come in handy. Doing all the side quests isn't mandatory, but it is a barrel of 
 fun. My favorite two were: 
  Citadel: The Fan
  Citadel: the Asari Consort
  
  The best planet to start with is Noverria. Next hit up Ferros. After that all you have left is 
 the Matriarch's daughter.
  
  Happy Playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  INTRO
  I knew by watching previews and reading reviews that this was a good game. I had high expectations 
 for this game and it more or less fulfilled it nicely. I will try not to give any spoilers but 
 there is a chance that I will reveal a few things that will not change your overall enjoyment of 
 the game.
  
  Story and Content:
  The plot is very well done with a lot of background information given. The codex (the mass effect 
 dictionary) when completed is a very good background reading material. You are a human (cant change 
 races) space marine. You can choose your class or go with the default soldier. You mission begins 
 with you landing on a human colony currently under attack. Your mission is to secure an alien artifact 
 of great importance. The main story takes you on different worlds on different tasks. There is 
 a lot of side quests built into this game and I mean a lot, I dont know what the actual 
 count is but somewhere over 50 quests. While some and simple and others require more work, the 
 quests are unnecessary to finish the game. The story doesnt branch out as much I thought 
 it would.
  
  Game play:
  This is a shooter based game within a RPG style mold. You lead 2 computer controlled squad members. 
 You get to equip them how you see fit. Eventually you will be able to add more members and choose 
 the two you like to work with. Depending on you credits you can buy better equipment or just find 
 them on missions. There are a lot of different combinations as you are able to use four different 
 types of weapons, rifle, shotgun, pistol and sniper rifle. You do have secondary weapons like grenades. 
 You can even choose weapon enhancements on the weapon and even the type of ammunition used. Each 
 has an assortment of stats so you can mix and match to suit you needs. And on some missions you 
 get access to the MAKO., it a rover with a cannon and mini-gun. You pretty much shoot anything 
 that comes at you. The RPG aspect is that you level your character as well as those on your team. 
 The skills you want to improve help you on you missions. The dialogue choices you make does change 
 some of the dialogue in the game and even the cut scenes. Containers and other objects are littered 
 everywhere, these usually contain equipment you can use. Some of these are locked, to unlock you 
 just follow the sequences shown for the XYAB buttons.
  
  Graphics: 
  Great graphics, the other races are very well done. The scenery on planets is a sight to see. When 
 you are standing at a top of a mountain you do sense height. The cut scenes are like watching a 
 CGI animated movie. What I do like is the detailed on the squad. If you change the type of armor, 
 certain styles has a certain color. Not only see it those color patterns while walking around, 
 they are shown on the CGI cut scenes. The weapons equipped are also shown equipped or unequipped. 
 On you back left you have the sniper rifle and to the right your rifle, across you back waist your 
 shotgun and you pistol is holstered. To enjoy your own ship, you should walk around. Everything 
 from engineering to medical bay is eye candy. My favorite is the galaxy map at the navigation console.
 
  
  Sound and Music:
  Music score is great and not annoying. The score changes from scene to scene, area to area. For 
 example the music in the background while in an unexplored mine system is almost like your in a 
 suspense movie. The sounds are very well done. When you stop with your MAKO you do hear air brakes 
 being released. The sniper rifle sounds like a sniper rifle. The background noises in a bar sound 
 like a real bar. If you dont see a bad guy but you can hear the hiss of a bullet passing 
 by you knowing your being shot at.
  
  Difficulty:
  With multiple setting you can adjust it to your skill level and enjoy the game. Once you are used 
 to playing the game and finish it once, you can always choose a harder setting to complete all 
 the achievements. Overall this is not a hard game once you know what you are doing. And if you 
 get stuck on one mission you can find another to gain a few levels are try again later.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  I wish the main story line was a bit longer. My first time finishing was about 
 25 hours. I really didnt like the long load times for certain areas. A lot of time is spent 
 waiting. Even just going from one deck of your ship to the other takes about 30-45 seconds. You 
 do not take control of you spacecraft and get involved in some space dogfights. Some people might 
 find this a so-so shooter and decent RPG but it blends it both nicely. And it does have a decent 
 replay value.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agent93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  I had heard a lot of things prior to buying this game. Some of it actually had me wondering if 
 I should by the game. I bought it used (as a compromise to myself) . I have about 50 hrs. under 
 my belt and have completed the game once. Here are my thoughts on this game.
  
  Visually the game is very impressive right from the start. The ability to make you character look 
 darn near exactly as you would like with a ton of customizing features that were fantastic. Throughout 
 the game the graphics will be stunning, even on my old (expletive) TV. There are problems however. 
 
  
  There were a lot of times in dialog or while in action that the texture would show up a good 2-5 
 secs in lag. It may seem petty, but it broke the mood of the game. You are ALWAYS aware that you 
 are playing a game (will be a theme throughout) and towards that end I feel it is necessary to 
 bring it up.
  
  The size of the universe is significant in size, but not as big as it would appear. You can only 
 land on certain planets and there are a few, but there is little to do on them and they all look 
 alike, just change the background and the color. SO landing on planets becomes an Easter egg hunt 
 both in finding a planet to land on and finding stuff on the planet as well. It becomes repetitive, 
 not to the point of distraction (because you aren't forced to do it) but it makes you aware that 
 you are playing a game.
  
  Combat was disappointing. Biotic powers were boring for me and not terribly necessary in the game 
 e. g. don't have a lot of impact. sure you can push and lift and it looks cool but they seemed more 
 trouble to use that in was worth. I had to force myself to use them because I wasn't finding a 
 need to use them. The only time it was useful was if I was able to push/lift someone off the map 
 as they die instantly. 
  
  The weapon selection was nice as well as the upgrades available and different types of ammo. Your 
 the only one that can use grenades (thank god, explanation coming) but it was difficult, for me 
 anyway, to use them with any kind of accuracy. 
  
  You definitely don't want you teammates chucking grenades because they are absolutely stupid!! 
 I don't even know if I can go into all the things that are wrong with the AI on both sides. The 
 enemy does one of two things stays fixed or charges, thats it. No adjustment to your attack in 
 any perceivable way. 
  
  Your squad mates will charge into an full room of enemys taking no cover and basically commit suicide 
 over and over again, or they will jump in front of your line of fire. basically you have to order 
 them to stay back while you deal with the enemy and MAYBE just MAYBE if one gets past you they 
 will cover you. If they use Biotic powers they will all be spent as soon as you engage the enemy, 
 no thought or planning on when to use them and on which enemy to focus. Picking members of the 
 squad for simply became who can open crates and lockers because none of them are worth anything 
 in combat. 
  
  Combat was frustrating until I reached high enough level to put down most things on my own. This 
 problem is the single biggest problem I had with the game. As I said it makes the different classes 
 useless because they are all equally bad, and IT MAKES YOU AWARE (painfully) THAT YOU ARE PLAYING 
 A GAME.
  
  I want to end on a good note so I left this for last. The story is terrific. It is a complicated 
 one probably for adults although some teens might appreciate it as well. It has a lot of political 
 intrigue and twists and turns. I really enjoyed the interface and impact on the conversation. It 
 will have me going back just to try different things. I don't want to go into specifics but the 
 story alone is enough to rent the game. It is a very detailed universe with lots to learn and read 
 about. 
  
  Someone looking for more action will be disappointed especially given the combat issues. Someone 
 looking for an engaging story that enables them to change the path and tone will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Import2Ner
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great storyline, well-liked characters, replayability, downloadable content
  
  The Bad: Dying without saving, some things seem repetitive
  
  
  Mass Effect is another gem 
 BioWare (Jade Empire, Knights of the Old Republic) has given the gaming community and if you are 
 into science-fiction and/or role-playing games, you need to pick up this title. After over twenty-four 
 hours of playing this game, I have finally finished it... but only on my first time through. There 
 are still a lot of side-missions I have missed as well as the downloaded content I have yet to 
 play but the great thing about Mass Effect is it encourages multiple play-through, thus replayabilty 
 is something this title has.
  
  Start by choosing a male or female lead-character (you can even create your own) , choose what class 
 you want: either a soldier who specializes in weaponry, biotic who uses implanted amplifiers to 
 bend dark energy around, or engineer who is pretty good at decrypting devices and opening locked 
 crates, doors, etc. Finally you are ready to begin your adventure as an Alliance commando who is 
 sent to a world to investigate a distress call. Turns out an army of synthetic beings (The Geth) 
 are trying to help out a bad-guy alien find a way to wreak havoc across the universe and your character 
 eventually is tasked by the Council, a political body made up of three different species that governs 
 the way the galaxies are run, to put an end to the impending doom. Sounds simple, right? Well, 
 you pretty much start off with hardly any information to begin with the exception of a vision that 
 is so fragmented; it is tough to decipher even what the meaning of that is.
  
  Graphics are truly next-generation and bring to light the power of the Xbox 360. Of course, playing 
 on a standard-definition television is acceptable but you can't experience the wonderful cities 
 and planets of the universe in their full splendor without a high-definition set. Some might notice 
 a fuzzy appearance to the game when they first begin to play, even on their high-definition televisions 
 but this is a specific filter that BioWare incorporated to make it feel like a movie. If you don't 
 do anything to it, you will get used to the style and it does indeed grow on the player but if 
 you still can't stand having the filter on while playing, it's as easy as going to the option screen 
 to turn it off.
  
  Gameplay is great. The control scheme of the game is easy to learn and it's very easy to choose 
 between weapons and special abilities for both yourself and your two other party members. Fights 
 are in real time though the game will pause the action as you are choosing your weapons or abilities 
 and to use them is as simple as pulling the right trigger or pushing the right shoulder button. 
 In all, you can have the help of up to six different members in your struggle to save the universe 
 and the specialties of those members are as different as the species that make up the universe, 
 which makes the player choose wisely during a mission because out of the six members overall, you 
 may only have two accompany you on a mission. Plan on spending some hours in front of the television 
 because of the engrossing storyline that makes the game so hard to break away from.
  
  Sound is equally as good as the graphics and gameplay. Voice acting is Hollywood-quality and it's 
 in sync with the character movements. Weapons have their unique sound signatures and the music 
 is wonderful.
  
  Achievements aren't too tough and some are as simple as landing on a different planet to racking 
 up a certain number of kills on a weapon class. All in all, they are relatively easy to get but 
 in order to unlock all of the achievements, be prepared to play through multiple times and on the 
 hardest difficulty setting.
  
  Issues I have with the game: Not really any consistent auto-save feature. There were more than 
 a few times where I would forget to save the game and upon dying, I would start at a point that 
 was just too frustrating to spend 30 to 40 minutes getting back to where I was. As a result, I 
 would like to remind players to save often, especially if you feel there will be a big fight ahead 
 of you because even at the normal setting that I played on, the game is a decent challenge. The 
 only other issue I have is some of the repetitive things in the game. If you can land on a world 
 that isn't a major part of the storyline, you drive around in your ATV while looking for downed 
 satellites, minerals to claim, and perhaps a base to enter and study. Besides the great looking 
 and diverse scenery with each planet, there isn't a whole lot to do after you discover everything 
 on the planet.
  
  All in all, Mass Effect is a must-have game for a 360 owner who loves role-playing games, science-fiction, 
 or a game that takes a while to complete. Add to that an engrossing storyline, compelling characters, 
 and replayability and it's well worth the money spent on the game. I could write more about this 
 game but I'm going to be busy trying my hand at being a biotic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpiritOf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the newest "pick-a-path" game from the people who almost built that style of game 
 mechanic, BioWare, and while the exterior of the Mass Effect house may look pretty, it isn't really 
 standing on the sturdiest of foundations.
  
  The game has you playing as "Fill-In-The-Blank" Shepard. A customizable character that can be male 
 or female with a couple of different options that affect his/her back story. Customizing characters 
 is pretty easy due to the fact that you can really only change facial appearances, hair, and gender. 
 It's not a super detailed set of options, but you can come up with some pretty creative looking 
 faces. I modeled my first character after Jack Bauer from 24 and my second character after Kate 
 from Lost. Both ended up looking vaguely similar, but they wouldn't win a look-a-like contest. 
 Still it's always nice to have the illusion that you're playing the game as a one-of-a-kind character.
 
  
  Shepard is a member of the crew of the Normandy, a ship in the Earth's far off future version of 
 a military. Humanity is trying to earn the respect of the other alien races within their galaxy 
 by forming a working bond with "The Council". The Council is the outer space equivalent of the 
 United Nations and they have their own private army of protectors/agents called the "Specters". 
 When Shepard is sent to a planet to investigate a distress signal, he discovers that one of these 
 Specters named Saren has gone rogue and is looking to unlock an ancient threat to the galaxy. After 
 Shepard is "probed" by an ancient artifact, the wheels are set in motion for what's to come for 
 Shepard and his (eventual) crew of rag tag misfits.
  
  If there's positives to be given to Mass Effect they have to go to the writing and the team that 
 set up the conversation engine. The story and how it plays out really are a high water mark for 
 this type of BioWare-ish style of game. The big plus in this games favor has be given to the inclusion 
 of full audio dialogue and a facial expressiveness to the characters as they speak. It really sucks 
 you in to the story when you get to see some real inflection in the speech and also on the faces 
 of the characters within the game. It's also to the games benefit that the story really holds up 
 no matter the vocal path you choose to take, Paragon (good) or Renegade (bad) . Both are viable, 
 and lead to the same inevitable conclusion, but the path you choose to get there really does vary 
 in some very substantial ways. Paragon seemed to be the easiest path for me to follow during my 
 first play thru, but the second time thru, as a Renegade, let's just say that Shepard (and the 
 player) have to make some supremely evil and short sighted decisions that completely change the 
 tone of the game and the ultimate ending. More so than previous BioWare games of this nature, or 
 perhaps the inclusion of full speech just helps make the player's decisions resonate more.
  
  The game, from an audio/visual standpoint, when firing on all cylinders, is also top shelf, 
 but actually getting there is another story entirely. I've never been the sort of player who would 
 ever deny that the Xbox 360 isn't a loud console, but while playing Mass Effect you can magnify 
 the experience by a factor of ten. The sounds coming from my machine actually made me feel sorry 
 for the 360, and unfortunately it shows up in the game too. The framerate, at times, is embarrassingly 
 bad, and when the game isn't trying to disguise load times behind incredibly slow elevator rides, 
 it suffers from random screen freezes as the game tries to catch up while loading new areas. The 
 loading times also cause some really hideous looking texture pop in as, again, the system struggles 
 to keep up. There were also more than a half dozen times where I became hung up on objects to the 
 point where I had to reload a previous save. I don't know if this is because the game needed more 
 development time or that Mass Effect is pushing the 360 too hard, but the technical glitches ended 
 up being too much of a barrier for me, personally, to let slide just because I liked the story.
 
  
  I will say that when the game is playable it is pretty passable, and gets really fun during later 
 levels when your characters are at max levels, but even then there are interface, pacing, and overall 
 aesthetic choices that bring the game down. The inventory menu is very plain jane with little to 
 no way to quickly sort loot drops. Sorting really wouldn't be that much of problem if it weren't 
 for the fact that this game throws tons upon tons of loot at you, and then puts a 150 cap on the 
 amount items you can keep. The auto save function is, for all intents and purposes, broken as it 
 generally will only auto save before and after each mission, which can be a real killer if you 
 get sloppy. As for the aesthetic choices, and it does not pertain to the world or the alien designs, 
 but more towards planet surface designs and interiors of side missions. All the planets are mountainous 
 in terrain, barely inhabited, and the interiors of buildings and caves have, what seem like, around 
 three or four floor plan variations. They do some color swapping on the some of the planet surfaces, 
 and throw in some nice weather effects, with a cool outer space dune buggy to drive around on said 
 planets, but after a hand full of side missions are completed (with very similar objectives) the 
 repetitiveness starts to sink in.
  
  I hate to come across as some kind of hater of Mass Effect, I did really enjoy the story, and I 
 will definitely give a sequel a chance to fix some of the bits I didn't like about it. The writing, 
 dialogue, character design, voice acting, and overall world that Bioware has created is absolutely 
 top of the line. The story of Shepard and the crew of the Normandy is super compelling, I just 
 felt the actual game could have been that much better with some technical fixes and maybe even 
 in dropping the side mission stuff entirely. A nice tight 10 to 15 hours sci-fi RPG, with a more 
 user friendly interface, and a more stable framerate, could have launched this far closer towards 
 the "perfect" zone for me. If you can look past its fumbling and stumbling technical issues though, 
 there's a great sci-fi story to be had in Mass Effect for Xbox 360.
  
  +Great, engrossing, storyline
  +Great character design
  +Great dialogue choices
  +Great voice 
 work
  
  -Framerate issues
  -Loading and save issues
  -Texture pop in issues
  -Poor user interface 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_gear
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for ages to write this review, till I had played the game a few times and really 
 gotten into it. I love RPG's and this one blew me away. With a whole galaxy at your disposal, the 
 feeling that the game may well never end is immense, and that is no bad thing. 
  You are thrown straight into the action from touching down on Eden Prime, but the game does then 
 slow down, the story is opened up and you get a strong reminder of the development team's roots, 
 in that of the legendary KOTOR games. This is fine in your first playthrough but can be irritating 
 during your second and third, however once this second stage is cleared you are free to choose 
 where you go.
  You are commander of the Normandy, and hence you call the shots.
  The action feels similar to that of gears of war, but on the higher difficulties the fight scenes 
 will cause even the most battle hardened gears of war fan to do a double take. 
  
  Auto-saves are, unfortunately, few and far between, so you've got to remember to save or you'll 
 find yourself getting unnecessarily frustrated.
  The potential for expansion to the game is astronomical, and having played the 'Bringing down the 
 sky' mission, which has been made available on xbox live market place, I can safely say that the 
 team at Bioware could continue to produce these for some time and i would buy every one.
  This game was on my most wanted for damn near a year, so i can safely say that i have scrutinized 
 it to the max, and i find that the worst thing in the game is the texture of cutscenes sometimes 
 takes a short while to load.
  
  This game is a must for any true hardcore gamer and well worth a try for even those who aren't. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORDCOSMOS
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  LORD COSMOS was anticipating mass effect for 8 of your earth years or so. Let us simply say, it 
 was well worth the wait, even if there are subtle blemishes peppered throughout. So sit back, gnosh 
 on some 'corn, lets get this review started!
  
  CONS:
  -We're starting with cons.
  -weird graphical texture popup, happens a lot. long, boring elevator load screens. 
  -the game, 
 despite its hard work in the creation of larger than life space/time scale, is lacking in variety. 
 expect a lot of driving around random stupid planets picking up plutonium signals, and the clunky 
 driving mechanics to eventually make you say "gosh, what stupid driving mechanics". side missions 
 definitely pad gameplay, many times you'll have the same map on different planets, which gets repetitive. 
 
  -inability to control squadmates outside of issuing commands. This game is very 'un-KOTOR-like' 
 in combat. expect deaths. 
  -balancing issues in combat. certain enemies (geth) can be outrageously difficult without proper 
 tactics. you've been warned. 
  -"choose your own adventure" aspect not quite yet fully realized. you can fraternize in this game, 
 but not with just anybody. 
  -the game, while rich in scope, design, vision, cinema, lacks all of the "gritty details" of the 
 works of inspiration the game draws on i. e. bladerunner, alien, etc. other games of this generation 
 (bioshock) have seemed to nail this unspoken "richness" or "believeability" of the world, and mass 
 effect's monotony mars the realization of this vision ever so slightly. 
  -lack of more biodiversity. there are plenty (seemingly) of sentients, yet not enough critters, 
 not enough weird spore pods and man-eating plantlife for LORD COSMOS.
  -getting off the citadel is too goddamn long for some people. 3+ hours, then the game opens up 
 substantially.
  
  PROS:
  -fun, hybrid 3rd person shooter/RPG combat. you issue commands to your squadmates. there are sniper 
 rifles, and black hole magic. it's very fun.
  -character customization: excellent, each class seems highly viable, and you'll need to choose 
 squadmates for balance. 
  -change your character's face around; make a face! it's fun, you can make some really weird stuff.
 
  -100% fully voice acted
  -conversation system works well in giving you options, could be more dynamic. 
  -one of the best 
 storylines in sci-fi, gaming, film, TV, it's a real blockbuster of epic scale when you get down 
 to it. 
  -excellent art design throughout; in sentient alien species, architecture, ship design, it all 
 looks and moves very fluid, it's all very cool. 
  -DIGITAL ACTORS of the highest calibur, these are some of the most lifelike, responsive digital 
 humans ever seen to date. 
  -dynamic music, composes itself fluidly to fit the pacing of the action. it's a nice touch!
  
 -overall cinematic-ness of gameplay, the transitions are very fluid. you control the cutscenes, 
 it's all very fluid, and works very well for the gameplay. it's like controlling a movie, it's 
 great. 
  -PERSONAL TASTES the game tailors very well for personal tastes. you can geek out and tweak stats 
 RPG-style, or you can blow through the game like any other shooter, kindof. 
  
  
  MASS EFFECT IS A SUPERB NARRATIVE, with a fun, unique action-rpg framework, distinct, fully realized 
 sci-fi setting, excellent voice acting and music, fun combat, makes it "highly recommended" to 
 fans of storyline, character interaction, RPG's, action-RPG's, and science fiction. 
  
  (it tailors well to different play styles)
  
  ALL OTHERS BEWARE
  
  9/10
  
  A-
  
 
  OH ALSO IT LOOKS REAL NICE GRAPHICALLY
  
  LORD COSMOS' MASS EFFECT REVIEW HAS ENDED
  
  GO FORTH, TO THE COSMOS
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Chozo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  I'd like to start this review off with a little bit of rumor control. I've read a lot of rumors 
 about the sex scenes in Mass Effect and I would like to shoot 'em all down before we get into the 
 game. The box of the game does say brief nudity but I would say nudity so brief that it isn't even 
 worth mentioning. Sorry folks. There are two different times in which you can get into a sex scene 
 in a playthrough the game, the first that arises (and unless you've heard about it, you probably 
 won't get it because it's kind if weird how it happens) is with an alien race (asari) that only 
 has 1 sex which is female. No nudity, though there are provocative scenes. Doesn't matter if your 
 character is a guy or girl, you can get it. The second is near the end of the game and if you are 
 a girl you can do a guy or an asari, if you a guy you can do a girl or an asari. It's nothing that 
 will spawn a masturbation induced coma, but it was enough for the esrb to say brief nudity with 
 the side view of a butt and part of the side of a boob (nothing you wouldn't see by simply walking 
 down the street) . But seriously, if you're expecting something out of those scenes, you will be 
 disappointed. Having said that, let's review the freakin' game already.
  
  I don't want to give too much of the story away in this review since it is one of the things that 
 makes the game great (Don't wanna ruin it for ya) . The game isn't your conventional shooter or 
 RPG, though it is both. You start off building your character, male or female (has to be human 
 though) . You can choose the first name but your character will always be addressed as Commander 
 Shepard. You can custom design your character's looks, or use the default, or use the 'cycle presets' 
 option. The game (obviously) takes place far in the future and offers an entire galaxy for your 
 exploration pleasure. The game starts you off on a sort of rescue mission where you get a distress 
 call for some of your fellow Alliance military (human military) members on a local planet. The 
 distress call is a video and is quite intense and certainly sets the mood for the game. When you 
 get the the planet, a lot of stuff happens but most importantly a Turian (another alien race in 
 the game) spectre (which is basically a rank that can be achieved that makes in the person able 
 to travel anywhere without any legal attachments and are considered by many to be "above the law") 
 turns out to the bad guy of the game...
  
  Now I feel as though I've given too much away even though I've only told a tiny bit of the story. 
 On with the review then! So the graphics... jesus, they're amazing. Bioware certainly didn't hold 
 back in the graphics department on this one. In fact, the graphics are so good that the xbox 360 
 can't keep up. Bioware thought that they could be clever and mask this little fact though. When 
 you start the game, its graphical default settings are set to film grain 'on' and motion blur 'on'. 
 The film grain is there so that you don't notice when things are 'undrawn' as I like to say, then 
 are suddenly super sharp looking. I personally hated the film grain so I turned it off and that 
 made the 'graphical lag' as I like to call it, much more noticeable. Also, many people know that 
 the motion blur is used in many games to help with framerate issues. If the image can be blurred, 
 it doesn't need to be drawn super pretty, thus it hekeep the frame rate even. Well, when you turn 
 the film grain off, the motion blur gets really annoying so I turned that off too. Now this might 
 sound like a big deal to a lot of people but it really is not. The level which this graphical lag 
 occurs is often yet minimal (happens frequently but it's never anything major) . I don't know why 
 they added the motion blur because through my entire first runthrough the game I never notice the 
 framerate decline and I had it off. The game is gorgeous, hands down and graphically for this review... 
 that's the bottom line.
  
  What's next? Sound! The game's sound effects and music are absolutely delightful. The voice acting 
 for all of the in-game characters are amazing. I would go as far as to say that this game has the 
 best voice acting out of any game ever made. Having said that, it does have a minor flaw. While 
 the voice acting is spot on and the graphical motions of the characters are amazingly realistic, 
 the characters hardly ever show any sort of emotion. This is the only thing in the game that actually 
 bothered me.
  
  The gameplay and controls are great, very easy to get used to even with technical moves. Like any 
 rpg, you get experience points which lead to level ups as you progress through the game. With the 
 level ups you get points that make your character stronger in whatever field you choose them in. 
 Simple yet intuitive. You have 4 firearms on you at all times, a pistol, a sniper rifle, a shotgun, 
 and an assault rifle. All guns are upgradeable and have multiple series'. 
  
  I feel as if I've only been pointing out flaws (the very few that the game has) and not saying 
 enough about how great it is. The game is awesome in every way. You have dialogue options (oftentimes, 
 a lot of them) which give the game a significant replay value. After your first runthrough you 
 unlock hardcore mode and if you manage to beat that you unlock insanity, which are also a huge 
 factor in replayablility. One of my favorite things about the game for me would have to be freedom. 
 I don't mean the fact that it is free roaming (though that is great) , I mean the things you can 
 do. The developers went above and beyond for many dialogue situations. I know when I play certain 
 RPGs and am threatened by characters, I think to myself, why can't I just shoot them? Well, a few 
 times in Mass Effect, you will get that option; and you will get a kick out of how it happens too! 
 
  
  In the end, overall, this game is great. In depth story with a few twists make for a great rpg; 
 solid controls and functionality make for a great shooter. With plenty of worlds to explore and 
 seemingly endless amounts of side missions, you won't get bored with this game very soon. The graphics 
 are amazing though the xbox 360 will sometimes have to play catch up, it is nothing that will hinder 
 your gameplay experience such as framerate drops, etc. With great effects, and an incredible cast 
 (of both characters and voice actors) you really can't go wrong with picking up this title. I give 
 Mass Effect a 9.5 out of 10. If you're looking for an xbox 360 game to hold you over for a while, 
 I definitely recommend this one! I can't wait for the sequel (s) .
  
  9.5/10
  
  -CA
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbnz
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 21, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I gave this game a good go and it got more tedious as it went on, truly horrible, I really can't 
 see what everyone finds so fantastic about it. All i can guess is that people who played the other 
 similar games love it because it's a new story, i've never played the others and now never want 
 to. Cringe. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, the story and story content is ok, but you only ever collect the same garbage 
 over and over in very predictable places (storage lockers) , there is no exploring like you would 
 expect in a RPG it's very linear, the control of your characters is dreadful from walking around 
 to fighting, don't even get me started on the planet rover control. 
  
  Walking around you hardly get to interact with anything but 'special' items and these special items 
 are few and far between, and they are all the same, a locker contains the same items as the last 
 locker you looked in. Then trying to organise all your stuff you collected is a nightmare. 
  
  Navigating around the planets / moons etc is tedious with very few that have any interest, 
 you find yourself in the mundane position of running your cursor over the orbit patterns only to 
 find you can 'scan' the item you found, some planets you can land on and again, have very few interesting 
 points about them, and again each place you visit seems to be an 'empty' space with a few lockers 
 in it, with the same stuff you collected at the last place.
  
  Be prepared to spend a lot of time looking at the same cut sequences over and over when navigating 
 around / visiting planets etc. And often when you are at a main fight there are cut sequences that 
 play, if you fail in winning the fight you can play it again but you have to wait through the entire 
 cut sequence again and again i couldn't figure out how to skip them.
  
  It gives the impression that you can control your fate via the answers you give during conversations, 
 but they all end up at the same result, the only thing they may change is the options you get when 
 talking to people later on, but even then they end up at the same result.
  
  It looks pretty in still shots (magazines and online etc) but there are issues with texture pop 
 and the dynamic shadowing is a flickery mess.
  
  Normally I would give it about a 4 because of the OK storyline but 1 will do today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flarc15
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  Mass effect is not only a fantastic game with an amazing story, but is also very funny and you 
 will never be bored playing it. It's has an amazing sense of adventure that makes it special. Furthermore, 
 its great story, makes it to seem like a movie. It is really incredible. The graphics, the sound 
 effects and the light effects of the game
  are also fantastic and make it to seem really true. The gameplay and the control are vey good and 
 you can learn them after a few hours of playing. Finally, Mass effect is an excellent RPG game that 
 you must NOT  if you like 
 RPG games and you have XBOX 360 you must run and buy!!!!!!!!! MASS EFFECT IS  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indie1cowgirl
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a great game with a expansive universe to play in. It gives you many different options 
 on how the player wants to play through character creation to the responses that you can give. 
 Through each of these aspects the game completely changes the way the game is played and the story 
 that the player sees. Also the combining of a RPG with a Shooter was a great addition because it 
 puts the player in the game at the moment. For people who like both types this was a perfect combination. 
 The only downside to the game was the secondary missions on the various planets in the galaxy. 
 These missions would have been a lot better if they could cut out the several hours just spent 
 trying to get to them in the mako. Driving around in circles trying to figure out how to get the 
 places you had to go to could end up being very annoying. Outside of that though, the game was 
 very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkthemaniac
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  There's some princess in a castle that you have to save from some fat dragon thing. You know what 
 that is? That's the story for Super Mario Bros., the game called Best Game Ever by IGN. There's 
 a vampire at the top of this castle that you have to kill. That's Castlevania. Games of the past 
 virtually had one sentence plot lines -- so that there was technically only one line of plot. Since 
 then, games have come far in the art of weaving a tale around the player, and Bioware had no small 
 hand in this. Mass Effect follows in suit, but you won't get any astounding gameplay.
  
  It's some time in the future after Humanity has made contact with other alien races, a whole council 
 of them in fact. You play as Blankety Shepard, since you choose his first name, a reasonable way 
 to allow people to address you by your name without having a huge database of the English language 
 in the disc. You're sent to recover an ancient artifact when a Council police force officer (called 
 a Spectre) goes "rogue" as they say and you have to prove he's a traitor and hunt him down.
  
  After that segment of linearity is the free-roaming aspect, where you can travel the galaxy 
 looking for random work on habitable planets. If you don't want to, you can go straight to the 
 main quest, which is a lot like the main quest in KOTOR: go to X amount of planets to get something 
 and eventually face off with a rogue spectre who supposedly has an army of sentient robots on his 
 side.
  
  The game really shines when you're talking to people and finding where to go, which makes this 
 game unique. People show expression on their faces and fully voiced dialogue really immerses you 
 in the experience, giving it a new level to storytelling. You'll be talking a lot in this game, 
 so if that's not your bag, go somewhere else, because the action doesn't constitute a bloodthirsty 
 action gamer to sit through a plot that he finds meaningless.
  
  When you go into combat, you choose from four different guns which you can change on the fly: an 
 assault rifle, shotgun, pistol or sniper rifle. Depending on the class you started as, you are 
 more proficient in some than others. You can also use Force..... erhm..... Biotic powers on the fly 
 as well, which pauses the game. Both of these are set to your RB and LB buttons. Other than that, 
 it's pretty basic when you're alone, but you're not alone, as you have two party members with you 
 all the time. This is when it gets hairy, because the commands for your party members rarely do 
 what they're supposed to. People have run away when I said to hold their position and taken cover 
 against the wrong side of the wall when I told them to advance, making your party crippled. If 
 you don't use these commands, you could probably beat the game, but the total lack of strategy 
 really cuts a chunk out of the satisfaction, since the 3rd person action isn't as good as other 
 games preceding it. Think of it as the middle ground between Battlefront being worse and Gears 
 of war being better. Along with this, you have your vehicle, which you will get out of at every 
 opportunity. It's an awful hassle to control and fight in, and really makes missions taxing.
  
  The graphics are pretty despite some horribly severe pop-in throughout, but I don't care about 
 graphics half the time. The game tells a great, compelling story, but the gameplay is disappointing. 
 It seems like Bioware is talking an opposite route than other developers, since they are focusing 
 on advancing storytelling over gameplay, since it plays alot like KOTOR in many ways. If you really 
 want to get the story, play it and put up with the gameplay, but if you aren't opposed to books, 
 I would recommend the Ender series by Orson Scott Card or the inevitable slew of books based on 
 Mass Effect to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waring_Houses
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an amazing game which blends good storylines, vioce acting and graphics to make 
 what is in my opinion the best game for a long, long time.
  
  Mass Effect is set in the far future where you have to fight the geth (robots made to seve humanoids 
 but instead kill them) . The thing I like about Mass Effect is it has those moments where a shiver 
 goes up your spine that make you realise how great of a game it is. The Mass Effect main storyline 
 has something that I love which is betrayal and I think it's a rare thing to find it in such a 
 good and pure form.
  
  The voice acting in Mass Effect is skilled and varying which I think is a big plus. The voices 
 done by the main characters are excellent even more so than the average people which is still very 
 good.
  
  I think the graphics in Mass Effect are very skilled and the people in the graphics department 
 of Mass Effect should be very proud of it. The graphics are quite detailed not only on the scenary 
 or main characters but to everyone and everything.
  
  The thing I like about the many side quests in Mass Effect are they vary which means they aren't 
 just fetch this and kill this. You can search for rare ores on icey planets, fight giant worms, 
 stop a rebelion, stop fanatics and protect the innocent. The main quest is absolutely brilliant 
 with plot twists that you wouldn't think of until they happen.
  
  Mass Effect has upgrades for every weapon that include stronger guns that sacrifice accuracy or 
 bullets that are strong against certain enemies and weak against each other and I think that it 
 is a very balanced system that I am glad to have in the game.
  
  All in all I think that it mass Effect is a perfect game except I thoguht that there could have 
 been a few more side quests and other small things which stop it from getting a perfect 10 for 
 me. I think that anyone can find something in this game whether they like graphics, storylines, 
 romance, violence, good characters or maybe all of them like me. I think Mass effect is a very 
 safe purchase for most people.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FishHunta007
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, I'm not kidding. Its one of the greatest games I've played. Its tied with Star Control 2&3 
 for #1.
  
  Where to begin? Graphics? 10 yeah sure sometimes they are choppy, but .. BUT... How many different 
 planets and characters are there? And The In play movies!? 
  
  Music 10. It has a sweet 70s or 80's vibe. The ending song is really sweet.
  
  Controls 10. 
 Easy to control, easy easy. 
  
  Multiplayer - This is a single player RPG. So I cant factor that in. That wasnt mant to be factored 
 iin this experience
  
  Custumization 10 - Create your guy.. choose his (her) outfit... Pimp out his weapons and skills!! 
 Sweeeet
  
  Expoloration - 10 - You can spend hours just flying around planets searching for stuff! 
  
 
  Free Will - How cool is it to make your guy a jerk or a nice guy? thats freedom !
  
  Replay... 10 FINALLY a RPG that once you beat it.. you have motivation to beat it again... You 
 wanna make your character level 60 because hes transferable to Mass Effect 2!!! (his level may 
 not be) But its fun to dream! 
  
  Character stories - WOW.. they all have pretty sweet stories! I personally dont like Kaiden because 
 the first time i played it i was a guy and he seemed like a jerk to my character, and then i played 
 as a girl and he tried getting fresh with me! well i made my chick a hot lesbian anyways so i wasnt 
 interested. otherwise everyone was cool! 
  
  THE BAD - Well even though its a ten... I have some minor gripes. BUT, they are what everyone else 
 is griping about.. long elevator rides, sometimes the game seems glitchy when its loading it needed 
 to be smoother, and the inventory does get hard to manage at times, and selling your stuff off 
 isnt worth the trouble after a few hours into the game, just make it omni gel!!
  
  OVERALL - come on.. I spent 100 plus hours!! Im crazy about the game ! 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H-A-V-O-K
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  On the first hand i'm a huge Bioware fan. KOTOR being one of my favorite game series to date. on 
 the other hand this game could have done a few things better than it did, The story that spawned 
 a prequil novel was.. immersive to say the VERY least. The worlds were expansive if alittle dead. 
 the only hub that seemed truly alive was the citadel which kinda tied into the rest of the game 
 i guess. the Graphics were impressive not so much in the enviorments but in the facial animations 
 which were disturbingly life-like. The Gun-play was alittle shallow but still entertaining,
  The story again is the meat and potatoes of the game it feels as though the whole game revolves 
 around the decisons you make. the sound score was pretty good but got alittle stale around the 
 30th hour. and lastly the biotics which were the "force" powers if you will, were pretty fun to 
 play around with
  (pushing a krogan merc of a ledge with throw) is just one example.
  the driving element which actually played a big part in the game was just shy of being broken, 
 with constant flips and somewhat unresponsive controls at times somtimes made the mission more 
 of a chore than fun.
  in the end this a good solid game that will eat up endless hours of your life and still leave you 
 wanting more. Good Job Bioware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan2002sk8er
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying this game is so good that you can overlook how poorly made it is just 
 so you can say how good it is. Mass Effect has one of the most original and compelling story lines 
 in recent video games. the story is better than the new Star Was movies but just short of the originals. 
 
  
  The Graphics are stunning. Short of CoD4 and Crysis I would say that not many game look better. 
 the textures and lighting are great. Thought there are some problems like slow loading textures 
 but that isn't really a big deal, because it is not as evident in this game as say Gears of War 
 or Unreal Tournament 3. 
  
  The reason I say that this game is broken it that the Combat system and Game Optimization are not 
 what they should be. The game's combat system is a little frustrating it is an RPG not a shooter, 
 but they gave it the appearance of a shooter. you have a Reticle in the middle of your screen a 
 HUD, ammo counter, all the thing a classic third person shooter would have but there is one difference, 
 what your aiming at doesn't always get hit. that is the RPG element of the game. Honestly John 
 Shepard has the worst aim I've ever seen there is no way this guy is a solder. He hit his target 
 maybe once out of every 20 bullets and the bullets don't do much damage at all.
  
  The Game is also poorly optimized You will be walking through an inter galactic Market place right 
 in the middle of a plaza and for some reason you hit a loading point it isn't bad loading only 
 takes 5 seconds but then maybe 20 steps later there is an other loading Point. this gets frustrating 
 when mixed with the lousy combat system that makes you die a lot because you can't hit a guy who 
 is 5 feet in front of you with an automatic weapon or worse a shotgun, then he kills you and you 
 start all the way back at the other end of the map and have to endure about 8 loading screens just 
 to get back to the battle you were just in. 
  
  The worst of the game is that you just push all these bad things aside and don't notice them because 
 Mass Effect is such a good game. There is the Endless amount of Dialog that you get to choose your 
 path. Say the right thing and you get extra weapons upgrades ammo and other goodies. in a Knights 
 of the old Republic fashion. 
  
  The story is by far the best part of the game. it spans the universe, If you are unsure the basic 
 premise is ( not giving anything away that you don't learn in the first 10 minutes of the game 
 ) that the Human Race has found alien technology that has let them travel across the universe. 
 This has also let us discover that there is Alien life on other planets. You are ________ Shepard, 
 (that is a fill in the blank because you get to create your own character, but I will discus that 
 later. ) A commanding officer who's past you get to determine. And later in the game you find out 
 that it is up to you to save the Universe form an evil Rogue Bad guy who I will not mention in 
 case you have not played the game but you find out who he is relatively Quickly. There are also 
 lots of twists and Turns in the story so Pay attention closely. 
  
  The customization is pretty basic but it gives you the feel that is is your own Character. Basically 
 you can choose to be Male or Female, you can create you face first name ( though the default is 
 John and that is what most people use ) and you can create your past from a couple different scenarios 
 that are pre-written. Also when you pick up new weapons and such some weapons look different and 
 are different colors for the more powerful ones.
  
  Even with all of the flaws it is a beautiful Game that everyone should appreciate. The thing that 
 gets me is that this game is so good that you can over look how broken it is. So if you were a 
 big fan of Knights of The Old Republic, don't have a problem with constant load points, and are 
 a fan of RPG and Sooters than this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyPlatypus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  If you like to make decisions that make you feel good or evil, you will simply love this game. 
 The story is of movie or book quality... the graphics are great except for texture loading issues. 
 The combat may not be the best, but it is still fun, and the dialogue keeps you going. It is a 
 mixture of an RPG and a third-person shooter. Anyone who appreciates more than just mindless action 
 should pick up this game. 
  
  Frame rate - A decent frame rate, with a few technically issues.
  
  Graphics - Good except 
 for texture issues. The dialogue scenes have great graphics, its just that when walking around 
 the texture loads in a little late.
  
  Story - All that can be said is amazing. It takes place in a huge sci-fi universe where you must 
 hunt down a rogue agent.
  
  Action - Battles can become pretty intense and are very fun if you use "biotics", or telekenisis 
 powers.
  
  Try this game! Its not right for everyone, but it is great to the majority... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N8terz
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I'm currently playing Mass Effect over for the second time on the Hardcore difficulty and I'll 
 have to say its pretty challenging (depending on what class you choose obviously) . There are five 
 difficulty settings in the game, easy, normal, veteran, hardcore and then insanity. There are six 
 classes all unique in there own sense revolving around the abilities of combat, tech, and biotic. 
 Depending on what class you are will determine what weapons/biotics you can use. For instance, 
 if you choose a Soldier class, your character will be more effect at using rifles, shotguns and 
 carrying heavy armor where as selecting the Sentinel class will revolve completely around the use 
 of biotics (throwing, lifting, or using medicine) . 
  
  The games story is excellent. Beautifully executed gameplay makes you feel like you're really a 
 character in the Mass Effect universe. Again, I have to hit on the point of how beautiful this 
 game really looks. Both the environments and characters are rich in detail which makes for one 
 of the strongest points of the game. Character animations are nicely done as well. When your not 
 battling, you'll be gathering information, finding key items placed around the Mass Effect galaxy, 
 or exploring planets in your MAKO vehicle. 
  
  If your familiar with Biowares previous title for the xbox "Knights of the Old Republic" then you'll 
 remember how combat was pretty slow in my opinion. Not in this game! The combat is very fast paced 
 (on the harder difficulties) and brutal. Theres a cover system as well that adds alittle more depth, 
 allowing you to slightly see around corners like other games such as Gears of War or Rainbow Six 
 vegas. 
  
  All in all Mass Effect is definitely for the more patient players. You will spend alot... and I 
 mean alot of time just talking to characters. Which in itself makes for a richer experience bringing 
 characters to life and gives them some background. You'll also spend time developing your characters 
 skills and managing equipment because this game is an RPG. Mass Effect is definitely one of the 
 most remarkable space games to date and on that note, I would recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a giant leap forward for videogames in terms of storytelling and it's probably the 
 biggest, most sophisticated game on Xbox 360. But with combat requiring you to dip into menus every 
 few seconds, it isn't likely to win over the Halo brigade - and with this much dialogue, it's not 
 going to be your bag if you're the guy who hits 'start' every second in an effort to get characters 
 to stop talking.
  
  Gameplay: Talk, shoot, collect, skill up - this blends a lot of play styles together well, but 
 it's the plot that's the driver, not the gunfights.
  
  Graphics: The cut-scenes are very good looking, but the rest of the game engine - while pretty 
 sharp - isn't quite as good-looking as Bioshock or Gears of War.
  
  Sound: Voice acting is consistently well done - and not as insanely camp as most other voice-RPG 
 fests.
  
  Value: This is a lot of stuff - plenty of skills, classes and areas to explore ensure you'll be 
 playing for 50-plus hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hexogen
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an epic sci-fi action RPG from the folks at BioWare. You play as Commander Shepard, 
 the first human to be inducted into the Spectres, a group of elite agents whose goal is to maintain 
 galactic stability at any cost.
  
  Your job is to hunt down Saren, a rogue Spectre Agent who, without giving too much away, wants 
 to use old technology to do bad things. That's the basic gist of the story. And I mean basic. It's 
 near impossible to sum up the story in a few sentences because the Mass Effect universe is just 
 so deep.
  
  You'll constantly be learning new things about the galaxy throughout the entire game, and it seems 
 you can't go two minutes without it dumping a 5-paragraph essay into your Codex describing whatever 
 you were just looking at or talking about in great detail. The Codex is basically an encyclopedia 
 for Mass Effect, and it has thorough descriptions for pretty much everything, ranging from the 
 thrusters on your ship to the reproductive processes of the races in the galaxy.
  
  A lot of your time in Mass Effect will be spent talking to people, and this is where one of the 
 game's defining features comes into play -- the conversation wheel. As characters talk to you, you 
 get to select your reaction from a wheel of responses. It's not quite as innovative as it was cooked 
 up to be, as the general formula for most conversations seems to be, 'select the top option for 
 a nice, friendly response and select the bottom option to be a complete prick.' There are some 
 parts of the game where your responses can affect the outcome of the story, but they're usually 
 clearly labeled so it's not really much of a surprise. It's a really cool feature nonetheless.
 
  
  When you're not talking to characters, you'll usually be exploring the world or fighting, whether 
 it's on-foot or in the Mako rover. On-foot combat is really fun and the game's cover system works 
 well enough. You even have basic control over your squad with the d-pad a-la Rainbow Six: Vegas. 
 Your squad can be a bit dumb at times though, just standing there in the open while enemies pelt 
 them with bullets, despite the fact that there is cover just a few feet away. They also have a 
 habit of stepping right in front of you and getting in your way while you're shooting, which can 
 be a bit of a nuisance. There were also a few bizarre happenings, like my squad not listening to 
 my commands for part of a level, though these issues were few and far between.
  
  While the on-foot combat is pretty good, the Mako combat could use some major improvements. The 
 turret has limited vertical movement, so you have to be on the same level as your enemies to hit 
 them. Problem is, the majority of the planets have constant elevation changes. It's rare that you'll 
 be on the same level as your enemies without being right up in their face, making your vehicle 
 an easy target to hit.
  
  During one of the side quests I had to defeat a bunch of Geth Snipers, Rocket Troopers, and Shock 
 Troopers, all surrounding two Geth Colossi. They were at the bottom of a small valley surrounded 
 by mountains on almost all sides. If I tried to shoot at them in the Mako from the safety of the 
 mountaintops, I couldn't aim low enough to hit them, but if I went down there my Mako would be 
 immediately pelted by gunfire and explode a few seconds later. I just could not pass this part 
 using the darn thing, so eventually I ditched it and ran around on-foot with my shotgun instead 
 (and it worked!) . If a shotgun is, at times, more effective than a heavily armed APC, you know 
 the APC can't be that great.
  
  The Mako combat isn't helped by the fact that most of the planets you use it on are just downright 
 boring. Pretty much every planet that isn't a main quest planet is an "uncharted world," meaning 
 a barren planet that usually doesn't have more than a few people living on it. The majority of 
 side quests take place on uncharted worlds, so if you're a completionist you'll be spending a lot 
 of time exploring these planets.
  
  Navigating the worlds is fun at first, but by the time you've done a few of them you start to realize 
 that they're all the same. Every single one is just an empty, rocky environment with a different 
 texture for the ground. Even the buildings on the planets are repetitive. You've got your square 
 base, your circular base, your mine, and a few other structures. These buildings appear on the 
 uncharted worlds and they look exactly the same. If you've been in one circular base, you've been 
 in them all.
  
  This means the side quests are very repetitive as well. The game may give you a different reason 
 to go to each base, but in the end you're just doing the same five things over and over again. 
 Go to an uncharted world, travel to a base, kill some mercenaries, go back to your ship. The next 
 side quest will probably have you doing the exact same thing, but this time the ground on the planet 
 is green rather than brown, and instead of mercenaries there'll be Geth inside the base. And that 
 makes it completely different. No, really.
  
  Mass Effect's problems don't stop there either. The game is also plagued by a hard-to-navigate 
 inventory system. There is a 150 item limit, which will probably be hit about a third of the way 
 into the game. From then on you have to get rid any item you pick up until you make room in your 
 inventory. The inventory system has many small annoyances that make it a pain to use. You can only 
 delete things one at a time, instead of selecting multiple things and deleting them all at once.
 
  
  In addition, if you have more than one of the same item, it will be listed multiple times in your 
 inventory instead of just once with the quantity next to it. It's really annoying when you want 
 to delete all ten of Item X and have to navigate the entire list to find all of them separately. 
 The inventory also suffers from lack of consistency. When you delete weapons or armor, the cursor 
 will stay in the same place on the list, but if you delete weapon or armor upgrades, the cursor 
 will scroll back up to the top of the list. Since your worst items tend to be at the bottom of 
 the list, this means when you're deleting upgrades, you have to scroll to the bottom of the list 
 over and over again for each item you want to delete.
  
  The game's last problem is the constant texture pop-in and slowdown. Mass Effect is one of the 
 best looking games out for the Xbox 360, but when you're talking to someone and see the background 
 loading behind them it's a bit of an immersion breaker. This is apparently a "feature" of Unreal 
 Engine 3, but I own other games that use the engine and none of them have pop-in as prevalent as 
 in Mass Effect. There are also frequent frame rate drops, though they aren't bad enough to make 
 the game unplayable, but once again, it's an immersion breaker.
  
  By this point I'm sure it sounds as if I hate Mass Effect, being that I've been ragging on the 
 game for the past eight paragraphs, but that's not true at all. I loved Mass Effect, but it had 
 a lot of problems that need to be pointed out. In fact, despite all my whining, none of the issues 
 make the game unplayable, and when the game shines, it really shines. Mass Effect has an amazing 
 story and one of the deepest universes I have ever seen in any game, period. Having conversations 
 with NPCs is surprisingly fun, and the combat is pretty good as well. Mass Effect has plenty of 
 room for improvement in the sequels, but even with its problems it's still an amazing game and 
 shouldn't be missed by anyone who even remotely likes story-driven RPGs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Talk, shoot, collect, skill up - this blends a lot of play styles together well, but 
 its the plot thats the driver, not the gunfights.
  
  Graphics: The cut-scenes are very good looking, but the rest of the game engine - while pretty 
 sharp - isnt quite as good-looking as Bioshock or Gears of War.
  
  Sound: Voice acting is consistently well done - and not as insanely camp as most other voice-RPG 
 fests.
  
  Value: This is a lot of stuff - plenty of skills, classes and areas to explore ensure youll 
 be playing for 50-plus hours.
  
  Mass Effect is a giant leap forward for videogames in terms of storytelling and its probably 
 the biggest, most sophisticated game on Xbox 360. But with combat requiring you to dip into menus 
 every few seconds, it isnt likely to win over the Halo brigade - and with this much dialogue, 
 its not going to be your bag if youre the guy who hits start every 
 second in an effort to get characters to stop talking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kool_Mo_Dee1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Everyone look back in time with me when KoToR first came out. It took a little while to catch on 
 but when it did everyone loved it! This game gets no respect and it is very similar to the KotoR 
 series. The action may even be better. Now some of the dialogue sequences and voids of action lag 
 on, but no game is perfect.
  
  But really, this is the most under rated game around. For this type of game Oblivion pretty much 
 gets all of the hype on the X-Box 360. In my opinion, this game blows Oblivion out of the water. 
 Anyone who loved the KoToR series should get there hands on this one. 
  
  It also has some great voice acting and even better action. With more and more content available 
 to download from X-Box Live, the game just keeps getting better and better. Like Bringing Down 
 the Sky, just for one example. 
  
  So if you are looking for a good game that will give you hours of entertainment and some good options 
 for future content get your hands on this one. Plus the fact that Mass Effect 2 is in the works, 
 you might as well get a heads up on the story line and the controls. You can go pick this game 
 up used for like 30 or 40 bucks. It is worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xshortyx30
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  I've had mass effect for quite a while now. I played it the first time and i didn't even do the 
 side quests, it still kept me more than interested the whole way through. On my second time i had 
 even more fun because i did all the extra stuff along with the main storyline. I'm now on my third 
 time and i have to say its still my favorite game. I'm now doing some of the side quests along 
 with the main storyline and it is so much fun. I'm also trying to use many different allies, because 
 each different ally puts a whole other storyline into the game. Each ally has a different reaction 
 to the situation you're in. One ally will want to let a victim go while the other will shoot him 
 in the head. Having the choice to mix up the storyline a little bit just from picking a different 
 ally, makes this game terrific. Its a great game, it has so many interseting things you can do 
 and theres always something you can find that you didn't the last time you played. Gamplay is terrific, 
 scenery is good, and graphics are amazing. The game changes depending on the way you play it, that's 
 always interesting. The first time you play the game it will be quite challenging. The next will 
 too unless you choose to start another game with your character leveled all the way up how he was 
 at the end of your last game. If you do that, it makes everything easy to kill wich, if you like 
 a challange, can get very annoying. But, the gameplay and unlimited things to do beats that falacy 
 to the curb. Mass Effect is a supurb game. You must get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jphillips1868
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  As you probably know, Mass Effect is a space based RPG. You play the role of Commander Shepard, 
 hero of the Alliance (Human) fleet. The game features everything you would expect from a single 
 player space RPG, including classes, skills, decent character customization, including sex, quite 
 a few alien races, an alignment system that is impacted by your choices, and items that can be 
 purchased from vendors or looted from your foes.
  
  Your time in the Mass Effect world is divided primarily between: 1) a massive space station; 2) 
 the decks of an advanced human warship, the Normandy; 3) detailed planets that are involved in 
 the main quest; and 4) empty planets and moons for the side quests.
  
  Other than when you are on the Normandy, you are with two squad mates. With the exception of a 
 "red shirt" at the beginning of the game, however, your squad mates are not the hollow grunts you 
 might find in the Tom Clancy squad based games. Your human and alien allies have well developed 
 story lines and personalities. This is one of the strong points of the game. The good dialogue 
 is combined with superb graphics, especially when your character speaks with one of your team members. 
 The pairing of the quality writing and attractive pixels makes the NPCs in Mass Effect very believable.
 
  
  In addition to the excellent dialogue for the NPCs, the overall story that the game tells through 
 those characters is very entertaining and surprising in and of itself. At the end of my first play 
 through, I found myself really looking forward the sequels and new story arcs from downloadable 
 content. 
  
  The controls are a little wonky at first, but easy enough to master. Compared to say Halo, and 
 to a lesser extent Oblivion, the movement of Commander Shepard is very sluggish. This doesn't detract 
 from the game play, but it may mess with your Halo game a bit until you get readjusted.
  
  Overall Mass Effect is a very fun game, but it has some short comings. The most significant of 
 which is the length of the game. The game is too short, especially the main quest line. I finished 
 my first play through in less than eleven hours. Now I made the mistake of skipping a large part 
 of the side quests in my first run through, but even still the game should be longer. I guess this 
 is a case of quality over quantity. But please learn from my mistake; take your time on your first 
 play through. There are a large number of side quests, some of them very entertaining.
  
  There are a few other annoying, albeit minor quirks, with the game that I feel the need to mention. 
 Despite the technology to fling starships from one corner of the galaxy to the next instantaneously, 
 the elevators are painfully slow. Now one reason is that during some elevator rides on the space 
 station I mentioned above, you hear a news report that usually relates to the impact of a quest 
 you have completed. Even so, the slowness of the elevators gets on my nerves, especially after 
 the first play through.
  
  Another annoyance is the achievements. In order to get them all you have to play through the entire 
 game at least three times. Because of this, I strongly suggest that you consult a guide on how 
 to maximize your play throughs. A Google search should led you to some good ones. While 3 play 
 throughs is tolerable, 5 or 6 makes some of the virtues of the game seem like a curse. The upshot 
 is that if you are willing to take the time, they are all relatively easy.
  
  Despite the minor flaws I would have given Mass Effect a 10 if the main story line had been longer. 
 What's there is that good, there just isn't a enough of it.
  
  On a personal note, as a former SWG player, the essentially empty planets you visit for the side 
 quests, and travel in the Mako vehicle, made me long for my time on a bike traveling the worlds 
 of SWG. Not enough to ignore the NGE of course. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drugith
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Fun game with beautiful graphics that ups the bar for RPGs. I highly recommend it for any sci fi 
 / rpg fan. When the game is first loaded up, the character creation will suck you in and you'll 
 be stuck playing the game until its over. Why? Because the game is that fun and as you progress 
 through the story, it just gets better and more deep until you cannot wait until what the next 
 little plot twist is. 
  You are a soldier that kicks some alien butt and workin hard to save the galaxy from destruction. 
 
  As for the fighting in the game, I personally enjoyed it. I found picking the soldier class and 
 treating all the battles as a third person shooter to be quite exciting and quite challenging at 
 some moments. Though admittedly it won't be for everyone, but this game is more about its story 
 than the actual combat.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oops_whoa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  My first impression of this game? Tedious. My biggest problem is that I like to play around a bit 
 and try out all of the different professions. I quickly learned that starting a new career deletes 
 your old saves. And if you are like me and try to do all of the side quest, playing for ten hours 
 and then having it wiped can be frustrating. Especially if you have not yet left the Citadel (giant 
 space-station) in that 10 hours. I thought i should give this game another shot though. Given the 
 hype and my 60$. 
  
  Truthfully, the beginning of the game can seem very tedious. But as you make your way through the 
 game, meeting people (and aliens) , exploring strange planets, and overall just doing anything your 
 way, you get an experience out of Mass Effect that most games today have forgotten. It gives you 
 that feeling of "Im Shepard.... should i kill this insane cultist or should i try to persuade him 
 to give in?", or even "What system do i want to visit next?". This game is literally up to you. 
 Hero or Hard-ass?
  
  One thing not mentioned as much as it should be is character creation. I was turned off of this 
 game for a long while because i thought you were Commander Shepard "The guy on the box!". I bought 
 it anyways and was shocked when i found you can be Commander Shepard "The 30-40 something year 
 old me". You can also choose your profession which pretty much defines your play-style. Liking 
 the Mage-life on WoW? Try being an Adept, full of fun moves that when combined (my favorite Lift 
 and Throw... it always deserves a laugh) can produce devastating effects. Like to see robots fight? 
 Try out the engineers AI Hacking ability. Sniper? Can you say High Powered Explosive Rounds? But 
 what if you want to become an Ai Hacking, Alien throwing monster?... its there. And one of the most 
 heavily overlooked aspects of this game is the grenades. If you asked why? you have not played 
 this game. Grenades in this game are not like an average grenade that you have to trick shot behind 
 a crate to kill whoever is behind it. None of that. grenades in this game are like little tiny, 
 massively exploding frisbees of death. You can also customize them on the go. Two guys with rockets 
 behind a wall, no problem.
  
  
  
  The one thing that should attract any gamer to this game though is the maximum re-playability. 
 Harder difficulties, better weapons, new choices, character import. You don't have to ask yourself 
 what if i chose that talk option? All you have to do is play through and experience an entirely 
 different view on the same great game. i give this game a 9.5.... you don't see beauties like this 
 one come around often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StinkyGrandma
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an absolutely marvelous work of art. Too start this review off. The story in this 
 game is top notch. Every minute of it is a nail biting or dramatic moment. Every thing about this 
 game is awesome. I'll walk through every aspect step by step.
  
  I'll start with the graphics. The graphics in this game are absolutely beautiful. The lighting 
 is very realistic for such a massive span of a game. And every console in the game looks specially 
 built and extremely realistic. The environments are gorgeous and realistic (for other planets) . 
 And the facial expressions rock.
  
  Now the story. I'm not going to give away ANY SPOILERS. But the story is freaking awesome. There's 
 no terrible mission.
  
  Now the combat. The recitals all over the screen may confuse fps hard-cores but the overall game 
 will make most happy. The combat is great when you get used to it.
  
  Finally the sound. I don't have much to say but great weapon sound and perfect voice acting.
 
  
  Overall this game is genius. I give it 10 endangered earths out of ten. If you recognize that from 
 X-Play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoorah12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Overall, Mass Effect is just a great game. It's extremely fun to play, and also customize your 
 weapons and abilities. There is really only one problem with the game; your allies don't use their 
 abilities on their own, and you are not able to tell each of them where to go separately. However, 
 due to the fact that the game has a great combat system and looks great, this problem can be ignored. 
 The game allows you to choose from a variety of classes, each with their own abilities. Each class 
 allows you to have a certain set of skills that you are able to use to your advantage. Also, you 
 can choose who you bring with you on each of your missions, allowing you to choose the allies that 
 you fell are best suited for the task. The game is extremely long, with many side quests to go 
 along with the campaign. This game is a must get for anyone who craves a great story line paired 
 with a fun combat system as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duffcub
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I knew nothing about it before buying - checked a few reviews, and it seemed 
 to be solid, and well backed, so I went for it. I have to say I'm very glad I did!
  
  I love this type of game - huge fan of the Star Wars: KOTOR games, and of the Neverwinter Knights 
 franchise, so anything from Bioware usually floats my boat. Mass Effect is no exception. Everything 
 is just amazing. The backstory, the characters, the environment - all just perfect, and although 
 the world (s) you are playing in is fictional, it's dead real when you're playing (no, living) in 
 it.
  
  You really feel you are Shepherd when playing, that you are making the decisions and that they 
 affect the other members of your crew. The decisions on what equipment to buy/sell/keep don't just 
 affect you, but your entire squad. The huge playing area, with a myriad of sub-plots, extra missions 
 and assignments just makes this an amazing game, and although there is a linear thread running 
 through, you are under no obligation to complete it quickly, and indeed if you do, you will never 
 finish all the side-missions.
  
  The controls are all very intuitive, although a careful reading of the manual before you start 
 will reveal some of the commands for controlling your team which you won't pick up by instinct 
 alone.
  
  My only (small) gripe is that you can't easily skip some cut-scenes which tend to lead in to some 
 of the more key battle scenes, during which of course you more than often die, so need to replay 
 - it just adds a level of frustration to the game play which could have easily been avoided.
  
  Great stuff - completely absorbing, and I can't wait for Mass Effect 2 - surely the potential 
 of this universe and its inhabitants is too great to leave after just one episode? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PwnMaster94
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  When I bought Mass Effect I thought it was just going to be an OK game which I'd beat once and 
 then throw it under my bed and forget about it. When I began playing it, Mass Effect proved to 
 be a game with little action and too much talking. But after about the second hour the talking 
 ceased and the real game started. With your ship, the Normandy, you can search through a massive 
 galaxy with never ending surprising. The storyline to the game is amazing and I just couldn't stop 
 playing the game. The action and fighting is also great and I like how the game is slightly tactical 
 in a way because you can control what more than one character does. Nowadays I've beaten Mass Effect 
 about three times and I'm still not bored of it. My character's levels have gone through the roof 
 and I can't stop playing. Mass Effect is truly the most amazing game I've ever played!!! Buy it 
 and keep playing it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BodomBeachChild
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  I get a good chuckle out of reviews by people who go, "this is a bad shooter." and "too much dialog." 
 Well no joke. This is not SOCOM, this is not B. L. A. C. K., this is not a shoot'em up. It's an RPG. 
 I don't know how people missed tht target by a mile, but they have.
  
  To begin, I'm not too big on RPGs. I like Guild Wars, The Witcher, TES and now Mass Effect. A few 
 others, but none really worth mentioning right now. 
  
  I love exploration. I have since I was a little kid. I also have a weird obsession with space and 
 every little thing out there. When I heard about Mass Effect taking place on many planets, I was 
 excited. I didn't get this on release, I actually bought it about a month ago. So I checked the 
 boards to see how people enjoyed the exploration of other planets. Not too many people liked it. 
 That made me shaky. Once I bought the game, and got to go on my own, I enjoyed it. I like the Mako. 
 I can see why people don't as it can get REALLY stupidly hard to control, but I can see past it. 
 Sure, the areas you explore on other planets aren't HUGE, but for me they did justice. My only 
 issue with other planets is this: why do they all have the same gravity? When you read info on 
 a planet that has a much different gravity than Earth, friggin' make it that way! It can't be that 
 hard. When I went to the moon, I was expecting it to feel like the moon. No, it felt like I was 
 walking outside in the dark. Oh, and to the reviewer who said the moon is flat, why does the game 
 have mountains on it? Because it does have mountains. It has a lot of different landscapes. 
  
  The story was amazing. I like the mass amounts of dialog. I want games to make me feel like 
 that character. Since I made my own custom character, it felt more real to me. I didn't want a 
 stock Shepard, I wanted someone I made. Being about to choose my own way to handle things made 
 me feel like I was, I dunno, not controling a game character. It felt like a real RPG. It's something 
 you can pretty much only accomplish in something like D&D because you ARE that character. The VA's 
 helped this out alot. Very strong preformances by everyone. By time the story was all said and 
 done... I felt something you don't get much out of a game. *Spoilers?* When it came down to the 
 final fight... I actually felt bad for what happened to Saran. Watching something like that happen 
 to someone, well, something was kinda sad to me even though I know he wasn't a real creature. 
 
  
  The combat get's a lot of crap from people. Like I stated earlier, it's not ment to be SOCOM. I 
 don't know how people have so much trouble with it. I mean, if you read the manual and follow the 
 tutorials, it's all explained. I rarely ever have a team mate run in front of me, they use their 
 biotics well when I'm not issuing out the commands to use them. Maybe it's just me, but I find 
 the combat easy to use. You take cover, fire, issue out a command to either: take cover, use biotic, 
 go there, target, etc and they do it. All enemies killed. Whoo. So hard. -_-'
  
  I hate the texture pop-ins. Thats my only real issue. I only have one instance of framerate dip 
 and that was on Novaria. Other than that and long elevator rides that don't really hurt unlike 
 what some people state, the visual quality is awesome. They really nailed the sci-fi look and feel, 
 and the grain filter really helps.
  
  I'd recommend this to someone who wants a good story and can deal with RPGs. They just gotta realize 
 this is NOT a shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benoxtoby
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 10, 2008 2:30 am PT
Review:  i picked this game up because i was getting tired of beat downs and shotguns to the face on halo 
 3, and i have to say ive gone back to halo pretty quickly afterwards. 
  
  first off the story is pretty good, except that the main villain only appears at the beginning 
 and end of the game. which makes chasing him down seem rather futile seing as no one ever knows 
 where he is until after hes been there. 
  
  the aliens are pretty cool. their not the typical green coloured humans (except the asari) or creatures 
 that are basically strange humans. for a couple of races they even have their own way of speaking 
 to people which is rarely done in alien games. 
  
  combat is pretty poor. If you bought the game as a galactic shoot-em-up then prepare to be severly 
 dissapointed! the guns have no real feel to them. u simply point the circle on your screen, hold 
 the trigger, and hope the enemys shield and health goes down before your gun overheats. your team 
 mates are rarely helpful, and tend to die quite a lot. one of the most annoying things about the 
 fighting is the biotics. my team mates never used their own biotics for anything, and enemy biotics 
 involved making me fall over. regardless of whether i dodged the blue ball heading towards me or 
 not. 
  
  the mako and the plantes are also poor. the mako rarely shoots where u want it to, u have to be 
 looking up to hit an enemy, and fixing your craft does nothing apart from putting out fires on 
 the vehcle, sometimes. once each part of your vehicle has been shot once without shields, its impossible 
 to know how much health the vehicle has. 
  the planets themselves are roughly a kilometere square space filled with mountains. even the moon, 
 which from all the videos of moon landings etc is flat, the moon is covered in hills still. every 
 planet has the same bizarre hill riddled layout, and with a total of 3 things to do on each, most 
 of them aren't worth the load times of flying to the system. 
  
  the amount of things people say as well is poor. everyone seems to want to blurt out their life 
 story, and each one takes a good 10 minutes. id wager a guess that approximately 60% of the game 
 playing time is spent having conversations. this coupled with the fact that your enemy doesnt show 
 until the end, makes you seem more like a helpful pushover than anything else. 
  its very similar to what i heard a harry potter described as, a glorified chore helper. 
  
 
  the graphic are also a let down. Apparently the game has amazing graphics, but alot of the time 
 the camera changes to a different view before all the textures have loaded, making amazing graphics 
 often comparable to playstation 1 games
  
  when you stop to give it an overview mass effect is a game made up of long conversations, load 
 times, elevator rides, and poor combat. but given that it is still quite good at drawing you in. 
 itll be 5 hours before you realise youve been sat there for 5 hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonOfloom
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is in my opinion the best RPG i have yet to play, I find it insulting how Gamespot 
 give Final Fantasy a higher score than this.
  
  Mass Effect has the best story i have heard in any RPG, its epic and belivable with really good 
 voice actors and graphics. Theres no anime crap here, its all gritty and real! You'll really grow 
 to have feelings for the characters so much that if one dies for some reason i won't say, you'll 
 feel sad.
  
  Another thing i loved about this was the combat, its abit like Gears of War but with Jedi Knight 
 Powers, there are no random encounters and its always fast paced.
  
  The skill upgrade system is small for an RPG, giving you an option of about 10 attributes/skills 
 to put points in, each one of these will make the attribute stronger. This could be the ability 
 to Push heavier objects, increasing the duration of a lift attack or do more damage with your gun. 
 Theres very little stat crunching here so you may be disappointed if your into that.
  
  As I've said this game is the best RPG i have ever played, i'd call it more of an Action Adventure 
 game than an RPG but i guess the massive plot, ability to choose what you say and how it affects 
 the game qualifies it for an RPG.
  
  It does however have two flaws, the sparse Auto-saves and the Driving sections, which are ruined 
 by the in-ability to shoot anything thats lower down than your bonnet.
  
  BUY THIS GAME, IT DESERVES A BETTER SCORE THAN FINAL FANTASY! What are you thinking giving it such 
 a low score? Its amazing, Finaly fantasy is a bullcrap story, with stupid characters, wearing stupid 
 outfits, saying stupid things! Bunch of Hentai, Pen and Paper geeks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRownan
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect had me at the start. I'm a fan of third person shooters and RPG's and this game combines 
 the two wonderfully to give gamers everywhere the best of both worlds. 
  I'll start with the graphics. They are well done with all the character animations running smoothly 
 together. The different worlds are well detailed and you feel like you get something different 
 out of each one. The voice acting in the game is the best I have yet to see in any game. I actually 
 enjoy just having conversations with the crew or maybe some refugees. 
  The controls are easy to manage, working much like a third person shooter with the option to pause 
 combat and choose different skills to use. You level up your character through experience like 
 an RPG, unlocking more skills the higher you proceed through the levels. Another feature I like 
 is adding modifications to your equipment to make them more effective.
  Lastly, the story draws you in and keeps you interested through the whole game. All of the different 
 paths and outcomes give Mass Effect a good replay value. I have went through the game 3 times so 
 far myself.
  I suggest every dedicated gamer pick this one up and immerse yourself in the story as soon as possible. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WikitClown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is superb!!! I love how they've combined sci-fi with the rpg genre. Usually in an rpg 
 you'd find a soilder, mage, dwarf, etc. but with this it's a whole new ball game. The character 
 customization and the upgrades for each character are a very nice touch. It's pretty standard rpg 
 format but I think that Bioware has started something really good here. There are a few issues 
 but they are so small that it's not really worth mentioning. The good more than outweighs the bad 
 and if you're looking for something to sink your teeth into then Mass Effect is a game for you. 
 Can't wait till the sequel comes out and I'm sure it'll be 10 times better so keep your ear to 
 the ground... if you're still not sure than I suggest giving it a rent and see what you think... it 
 has great replay value so even if you beat it on the rent it's still worth the buy for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: segaraptor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Oh-ho-ho, Mass Effect. What a delectible tidbit of intellectual property you turned out to be. 
 You may be much-rebuked by the gaming press for the simplicity of your combat system. You may present 
 a world devoid of God in any form and thus you come off as mildly depressing early on. 
  
  However. 
  
  Your story is phenomenal. Your combat lends itself to players seeking an experience 
 over a grind. Your music is eerily pleasant in an otherworldly,  
 sort of way. Your play-through possibilities are endless. 
  
  And your aliens.
  
  HOT. 
  
  Don't be fooled by Gamespot's review. Mass Effect is better than an 8.5. It's one 
 of the greatest games I've ever experienced, personally. It is, in my opinion, the best game of 
 2007's incredible crop of games. I'm not typically a fan of Western RPG's, but this game has to 
 be played to be believed. I stand converted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodsergio2004
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect has a fantastic story that makes the player responsible for telling it; but while the 
 game is good, a significant amount of texture pop-ins and repetitive side missions are the only 
 factors keeping this game from being great.
  
  On the positive side, Mass effect combines a compelling story, that ranges from action to love 
 drama, with a sense of you telling the story yourself. When playing solely through the main quest 
 there will never be a dull moment. Bioware has always done a fantastic job of keeping the player 
 interested in the story of their games alone, and Mass Effect is no exception. You play as Commander 
 Shepard whose back story is decided by you before the game. You can either be a ruthless soldier 
 with questionable leading skills, or a marveled hero with high moral standards. Whichever you choose 
 there will be no doubt that you're the man (or woman) to save the galaxy. As in KOTOR 1 and 2 throughout 
 the game you'll have a choice system, but in Mass Effect its not as black and white. You can be 
 the protagonist or the antagonist, but you'll never be a bad guy. In other words you can complete 
 your missions as ruthlessly and efficiently as possible, or you can consider the moral questions 
 certain missions pose and go about them accordingly. The story pits you against a rogue alien named 
 Saren, which has betrayed the intergalactic council made up of collective alien races. This council 
 is kind of like the UN of the Milky Way. Without getting into any spoilers, you go on a mission 
 throughout the Milky Way meeting allies, fighting enemies, all the while picking up clues that 
 eventually lead you to Saren. Oh and by the way you have a choice of having sex with two females, 
 and one of them is an alien; can it get any better than that?
  
  The only things that mar the great experience which is Mass Effect, are the repetitive side missions 
 and constant texture pop-ins. If you veer away from the main story, you'll find yourself going 
 to desolate planets doing search and destroy missions. Its always the same; you land on some God 
 forsaken planet on the Mako (your all terrain vehicle with very bad controls) and take out the 
 enemy forces which have control of your base, and thats about it. The textures on the characters 
 and environments always take at least 3 seconds to appear every time the game loads, which bothers 
 me because it messes up an otherwise beautiful looking game.
  
  Aside from the graphical issues and repetitive side missions, Mass Effect has a wide range of interactive 
 story telling that never gets boring.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WPxPaladin
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is easily the best Xbox 360 RPG out there, but its not for everyone. Bioware RPG's 
 are a bit different, mainly in the sense that they really are not all that long. The catch is the 
 game is playable more than once, and you can experience a significantly different game (dialog 
 wise, the base story is the same) by responding differently to dialog.
  
  The game play itself is a lot like a 3rd person shooter, there is no waiting for your attacks - 
 you shoot when you want to shoot. It requires more attention to detail, which in my eyes adds an 
 additional level of enjoyment to the game. Now don't get me wrong, it's not really all that skill 
 based, all you have to do is point and shoot - but your gun can over heat and the gun type/mods 
 you use can effect the damage, over heating rate, and accuracy.
  
  I personally just use a shot gun and mod it to do as much damage as it can, effectivly I can only 
 get two quick shots off before the 7 second over heating delay wears off... but to be totally honest 
 my level 50 soldier only NEEDS one shot with it to take your head clean off.
  
  Animations are smooth, and you can use the enviornment to your advantage, as can the AI. If you 
 like 3rd person shooters I think you will reallu enjoy this game, you have a nice RPG/Progression 
 aspect added to game that would be fun to play even if it was missing.
  
  The sound and graphics are both fantastic, the sound track will leave you wanting to hear some 
 song over and over, while the graphics will at times make you do a double take and just say "damn 
 that girl has a nice ass"
  
  When I say girl I mean planet, and when I say ass I mean moon.....
  
  ANYWAY all and all the 
 style of the game is much like Knights of the old republic - stuff happens, people talk, you decide 
 how you want to react to it. Be a jerk and kick every one in the face (or in the baby maker, i 
 wont tell you how to kick ass!) , or be the nice little military puppet that does what hes told.
 
  
  There is always a middle ground too, so you don't have to be mr goody two shoes or billy bad ass. 
 But who wants to be a plain jane am I right? A big part of this game is experimenting with different 
 reactions to different situations - which can lead to dramatically different game play at times. 
 Be a nice guy and someone might just walk away - be a jerk and you might need to put a bullet in 
 someones skull. 
  
  The game is fully voice acted - which is done on a fantastic level, the characters all sound and 
 act great. If they did one thing better than anyone else, its easily the voice acting. Your character 
 actually talks too (shocking!) , so you are not just choosing a response, you are saying it!
  
  I would like to reitterate that this game is not really that long, but people like me (who 
 like to see the responses to different situations playing as a different character) find a lot 
 of replayability here. The story is a good one, gets a bit dry at the end but finishes fairly nice. 
 So even if you only play through it once, just relax and have fun and you will get 20 hours out 
 of it atleast. Sure you can beat it in less if you are trying, but why bother?
  
  There are tons of different worlds to explore, though most are fairly barren. On the plus side 
 they are nice to look at. The lore in the game is off the chain, there is probably a good hour 
 and a half of back story and game information that some guy will just ready you. They really put 
 a lot of time in the story, characters, and the lore. It shows, and anyone who is interested in 
 the Mass Effect Universe (there will be more games) will really appreciate and enjoy the amount 
 they packed into this game
  
  All and all, sounds great, looks great, and plays great. Aside from driving the vehicle and the 
 short story this game is totally solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lesteristheone
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  THE FACTS:
  
  # When i saw the trailers for this game i was blown away and promised so many things about the 
 game .e. g shaping your own destiny and having a huge galaxy to explore. There is a huge galaxy 
 but you can barely explore it and even when you do land on a planet all thats there is one small 
 building with a few badys in it. {for shame on bioware}
  
  # The game i thought was too short for an rgp shoter i burned it 12 hours.
  
  # The dialog 
 is lenghty but skipable.
  
  # The combat is good but drys up too guickly if your person who likes constant action. Also having 
 to pause the screen everytime you do a special move gets annoying after while. 
  
  # The transport that you drive on planets handles like a fat man on unicyle.
  
  # The storys 
 a little bland.
  
  # The heart of the combat system is great simple yet fun.
  
  CONCLUSION: 
  Right well to be pecfectly honest its good game but i felt cheated and lied to 
 after watching the trailers that over hype it way too much. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Ace
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  I'll just give you the facts: Mass Effect has great characters, a great story, and the universe 
 is very well thought out. So if you're a fan of KoToR you probably will enjoy Mass Effect, just 
 because it's by BioWare and its revolutionary dialog system.
  Although the dialog is just about the only revolutionary about the game. The combat boils down 
 to just a barely passable shooter, and you have these powers you obtain by leveling up and putting 
 points into the stat bars. You obtain guns and armor that have different stats and stuff too, but 
 you'll probably end up converting massive amounts of garbage into omnigel because you'll find tons 
 of this extra loot is worthless. The game doesn't often call for you to be a tactical mastermind 
 so you'll end up just shooting stuff and throwing a power here and there. It's still fun to say 
 the least. 
  The graphics are really nice and the game plays very nicely. You're not going to frustrated or 
 want to turn it off because the main quest planets are fairly interesting. The ending is great, 
 one of the coolest I've seen and goes along with an excellent soundtrack. You owe it to yourself 
 to play Mass Effect at least two times, because there is a lot to miss out on the first time. 
 
  You'll probably end up not doing this "exploration" stuff a lot, because it's simply boring. You 
 land on a planet, drive around, shoot things, all the planets are exactly the same with different 
 environments. It's a dull, shallow experience and don't let it ruin the excellent story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  I kinda like the IDEA behind this game, it reminded me of our older PC rpg games, with the whole 
 way you are move through the story... That being said this game seems to focus solely on its cinamatics 
 and Roll Playing, kinda leaving alot to be desired in its actual gameplay. Although it was not 
 that bad, I was just hoping for better mechanics..... Shooting your guns just isn't that fun. you 
 have to really enjoy the STORY to put up with this games weak combat system... Another thing that 
 turned me off early in this game was the interface, just navigating through this is a beating and 
 very annoying.... This is not for everyone, if you are a casual shooter fan and love storylines 
 I would say you will not go wrong with this. But if your hardcore shooter and get your enjoyment 
 out of combat then don't waste your time.. I am a RPG fan, loved Oblivion but this game keeps you 
 in cinamatics and very... very.. very... dialogue heavy, which is fine at fist but then it gets to 
 the point where you just want the story to thrust you along and not make you watch a 10hour movie....
 
  
  I played ME for just alittle over 5hours and my opinion might not be too valid to some, but I just 
 could not force myself to continue on knowing there was 40hours of this in my future, so I moved 
 on.... And the story did not intrest me one bit.... not at all..... But theres my quick review of 
 ME.. thank godd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGshade
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a great RPG on Xbox 360. It rests at the top of the list with Oblivion. Although 
 it has many great qualities, some minor flaws make it fall short of perfection.
  
  Mass Effect starts with your character customization. You can be a man or woman and you can customize 
 your facial features as well. The interesting part is where you select your personal and military 
 past. It adds a great amount of customization, since it changes some of the dialouge in game. You 
 also pick your class from soldier, engineer, biotic, or a mix of any two. This determines what 
 skills you have, the weapons you can use, and more.
  
  You start on the Normandy, an Earth Alliance vessel, flying towards Eden Prime, where you have 
 to recover some sort of beacon. What starts as a simple "shakedown" turns into a recovery, as an 
 alien species, named the Geth, attack Eden Prime. The story goes in many directions after surprising 
 alligations, plot twists and betrayels.
  
  The graphics in Mass Effect range from okay to absolutely beautiful. Some areas could look better, 
 but not everything is perfect.
  
  The combat in Mass Effect takes some getting used to. Combat plays as a first person shooter. You 
 point and shoot. Simple enough. The RPG elements kick in as you decide which guns your squad should 
 use, making sure they're trained in it (if untrained in a gun, power and accuracy is reduced; sometimes 
 they automatically switch to one of these guns, causing you to constantly watch what weapon they're 
 using) , and what skills they use.
  
  Skills vary from class to class. A soldier, for example, would use combat skills, like Carnage. 
 An engineer would have skills that can lower enemy shields, while a biotic has skills like Warp, 
 which sends enemies on their butts and damages them. This adds strategy to the game, since you 
 have to wait for a skill to recharge before using it again (unless you use the skill Adrenaline 
 Burst, which recharges all skills) . You can set it if you want your allies to ue skills or not.
 
  
  Mass Effect may not seem like an RPG yet, but now I'll explaing that. When you kill something, 
 you earn experience points, and when you get enough you level up. You get a certain amount of points 
 that you can use to upgrade attributes. Once a high enough level in one attribute, you might unlock 
 more skills. This is where the RPG part comes in.
  
  What sets Mass Effect apart from other games is the ability to pick your own dialouge. You can 
 choose to sound nice or bad, both which have skills for when you talk like that (Paragon-nice/good, 
 Renegade-bad/evil) . Your chracter has two skills called Charm and Intimidate, both of which can 
 open up new dialouge branches, which can cause you to get more money out of a situation, or stop 
 you from killing a partner. The only problem with that system is that at the ending, nothing changes 
 no matter how bad/good you are. It's immensely disatisfying.
  
  Mass Effect has one of the coolest map systems ever. There are many different worlds you can visit. 
 The main place you'll be is the Citadel, like your main city. You can buy/sell weapons and armour, 
 find side quests, go to the gentlemens club, and more.
  
  Speaking of side quests, I was very disappointed. None of them had anything directly connected 
 to the story, and some didn't even make sense. The pay off wasn't always fair, and I felt like 
 I had killed stuff for nothing. It is the games major fault.
  
  Overall, Mass Effect is a great RPG, but some flaws make it fall short of perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t400991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a role-playing game from Bioware, creators of Star Wars Kinghts Of The Old Republic 
 and Jades Empire. 
  
  Bioware yet again have given us a game with an oringal story that makes you want to play through 
 it again, also you can create your own character ( Male or Female) from a very detailed system, 
 and i encourge you to make your own character, and of course you couldn't have a bioware game without 
 a good and evil system, which will give the game diffrent endings depending on whether you are 
 good or evil, and finally someone has gone and created realistic face expressions that arent cheesey 
 , HORRAY! 
  
  Combat in Mass Effect is not as bad as everyone makes out, yes its not as good as something like 
 Gears Of War or Call Of Duty 4, but is has its moments, as you can serve loads of positions in 
 combat depending on what class you chose at the start of the game, so you could be a run ' an' 
 gun soilder or someone who use forces to take people down by lifting or throwing them, or a person 
 who can disabled robotics and open locked crates easily, or a mixture of both. All in all the combat 
 is good but dont expect Gears quailty but dont underestimate it either.
  
  The only bad thing i can coment on is gliches in the game, but dont worry most are just, textures 
 take longer to load or wrong voices on the wrong characters, thats all thats wrong with the game
 
  
  As i said Mass Effect is a must buy for all and remains as a instant classic of role-playing games, 
 one of Biowares best. So what are you waiting for go pick it up... NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HessenKnight
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Bioware has always been known to make top notch RPGs, and with Mass Effect, the experienced developer 
 takes a shot at a more open-ended RPG, with elements revolving around a unique take on Real Time, 
 Gears of War style of combat.
  
  You jump into the boots of your own image of Commander Shepherd, complete with customizable history, 
 attitude and psyche, combat style, sex and appearance. Depending on how you choose your psyche 
 and pre-service history, the game will bend slightly relative to those options. Do you want to 
 be a hardened, bad-ass vet? Ex-Vets will treat you with respect, and become easier to get along 
 with. Do you want to be a gang member who wants to leave his doings on Earth in the past? Old friends 
 will confront you on your old ways. Do you want to have a ruthless attitude? Shoot before you ask. 
 All of these elements add into MASSIVE replay value, along-side the superb, yet incredibly simple 
 dialougue system. Unlike games like Oblivion, your dialogue choices are presented in the flavor 
 of what you're about to say. A response to an annoying reporter will show up in the dialogue wheel 
 as "Time to shut you Up." will result in a little smacking around.
  
  Another thing that adds to replay value is the combat system. Different classes have different 
 approaches to conflicts. A Vanguard will use Biotics (Equivalent to the force) to disable his enemies, 
 whilst hurting them, to close in for massive shotgun blasts. The infiltrator will send his squad 
 mates into the frontlines, while he/she hangs in the back, picking off units in the distance. All 
 of the styles of combat are radically different from one another, which adds to replay value even 
 more. Another important element is the ability to freeze the battle, and make a list of actions 
 for you and your squad to carry out. Definitely a great use of that kind of system.
  
  Visuals are without a doubt, incredible. Featuring some of the best uses of Depth of Field, and 
 the new shader "Film Grain" make you want to invite a friend over a bust out the popcorn. It looks 
 THAT good. Light dances realisticly around characters and objects, and efficiently simulates the 
 way the eye percieves light. Draw Distance is flawless, but enviornments are often dull and samey. 
 If I want to explore uncharted worlds, make it interesting. I don't want to drive over the same 
 mountain in a different color. Indoor enviornments are hard to appreciate due to the third-person 
 perspective, but it remains samish and dull. Even worse, there is only one city hub, and it is 
 barely interactible, which is a real buzz kill. Sound and voice acting is not top-notch, but it 
 gets the job done.
  
  For the Geeks who like to read up, you're in for a treat. Mass Effect packs an extensive codex, 
 time-line, and terminology. You'll definitely spend hours reading the codex.
  
  All-in-all, BioWare fans are going to fall in love. Shooter fans will have to be patient to get 
 sucked in, and for people who like to get straight to the shooting, this could be rent. All in 
 all, a fantastic game, with a few flaws.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneRippedGuy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I have to say from bioware i expected just a bit more. I bought this game from Wal Mart expecting 
 the best. COuldn't wair i was thinking it's like a new KOTOR from the same company but with a much 
 better time zone and updated next gen graphics. Yeah sure the first day i was pretty hooked I made 
 two characters a hot looking girl and the main guy John sheppard. He is the tough guy soldier build.. 
 out of 6 possible builds. 
  
  After a bit of playing you will discover the soldier is the best class to play because he is very 
 damage resistant, can use all guns, and regenerates hp over time, when constantly getting poisned 
 and nuked this is a prime asset to have. The girl i made into an agent which is a biotic specialist 
 (magic user ripoff?) but its not very fun becuse she is very squishy and has to constantly be paused 
 to cast abilities. Its great to see an ally toss an big giant geth destroyer 20 feet in the air 
 though while u fill it with lead haha. 
  
  And omg when u die... lemme just say that you are not gonna like it. When you die... you never 
 really know when becuase some attacks that dont kill you will sometimes just myteriously one hit 
 you, and itsvery annoying because of the death music and you gotta start back pretty far ( your 
 last save the auto save isnt very good and WOW the music on death gonna make you wanna stab yourself 
 ) . 
  
  But beyond the straightforward shoot n spank qhich is quite easy, the character innovation which 
 is surprisingly actually a bit limited becuase you dont really have as much choice to determine 
 an outcome as you may think. Plus you only really have 5 or 6 characters throughtout the whole 
 game to interact with other then predetermined storyline. Plus the side quests and missions actually 
 feel pretty pointless. They dont accomplish much and feel they are just there to add to the length 
 of the game and nothing more. I mean i went through an ordeal to help wrex get his armor and he 
 still turned on me. Funny to see ashley pop him though. 
  
  So to sum it up, its actually surprisingly short, i beat it in 14 hours (2 days) or 3? Compared 
 to fallout 1 and 2 which took me at least a week each ( true classics imo) So its a great looking 
 game not quite up to assassin's creed (disappoint too actually all flash too repetitive) actually 
 because the graphics in reality look like they are recycled and u cant see much more than whats 
 in the actual little small area that ur mission is in. Whats good is the load time is pretty good 
 so no waiting. Can make some great looking females which is pretty fun, but i just feel that it 
 needed a bit more work to be a really great game. KOTOR had more to it , but its got a great little 
 world that makes u feel like your in it, but of course you will finish it before you know it . 
 So bioware what happened? I feel like im playing this now just to get my moneys worth .. i just 
 unlocked insane mode.. hope its actually a bit hard. But why cant u skip the cinematics? I hate 
 when u cant it bugs me. 
  
  So in total i give it 7.5 out of 10. Was gonna give it an 8 ... but after thinking about it.. its 
 still cluinky and needed more work. And the love scenes are so bad lol . WIth the girl i had sex 
 with the female masseuse? I dont think that was their intention. lol. peace i hope this offered 
 some insight in the hiugely anticipated game Mass effect. Get halo 3 on live. Best thing you can 
 do :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkalian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  For an RPG this game really keeps your attention, unlike some other lengthy RPG's like Oblivion 
 where NPC's say the same things over and over again which gets really old really fast. The cutscenes 
 are really cool and interesting. At first some of the controls took some getting used to but after 
 some battling and interaction it all came together. Ive played this game through twice now and 
 will play it through at least once more as the replay is that good. If youre an achievement hunter 
 then you will need to do more than 1 playthrough to get all achievements. Im not sure how they 
 fit so much content onto 1 DVD, its amazing graphically. Pros - Great audio, Replay value, great 
 graphics, excellent plotline
  Cons - Planet exploration is a little monotonous, no co-op, the elevators are too slow (picky I 
 know) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  This day and age in games, it is hard to find interesting new IPs with publishers less willing 
 to take risks as development costs rise. Thankfully though Microsoft took a risk with Bioware's 
 Mass Effect and although the results have been mixed there is a lot of future potential for the 
 trilogy.
  
  On booting up the game you're invited to create your own character (although you can't change the 
 name. He or she will always be called Commander Shepard) . The options for changing facial appearance 
 seem in-depth at first, but it's very hard to gain any noticable change from the default appearance. 
 Even if you choose a female face they still end up looking rather grizzled! The more important 
 choice here involves choosing your character class which will influence the skills available to 
 you as you level up during the campaign. The classes range from the usual RPG soldier and engineer 
 types, along with some more interesting biotic characters with powers like telekinesis.
  
  Once you're into the game itself, the visuals make great first impressions. The sense of scale 
 in early areas like The Citadel is suitably daunting for a space epic and the character models 
 have a mind-boggling level of detail, especially some of the more complex alien races like The 
 Krogan. Quickly though the game begins to show some of the familiar Unreal Engine visual glitches. 
 The first of these is severe texture-popping, meaning that the textures for character and object 
 models often fail to load as quickly as the geometry. The result of which is a few seconds of looking 
 at grey mess when new areas load. The other visual problem is the framerate slowdown which occurs 
 in busy areas and in combat. It's not as annoying as the texture-popping but it's a niggling issue 
 in too many next-gen titles that could easily be sorted out by extending the development cycle.
 
  
  The combat itself plays very similarly to Gears of War, though the cover system isn't as well applied. 
 The gunplay is reasonably well done, but as with most action RPGs it obviously hasn't been a top 
 priority in development. The combat is much more interesting when you begin to experiment with 
 the biotic powers. This can create some spectacular action, but unfortunately, in order to activate 
 these techniques you have to pause the action to bring up a menu and select the power you wish 
 to use. Dipping in and out of gameplay like this spoils the immersion of the player with the game. 
 In combat you also have some basic squad commands such as "attack my target" and "take cover." 
 Sometimes these work brilliantly, but the AI often gets confused and tends to run around in circles, 
 making them perfect cannon fodder for enemies.
  
  Far more interesting than any of this are the conversations you can have with other characters. 
 When talking to other characters you can choose how to respond to what they say from 3 different 
 options. One is a neutral response, one is negative and one is positive. Initially this seems like 
 a fantastic idea trying to work out what is best to say to different people to gain the desired 
 result. However, on the list of possible responses the "good" one is always at the top of the list, 
 the "bad" one at the bottom and the neutral one in-between. As a result, you barely have to think 
 about what you say which, like the stop-start nature of the combat, spoils the sense of immersion 
 in the game.
  
  Even for all of Mass Effect's problems though you'll find yourself compelled to continue playing 
 because of the utterly engrossing story. Sure, there are elements obviously borrowed from both 
 Star Wars and Star Trek but the overall story-arc is one of gaming's much better tales. There's 
 also a whole wealth of side-missions and uncharted worlds to explore so you can really immerse 
 yourself in the Mass Effect universe if you so wish.
  
  As a gameplay experience Mass Effect is undeniably flawed, but the story and sense of adventure 
 will surely keep even the most sceptical player hooked right through to the conclusion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFBCxkiller7
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  i love mass effect i put around 236 hours in to it its just amazing i never thought it would be 
 that good it was difficult but worth it cause i like a good rpg when i see one i cant stand the 
 wait for mass effect 2 but it will be worth it in the end and its been the best rpg i, ve ever played 
 but fable 2 might beat that record it will be good to but mass effect is just worth 60 bucks for 
 all those who haven't played it u should rent it first to see if u like it then buy it cause i 
 promise u wont regret it and the story line is just incredible and sarus is just the perfect bad 
 guy and the sex scene with Ashley was good and Ashley was really hot for a Game Chick but its sad 
 that nihlus had to die he wasnt in the game long but he was preatty cool but i would surely play 
 this game again and my favorite planet was noveria 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haven79
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Dont listen to the gamespot review. Some part of what they say it true, but they fit the problems 
 too hard. There are some loading times, but they more or less are like any other games loading 
 checkpoints, the textures pop in when loading, but its only a few seconds, and its very forgivable. 
 I have fought many thresser maws and never had a problem either. 
  
  The land expanses are really intresting. You get to to explore and there are a ton of missions 
 to do. The combat is really sweet also. The pausing to pick your next move works really well with 
 the combat, and it works very well while you go throughout the missions. Its got a great menu for 
 upgrading stats, managing your team, and keeping track of your missions. 
  
  The story is the best part. It can go any direction you want. You also get rewarded the more you 
 talk. The graphics, no matter is its cut scene or combat, its all amazing. All of the voice acting 
 is perfect too. 
  
  If there is a drawback, its hard to see over all the aspects that make it a great game. If you 
 want an amazing story with good rpg elements, you have to by this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avishkar14
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Seriously guys, this is one of the best games that I have ever played in my gaming career. Absolutely 
 no game has as much replay value as Mass Effect. Right from the start, the game draws you in and 
 you will never know when you get addicted to it.
  
  Graphics are just top notch. It seems as if you are watching a movie. The dialogue system is amazing 
 as you can select what your character would speak and hence this adds a great deal of realism to 
 the game.
  
  Gameplay is fantastic. You actually play a big part during the cutscenes as your dialogues make 
 the listener react in different ways. Squad control is pretty good considering that this is an 
 RPG game.
  
  The best part of the game is the storyline. The story is really appealing and makes you wanna keep 
 on playing to see what will happen in the end. Storyline is very important for an RPG game and 
 this game has a great storyline.
  
  There are plenty of options with the difficulty settings as well and hence every gamer can enjoy 
 this game.
  
  I believe that this game is a must buy if you are an RPG fan. It has set a benchmark for other 
 RPG games and is a sheer masterpiece.
  
  Excellent work BIOWARE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  Bioware has made a name for itself with PC gamers and Xbox gamers alike. Both set believe Bioware 
 is an excellent story teller and one of the better RPG developers. So it should come to as no surprise 
 that Mass Effect is a highly anticipated game. 
  
  Now on paper this maybe the most current ambitious project Bioware has ever done. The story telling, 
 the fiction, the hired voice actors (seth green for just a simple character for instance) , the huge 
 galaxy that has been built. However you find out that while this game is truly ambitious, it does 
 have some flaws and some missed opportunities. Missed opportunities and flaws aside, I can not 
 deny that the gaming experience to be had with this game is truly extraordinary. This is hopefully 
 a sign of things to come from future 360/PS3 rpgs and future Western oriented RPGs as well. 
  
  The story telling and fiction in this game is amazing. One of Bioware's best. You start the 
 game as most WRPG with creating your character. From his hair, to skin, to the proportion of his/her 
 face, etc. You even get to create your own backstory in a sense. You are referred to as shephard 
 through out the entire game (so they never really say your first name, and even your character addresses 
 him/herself as Commander shephard) . You will see some beautiful cinematics and hear some well done 
 dialogu, a good portion of which you have control over. As commander shephard you get alot of dialogue 
 tree choices in the game. You could be a complete D-Bag and the voice acting will show it (especially 
 if you pick up on the intimidate meter) and you can be a by the book kind of guy. If you want you 
 can be both depending on how you feel about a certain situation. 
  
  The universe you are put into is not only amazing, but incredibly deep. Bioware has gone out of 
 its way creating so much detail to the most littlest of things and most mundane alien species you 
 will encounter. As commander shephard you are thrust onto your first mission hoping to become the 
 first human spectre. Humanity is relatively new in the galactic affairs, and its council has been 
 working hard to atleast get a spectre. A few things go wrong (such as the spectre sent to watch 
 you gets killed) and you have to fly towards the citedal. If you want to see a cutscene really 
 show something beautiful with the unreal engine, entering the citedal is one of them. A few events 
 here show your main villian Saren. Who has gone rogue. After show the council the truth you become 
 a spectre. Thus starting your campaign to stop saren. From here on in the game completely opens 
 up.
  
  YOu are not limited to just helping the cause to stop Saren. YOu can also go out to many of the 
 other planets in this galaxy and help them out in many sidequests. When I say this game is big, 
 i mean it. THe game is absolutely huge. More on that later though. A big part of this game's main 
 story is your relationship with the characters and the visions of the beacon in the first mission. 
 Later on you will find out what it all means, so there is no reason to spoil it just yet. That 
 aside your party will have some interesting characters. Who you can have many deep conversations 
 with. From Wrex the mercenary, to Tali the quarian. Each with a deep past, well done vocie acting, 
 and really likeable. Depending on your choice in gender your love interest will either be Ashely 
 or Liara, or Kaiden or Liara. 
  
  Yes you can have a woman on alien woman relationship. These relationships are made stronger through 
 out the conversations and choice in words. Eventually you will have to choose between 2 of them. 
 The human choice (depends on your gender) or Liara. This is just another small sample of the choice, 
 as later on you will have to make more big game choices as well. Concerning not only story but 
 your party. Some of these can be done by just intimidating a certain character into killing him/herself. 
 This is what Bioware has essentially delivered in basic terms. An RPG where you are inchage of 
 the story., Not just the questing, but the overall story and a damn good one at that. The characters 
 are deep and well done, and the overall story arch is about as epic as you would expect from a 
 high profile Bioware RPG. 
  
  Now this would all mean nothing if the other areas of this game sucked beyond words. Rest assured 
 Bioware did a good job on the other RPG elements as well. Lets start with leveling up the character. 
 First there is the kind of class you pick. Wether its a soldier, engineer, biotic or a mix. Each 
 time you level you will be given a certain amount of points. WHich you can then put into a certain 
 skill or talent. Such as Pistols, health, shields, certain skills, your class, or more character 
 oriented like intimidate and charm (which help you in the dialogue trees) . This way you can strengthen 
 your character to play the way you want him/her to play. If you want your charcter to be on the 
 mark with his shots, you can do that. THis not only ends there, There is also the equipment. From 
 your weapons which can be enhanced to your actual armor. Which can not only change but be enhanced 
 as well. Such as become toxic resistant, or set up your guns with more explosive rounds. The combat 
 system and rpg elements in this game may not be as deep as a Baldurs Gate 2 (another Bioware RPG) 
 but they are pretty deep for the most part.
  
  Now all this depth really means nothing if the combat and gameplay dont deliver. FOr the most part 
 they do, but this is definantly where the game is at its weakest. One thing most RPGs and Bioware 
 usually struggle with is combat. WHile they can be good, they are usually never spectacular. In 
 the case of Mass Effect it is just good. The shooting aspect of the game is solid, but nowhere 
 near as fast or fluid as a Halo, Call of Duty or a Gears of War if you want something more third 
 person. The vehicle sequences are ok, but the mako controls could honestly be better.
  
  The Biotics and engineer powers are done through a quick pause sequence of pick and point and attack. 
 Its simple and pretty good but it kinds of breaks things up here and there. These classes in my 
 opinion are definantly more fun to play. As you can do a variety of things with this class. Such 
 as lift them, or put up a barrier, or throw them, freeze them in a sense, disable there weapons, etc. 
 These classes let you go beyond the shooting, which makes the game more fun. However if you want 
 to just run through the game shooting, you can do that as well. The other aspects of gameplay in 
 this game would be the dialogue trees and the choices and that has allready been covered, with 
 that said here come the biggest flaws in the games entire Design. 
  
  First I stated that the game is huge with tons of planets. This is completely true. THe problem 
 is that most of them are dange near dead or have no life to them. THe one's where you will do some 
 side missions are limited to some life in a little hut or building structure. Which are usually 
 simple and repetitive. Kill everyone in the building. Yes the side missions can offer new story, 
 new fiction to the game but the missions are majority of the time kill everyone in the building. 
 Which really kills the side missions, in that they only become a repetitive chore in some cases 
 more than another exceptional experience. The postive is that there are some nice short stories 
 told here, and some interesting choice and character moments as well. This ends up as being a point 
 where maybe Bioware got too ambitious by creating a big universe, and thus creating a bunch of 
 repetitive planets and side missions. Its not a game killer though, but it is definantly the area 
 of biggest concern with this game. 
  
  Another flaw of this game will be its technical points. The sound design is amazing and the visuals 
 are super. The problem is that the game is still rather buggy. THe framerates dip here and there 
 and there are many texture pop ins here and there. Especially during the landing sequences, every 
 time you come back to the citedal. There hasn't been a major patch for it yet, but hopefully it 
 is squared off. However if you have no access to the patch, then this is an issue as the game may 
 be one of the most beautiful games out there, it just doesn't run as good as you would think. 
 
  
  WIth all that said, I can safely say Mass Effect is 60 bucks well spent. The main story campaign (if 
 you completely dodge all the side missions) can be done in 12-15 hours. What really gives the game 
 replay value are the side missions, the amazing well told story, and many different ways the game 
 can be played through. From not only your choices in dialogue, but to the party you pick. FOr instance 
 Garrus will respond to one situation different than Wrex will. In a sense no 2 people will experience 
 Mass Effect the same way. One person will tell one moment, while the other will tell something 
 different. This is where Mass Effect really shows its ambition. With its big universe, deep fiction, 
 it will ultimately be completely done by you. From alternate endings, to alternate love interests 
 Bioware really has given you many options for your galactic adventure. 
  
  Bioware has not only crafted an ambitious project but probably the best rpg experience on the current 
 consoles. The universe, the fiction, the story, the characters, and the gameplay (even with some 
 flaws) is definantly there. This may not be Bioware's best RPG (considering how great there past 
 work is) but it is one of there most ambitious projects ever. Final Rundown:
  
  Graphics- 9- THe visuals are fantastic, standing still its probably the best looking 360 game with 
 how big the game is, however a few technical problems are there such as framerate issues and texture 
 pop ins. 
  
  Gameplay-8- The shooting is solid at best, and the vehicle sequences are average. The biotics/engineer 
 skills can be fun but the whole pause and attack can kind of break up the fluidity of the game. 
 However the sheer amount of content in the game, the depth of the character creation, and the dialogue 
 system really add to the gameplay experience beyond just the combat. 
  
  Sound- 10- THe voice acting is awesome. The dialogue is great, the score is fantastic, and just 
 about every sound in the game is well done. Really can't come up with many complaints here. 
  
  Concept/Intangibles- 10- This game's greatness is really in its intangbiles. IT has a great 
 story, one of the best in gaming. IT has great charcaters, great and deep fiction as well. With 
 a great scale and big universe to back it up.
  
  Value- 9- THe main quest minus side missions is only 12-15 hours. But the side missions can add 
 another 10-15 hours. THrow in the many different ways you can play this game and the many different 
 choices and alternate moments in the game. THen you can see that the game is filled with enough 
 content to give it a huge amount of replay value. MOre than some of the longer and more drawn out 
 RPGs out there. Also the future DLC content will only add to the experience over time. 
  
  Tilt-10- Simply put the game is beyond just the sum of its parts. It has its flaws no doubt, but 
 those doubts should be overlooked by how great everything else. THis is by far the best RPG on 
 the 360 and the beginning of an exception trilogy that Bioware will no doubt deliver. 
  
  Final- 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dandyman94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Mass effect is an amazing game, it has so many things to offer you. There are loads of content 
 packed into this game like missions and assignments the main story can be done in a few hours but 
 if you add up all the side missions (assignments) then you have about a whole day of game play. 
 The graphics are amazing but take to long to load properly, when you are talking to someone, or 
 in a room sometimes you will see some items or a person in really bad detail and it will start 
 jumping from bad detail to good detail over and over again, but most things this does not happen 
 to. One of the other good things about this game is all the choices you can make, if you are talking 
 to a person you will be able to say various things by choosing them at the bottom of your HUD. 
 You can make your own character male or female and choose there first name and what they look like. 
 There is more than one difficulty setting. You can buy and sell items like guns and armour and 
 upgrades and things like that. There is also a magic system in the game but it is not called magic 
 in the game it is called "biotics" and is pretty useful in combat. One of the downsides is that 
 you cant kill civillians which would be extra fun if you could. The other downside is that it is 
 only one player with no online features ecept downloadable content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklink67
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  I got this game for my birthday and I thought the game would be long but it only took me 14 hours 
 to beat it. I did no sidequests becuase I don't know.
  
  First let start wioth the most important feature of a video game the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: 
 In mass effect the game play it preety sweet it not like most RPGs ware its turn based. Its actualy 
 a real Thrid person shooter rpg which in my opinion the only if not best Third person shooter rpg. 
 Well lets stop talking about that stuff and talk about how its gameplay makes it great firstly 
 you can have an option four options of either a pistol, assault rifle, shoot gun and sniper rifle. 
 Each catagory has tons of guns I mean tons. But there is also the basic RPG armor like light to 
 heavy armor. The combat is alot like gears of war you can seek cover behind a wall or some downed 
 pillar or wrecked wall. But you can only be the main character but not the aliens and humans in 
 your squad whitch stinks I will not say the races that are in your squad beside human since thats 
 spoliers. There are a few down falls to the gameplay one is it can get really repative also you 
 may prefer first person shooters. 10/10
  
  Graphics- In my opinion graphics are the secound most important thing about a video game. The graphics 
 in this game are top notch for 2007 x-box 360 you can see every little detail and is totaly not 
 bland only at some points ware it takes a few secounds to fully load the detail just like a few 
 other 360 games. 8/10
  
  Music- The music is good but some music like during battles don't suite the theme but they are 
 ok. The best sound track is at the end of the game while your going back to the cital tower. 7/10
 
  
  Sound- The sound is awsome the charater voices are amazing the foot steps sound are perfetcly timed 
 also the sounds emenys and allies make when they are hit are very good. But sometimes they will 
 not talk even when there spossed to and theres a rare glitch that makes a NPC say the same thing 
 over and over again (even when your walking away example: Hey shepard over and over again) but thats 
 a very minior set back.
  
  Over all this is a must get for the x-box 360 and requires numerous play threw to get 100%. THERES 
 NO NUDITY lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hulkness
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a third person RPG for the Xbox 360. Being developed by BioWare your almost guaranteed 
 to have a great single player experience. Mass Effect really delivers on that. Great visuals and 
 sound along with an amazing story really keep the game great all the way through. 
  
  In Mass Effect you play as Commander Shepard. You pretty much customize what type of soldier your 
 going to be. You also get to choose your backgroud and what your past is. After you play through 
 the first mission you realize there is a evil alien named Saren planning to take over the galaxy. 
 Shepard is a commander in the human military. An odd thing about this game is that the Humans aren't 
 among the strongest races. There are other alien races that run the galaxy. Very early into the 
 game you become a Spectre. A Spectre can pretty much do anything that they want and don't have 
 to answer to anyone but the council. This of course allows you to chase around Saren without much 
 trouble. While talking to other people and creatures in the game you can choose what you want to 
 say. This is really cool and sometimes you can choose whether to take someone out or keep them 
 alive which is really cool. Sometimes what you say may not do anything at all or two options of 
 what to say will have the same outcome. 
  
  Mass Effect has a very fun combat system. When in battle you pretty much fight and when you want 
 to activate an ability or switch your weapon you pretty much just bring up a menu which will kind 
 of pause the game and allow you to activate your powers or switch your weapons. Very soon into 
 the game you are put into this vehicle that you will being using quite often throughout the game. 
 Its a pretty fun piece of metal to drive around. It even allows you to jump up a few feet which 
 is pretty cool. After the first few times you use it the vehicle can just get boring because the 
 shooting with it is pretty pathetic. You will shoot and the vehicle will miss alot of the time 
 even if you aimer is still on the enemy. The weapons in the game are pretty basic you get a Pistol, 
 Machine Gun, Shotgun, and Sniper. The lack of weapons is really made up for because the combat 
 with them is so fun and the special powers you get are very intresting. Theres also a pretty pathetic 
 covering system. You dont press a button to enter it when you have a weapon out you simply run 
 towards a wall and your character will just lean against it. It can get annoying because if someone 
 rushes you getting off the wall can be annoying.
  
  The visuals in this game are quite nice. The weapons and enviroment look amazing. The voice acting 
 in this game is just great. The characters lips move almost perfectly to what there saying which 
 really makes you feel like your in the game. The music in the game is nice although nothing to 
 special. You wont really notice it while playing the game because the game is just so much fun.
 
  
  All in all I give Mass Effect a 8.5
  -Hulk
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RidersInThe-Sky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, Mass Effect can be summarized by one word. Evolution.
  Everything in Mass Effect is of such high quality that anything that would seem remotely familiar 
 is produced with a level of polish so high that you'll swear that it's never been done this way 
 before. This game is evolution on a disk. It can't be described any other way.
  
  The story follows the journey of the Human Alliance Military commander
  Shepard and his crew 
 on their mission to stop the rogue Spectre agent Saren from releasing an ancient evil that will 
 wipeout all Galactic civilization.
  Mass Effect not only balances every thing that makes a story good, but takes
  it to a new level 
 of story telling. I guarantee you, whether in a book, movie, or videogame, the storyline to Mass 
 Effect is like nothing you've ever seen before. Action, suspence, drama, romance, and a cast of 
 characters that are
  that may be some of the most memorable in gaming history (Special praise goes to Wrex, who may 
 just be the coolest ally in a game ever) . And despite the fact that you are always involved, It 
 never gets sloppy. The Dialogue wheel has to be one of the greatest innovations in storytelling.
 
  
  This game is no graphical slouch either. The art style makes this space epic looks unlike any other 
 sci-fi franchise of its kind, but the graphics look positively sublime. The special effects and 
 animation are top notch and the detail alone makes it look like less of a game and more like a 
 CG movie. Without a doubt one of the best looking games I have ever seen in my life.
  
  The game also has a memorable soundtrack that is a nice throwback to older and more classic sci-fi 
 like Star Trek and Blade Runner. And the voice acting is fantastic, not a single bad voice or line 
 in the game.
  
  Alot of talk however has been surrounding the Gears of War like run' n gun battle system. Although 
 a fair share of worry has popped up about how this system would work, I am happy to report that 
 the combat blows away any other next-gen action game on the market. Its strategic yet suspenseful 
 moments never let up. Hell, it feels better than most third person shooter (remember, it's an Rpg) 
 available.
  
  Overall, Mass Effect is revolutionary, deep, and just plain fun. You can lose yourself to the in-game 
 universe and its numerous characters and sidequests, and can easily be played from 15 - 25 hours 
 on a single playthrough. If anything holds this game back from perfection, it would be the noticeable 
 frame rate jitters and occasional glitches. But the polish of the game as a whole outweighs all 
 bad it could possibly produce. Buy this game and forget about the outside world, you won't be going 
 back to it anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zandercode
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Never have I been so drawn into a sci-fi universe. Never have I been this determined to learn every 
 tiny detail about a game world. Never have I enjoyed playing a game so much that I've gone through 
 it from beginning to end over 8 times.
  
  And never have I been this proud to give a game a shiny 10 out of 10.
  
  Are you an RPG player? 
 A shooter fan? A science-fiction junkie? If you're any one of these, you must own Mass Effect, 
 period.
  
  Mass Effect is essentially what you'd get if Knights of the Old Republic, Bladerunner, Ghost Recon: 
 AW, and Star Trek all had babies and put them all together in a cradle of awesomeness.
  
  Mass Effect is unmatched in the storytelling category. The story is very cinematic and complex, 
 but paying attention won't be a difficult task considering how interesting and well done it is.
 
  
  Most of the story is told through an interactive dialog system which allows you to select your 
 responses and morality on the fly. These scenes actually feel like you are watching a movie where 
 you are one of the characters, as the conversations flow naturally and don't involve any long, 
 awkward pauses.
  
  The graphics are quite impressive as well, probably has the best-looking characters you've ever 
 seen, and I think is in the top 10 best-looking games out there.
  
  The music is half synth, half orchestral, and all awesome. It perfectly fits Mass Effect's sci-fi 
 atmosphere. I even had to buy the soundtrack, first game who's soundtrack I've bought simply because 
 I loved it.
  
  The combat plays very much like a tactical shooter, with some very cool abilities you gain depending 
 on what type of character you choose to play as.
  
  There can be some very intense and fun moments in the combat, but it is the storytelling and awesome 
 sci-fi atmosphere that takes the show. Mass Effect is a game you will remember for a very long 
 time, and will greatly raise your expectations for future games to come.
  
  A definite purchase. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Larzarus1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  There are definitely some key points that need to be improved upon.
  
  The combat, I think, would be greatly enhanced by using a 1st person perspective, this would make 
 the game much more atmospheric whilst in combat, which is what I feel the game currently lacks.
 
  
  The true strong point of the game is the main story and side quests.
  I was instantly enthralled by the story and loved the characters, and the dialogue is unbeatable, 
 a little more humour wouldn't go a miss though...
  
  The game does serious very well I think a little more light hearted moments would work well as 
 the characters seem a little one dimensional, although that dimension is what works very well indeed.
 
  I've played it though twice now and definitley intend to again soon which brings me to achievements... 
 some are inventive but a majority are using biotic attacks a certain number of times or getting 
 so many kills with certain weapons. wait. where's my freedom again?
  The game would have benefited from many more hidden plot moments, things that involve, perhaps, 
 the history of the other characters? They talk alot about their history, it's very enjoyable, but 
 could we go seek revenge for Rex? No? Well, I'll leave him to brood then.
  
  Overall excellent, just some minor tweaks to make the sequel a classic.
  
  Also, why why why 
 is the lift in the Normandy so incredibly slow!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smiggles116
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Long before this game announcement, I spent countless hours playing Bioware's Star Wars: Knights 
 of the Old Republic. That game was amazing. The story was perfect, the voice acting was unbelievably 
 good, and the combat was incredibly flawed. Your ability to enjoy the game was based on this notion: 
 if you cannot accept the action, you will not like the game. However, KOTOR did not focus on combat, 
 but more so on everything else. Mass Effect is like a spiritual successor to KOTOR in ever way. 
 You got great voice acting, a great story, fantastic art design. It seems like the game is perfect 
 when you first start playing. However, once you are thrown into the combat, everything just starts 
 to fall apart. The aiming is horrid. Teammate A. I. sucks worse than you have ever seen. The graphical 
 slowdown makes you feel as if you are watching a slide show. Sniping has to be the most frustrating 
 exercise I ever experienced in a video game. To top it all off, the game use some weird RPG-style 
 combat engine (with hidden dice-rolls and lots of math) that KOTOR used. Oh sure, it worked in 
 KOTOR, but that game's combat engine was a bizarre mix of real-time and turn based combat (and 
 somehow, worked) . Mass Effect's combat is real time. Sometimes the player winds up getting screwed 
 when a dice rolls in the favor of the enemy, causing you to die and wait for a full minute to respawn. 
 To make matters worse, (or better) Bioware has included in Mass Effect the dumbest thing ever seen 
 in a game: a jumping car. That stupid car, or Mako (it sucks to much to call it by it's name) , 
 just sucks. The handling will remind you of what it was like when you tried to drive home drunk 
 from a party (which is horrible. If you did that, SHAME ON YOU. Go get a life and stop believing 
 that getting drunk is cool. Do something else that will benefit you and others) . The car has a 
 few more issues that will infuriate you. The gun is located on top of the vehicle, and its lowest 
 aim is at level with the car. This might not seem like a bad thing, but when you consider that 
 the car sits 8 feet off the ground, you might start punching stuff ( I did this, and I advise you 
 not to punch anything that will punch back) . To be honest, I first thought that the jumping car 
 was funny, but after I started shooting stuff, my punching spree began.
  
  It is really a shame. The rest of the game is phenomenal. The story is filled with twist, emotion, 
 and enough side quest to fill your weekends with nothing but pixels and conversation menus. The 
 voice acting is just as good as a Pixar film's would be. The graphics do have noticeable loading 
 problems and framerate issues during combat, but whenever you are just standing around, the environments 
 and character models look amazing. Watching the main character run around in circles was simply 
 astounding. THAT GUY LOOKS TOO REAL!!! It is a bit scary at first. My brother had to be committed 
 to a psychiatric institute. I kid you not. His brain couldn't handle the shock. It almost exploded! 
 Thank the good Lord that he didn't wind up like my friend. His head didn't explode. His whole body 
 burst into pieces! There was blood everywhere! It was awesome!. . . . . . . . . I really got off 
 topic there. Where was I? Oh yes, the positive points of Mass Effect. There is no denying the best 
 part of Mass Effect: the ability to choose your path. While KOTOR won a gold medal in that area, 
 Mass Effect wins a billion dollars, a super model, a condo, a chimp with the ability to kill snails 
 with mind bullets (I want one) , and yes, a gold medal (the one KOTOR had) . The conversation options 
 are unprecedented and as natural as they can be. There was one little change in conversation options 
 between Mass Effect and previous Bioware games. Whenever you choose a conversation option, the 
 option will say something like "my butt hurts" (this is just an example) , but when you select it, 
 your character will say something like, "hey guys, that sniper shot in the @$$ really stings". 
 Its as if you are not choosing your characters dialoge, but his or hers thoughts. This is kind 
 of a good thing. For example, there was this one time in the game when this guy was supposed to 
 tell me something important, but he just babbled around. I got agitated, and there was a option 
 to sayJust shut up and tell me what happened already". I selected that option. I knew that I 
 would upset the guy and he would refuse to tell me I wanted to know because of my attitude, but 
 I didn't care. Apparently, my character knew this to, but unlike me, he did care. Instead of saying 
 the rude statement shown in the text, he said it politely, but you could tell that he (the main 
 character) was getting agitated with the man. It was cool. It was human. 
  
  Mass Effect is fun. The game is incredibly deep and enjoyable, just as long as you are not shooting 
 stuff. Hopefully the next game will address, or eliminate, the combat problems and create a more 
 accessible game when Mass Effect 2 rolls around. Only time will tell.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickelbacked91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of Mass Effect, I must confess I wasn't excited about the prospect. Then a friend 
 of mine bought it and was constantly raving about it. And another friend kept complaining about 
 how he didn't have it. So I checked a few videos on Youtube, including Gamespot's E3 stage demo 
 video. And 21 minutes later I was wiping the drool off my computer desk. A few minutes later, my 
 copy had been ordered off Amazon.
  Within the first couple off conversations and FMV sequences, I was in love with the graphics. And 
 after a couple of levels, I was in love with the game itself. It is so immersive It was unbelievable. 
 During the first level which you have a fight with the main antagonist, I was incredibly upset 
 by a certain, "development". Needless to say, I was still playing nearly 24 hours later. And within 
 the first two days of the game arriving, I had already completed it. And then a day later, I'd 
 completed it again. Never before had I been so addicted to one game. It is easily one of my favorite 
 ever games, and it will be for quite a while to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0s3rx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect, a game set in the early 2100's, well after humanity has discovered interstellar travel, 
 is a well-written and addictive game to play. Unlike a great deal of RPGs, Mass Effect mixes combat 
 elements from shooters and roleplaying games to surprisingly great effect, making for a fun, interactive 
 way to fight your way through to the end. The story is fantastic and engrossing, as are the various 
 characters and allies you meet along the way. Each has their own personality and are very deep 
 and truly interesting. The writers at BioWare have always been known for their great storytelling 
 ability and have always presented material that has more than met, and in most cases exceeded, 
 the standards and expectations people have set for their games. Mass Effect, by far, has the most 
 unique and engrossing story of all the developer's games. You don't find yourself bored with so 
 many things to do, all tying in with the main story in some manner or another. With a great deal 
 of different planets to discover and explore, this game allows the player to be free in his or 
 her choices and what they do with their time is completely up to them. The game, at times, experiences 
 minor technical and graphical hiccups that could've been a bit better, and could've been smoothed 
 out, but it does little to take away from the colorful story and, in general, good voice acting.
 
  
  Graphics: 9.7
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Story: 10
  Replayability: 9.8
  Sound: 10
  Difficulty: Variable, depending on the difficulty you choose.
  Learning Curve: 30 minutes to 
 an hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saren_Arterius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  To be honest Mass effect took me quite by surprise, i borrowed it off one of my friends (just getting 
 my xbox) and asked them how it was - not having heard much of it at the time. My friends casually 
 just said "yeah shes alright" so when i went home i was pleasently surprised.
  
  So i thought i'd let the people know what i think. Personally i think Mass Effect is one of the 
 greatest gaming experiences ever. The depth of the game itself, it's outstanding. Firstly the chance 
 to design your own hero, male or female, and design him as you see fit, even fit him out with battle 
 scars was a great start to my experience. Then as the game progresses the depth of language with 
 your crew, just adds to the experience. You can search the inner thoughts of your crewmembers and 
 have deep and involving discussions with them.
  
  Then if that wasn't enough there is the combat system, which is like gears of war for the people 
 who'd rather shoot then chat. 
  
  I could rave on for ever but im already out of room, but all you need to know is that Mass Effect 
 is a great experience for anyone and a must play game, satasfying in every single way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghstbstr
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect..........
  
  I knew as soon as I saw the first video and when I read that the combat was going to be real-time 
 instead of turn-based like most other RPGs that I would really like Mass Effect, and reading everything 
 else and watching all of the other videos had me so excited to play Mass Effect. I had pre-ordered 
 and bought and I own the Mass Effect Limited Collector's Edition.
  When I started playing Mass Effect for the first time I was like WOW this is the greatest graphics 
 that I have ever seen on the Xbox360 or in a video game, and everything else especially the characters 
 seem so real and have life to them. Then the first time that I was in battle on Eden Prime I was 
 even more WOWed as it was really great and difficult because the enemies are so incredibly smart 
 that it is just amazing on how they handle themselves in battle, and the combat was so different 
 from any other game that I have ever played but similar and different at the same time from shooter 
 games.
  I knew with time that I would get to understand the gameplay and I did which made and makes the 
 combat in Mass Effect so much more enjoyable and really just an incredible game to play. The combat 
 in Mass Effect is really done perfectly and is alot of fun with so many types armors (with/without 
 upgrades) , weapons (with/without upgrades) , and the different types of biotic/tech abilities which 
 is one of the best things about being in combat. As every type of armors (with/without upgrades) , 
 weapons (with/without upgrades) , and the different types of biotic/tech abilities are so different 
 from the other that every single one is unique and has its own purpose that each one works perfectly 
 for what it is used for.
  I also really like the level up system and how it is done with the different abilities that your 
 character and your teammates can learn seems endless, because there are different cla$$es for your 
 character and your teammates. With the many different types of abilities that it really does depend/matter 
 on who you have and with what abilities that each teammates has to determine on which teammates 
 to bring with you in each of the many different missions and assignments.
  All of the characters in Mass Effect have so much emotions and they seem to have life as if they 
 were alive, as these are things that I have never seen in any other game before.
  Walking around the Citadel and the Normandy and traveling on planets with or without the Mako and 
 the few ships/space stations are just so breathtaking as it is difficult to stay focused on what 
 you are supposed to do at that time during that mission or assignment.
  Everything I said above fits so perfectly together that it makes up the most amazing and the greatest 
 story ever told in a video game. The story is nothing short of brilliant, as it is so entertaining 
 and so interesting that it keeps you involved and focused that you just do not want to stop playing.
 
  To me Mass Effect is really great as it is a video game masterpiece. It is the best game and is 
 my favorite game on the Xbox360 by far, and it is one of the best video games and is my favorite 
 video game that I have ever played from any console system and/or from pc. 
  
  Some of that was just what I had originally thought when I first started to play Mass Effect, and 
 after finishing/completing Mass Effect with 74 hours of gameplay in my first playthrough everything 
 that I have said is what I think about this great game now. I have so much more great things to 
 say, but what I have already said basically sums it up and says what I am trying say about Mass 
 Effect.
  Also, I really just can't wait for Mass Effect 2 & 3.
  
  After playing/seeing/watching the ending of Mass Effect I thought of a famous quote that Sir Winston 
 Churchill said and from a movie called Millennium said by an A. I. robot that is trying to save 
 the end of the world.
  This quote atleast to me fits Mass Effect perfectly especially after the ending.
  The quote is:
 
  It is not the end. It is not the beginning of the end. It is the end of the beginning.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bazanger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  When Mass Effect was first released in November, I heard nothing but good things about it. Still 
 not being interested, I passed the game off as "over rated" and continued on my way.
  
  Finally in January I was sick of hearing about how it was so good and all that, so I gave in and 
 decided to play it for myself.
  40 minutes and sixty dollars later, I was back in front of my 360 with a fresh game.
  
  After 
 creating my character rather lamely and watching a loading screen, here I am standing in the SSV 
 Normandy. 
  We're off to the human colony of Eden Prime to recover a beacon built long ago by the extinct Protheans.
 
  To help you along with this task the Citadel Council (mainly just the government for nearly the 
 whole galaxy, just with a really cool name) has sent along a turian "Spectre" named Nihlus, both 
 to help you recover the beacon and to examine you to see if you're fit enough to become the first 
 Human Spectre.
  
  Finally you arrive at Eden Prime, only to find out that it's under attack by the geth.
  The story 
 goes on and on, keeping you hooked until the very last minute, always wanting more. There were 
 times that I would sit down to play and think to myself I'd only play for a little while, and end 
 up playing for hours, just wanting to unfold the story.
  
  The game features a variety of classes for your character, all of which have different capabilities 
 and disabilities. For example, if you play a soldier, you can use all of the weapons (sniper rifle, 
 assault rifle, pistol, and shotgun) , but if you play a vanguard you can only use the pistol and 
 shotgun.
  But to balance it out, you have a number of powers as well. Shield boost, Unity, Carnage, all of 
 which are kind of self explanatory.
  
  Although the story is very well done, it's also quite short. If you skip all of the side quests 
 and just do the whole story line straight through, you can probably breeze through in about 10 
 hours or less.
  I would highly recommend NOT doing that though. The side quests a lot of depth to the story, and 
 a lot are very fun to do.
  
  As for the graphics department, it succeeds. Everything has a ton of detail, characters, cities, 
 planets, they all look great.
  
  If you have a 360, this is probably the first game I would recommend to you.
  Very high replay 
 ability, great graphics, great story, just.. yeah.
  Try this game out, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmcookie797
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a revolutionary RPG. It is a solid mix of third person shooter and RPG elements. 
 The mixture immerses you into a vast world or should I say Universe. It creates a universe with 
 nebula and futuristic worlds. The many different alien species and the new different abilities 
 that are introduced really make this game a must buy. The new RPG elements like the conversationally 
 elements really allow you to take control of the gameplay. The game is open to many different ways 
 of playing, which creates a game with great replay value. The game has action, adventure, drama, 
 and romance all wrapped in one. The cinematic nature really allows you to feel like you are a part 
 of an interactive movie. The cut scenes are so immersing it leaves you waiting until you can see 
 another. And the music really puts you in the mood of the game. Overall, Mass Effect is by far 
 my favorite RPG to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthonynohtna
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  Mass effect had a big effect on me with all the talk. To sum it up, it's similar to a "Si-fi Gears 
 of War." Call it what you want, I find it should be played at least once by everybody.
  
  The RPGness gets started at point A with character creation and choice of class, but some limits 
 are made here. It's not Oblivion, it's more like your 3 main classes, then 3 combos. You also give 
 your character a Bio; they range from Superman like, to small city boy. This Aspect gives you tons 
 of variety to make your own storyline as the game goes on. The writers weren't lazy, they just 
 want you to control the outcomes
  
  Okay, Gameplay was a letdown, kinda weird too. It's not three-person COD, it's like Half-life in 
 a wayyeah that was a good comparison
  
  If you buy RPG's that get emotional with the story, I recommend this game to you. One of the best 
 out there next Final Fantasy X (10)
  
  This game is worth getting for yourself and playing over and over again, because of all the possibilities. 
 Fable is similar because of all the choices of good and evil, which I liked. So go get this game 
 period.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_Kid_999
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  I purchased this about five weeks ago. Well, I liked the first fourty-five minutes of it, but then 
 you start getting all of these missions thrown at you. I was overcomed by the amount of missions 
 i was getting, at one point, i totatly forgot what just happend, and had to cal my firend who already 
 beat it to brief me on what just happend.
  
  I am not done with the game, heck, im only in the first hour and fourty five minutes of it, even 
 though i have been playing for a while. The gameplay is good, and the weapon system is far better 
 then i imagined. Now, i purchased the Limited Collectors set, which comes with the galactic codex, 
 the game, a DVD with the creation of it, and the story line and junk, and an art book. I havent 
 watched the DVD yet, ive decided that since i ust got my Xbox Live connection, i should try to 
 rank up in Halo 3 and COD4.
  
  So, i suggest you rent it first. If you love, and are at somewhat good, at RPGS, then youll love 
 this game. But if your memory isn't as great, and you have a small part of ADD and you have Tourrete 
 Syndrome, and can't manage like 20 missioins on your list within the first hour, then i suggest 
 you shouldnt buy this game untill you get a coupon or it goes down in price. But it will probablly 
 be another 6 months- a year before it goes down to a reasonable price, not the doller off, im not 
 that stupid. And my totatl playing time, which i just checked, is 7 hours and 37 minutes.
  
  I actually give mass effect a 8.3 out of ten, because the rating system that gamepost lets 
 us use, only has wholes and .5's.
  
  Hopefully Mass Effect 2 won't be as frustrating as the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-Wagner
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect for everyone who likes sci-fi games, as well as third person shooters. It 
 has everything you will ever need in a game, including slick graphics, intense gameplay, an epic 
 storyline, and of course a very unique fighting style. When I got this game and popped it into 
 my Xbox, i was completely immersed, in fact so much that i was glued to my T. V. until i had completed 
 it a couple times. It is a completely unique game, and its storyline is absolutely mind blowing 
 up until the last seconds. It will test your wits to the limit, and also pit you up against some 
 decisions that will effect every single outcome in the story. This game is one of the few that 
 puts Sony to absolute shame, making Playstation owners say things like "wow if only i bought an 
 Xbox 360" and "wow now im GOING to buy an Xbox 360." The fate of the galaxy is in your own hands 
 now, and your first mission is to drive down to your local retailer and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Volta
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the first in a trilogy, and this is lucky, as otherwise it would feel completely 
 underdone and would make me one sad reviewer. The game boasts many fine qualities, but also many 
 rather silly and ponderously odd qualities that mar the overall experience. 
  
  First off: The most important aspects of the game are a success. The story is great, the dialogue 
 is amazing and highly immersive. The character-and-role-playing elements are intact and mostly 
 well-designed. The combat is something fresh and, while unpolished and sometimes difficult, it 
 serves mostly as a successful entity in the game. The length is there if you want it to be there 
 with a huge slew of side-quests and things to find. The game has many multiple endings options 
 and gives new weight to the word "choice". 
  
  And now, the wrongs: Mass Effect fails in the interface department. There are some huge problems 
 with the equipment screen, which will take many players something like hours to fully figure out, 
 and still it proves difficult and tedious to utilize. The combat, while fun, can be unfailingly 
 annoying at certain points, as your team AI pretty much sucks 80% of the time. Truthfully, a KOTOR-like 
 system would've been very welcome in the game (at least in my eyes) . The vehicle sections are too 
 plentiful, considering how silly and mediocre the vehicle-combat and driving is. The graphics, 
 while excellent, tend to hitch often, and the framerate is inconsistent. The story itself is very 
 short for an RPG, and one could beat this game in under 10 hours if they did nothing but the story.
 
  
  The reason this last point is so miserable is that many of the sidequests, barring the ones on 
 the Citadel (the main station in the game) are repetitive and extremely similar (unlike the quests 
 in KOTOR and KOTOR II) . Almost every uncharted planet looks like the same build with a different 
 skin, and the interiors are mostly COMPLETELY similar. Still, there are some very interesting quests 
 on the side which earn their merit points, besides the repetitive environments, but overall, the 
 game turns rather bland in the side-quest department.
  
  Despite the many and readily evident flaws the game boasts, Mass Effect is indeed a great success. 
 The environments, the atmosphere, the innovative and fresh (as well as superbly acted) dialogue, 
 and the supreme differences likely to be exhibited on multiple playthroughs all help this game 
 to shine rather than to fizzle out. 
  
  So, while it is obviously marred by a few too many errors, Mass Effect is an RPG that is certainly 
 worth playing through countless times, and therefore worth owning. If one is able to look past 
 its obvious shortcomings, there are several great times to be had here -- so don't overlook it!
 
  
  And here's to hoping for the future: Bioware -- fix your errors please! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shotgunmxhu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up at Blockbuster. I usually like to buy games instead of renting them, as I'm 
 a bit of a collector, but this time, without any real opportunity to get the cash to buy it, I 
 figured that the experience was worth the rental, regardless of my habits. With high expectations 
 and no knowledge of what was in store (I had only the recommendation from a friend, a magazine 
 article, and heard a little praise from GameSpot's reviewers) , my opinion could have either been 
 cast into the furnace of "Star Wars Wannabe", or it could have turned into me selling my blood 
 for game money.
  
  I must say, I'm pleasantly surprised. The game turned out to be a series of finger-biting twists, 
 decent action, and a very detailed and colorful plot. The world BioWare has created, in my opinion, 
 a universe as complete and flexible as that of Star Wars. Set two hundred years in the future, 
 humanity is now one of several races that are a part of a galactic community and government, and 
 Mass Effect centers around a human named Shepard, who seems to be caught in the middle of everything 
 that's going on. A simple rogue Turian (that's a cool-looking species of alien, for you outlanders) 
 killing another evolves into a galaxy-wide crisis that only you see coming.
  
  The story-line is full of really good dialog and voice acting as well as great character models 
 and personalities. The graphics are pretty top-notch, though, at times, a little too much for the 
 360 to load all at once. And the universe, as I've said, is very complete. It's all very scientifically 
 accurate, for you peevesy nerds out there, and the different races are all very unique, with their 
 own traits and cultural baggage, as well as conspiracies and rumors regarding each of them.
  
  The notorious romance plot leaves a little something to be desired. Shepard can, at times, 
 be a bit monotone and emotionless, which is acceptable for a military commander, but not quite 
 believable for a bachelor in his shoes. That and the fact that if you go after the Asari (alien) 
 woman (which I did, seeing that the alternative was a bit "Nyeeeehhhh") she's very much the same 
 way, being a relatively innocent (106 years old is pretty young for an Asari) person, making neutral 
 observations about the issues going on and making quirky, naive (but not in a bad way) statements 
 regarding her past and your relationship. Translation, it kind of turns into this; two people agreeing 
 a lot, trying to understand each other's species and their sexual tendencies, planning on putting 
 off the sex and waiting until the issues subside, then when the moment finally comes, they just 
 sort of go "Hm, okay, I think we should do it," "Are you sure?","", "", sex. It's not really anything 
 rich or special and it doesn't go much further than eye candy. As far as the eye candy itself goes, 
 it's good, but not an equitable reason to buy the game.
  
  The action is a little sideways in the eyes of a veteran FPS player. The leveling system is confusing 
 to me, and my character was a psychic-based fighter ("Biotic", according to the game) , and not 
 once did they teach me how to use the psychic "weapon's" interface, so I used pistols for the entire 
 game. The combat itself is alright, but the vehicle combat is a bit annoying. It could be negligible 
 to others, sure, but it's glitchy and confusing at times, and for no reason at all, the MACO will 
 just start driving forward as you try to aim your gun, which actually failed a mission for me once.
 
  
  And, maybe it was just my copy, but the disc failures got very irritating. They weren't quite as 
 frequent as they are on Dead Rising, but they can come up at some pretty bad times. There are ways 
 to avoid the failures themselves, and that's just to lie low and not enter any significant commands 
 when those familiar clicking sounds start up. Still, they're there, they're annoying, and I hope 
 that the problem isn't widespread and that the problem is rectified when the sequels come out.
 
  
  Other than those things, I have no real beef with this game, and I enjoyed playing it. The main 
 plot was a bit short, but there were a ton of side things I didn't do, and I plan on buying the 
 game to get into them. That and the fact that there are quite a few different ways that the story 
 could have turned out, and I want to see at least a few of them.
  
  In conclusion, rent this game, embrace the plot and all the dialog, have an open mind, and then 
 make your own judgments. Me, I look forward to the next two games and plan on this becoming an 
 avid interest of mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osumane2012
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of those games that you just want to rip that plastic off and just pop it in 
 and start beating it in 5 hours. Well thats just what Mass Effect is. 
  
  Mass Effect combines the feeling of a shooter within a RPG element. Mass Effect also combines space 
 exploration which many people have been waiting for. Mass Effect starts out very well, getting 
 to create you rown character, and even picking out what your characters' background was. Then you 
 finish the first mission and get your space badge and your free to ride around the galaxy with 
 your ship, The Normandy N7. 
  
  Mass Effect offers great custimizeation features. You gain credits in many ways- killing enemies, 
 doing side missions, and selling your un-wanted equipment at the store. You can use your credits 
 and buy better armor and upgrades. One great feature in Mass Effect is the ability to customize 
 your weaopns with thousands of different upgrades. There is also many different classes in Mass 
 Effect that fit you style of play. 
  
  Overall Mass Effect is a great game, there are some things that do stop the experience including, 
 bad frame rate then-n-there, and a horrible driving experience. I would rent Mass Effect and see 
 if you like it. Overall, Mass Effect is a great game and a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinobi_Daisuke
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I have never been a fan of RPGs at all. It just is not my genre and even the most critically 
 acclaimed games hold little to no interest in me. However, Mass Effect is an incredibly deep and 
 beautiful game the likes of which I have never seen. It is truly one of, if not the, greatest game 
 experiences I've ever had. Mass Effect's plot is rich, innovative, and incredibly deep. The game 
 has kept me entertained multiple plays through and even if you ignore side quests and just play 
 the main story, the entertainment is nearly endless.
  
  On a graphical standpoint, Mass Effect is gorgeous. Details and lighting effects are astounding 
 and particle effects are to die for. The engine truly shows off what the 360 is capable of. On 
 the downside, there are some occaisional texture load problems where textures take a few moments 
 to kick in, but they are easy to overlook. There can also be some occaisional slowdown, but I have 
 only seen it a few times when there are many active enemies in a room. Character models are incredibly 
 life-like and are very accurate to real anatomy. Alien, weapons, powers, and character designs 
 are all incredibly original and innovative and it does not take long to build a caring for the 
 characters in the game. You develop a bond with each character and seeing their fates be decided 
 by your actions is beyond interesting.
  
  Mass Effect has a lot of dialogue, but even if you are not a fan of it, it is easy to sit through 
 because the voice acting is so phenomenal. Every single line in the game is recited with depth 
 and emotion and is truly believable. Character movement is also very interesting and realistic. 
 Mouth movements are flawless and look great as well.
  
  Mass Effect's combat plays as a third person over-the-shoulder shooter, but cannot be treated like 
 an FPS. Ducking behind or around cover is typically necessary and firefights are very intense. 
 There are multiple different character types that you can play as, each with their own special 
 talents and abilities. You can also create a character and edit their facial appearance, as well 
 as their background. There is also a preset character if you choose. When not fighting, you will 
 spend most of your time running around, talking to people and accepting side-quests, venturing 
 around in your vehicle, the Mako, and searching for artifacts, should you choose not to progress 
 in the main story.
  
  In summary, Mass Effect's style, graphics, and gameplay are virtually flawless and beautiful. The 
 game is a true gaming masterpiece and even if you don't like RPGs or space operas, I would recommend 
 everyone try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seancgn68
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  I am not sure what all the hype is about this game. I'll give it two positives. One, it looks very 
 nice. Two, it does have an engaging story, which is the only reason I could bring myself to finish 
 the game. However, there are A LOT of things wrong with this game. There are ridiculously long 
 elevator rides/load times. Combat is annoying at best, unplayable at worst. There is a lot of lag 
 and frame rate drop in any battle with more than a few people. Your AI teammates are constantly 
 in your line of fire. The 7 or so "biotic" powers all seem to do basically the same thing, which 
 is to make your enemies go flying through the air, most of the time right at you. This only serves 
 to make them harder to shoot. The squad commands may as well not exist because they only follow 
 your directives about 10% of the time. The Mako, aka Bane of my Existence. Mass Effect's mobile 
 vehicle handles horrendously, bouncing all about like it is on hyperactive springs. God help you 
 if you want to shoot anything below you. Regardless of where your aiming reticle is, you can't 
 shoot anything below an imaginary line that represent the Mako's horizontal horizon. Worthless 
 in environments that are almost always steep hills and mountain peaks. The side mission are basically 
 all the same. The buildings/inside structures in each side mission consist of variations on three 
 different structures that are nearly identical at each location. I must say though, the sky scapes 
 from the planet surfaces are really quite pretty. Achievements are pretty scarce for a single player 
 only game. You'd have to play through the game a dozen time to get all the "party class", biotic, 
 and weapons achievements. The 20+ hours to get through it once was more than enough for me. Six 
 or seven time??? No one can be that hard up. All in all, nice story, but other than that, this 
 game doesn't have much to offer. Want an excellent RPG? play Elder Scrolls: Oblivion. Put this 
 mess to shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teletran0n3
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  I bought this game due to the reviews and love for this game by this websites members. It wasn't 
 what I thought it would be.
  
  First of all, it isn't bad. It's not the game for me, but I can see why people like it. I don't 
 know if I can say it is a must have, but it's worth checking out.
  
  The Good:
  I like the weapons. The graphics look extremely well. The power ups, upgrades, leveling and all 
 that are very fun to play with. Be prepared to spend time trying to make decisions on how to build 
 your character. You also have to make the upgrades and leveling for your team mates. A nice little 
 edition I have yet to see in other video games. The story line is compelling right from the start, 
 and immersive.
  
  The Bad:
  The game is extremely dialogue and cinematic heavy. You had better love reading your video games 
 if you pick this one up. I'm not a big fan of 3rd person either. 
  
  All in all it is an allright game. Wouldn't necessarily make my top 10, but worth taking a look 
 at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThroatKick
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I play a decent amount of games and tend to get bored with many of them. This game I beat which 
 says a lot about it up front. The best part of this game was getting to enjoy one of the best stories 
 in a game to date (and it gets a bonus for being Sci-Fi) . Also the game-play was enjoyable when 
 sticking to the main plot-line which is really what I suggest if you want a fast enjoyable game. 
 I did not do this though and went to every single planet and did all the quests. One word - Repetitive. 
 The planets with the exception of the main quest-line planets are very repetative. 1. Drop in to 
 planet 2. Drive around and find random ores and items that do absolutely nothing but give you money... that 
 you will have far more than you need. 3. Go into compound which is one of like four set structures 
 used over and over again. Hey the box that was on the left side of the room on Planet X is now 
 on the right side of the room on Planet Y! Perhaps with the way cookie cutter houses are being 
 made in suburbia now-a-days though this is an acurate prediction that all planet structures will 
 be the same. Even so it is repetitious. The next annoyance that you will run into even if you are 
 smart and stick to the main story is that the weapons like compounds look exactly the same and 
 are even named the same. Man I sure am glad I can change out assault rifle mark IV for assault 
 rifle mark VI. However if you look over the corner cutting fluff it really is a great game. Scanning 
 planets in new zones stayed fun for quite a while and many of the planet descriptions were quite 
 unique and kept me reading them throughout the game. I came away from Mass Effect in the end feeling 
 like I should have stuck to the main story line but still was happy finishing the game and looking 
 forward to the next edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Kinda_Mad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  If I could describe this game in one word, it'd be 'Masterpiece'. Almost everything in this game 
 feels right.
  
  Story: The games true highlight. The story is flawless and there is loads to learn about the games 
 universe. The conversation system is also brilliant.
  
  Graphics: True next gen graphics! Everything in this game looks beautiful. The only problem is 
 that there's an awful lot of of texture pop-in.
  
  Sound: Amazing soundtrack and the voice overs are excellent.
  
  Gameplay: I enjoyed Mass Effects 
 combat, sure it could've been better, but it is was very solid never the less.
  
  Replay: There's much to do in game, so it should keep you busy of awhile.
  
  This game may 
 not be for everyone though, if you're excpecting a pure action shoot them up then you're bound 
 to be disappointed.
  
  Overall, this game is excellent and has me anxious for Mass Effect 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevevondoom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  The good: Mass Effect has one of the most addictive stories for the 360 right now, there aren't 
 many games that can top its intriguing plot. The game only gets better as you progress. From the 
 start you'll be amazed at what BioWare has come up with. Amazing graphics, a great story, the best 
 voice acting I've seen in a long time, this game is a must have for all 360 owners. This is my 
 favorite RPG to date. I already can't wait for the sequel.
  
  The bad: Not much negativity in this game. The only minor annoyance is that the vehicle controls 
 aren't as refined as they could be, but all the amazing qualities of the game more than make up 
 for it
  
  The ugly: The game ends = (.... There isn't really anything ugly about the game
  
  Verdict: Buy it... NOW! It's well worth the $59.99 to buy it new, and if you can get it cheaper 
 used, then you're really in for a treat. I guarantee that you are getting more than your money's 
 worth with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  my initial reception of mass effect was bad as it looked a bit weird from all the previews but 
 now ive bought it and played it i can safely say this is the best RPG ive played in a LONG time.
 
  
  the basic back story is that humans have gone into space and are now part of the galactic community 
 with lots of aliens and obviously it's up to you to save the galaxy. the twist is in how you do 
 it..
  
  the character creation screen is a clunky start as i felt you could only really create maybe 25-30 
 faces that actually looked sensible so i chose one of the pre-set ones for my starting character 
 and off i went.
  
  and a word of wisdom before you buy this game, there is ALOT of dialogue in this game. almost 200 
 hours of it if i remember right. but its actually fun listening to the perfect voice acting and 
 the lip syncing is perfect.
  the aliens you run into along the way are all different (the ones you talk to at least) and are 
 all really detailed. they really do look like they would exist.
  
  the combat is very good from what i have seen. for a game where combat isn't even the third most 
 important thing in the game. upgrades are very useful and there always seems to be something better 
 to add on.
  
  the story to the game is just beautiful. i would be surprised if it was made into a film. but then 
 for a game that was built on its story, what do you expect?
  
  now for the bad parts. the driving sections were to my mind the worst part of the game. the controls 
 are clunky and there is no mention of physics on how the Mako drives. almost any cliff is easily 
 overcome. 
  the driving combat parts are just too easy as two-three shots from the cannon kills any foe.
 
  the next bad thing is the menus. the upgrades menus to be precise. because you gain quite alot 
 of upgrades your bound to have alot that you don't want but a few that you do. but every time you 
 delete something from the bottom, you snap right back to the top which can be annoying when you 
 want to remove 30+ items from the bottom.
  there are also a few glitches in the game. and none of them are little ones.
  i can name them 
 all here.
  -running into walls causes you to get stuck in mid air
  - skipping through dialogue too quickly freezes the game (which can be annoying on a speed run)
 
  - you can get stuck in lifts if you enter them with you weapon unholstered
  and all of these have lost me quite alot of time, which in a game this long is a real pain.
  
 
  other than that, Wrex (who seems to be voiced by the same guy that did Marcus Fenix in GoW) is 
 a total badass who has some of the most humorous dialogue in the game and there also seems to be 
 a remarkable amount of talk about "reproduction" in this game. 
  *SPOILER*
  and the sex scene will hardly make your mass erect
  *SPOILER*
  
  overall, a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swamptick
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is another shining example of what BioWare can do even if it does dissapoint a tad.
 
  
  Don't get me wrong I really loved this game and I can't place my finger on what exactly about it 
 Idid not like but it just did not hold my attention.
  
  The graphics of course are amazing as is the story. No true complaints there (with a few exceptions 
 of texture pop-in) .
  
  The music was nothing short of amazing.
  
  Why did the game not hold attention was the lack of focus I kept sensing in moving the plot along. 
 Sometimes I felt as though I had TOO many options of which tasks to tackle. This might not be a 
 big problem for many people, but in roll playing games I feel the need to turn over every stone. 
 As a result I ended up back tracking and retracking and making alot of unneeded conversation just 
 to try to glean every bit of story.... which I later discovered was not needed.
  
  It is a great game just not a game that held my attention for very long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmcgee353
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  This was a very clever game from start to finish. It had all the qualities to keep any RPG/quest 
 genre fan consumed for several days or however long it would take to finish the game. Actually 
 I'm on my fifth play thorugh right now. If you like the KOTOR games you'll love this game. It's 
 like KOTOR on steroids. At first I didn't think I would like it for lack of light sabres ,however 
 I soon forgot about them. The conversation engine and interface is great, it's small and out of 
 the way, but still in the picture. If you're quick enough you can carry an entire conversation 
 without ever missing a beat, then it's like you were the director of a cut scene. Those are the 
 good things about ME the one major thing I didn't like was the handling of the MAKO (an all-terrain 
 vehicle for exploring planets) . This could be very annoying especially when a lot of the planets 
 have very jagged terrain. There is a terrain map provided to help you take other routes to your 
 objective ,but I dont know that you may spend as much time studying those and taking the long way 
 around as you would trying to manage a extremley rocky slope. Also the cannon on the MAKO is not 
 very accurate when you're on a slope if your on completley flat ground it's dead on but anywhere 
 else you'll have to learn to compensate your aim based on the angle your setting at. The only other 
 small detail I didn't like was the managment system of weapons, upgrades, ammo etc. It would be 
 nice if say you have two Edge IV pistols and you come across an Edge V pistol, why not just drop 
 one Edge IV and have the Edge V. If you don't keep up with stuff like that often you'll hit you 
 item limit before you know it. Other than those two things this is a solid game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dapsone
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Sure, Mass Effect is a visually appealing game; taking advantage of the Xbox 360. However, most 
 of the mechanics and game play are identical to the KOTOR series of games (also from BioWare) . 
 Even much of the 'gist' of the initial game and story line is similar.
  
  So, the simplest way to review this game goes like this: If you liked KOTOR, and would like to 
 play this game again, although in a different universe of story (so, not the Star Wars franchise) , 
 than you will like ME. Also, if you are interested at all in a Sci-Fi based RPG and have not played 
 KOTOR to date, than check ME out!
  
  Otherwise, at least the first 15 hours are a little slow, lots of learning the game and going through 
 a ton of dialog (if you are interested in exploring everything) .
  
  btw: KOTOR = Knights of the Old Republic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Viking
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  It's a common RPG phenomenon to find yourself acting the tough guy of everything with the big sword, carefree 
 of the consequences. I've experienced it dozens times before, but Mass Effect stopped me dead in 
 my tracks. Completey. I'd just chastised one of my companions for doing something stupid, then she 
 looked back up at me with big round eyes full of shame, and I felt an emotion that a game's never 
 drawn out of me before: guilt. There is something special about the conversations in Mass Effect. 
 They are a little less like cycling through a dialogue tree and a little more like actually talking 
 to a person like a alot video games don't. Bioware's epic story rivials the deep exploration of 
 Oblivion, and mass effect has a fictional universe almost as compelling as Star Wars. It sounds 
 like the perfect game. The action is breathtaking. Problem is, certain powers/weapon combos allow 
 you to steamroll through waves of enemies, making the game feel easy until the dice rolls turn 
 against you and you find yourself dead within seconds. I want to call this a balancing issue, and 
 I suggest you save often since the auto save isn't great. Still, Mass Effect could very well represent 
 the future of entertainment, and its few flaws shouldn't stop anyone from enjoying that experience 
 regardless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celestial_todd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect made me question about it, i wasn't sure whether is would be too star wars for me (i 
 never been a fan of star wars) so at the time of the realese in november 2007 i was too busy getting 
 hyped up for thanksgiving and christmas and i was in love with the orange box at the time.
  
  So with some of my christmas money i went and bought it february 2008.
  after asking all 
 my xbox live friends if it was good or not.
  
  So i took a shot and bought it and it was worth it, i was playing it on a standard tv and the graphics 
 were wonderful being able to create your character is awsome. the classes like soldier, vanguard, 
 biotic, sentinal are really cool. 
  
  but the stroy itself going from main mission to main mission to main mission is not that long its 
 average..... but you need to do side missions and help civillians to help level up and get some 
 money. see in mass effect the higher you rank up from experience the stronger your character is 
 which gives you availabilty to powerful new weapons, stronger armor and new powers.
  
  One thing that sucks is the mako vehicle the controls are just stupid ( the mako is a RV type truck 
 that the normandy drops you off at if the planet does not have a docking bay) i try and avoid combat 
 while im in it and instead run enemies over or just keep heading to my goal.
  
  
  you can go on alot of planets just to mess around with which is fun
  
  
  Dialouge and talking 
 to aliens and people are among the games best, sure there are some games that make you choose what 
 to say to be either light or dark, good or evil but in mass effect whatever you choose to say will 
 effect the whole story now there really isnt a good or evil its more like a kind or strict. 
  
  Your character shepard can be 'mean' but youll still be kind while your at it because your 
 when you choose to be mean by denying civilian missions and helping the alliance with side mission 
 the people wont flip out they understand that you are on the main mission so they dont hold a grudge 
 to you they kind of just brush it off
  
  the game gives you alot of options and choices from getting laid or going to strip clubs to grab 
 a cold one. 
  
  mass effect is a game that will be rememberd for years to come and no it is not a star wars knock-off.
 
  
  deffinatley buy this game its worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sostra
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Man of man, just finished with my first play through of MASS EFFECT. This game shows what a true 
 "next gen." experience should be all about. Killer graphics, great sound and engaging story all 
 make this a must play game. Despite all the great things that this game has to offer, there are 
 defiantly some issues that mar the experience. A lot of people have probably hear the term "a flawed 
 gem" associated with this game, and that pretty much sums up the way I fell.
  
  THE GOOD
  
  *Some of the most in-depth character creation tools in gaming today. The fact that you can 
 customize what your character looks like to an insane degree of accuracy is most impressive. I 
 spent a good 45 min. trying to tweak my character to look as much like me as possible, and you 
 know it came out pretty good.
  
  *Crazy good graphics and sound track. When a game makes you sit back as say "whoa, that looks so 
 real!" That's always a good thing. Even though you encounter plenty of fictional alien races, you'll 
 swear they look as real as you or me. The sci-fi sounds and music defiantly help immerse you in 
 this complex universe too.
  
  *Game play defiantly has a bit of a learning curve to get used to, but it ends up working well 
 once you get it down. Also, the whole dialogue aspect of the game is great as well, fun and engaging, 
 you never know what someone will say next.
  
  *MASS EFFECT'S story is also good. Good, not great though. It starts off pretty good but does have 
 a tendency to lag in the middle hours of the game. I would have to say the last two hours or so 
 of the story are top notch! The ending is defiantly the saving grace, as far as the story goes. 
 Plus we all know a sequel is coming and it will be awesome.
  
  *DLC for more fun and adventure is always a plus in my book.
  
  THE BAD
  
  *I'm sorry but 
 the micro-managing of this game just plain sucks ass. I would have to say the worst part of this 
 game is trying to manage all the "loot" you pick up on your quest. The fact that you have to sit 
 and wade through item after item, trying to figure out what to buy, sell and keep is mind-numbing. 
 As a RPG vet, I know to except these types of things, but MASS just gets it wrong. It's clustered 
 and confusing, and by the end of the game I just ended up selling most of my items to clear up 
 my menus.
  
  *The achievements in this game are some what off balanced as well. MASS, is not a short game. It 
 took me about thirty hours or so the finish. Now the fact that you have to play the game three 
 maybe even four times to get a all the achievements is just wrong! I'm sorry but I just don't have 
 that kind of time to invest in one game. I love getting achievements and I'll probably play through 
 again at least once more, but true achievement whores have their work cut out for them on this 
 one.
  
  *I'm sure it goes without saying that the load times, and frame rate issues are frequent and annoying. 
 It's not the biggest gripe in the world but it's defiantly more than noticeable.
  
  THE UGLY
  
  *The sex scene controversy is just another reason FOX NEWS should be taken off 
 the air. Seriously you see about a second of blue alien butt-check. I don't think this is the end 
 of civilization as we know it.
  
  
  Well this was one long review, and if you made it all the way through thank you. One could probably 
 fill 3 to 4 pages of what was good and bad with MASS EFFECT. But, in the end this game is a great 
 start and a must play for 360 owners.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kishmish
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect has everything for a RPG fan to wish for. From its great storyline and characters to 
 the fascinating graphics.
  Ok let me start with the gameplay: like any RPG game you get to customize yout character and you 
 get to customize his origin's and his psychological profile on his last mission (choosing from 
 a hero or a cold blooded soldier) . The customization is very deep and lets you to create any character 
 you want. You can choose your gender, first name (last name is still Shepard) , your combat class 
 and you facial appearance. The combat system is great. You can either shoot your enemies. or blast 
 them with your offensive talents in order to gain XP to level up. Once you leveled up, you can 
 use the talent points that are given to you to power up the talents you want (Talents vary according 
 to your class for example Engineers don't have Assault talent as Soldier do) once you have powerred 
 up a talent into a certain level you unlock a talent to use it in combat. There also passive Talents 
 (like shield boost and such) and you can use grenades too by pressing Back (if you have them of 
 course) . In Mass Effect you don't have ammos instead you weapons overheat if fire them too much 
 and when it does you have to wait couple of seconds to cool down. You can also upgrade your weapons 
 by getting them from enemies or buying them in shops. But the main problem lies here, there are 
 no balance in the classes. Ok, I chose Engineer in at first and I got to the third mission then 
 I thought that I was a little underpowered from the other classes. My point is some classes are 
 more useful than the others but hey! each has his own, right? Like any other RPG game, there some 
 side missions to complete in various areas since you have to primary speechcraft skills (Charm 
 and Intimidate skills) which will open up new topics in dialuoges. In Mass Effect you can be a 
 paragon or a renegade and of course this refers to the good/evil stuff. To get paragon points you 
 have to do the good things in your mission while being the dark-cool-boy character will get you 
 renegade points. You can go exploring some uncharted planets in several systems and survey them. 
 Mass Effect acheivments are fair and they are not super hard to get but most of them makes you 
 to play the game again. Driving the Mako is really annoying, one slight turn makes you turn sharply. 
 You can make your mako jump too and it is preloaded with two weapons: a cannon and turret.
  
  Mass Effect has a cutting-edge graphics. Probably the strongest thing in the graphics is the 
 facial animation. When the characters talk it looks great and totally brings them to life. Also 
 the textures are really sharp and great but it takes some time to load it while you are playing 
 (maybe it happens to me only) I mean when you play right after a loding, the textures look realy 
 bad for couple of secs and then it gets sharp and clear (Again it might be happening to me only) . 
 The characters' models are very good but I have a problem with it! I think the men of ME are running 
 like sissies :P if you ask me! No! I really mean it! I hope if they could make it more manly. Anyway 
 the shading is simply great and adds realism to the environments. Oh yeah! There are some sex scenes 
 in Mass Effect if you dig into the romance plots but personaly I haven't got into any romance plots 
 because I haven't finished the game. Simply, the graphics one of the strongest elements of Mass 
 Effect. What about the sound? The sound is very good in Mass Effect. What a great facial animation 
 do without a great voice acting? The voice acting is really phenomenal in Mass Effect and as I 
 said it bring the chars back to life. But you don't get to choose your character's voice. The sound 
 effects are great too from the shooting to the robotic voices. The music is kinda like the 80th 
 sci-fi movie musics but it has some variety too. The sounds fits perfectly with the game especially 
 the voice casting.
  
  The story is great too. Its about commander you-name-him Shepard nad his quest against the evil 
 Seren and his Geth army to wipeout the galaxy and bring back the dark cruel hyper-machine race 
 the Reapers that killed all the Prothean race. The name Mass Effect refers to the technology that 
 was discovered in mars and its kinda like wraping between places just like light speed traveling. Mass 
 Effect shouldn't be missed for any RPG fan. And if have a xbox 360 buy this game, you won't regret 
 it.
  
  -Kishmish 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf-1992
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Okay, you remember Knights of the Old Republic, the Star Wars prequel that was better than the 
 last three movies? Well, this is made by the same people, Bioware, who also made genius old skool 
 RPGs like Baldur's Gate and Neverwinter Nights. This is Knights of the Old Republic 3, but outside 
 of the auspices of Star Wars, a galaxy-spanning epic with a twisty plot and lots of humanoid aliens 
 banging on about morality while you massacre hundreds of people. It's a bit like Babylon 5 or Star 
 Trek but with a giant body count and you as the hero.
  
  The plot follows Commander Sheppard, humanity's pre-eminent soldier, three centuries after humans 
 have made first contact with alien species. Sheppard is a candidate to be the first human Spectre, 
 basically an intergalactic 00-agent who can go anywhere and do anything. During his testing mission 
 a rogue Spectre called Saren, with a grudge against the human race, kills another Spectre and Sheppard 
 has a technology-induced vision of a galactic genocide from 50,000 years before, with the insinuation 
 that Saren is seeking to recreate it. From that point you're chasing Saren and his robot sidekicks 
 across the galaxy, seeking to catch up with him and foil whatever it is he's trying to do.
  
  You do this by flying about in your ultra-magic Starship the SSV Normandy, that's packed with 
 all sorts of wonderful technobabble, visiting various planets throughout the universe, chasing 
 down clues to where Saren is and what he's up to. Once you've got to a planet, depending on its 
 civilization level you either dock your spaceship on the surface or drop the Mako (your APC) from 
 orbit for a bit of dune-buggying. When you've got command of the Normandy, you can explore the 
 uncharted worlds of the universe, solving people's problems galaxy-wide. The missions on these 
 extraneous worlds are entirely self-contained, giving them the feeling of Star Trek episodes; you 
 know that anyone who's introduced in one of these will either stay on the planet or be dead by 
 the mission's end, like the infamous redshirts of Trek history. Downloadable content is therefore 
 likely to take the form of new systems with more planets to explore.
  
  The most important place you'll visit though is the Galactic hub called the Citadel, an amazing 
 five-pronged habitat floating free in space, which trumps Halo's Ringworlds for sheer grandeur 
 and scale. It's here that you recruit all your team members in the initial plot set-up element 
 after the training level and it's here that most of the roaming missions are given out. Of course, 
 inside all the buildings it feels just like KOTOR and that's the only major problem with the game.
 
  
  At its heart, Mass Effect is an old style Role playing game with the now-irritating KOTOR framework 
 at the heart of it. This structure is the only reason this game hasn't made a ten; the branching 
 conversational trees, though amazingly fluid, are very familiar and the options aren't always clear; 
 in context. Meanwhile, the locations (save the planets are surfaces) have the same old circumscribed 
 feel; it often feels you're just running down empty corridors between areas to make the game a 
 bit longer.
  Indeed, there are some loading issues (which could be a function of our dying debug 360) which 
 Bioware have attempted to rectify by slowing your movement between areas using slow lifts and non-automatic 
 doors, making it even more irritating to move between areas. There are fast-travel methods in the 
 citadel, but nowhere else. Indeed, some time-saving features from KOTOR have been removed, like 
 the ability to change your team at any point outside of your ship or return to it at any point; 
 here you have to make a lengthy backtrack to the Normandy to switch characters.
  
  Surprisingly, though, this time Bioware have moved away from the totally automatic fighting that 
 has characterised all their games towards a real-time combat system. There are still turn-based 
 elements - if you hold down either shoulder button the game pauses while you tell your team-mates 
 to change weapons, use special powers and move around or attack enemies. However, you're responsible 
 for all your character's shooting, which improves alongside your weapon-skills, and it's good solid 
 fun with enemies flanking, charging into close-combat, and mostly using explosives correctly. They're 
 not amazingly bright but it's definitely not easy either.
  
  The levelling system and special powers themselves are a bit of a disappointment, though you do 
 appreciate them more as the game goes on. Each class has its own special abilities, with the aliens 
 who join your team having their own special classes- for example, Wrex is a Krogan Battlemaster, 
 essentially a soldier with psychic powers and Garrus a Turian Agent (a technical sniper) . Your 
 character has two additional skills Charm and Intimidate, which unlock conversation options and 
 improve your bartering skills. Beyond that, there are not a huge number of biotic powers to unlock 
 and you won't be able to control most of them in your first play through, making most combats similar, 
 if tough.
  
  The weapon system is unique too. Every character has access to just four weapons; a pistol, shotgun, 
 rifle and sniper rifle. These are tucked away on their backs and when you switch between them they 
 kind of fold out into the weapon proper. If you're not skilled with a particular weapon, you can 
 use it but you'll hit almost nothing. Weapons don't have ammo, but they do overheat if you use 
 them too much, seizing them up for a bit. Meanwhile, close combat is nearly non-existent, the largest 
 change from KOTOR's lightsaber and vibroblade fest, merely a random smack happening automatically 
 when two soldiers are close enough.
  
  These weapons aren't all the same either, with hundreds of variations on each type and modifications 
 available for each. Each gun can take two mods at once, a body modification that improves accuracy, 
 damage, balance or heat, and ammo modifications that alter the effects of the shots, freezing, 
 burning, knocking back or just plain killing the enemy. It's satisfying to use them and they don't 
 bind to the guns so you can change mods on the fly as battles change (anti-personnel rounds for 
 organic enemies, penetrators for heavily-shielded enemies, and so on) .
  
  There's a nice variety of enemies to fight, from biotic Asari to insectoid Rachni, but you'll spend 
 most of your time battling the Geth, Krogans and various mercenaries. Almost every time you kill 
 someone, swag will drop, so you're soon carrying around lots of items. If you're a pack-rat you'll 
 need to know there's an arbitrary maximum limit of 150 items you can carry, after which you start 
 breaking them down into Omni-gel - a multipurpose material that can be used for hacking, decryption 
 and other activities.
  
  There's far too much other stuff to go into here, but suffice to say the astounding vistas of each 
 planet combined with swelling synth chords and the cheesy sci-fi plots of Babylon 5, make this 
 a game for lovers of sci-fi and RPG everywhere. Roll on the sequels! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyborgmanx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect was one of those games that seemed like a good idea at the time when I obtained it 
 from a good friend. But in the end, the game was terribly disappointing because of the hype that 
 I had heard about it. Mass Effect is a science fiction action-rpg for the XBOX 360 and eventually 
 the PC. It contains several good ideas, but also some really bad ideas too. As you read on in my 
 review, you will read my opinion.
  
  Story // The game's primary element is the story itself. This is the element that really has impressed 
 several story gamers. But for content gamers like me, the story just seems way too short. The story 
 is your run of the mill science fiction story, and you are the protagonist Commander Shepard who 
 is put incharge of finding out what the antagonist, Saren is up to. Though your not doing it on 
 foot, you are doing it in style. You get to trek through the galaxy looking for Saren in the Normandy. 
 Along the way you find new allies to party up with and you complete side quests as well. Speaking 
 of side quests, let's talk about that and the nightmare called the Mako. You see, each major planet 
 has only a few side quests to complete. The main exploration of the game is through exploring the 
 traverse in the Normandy. You are exploring each minor planet on a cheaply made Warthog called 
 the Mako. The problem with this is that I wanted to explore on foot, not ride some tank 75% of 
 the time. Bioware really should've focused less on the elements that require the Mako and more 
 on everything else. Among the features that Bioware seemed to brag about for this game and this 
 should've been better was their paragon/renegade system. In the game, you can change some elements 
 of the story depending on your choices. You can choose a paragon (upper) or renegade (bottom) choice. 
 These alone can make your playthrough very different each time. However renegade responses seem 
 to make you look more like a racist jerk then the kind of badness that I had imagined. It was very 
 disappointing and kind of made me think more about paragon.
  
  Gameplay // The gameplay is the game's strong suit, mostly because everything levels up with you. 
 The fact is, you will barely have to worry about going to the shops (but they sure help) . Infact 
 the game supplies you with so much money, that you end up buying everything you ever wanted and 
 you seem to have extra to spend on nothing but slot machines. You will wish they had added extra 
 armor, weapons, and upgrades. Even some feature that requires you to dump money to improve your 
 character would work. Speaking of upgrades, you can improve your armor and weapons using upgrades. 
 The upgrades come in all kinds of types for any situation. I think this was my favorite feature, 
 because the customization was so great! Even the character creation is something to be marveled 
 at! Not only can you custom build your Shepard from his or her skin tone to the scars they might 
 have or won't have, but you can give em different eye shapes. In the end, the character customization 
 feature is also my favorite, right along with the weapons and equipment system. As for the weapons 
 you can use, you get shotgun, assault rifle, pistol, and sniper rifle. Each of the game's classes 
 can be trained to use ceertain weapons, or none at all. However you can gradually improve the weapon's 
 accuracy and power if your class supports the skill for it. Overall, the game's combat system functions 
 like a shooter but not enough to be comparible to Halo or Counterstrike.
  
  Multimedia // The graphics are the best of the features for Mass Effect. The graphics are so real 
 that you would swear the game was nothing more then an actual movie. What impresses me even more 
 is the fact that the game changes your characters armor appearance depending on the equipment you 
 have. So you won't see your character using the original weapons and armor in a cut scene if your 
 character is using something else. The music and the sounds of the game are pretty good as well, 
 they took extra care to look for the perfect voice casting for the game. I for one think Bioware 
 emphesized more on the multimedia then most of the game.
  
  Replay // Once you finish your playthrough with your current character, you can use them again 
 and change your playing experience by changing the dialogue choices. It's pretty good, and has 
 loads of potential. But the fact that you have the same armors and weapons that you had in your 
 last playthrough seems disappointing. The fact that your achievements unlock new things for new 
 characters in future playthroughs is okay. But when you play this game enough times, you may just 
 think "Meh" when thinking about such things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwgamer119
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect, is an amazing Shooter/RPG. It graces the RPG world with a beautiful story, unlike 
 any other, and a HUGE world. The HUGE world in Mass Effect is partially downgraded with the low 
 amount of sidequests. This RPG uses the power of choice in a very innovative way. The choices you 
 make will have a major effect on the story and the characters connected to Shepard. Unlike most 
 RPGs, Mass Effect is a Shooter as well. The battle system is innovative, with the use of guns and 
 different skills. Character customization is amazing and deep, allowing over a million different 
 Shepards to be created. This game is unlike any other and is set in a universe that could be well 
 expanded on with downloadable content. I think anyone who loves RPGs should try this game. It's 
 a new genre of game which other developers should expand upon. Hopefully, my review has made you 
 wonder about this game and has given you insight on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morb
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect has taken the art of story telling, immersed the player into it and made a truly wonderful 
 game. A space opera that takes you to one end of our galaxy to the next, you will want to finish 
 all the missions and side missions just to see what's around the next corner.
  
  Only weak points in the game are the save points, you'll want to save often when you have the opportunity 
 before rushing the enemy. The vehicle combat is weak, but once you get the hang of it, you make 
 do with what you have. The 3 person combat is tough to get a hang of as well, and a little frustrating 
 at the lower levels of weapon strength, but becomes immensly satisfying as you get better weapons 
 and better armor.
  
  Did I say the story was amazing? It truly is, the amount of man hours it must of taken to write 
 a solid script, and the fact you lead your career choices is amazing.
  
  I did suffer some frame rate issues, especially when the combat became intense, and hated the fact 
 that if you didn't save before a huge conversation, that you have to do the whole conversation 
 over again if you happen to die.
  
  A game that is long, intense and definatly worth the money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ignite2k3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Besides being a good RPG, Mass Effect has a simple yet great storyline behind it. Think Starwars. 
 
  
  Many races, species and planets are what you would be expecting from this space wars story. There 
 isn't really a game out there about space that is quite like this. 
  
  The combat system is simple, but tactical at the same time. As you play like a normal shooter (think 
 GOW) , you can 'pause' the combat at anytime, to plan your attack, choose weapons, and even use 
 'biotic' spells to conquer your enemies. 
  
  There is also a wide array of equipments you can find or buy for you and your squad, different 
 kinds of fire power, or armor to aid you in battle. And as you level up, by either completing quests, 
 or raiding enemy camps on other planets, you can earn stat points to improve your characters, which 
 varies in different classes. 3 major classes, or 3 more classes which are combinations of the original 
 3. 
  
  The story involves a rouge spectre (higher class of authority) , the many races, and you trying to 
 bring the rouge spectre down to justice. It is your choice on how you are going to bring him in, 
 and your choice to either do things the mean way, or the polite way. 
  
  Mass Effect is a great game, if not for the slower texture renderings, it would have been perfect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Note: Read prequel book (Mass Effect: Revelations) by Drew Karpyshyn and enjoyed it, a good read. 
 You might want to get it to have a good understanding of the ME Universe, species and key characters. 
 That, in turn, got me to buying Drew's other books, Star Wars: Darth Bane which is one great book 
 and I just got the newly published Darth Bane: Rule of Two, he's got me hooked. Where are you KOTOR 
 3 and please no MMO!!! Back to Mass Effect...
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~ 
  [The Good]
  ~~~~~~~~~~ 
  - Liara   Need I say more?! She's hot!
  
  - Scope   It's pretty big, not as 
 much as Oblivion but still quite impressive. The Universe/Story takes you in and it's hard to let 
 go.
  
  - Planet hopping   Even though there's a good degree of repetition, it doesn't get old to jump 
 in the Mako and explore these planets, very entertaining. Giving me some ideas for a future game 
 hmmmm....
  
  - Mako   Driving the Mako is a lot of fun, don't know why people complained about the Mako controls. 
 I think they're way better than the combat ones, the Mako rocks!!!
  
  - Dialogue/Speech   very easy to use/navigate, doesn't get much better than that!
  
  - RPG 
 Elements   Typical Bioware with lots of options and selections to choose from.
  
  - Story   Not bad for a new IP, following Star Wars is not an easy feat but it gets close, not 
 there yet. It seems to be missing that cool weapon like a lightsaber that makes you stand out.
 
  
  - Music   Well done! Love the opening music, it does get a little bit dry when you play the game, 
 needed more variety.
  
  - Graphics   Pretty good but not as good as Gears / COD4 / Assassin's Creed. There are instances 
 when textures take a while to load but not a big deal.
  
  ~~~~~~~~
  [The Bad]
  ~~~~~~~~
  - Combat   By far the weakest feature, KOTOR's turn-based combat was way better. It's 
 realtime but it doesn't feel like an FPS, ideally it needs to be like the GRAW single-player controls. 
 Controlling your team can be a pain, the team AI is average if not poor. Needs significant work.
 
  
  - Difficulty settings   Due to the average combat mechanism, moving the difficulty setting up can 
 be frustrating at times. I played all CODs on Veteran but I have no interest in increasing the 
 setting in ME.
  
  - Achievements   Poorly done, make you play an RPG 4-5 times is absolutely ridiculous! 
  
  
 - Buggy   Sometimes your character gets stuck and you have to reload etc.
  
  - Auto-save   not frequent enough and having a quicksave button is also missing, can be a pain 
 to go back and save your earliest save.
  
  - Framerate   Pretty bad in some spots, similar to Oblivion which is 2+ yrs old.
  
  - Controls 
   Not the most obvious layout, could be better. The use of the X button to zoom out in planet browsing 
 vs B button etc.
  
  - Guide/Tutorial   Lacks depth, needs much more info.
  
  - Menus   Again, not enough info and not as detailed as KOTOR.
  
  - Universe map   It would 
 be nice to mark the places you've been to, come on!
  
  - Elevator ride   very sloooowwww
  
  - Spectre   Becoming a Spectre so quickly was very anti-climatic and unexpected, should have 
 happened further down the storyline 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willstudz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I played the game three times through, each giving me a Unique role-playing experience. I played 
 as a Solider, an Infiltrator, and a straight Biotics user. And they were all rewarding in their 
 own ways. I enjoyed every aspect of this game to it's fullest and I just can't get enough of this 
 game.
  
  The gameplay is an interesting blend of strategy and gameplay. As a Biotic and infiltrator, I found 
 it best to pause battles and plan out how myself and my companions can use our powers to collectively 
 banish my opponents in systematic fashion. On the other hand, as a soldier, I just equipped my 
 assault rifle, and went to town, finding cover where I could. I'd definetly have to say Biotics 
 are very overpowered, for if I used singularity, it would just clear the entire screen of bad guys. 
 I found the infiltrator to be the most enjoyable experience out of the three, the sniping is very 
 difficult at first, but as soon as you get a few stat points into it, it became very useful. My 
 only beef with the gameplay is if I wanted to beat every little side-quest, and leave no rock unturned, 
 then I had to spend hours and hours driving the mako, in ultimatley, a very boring experience.
 
  
  The Graphics are spectacular, there are some loading glitches to render all the details during 
 the start of some sequences. That aside, the character modeling, is amazing. Lip sync is seemless, 
 and the entire game is just one beautiful plethora of detail.
  
  The Sound is what you would expect from Bioware. Amazingly voice acted from start to finish. Suiting 
 music for every part of the game, and every sound is just believable in a science fiction world.
 
  
  The storyline is remarkable. 
  
  Obviously there is alot of Replay value to the game. I just downloaded "Bring the sky down." Now, 
 I really hope they don't keep making these little six-dollar side quests. Because they take about 
 half an hour to complete, but I felt kind of suckered in the end.
  
  All in all, it an amazing game. I can't wait for the series to continue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKillKittens
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect is an action role-playing game for the 360. Made by Bioware this game is a definite 
 buy and worth every penny
  
  Mass effect is not without flaw there are a few glitches within the game but hey, every game has 
 them, the game is also rather short for an rpg. I did every side mission I could find, and surveyed 
 every planet in the galaxy and it was still only about 14 hours of playtime but you'll find that 
 as short as this game is you will not be disappointed.
  
  Mass effect has a unique storyline from the creators who brought us Knights of the Old Republic. 
 You spend the game hunting down the rogue spectre Saren, who has been indoctrinated by the Reaper 
 (the real villain behind the conflict) named Sovereign. He has used Sovereign to bend the geth 
 towards their cause, plummeting multiple worlds into the war. You play Commander Shepard the first 
 human spectre in galactic history, throughout the game you get several different allies each with 
 their own abilities and it's up to you to decide which ones will suit you best in the different 
 environments within the game. You have choices to make which will give you Paragon (good) or Renegade 
 (bad) points depending on the extremity of the choice from threats to the genocide of an entire 
 species the choices are yours to make.
  
  The communication within the game is very well done; the facial expressions match up with the dialogue 
 perfectly and everyone seems to have their own unique personality a role to play within the game.
 
  
  Overall I say Mass effect is just a great game for anyone to pick up and play. No 360 owner should 
 be without this game, let's all hope that the numerous side quests and compelling storyline will 
 keep us busy as we await mass effect 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Xodus-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  To begin, Mass Effect, as I said has an awesome new story and ideas. I'm going to try to review 
 the game without giving up anything major. There's no way to tell what's going to happen in the 
 game near the beginning and it has an awesome gameplay. This game plays very much like the KOTOR 
 series. As a matter of fact one of the leading designers that made KOTOR also helped make Mass 
 Effect, so the fact that both games rocked makes sense.
  
  I know this might sound unrealistic, but I couldn't find anything wrong with the game. Granted, 
 near the beginning, I thought the mass relays was the Citadel station. That could've simply have 
 been a stupid mix up by myself, though they could've been more clear about it. Also, as I would 
 with most roleplaying games, such as Fable, that it would be possible to continue playing the game 
 even after you finish the story. That way you can do every little thing possible. I know for a 
 fact that I didn't visit all the planets, etc.
  
  Another thing is that some of the menus could've been a little more easy to understand, though 
 after sometime you get the idea. Also, credits generally won't be a problem as you'll accumulate 
 over a million of them if you know how to work it. Another thing is that it was a little hard to 
 see whether you were being a good person (paragon) or a bad person (renegade) . The notification 
 for getting points for each wasn't too well pointed out.
  
  Other than that, I can find no problem. One last this is that the graphics are AMAZING. I can't 
 wait for Mass Effect 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ceells87
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect has got to be the first western RPG that I am completely satisfied with. First off 
 yes there are a few technical problems like blemishing of the details and some semi-long loads 
 times every now and then but i'm not one to focus on only that and say it's bad. This game has 
 everything a true rpg fan should want in a game. Interesting combat and technique system, real 
 characters that show emotion and bring baggage as well as power along with them. And the story 
 is amazing, especially how it's presented. For a game like this it not only sucks you in gradually 
 and eventually makes it near impossible to put it down until you've finished it but when it is 
 over it leaves you wanting more (in a good way) . Just like the original Star Wars movies, after 
 watching one you had to see the rest and that's what this game brought to me. I'm chopping at the 
 bit waiting for the second part of the story to come out. If your a fan of Bioware and their past 
 works and a fan of science-fiction at it's best I highly recommend this game. it's the same writer 
 who penned the story for Knights of the Old Republic so if you enjoyed that geek fest as much as 
 I did this is a certain pick up for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbahtijaragic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  The graphics in Mass Effect are beautiful and foto-realistic. The planets you visit are amazingly 
 good modelled and the textures, and so are the character models, backgrounds and so on.. You could 
 just say that it feels like a movie, not a game. And I mean that in every good way.
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is outstanding in Mass Effect. First of all the story is magnificant 
 and sucks you in, so you'll keep playing for days, trying to unreveal anything new! You can visit 
 many planets, embark on many side quests, have love relationships with crew mates (even the alien 
 chicks) , well, what can I say else? Oh yeah, the FPS part is great too, except from the a-little-annoying 
 menues, the games FPS part come along very great. Many other cool stuff, like upgrading your weapons 
 and armor, just make the gameplay eveb "amazinglier", if that even is a word. Lol.
  Overall:
  Except from the a-little-annoying menues and the delayed graphic bugs/glitches after 
 loading areas, Mass Effect is AMAZING! Its way better then Gamespot would let you know, and if 
 it was a little more, how can I put it, flewid or next-gen-way I would have called it revolutionary. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin449
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  ok , so i put the game in started career . i have played many rpg games before . but just from 
 the begining of this game i instantly figured it was going to be the best , because of its amazing 
 intruduction to the game plus the sound graphics music ect. just a perfect rpg game with action 
 . sort of like a old republic rpg , but organized and showed differently and that different is 
 better . the game sucks you in day by day as you are finishing the game you get to choose your 
 path renagade or paragon . good or bad. ethier way you get to be the leader . the games endings 
 is one of the best ending so far i ever seen i had goose bumbs all around as i was finishing. it 
 is obvious from the ending that a m. e 2 is coming out. and will be worth the wait.. I LOVE THIS 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is not for everyone. It is meant for those who love a good story with interesting characters. 
 That is not to say that the action is not as comparable but the game is so well paced that even 
 the most jaded action gamer will enjoy this game. Many games go for shock and awe but Mass Effect 
 starts with awe and slowly crescendos into a shock.
  
  As soon as you've finished creating your character, Mass Effect moves at whatever pace you want 
 to move at. You don't have to talk to anyone if you don't want to and you don't have to be nice 
 to anyone either. Mass Effect is part RPG that does away what RPGs have done in the past - pointless 
 bantering from pointless characters that have no value in the world. Each person you talk to has 
 a purpose and a convincing performance. The amount of dialog in Mass Effect is immense but the 
 developers have made serious strides in video game storytelling. Each character feels fleshed out 
 without feeling out of place or out of context. Every encounter with a new race or character presents 
 captivating performances thanks to the tight scriptwriting and graphic fidelity of the characters. 
 
  
  Mass Effect puts you in the position of a Spectre - an elite soldier annointed by the galactic 
 council. In a nutshell, your job is to find a rogue Spectre and bring him to justice. Simple enough, 
 but HOW you bring him to justice is all up to you. Bioware dialog selection system is back but 
 this time they want to make gamers think. Mass Effect is all about making hard decisions. Some 
 decisions are easy while others are not so clear cut. The wonderful thing about this novel mechanic 
 is that it has a direct effect in the missions ahead. In some cases, your decisions can open up 
 new missions, new opportunities, or just the opposite. It's more than just selecting the right 
 dialogue, it's about how you represent yourself in each galaxy. In one example, you are being interviewed 
 on the news on controversial (yet political) issues. The stance you take on these issues can potentially 
 affect gameplay. This can even happen during battle.
  
  
  Talking to characters have never been this fun. Many games usually place a character at some corner 
 of the room for decorations sake. Not Mass Effect. Each NPC (Non-Player-Character) has some take 
 in the galaxy. Hell, even the janitor has a significance in the game.
  
  On the action side of the game, the decision making becomes even more intense. In some cases, some 
 hard decisions lead to permanent death to one of your party members while changing the course of 
 the story and gameplay. The battles in Mass Effect are more than just moving from point A to B, 
 it is all about managing your party and approaching the battlegrounds with the right configurations. 
 Customizing your character, and upgrading your desired abilities has a massive effect in battling 
 the enemy. From telekineses to sniper rifles, Mass Effect lets you take care of business your way. 
 With intelligent enemies, Mass Effect does away with FPS conventions by utilizing cutscenes during 
 battle. Each battle is more than just mowing down enemies, it's about acccomplishing interesting 
 objectives.
  
  Suprisingly, these great positive points come with a few snags.
  
  Mass Effect's interfaces are not as clear or easy to understand. Modding weapons and selling weapons 
 are not as friendly. Texture maps are being loaded during an important cutscene. Slow elevators 
 seem to be everywhere and battles tend to take a few more frame rates away than they should. However, 
 despite these snags, Mass Effect is an overall crowning achievement of what RPG games need to be. 
 It borrows from many different elements from great games and blends them into a nice package that 
 is worth buying and finishing.
  
  radcastro. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comfnumb82
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  What could i possibly say about this incredable title that hasn't been said before? this game is 
 just...... mindblowing. the amount of detail the developers put into this game,, including the VAST 
 galaxy to explore is enough to make me salivate. Everything about this game is just incredable. 
 The non linear game play, the tactical shooter esque fighting engine, the gripping story line that 
 never gets tireing, the HUGE glaxy to explore. Sure, the textures sometime take a moment to load 
 and render, but i don't see it as a game killer in the slightest. i've played through the game 
 atleast 5 times, and i'm doing a 6th to beat it on insanity. another thing that i LOVE is how you 
 can have a differant gaming experiance each playthrough depending on choices you make and dialogue 
 you do. It keeps you interested enough to do another playthrough, or two or five. thank you bio 
 ware for once again giving us a great RPG worthy of the bio ware name. Bravo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtWarrior
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Note: This is a spoiler free review.
  
  1a) Intro
  2a) Combat
  2b) Enemy AI
  2c) Equipment
  2d) Friendly AI
  3a) Story
  3b) Technology
  3c) Nonlinear game play
  4a) 
 Main Character
  4b) Your team
  5a) The Mako
  6a) Exploration
  6b) NPC interaction
  6c) The Races and The Places
  7a) Graphics and Sound
  8a) Closing
  
  
  1a) Most of the 
 reviews I have read and people I have talked to can all agree. Mass Effect is a great game, but 
 it has a few drawbacks. This is the reason why I waited so long to buy it. If I had known just 
 how awesome the game was, I would have preorder it and waited in line for the store to open on 
 its release day. Everything this game does right makes it extremely easy to completely forgive 
 anything it does wrong.
  
  2a) To say this game is an action RPG is only telling the half of it. There really is no currently 
 defined genre the accurately describes what this game is. The action in the game plays a lot like 
 Gears of War with the exception that Mass Effect is just as fun and adds quite a bit more. You 
 can snipe, run and gun, dash to cover, pause the game while being able to look around, and issue 
 commands to your team. The action is fast paced and can be a bit overwhelming on the harder difficulties. 
 Being able to pause and look around is a huge feature that lets the player slow things down to 
 something more manageable. The mini map shows the location of enemies (ones that do not have the 
 capability of jamming that is) and pausing lets you plan your attack which you quickly find out 
 is a necessity. Just this one aspect of the game can easily stand up to the best tactical third 
 person shooters available.
  
  2b) The AI is the best I have seen, and I have seen plenty. The enemies are defiantly designed 
 with quality over quantity in mind. This works well with learning to save often. Enemies are usually 
 spread out and found in groups. By developing the habit of saving after every encounter you will 
 spare yourself a ton of heartache. For one of these encounters I saved right before and it took 
 me several tries to get past. On one attempt the enemies rushed and mowed my team down. On the 
 next I stayed back under cover and the enemies did the same. Nothing I did could draw them out, 
 and faced with no ambush options, I engaged them while they were undercover to less than desirable 
 results. Grenades got the baddies moving on my next attempt, but this time they actually gave each 
 other covering fire while advancing under cover. Just think about the replay value this hints at.
 
  
  2c) Enemies come in a delightfully wide variety. They have unique strengths and weaknesses which 
 encourages you to learn them and learn the best strategies and equipment to use against them. You 
 will face anything and everything from an elite squad of biotech solders to a mass of mindless 
 zombie behaving creatures. Mass Effect features a more or less comprehensive log that is updated 
 as you encounter new types of enemies. Weapons can be customized to provide extra utility in damage 
 types, impact affects, and overall efficiency. Armor can be customized to mitigate all weapon affects, 
 or provide bonus attributes to the wearer including health regen, extra protection, or extra shields. 
 The list of effective combinations of upgrades is a long one, and will take much more time to explore 
 than I have had to play. Items that are dropped by enemies you kill are automatically available 
 in the menu screen to be added to your inventory. This saves you the hassle of sniping an enemy 
 then running over to the body to get the goods.
  
  All characters in your team have the same four weapons at all times. The weapons are sniper rifle, 
 assault rifle, shotgun, and pistol. There is no need to search for or conserve ammunition in the 
 game and this actually has a surprisingly plausible technical explanation. The limiting factors 
 on the weapons are first and foremost how well the character can use the weapon, heat conservation, 
 and combat situation.
  
  One of the relatively major downsides to the game is the menu interface. It is not nearly as flexible 
 or user friendly as one would expect from a game of this caliber. All of its quirks can be learned 
 and lived with, but in my option there really is no excuse for this. A lesser game would have gotten 
 a rating hit, but in my book Mass Effect is still a perfect 10.
  
  2d) Your teammate's AI can seam a little less sophisticated at first. Sometimes your own guys will 
 get you killed simply by being in your way. Sometimes they charge where they should stay under 
 cover and get themselves killed. Sometimes they hang back when they should advance. Having AI controlled 
 allies has never been perfect in any game and even with all this considered, your buddies in Mass 
 Effect are again, the best I have seen. It took some time to change my play style to pay more attention 
 and react to what my team was doing. The habit that other games with inferior AI causes players 
 to develop is one where you concentrate only on the target and ignore your team because they are 
 either useless or have to be micromanaged. Paying attention to your team and reacting to what they 
 do as well as reacting to the enemy unlocks the true depths of strategy and tactics that this game 
 can offer. Your team will seek cover, but if there are only 2 spots (like a corridor with boxes 
 on either side) and you take one, that leaves one of your guys with nowhere to stand except out 
 in the open. Try to spread out a bit and let your buddies get the easy cover while you dash to 
 another. If your team is hanging back, advance while they provide cover fire. If they are charging, 
 provide cover fire or charge with them. The more you learn how to work with your team, the better 
 your team will become. And I can't say it enough, SAVE OFTEN. Charging is fun but also very risky. 
 Losing an hour of playtime will take the enjoyment out of the game faster than anything else. Remember 
 to save, plan your attacks, be gutsy and glory will be yours.
  
  Unfortunately there are not many options to modify the behavior of your team. The options available 
 are use all abilities, only use defensive abilities, and use no abilities. Giving the AI full control 
 over special abilities results in your buddies burning all cooldowns at first opportunity. There 
 are some abilities that are annoying to assign every time, and others that you want to save for 
 when you need it. There is also no queue for commands so you cannot issue one while one is already 
 being preformed. Because of this, taking the AI down to defensive makes it easier to give orders. 
 Turning AI control of abilities off gives maximum control to the user, but is a little heavy on 
 the micromanaging side. I usually run with abilities on and turn to defensive only for exceptionally 
 tough fights and everything works out well enough.
  
  You also have the ability to tell your units to move to a specified location, follow you, stay 
 put, or concentrate fire on the enemy you select. Telling them to move somewhere is handy to make 
 them advance or move to a safe spot, but in practice I rarely use it. My default routine is to 
 tell them to stay put while I scout ahead, then tell them to follow if the coast is clear or run 
 back to them if it is not. This keeps them out of the way while preparing them to ambush enemies 
 that are bold enough to charge.
  
  3a) The history of Mass Effect is as rich, interesting, and entertaining as the best novels and 
 movies out there. It doesn't take a scifi junky to appreciate the effort and inspiration that went 
 into they story's creation. However, a scifi junky will eat up the plot like a starving man would 
 eat up a 5 star 5 course meal. It is very possible for a completionist to completely lose touch 
 with reality while exploring the vast cities and combat areas. Side quests not only plentiful, 
 but also well thought out and well rewarding. Background stories and social alliances are also 
 available for exploration for an impressive number of characters that you will meet. Professional 
 quality voice acting for the host of noble heroes and infamous villains unfold this story of plots 
 within plots.
  
  3b) The creators of the game must have done their homework. You will not find any cheesy technical 
 explanations or solutions like reversing the polarity on the warp field generator to stabilize 
 the flux coupler in the antimatter chamber. The technology in Mass Effect is based off a single 
 discovery that revolutionizes the way we do pretty much everything including interstellar travel, 
 manufacturing, and military power just to name a few. The game's log explains how everything works 
 early in the story to great detail. Enough is provided so that any gaps or inconsistencies can 
 be easily filled in by the player.
  
  3c) It may be a relief to the non completionists out there that wading through all of the side 
 quests and information provided is not necessary to understand the big picture. There is a great 
 deal of flexibility when deciding which quests to do, which to skip, and where to go next. Losing 
 track of where the main plot went is no problem at all for someone who occasionally checks the 
 game's log.
  
  4a) While creating your character, it would be wise to give careful consideration to choosing which 
 class to play. Each class has it's strengths and weaknesses that will determine the style of combat 
 that you will be stuck with for the entire game. This is a double edged sword. You cannot have 
 it all, but the game is worth playing again to experience it all. You can also choose your characters 
 history, which is mentioned repeatedly throughout the game by people who have heard of you.
  
  The 3 primary classes are Soldier, Tech Specialist, and Adept. Soldiers have the most flexibility 
 in play style because they can become proficient in all weapons and can be effective in long range 
 and close up engagements alike. Techs have powerful special abilities that can hurt and debuff 
 enemies, improve efficiency in healing, and access locked or encrypted containers. Adepts use basically 
 magic (that has a technical explanation) to put a hurtin on the bad guys. All three classes have 
 a unique feel to them and open different styles of play. The Tech and Adept classes are limited 
 in the equipment they can become proficient in, and as a result are more limited in overall effectiveness 
 in certain situations and strategy options. 3 hybrid classes are available for a mix of the primary 
 class's talents. While creating your character, enough information is available to make an informed 
 choice. Veteran gamers who already know which style they prefer will have a distinct advantage 
 on players who try a class, play the game for 2 hours, decide they want something else, then start 
 all over (like I did) .
  
  4b) Along your journey you will be able to unlock up to 6 characters to join your team. Any weakness 
 that your main character may have can be compensated by the strengths of your teammates. Choosing 
 who to bring along is available only when you exit your spaceship, and while onboard your main 
 character is the only one in the party. Because of this, it is a good idea to check your team's 
 inventory before entering your ship to remove valuable equipment upgrades. There is a way to do 
 this while inside the ship, but the location you have to be in to do it is in the furthest part 
 of the ship away from the airlock that it possibly could be. There is a merchant onboard that updates 
 his inventory every so often that is also found in the same location.
  
  There are a few features regarding your team that are a godsend. Any ability that your teammates 
 have (unlocking a secure container for example) is at your disposal, and is executed in the game 
 as if your main character had the ability himself. There is no real penalty for your teammates 
 "dying" in battle other than they are unavailable for the remainder of the engagement. When it's 
 over, they get back up. The main character even gets a trainable resurrection ability a little 
 later in the game. Experience is gained universally even for members that are not in your current 
 party.
  
  5a) The Mako is basically a tank with 6 wheels instead of treads. It is equipped with shields that 
 slowly recharge over time, a main turret, machine gun, and jump jets. The controls for the Mako 
 are a bit awkward at first, but if mastered can be a genuine joy to use. You can drive in with 
 guns a blazin, roll over and knock down a few enemies while you're at it, then bank hard and hit 
 the jump jets to do a 180 in the air in preparation for a second pass. The targeting reticule is 
 a bit misleading in that it can move at large vertical angles, but the turrets on the Mako cannot 
 match those angles. This limitation seams intentional, as the power that a veteran driver commands 
 is already quiet formidable.
  
  6a) Another genre that could be attached to Mass Affect is action/adventure. Containers that store 
 equipment, equipment upgrades, and valuable clues for side missions are scattered everywhere and 
 are easy to find. Extra bits of story can be learned by having the proper skills to unlock extra 
 doors and talking to whomever may be inside. The scenery by itself is reason enough to explore 
 every nook and cranny that is accessible.
  
  6b) When talking to NPC (nonplayer characters) extra dialog options can be unlocked by possessing 
 the required amount of skill in either charm or intimidation. The overall impact of choosing what 
 to say is a bit unclear. I have found myself saving before a conversation just to see what happens 
 when different options are chosen in other games, but in Mass Effect I did this once and then never 
 again. The one time I did this, different things where said but the outcome was same. In other 
 conversations, it was obvious that the outcome would be different. There really is no need to save 
 and try the other option when your choices are either saying "You must die" or "I welcome you as 
 a friend." The dialog interface is conveniently arranged so that hero responses are generally on 
 the top right, neutral the middle right, and vigilantly on the bottom right. These options progress 
 through the conversation while the left side is reserved for informational inquires that can usually 
 be repeated later. Your responses affect your reputation and the unlockable responses have a significant 
 affect on what happens immediately after the conversation. You can talk your way out of a fight, 
 instigate one, change someone's opinion about you, or talk them into giving you gear that they 
 intended on keeping for themselves. Conversation is what you make of it. Cut scenes can not be 
 skipped but conversations can. If navigating through dialog trees just is not your cup of tea you 
 can skip them nearly entirely without fear of any negative affects on the main story.
  
  6c) DISCLAMER: This section may be considered to be a spoiler by some but all the information given 
 is background information that is part of the enormous foundation that supports the main plot while 
 reviling nothing about the plot itself. Every race in the game has a story to tell, and all are 
 worth listening to. My personal favorite is an entire race of powerful warriors. Because of harsh 
 conditions on their home world, these warriors were forced to evolve into the toughest biological 
 beings in the known universe. In a time long since passed these warriors were called upon to rid 
 the galaxy of the menace that threatened all humanoid life. After the threat was eliminated, with 
 no other space bugs to fight, they turned on all the other races. Fighting is what they do; fighting 
 is what they will always do. They ended up losing that war to a biological weapon. With only warriors 
 and no scientists to create a counter, they were defeated and doomed to eventual extinction. This 
 summarized example of the back story of this one race is typical to all races in the game. Every 
 place of interest also has a history that just begs to be learned.
  
  7a) There really isn't much that needs to be said about the graphics. Cutting edge affects and 
 extremely impressive character models and animation speak for themselves. The graphics and sound 
 play a key role in immersing the player into this alternate reality. The sound quality is right 
 up there with the graphics but for the most part is not remarkable. This is as it should be. Sounds 
 and sound affects that annoy and remind you that you are only playing a game are very rare. Music 
 naturally complements the current situation and mood.
  
  8) I really cannot say enough about this game, but what I can say is that I have spent waaaay too 
 much time writing about it instead of playing. I sincerely recommend this game to everyone. Mass 
 Effect's epic story and experience of playing is destined to stay in fond memory for as long as 
 video games are played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fooshi
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  This game Mass Effect has the probabley the best story line out of all the games I have played. 
 It's story has been masterfully told and u can tell they spent a long time thinking of it. Also 
 with the great story is unbelievable voice- overs and sound. The voice- overs all sound like there 
 unique to there person. The explosions in th background, the eerie music you can jsut barely hear, 
 and the stronger songs when u accomplish something really make this game awesome. Now to the gameplay 
 , out of the three things i've discussed this is probabley the worst, But that doesn't mean the 
 gameplay is bad. It's just the music and story-line are waaaaay better compared to the gameplay. 
 It uses a third-person/ cover system hybrid and is pretty fun, a small bit similar to Gears of 
 War. But there is something that u probabely won't ever notice, this game has a half-hearted team 
 control system that really in a game of this genre is a bit on the useless side. Last but not least 
 is the graphics. They are gorgeous! The only problem i had with them is that when you entered a 
 scene occasionally the textures would take awhile to appear, but they always appeared and thats 
 just a small problem. Mass Effect is a great game I think everyone should at least consider it 
 and RPG fans put this on your must-have list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the highly anticipated Xbox 360 RPG by developer BioWare, most famously known for 
 their work on the D&D (Dungeons and Dragons) games, such as Baldur's Gate and Neverwinter Nights.
 
  
  You start off at the character creation screen, you can either go with the default character either 
 male or female, or you can change the appearence of your character as you see fit. The customization 
 is very similar to The Elder Scrolls IV : Oblivion, as it goes into so much depth almost any character 
 that a player creates will be unique. Even though I know this is a great feature, I found it somewhat 
 over-whelming. 
  
  During the customization you select your characters backstory, this ranges from: Earth Civillian, 
 Colonial Survivor or A Descendant of former Militarians. You also can select the kind of person 
 your character is, A Cruel Tyrant, A War Hero or A Survivor. These minor backstories won't affect 
 the game much, but will influence dialog which is spoken in the game.
  
  The story in Mass Effect is based around a huge universe, which players must travel across to find 
 information and complete missions in order to advance the story. Getting around from planet to 
 planet is done without much hassle, as it's automated which means no annoying Zelda-like boat trips... 
 It is a huge story with lots of mini backstories for you to explore as well, which means you will 
 get many, many hours of gameplay.]
  
  The gameplay of Mass Effect is at a par, due to the fact of it's slightly broken combat. It has 
 used the style of Rainbow Six : Vegas' cover system, although this does spice up the combat, it 
 just doesn't feel as intense as say Call of Duty 4's combat. However the interaction between characters 
 and the environment is great, and this almost but not quite saves Mass Effect's gameplay.
  
  Sound-wise Mass Effect sounds great. The sound of ship engines roaring or rifles firing, and 
 the composition of music. All contribute to make the game feel alot more life-like.
  
  Graphically, Mass Effect looks spectacular however it is hindered by some graphical glitches. At 
 some points during conversations with other characters their eyes would go skewed and the shadows 
 would fall over the face unrealisticly. However looking at the detail of the ships and environments 
 around you is spectacular.
  
  Overall Mass Effect is a very in-depth RPG and is one not to be missed by RPG fans. This game is 
 definately worth the money, as it is beautiful to listen see and play. And with over 100+ hours 
 of gameplay minimum you will be playing this game fora very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sproke
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Just gonna write a short review for this one.
  
  I've played it through three times. I've seen the infamous sex scene three times, and the memory 
 of which completely eludes me five minutes after it has taken place. The story is so immersive, 
 so emotionally stimulating, so amazing that the thought of bioware placing the event in the game 
 as something to ogle and buy the game for seems completely stupid, and it is. The scene itself 
 doesn't just happen, it has meaning and it isn't skin deep. Shame on you if you bought this game 
 under the assumption that there would be sex in it for you to watch, and shame on you if you didn't 
 buy the game under the assumption that it would be tasteless and dumb.
  
  This is the best RPG i have ever played. This is the best story it has ever been my pleasure to 
 witness. The game is so deep that as soon as the credits had finished rolling I selected the new 
 game option from the main menu.
  
  If you like Role-playing games, buy this game. If you don't, read some reviews, look into it, and 
 at least rent it.
  
  All gamers from all walks of life should give this game a chance, it is a piece of art, a title 
 that most games could only hope to achieve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aMMo16
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  When i begun to write this review i was set on a mere 6.5, clearly for the fact i thought the game 
 was boring. Clearly this first impression was not accurate due to the fact i had only spent about 
 4 hours so far on the game... therefore hadn't yet appreciated this immersive, innovative game. 
 
  
  I decided to have a short go on mass effect before i settled on writing about how this game is 
 a huge disapointment, but as i got deeper into the game i just couldn't stop playing, i realised 
 the sheer power this game has and how enjoyable it can be once given a chance to live up to its 
 gamespot score of 8.5 (which i feel is still not enough)
  
  The game itself is huge and there are tons of new ideas presented in it that i can guarantee you 
 won't find in any other game. 
  Mass effect consists of a huge galaxy and tons of planets and different space clusters and systems 
 to explore, most of these planets which you can land on and harvest fuels and materials that relate 
 to that planet. One minor disapointment is that you can't land on all these planets (so far anyway, 
 i'm not sure if you can land on these planets as you progress further into the game, maybe you 
 can) . The planets themself are relatively small, but still big enough to spend a good 10-20 minutes 
 exploring, and each have their own side missions and discoveries, so you'll never know what you 
 might find!
  
  The all terrain vehicle is called the mako, equipped with cannons and a machine gun which can easily 
 take down enemies (so they say) I found the mako quite hard to get used to and found myself stuck 
 in a few situations were it's gettin savaged by enemy fire and eventually blowing up.
  
  The squad based theme works well within the game, choosing your squad and who joins your squad 
 which you can fully upgrade with weapons and armour, and also issue commands. For example, if you 
 choose the soldier class at the start of the game you won't be able to perform tech abilities, 
 but a squad member of the tech class will be able to so you can tell them to perform all the abilities 
 whenever you need them.
  
  This leads me onto the next point of the background, customization and class of your character. 
 At the start of the game you will be able to pick whether you've been born in space, or born on 
 earth, also you will be able to pick events that have happened in your life, like your parents 
 have died or you are a sole survivor of a huge war in which all your teammates died etc. Whichever 
 background you choose will effect in game choices and missions as they will relate to your background.
 
  You can choose which class to go (kind of similar to the player selection in star wars battlefront) 
 certain classes offer different abilities and strengths.
  Progressing in the game will give you more choices about your character, for example to become 
 a spectre, commando, shock trooper etc.
  
  The game is a balance between decisions and shooting, which create a dynamic rpg which is fun for 
 all types of gamers.
  I would highly recommend this game to fans of rpg's and fps's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajanicek
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a well balanced game thats very well written, has a great physics engine and will 
 always keep you coming back for more, even after you play through it the first time. The story 
 is one of the best I've seen in a video game for the X360. The graphics are sharp and distinctive. 
 They immerse you in a unique future world, parts of which reminded me of DeusEx: Invisible War. 
 By the end, you truly feel like you are an actor in a huge budget movie, however you have great 
 influence on the outcome.
  The bad: Frame rate hitches during involved scraps. AI likes to shoot at enemies even if an indistructable 
 object is between them. A few unwecomed load times and they can be detractingly long. Cant jump.
 
  The good: Great visuals. It makes you feel like you are in a sci-fi flick like Bladerunner, or 
 Star Wars. Great audio and cut scenes including top notch voice acting. Good customization of characters. 
 Very deep and involved plot line, well detailed universe. The best social interaction system I've 
 seen in any game to date.
  The average: Combat is ok and well detailed but can be hard to control when the frame rate hitches 
 up. However, you don't die so often that it makes you want to shut off the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KennyYoung
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion Mass Effect is a must buy game for anyone with an XBox 360 or at least anyone who 
 likes RPG's. This game is built on a foundation of a great story and apart from the main storyline 
 and missions the game gives you plenty of hours of side missions. The game takes about 10-12 hours 
 with a decent amount of side missions and exploring and if you do all the side missions the game 
 lasts between 14-20 hours. 
  
  You play as a character named Commander Shepard. An interesting part of this game is the character 
 customization. You can change his/her appearance, what there childhood was like, what there military 
 background was like, during the game you can choose what they say, and you can also changes what 
 powers/abilities your character has. Ths effects what other characters say to you, think of you, 
 and also changes some of the missions that you can recieve. 
  
  In this game there are many races of alien species which are all unique. The character models of 
 the aliens are amazing and the voice acting in this game is tremendous and it gives each civilization 
 and character there own personality and characteristics. 
  
  The combat has a very interesting twist where you and your companions each have there own set of 
 powers that can damage enemy shields, lift them high into the air, throw them back into the wall, 
 etc. This feature allows battles to be more interesting and fun and can really help you get out 
 of an intense battle alive. 
  
  Mass Effect didn't come in with too much hype but Bioware and Microsoft Game Studios delivered 
 a very good game. In my opinion was the runner-up t ogame of the year behind COD4. I give it a 
 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: claymor2592003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with the good. I picked this title up and from the moment I started I was taken in by 
 the story. The main drive behind any RPG is the story and Mass Effect had an extremely noteworthy. 
 (Hey Steven Spielberg, here is good prospective movie.) The voice acting was great (nice job Seth 
 Green. lol) . Visual effects were completely amazing. Plenty of planets and worlds to explore and 
 alot of subplot missions keep you very busy. Enemies compose of the sinister geth to galaxy pirates 
 to the near-extict Krogan, all with their own strengths and weaknesses. This makes every battle 
 a little different and combat never gets old. The amazing perspective is that Bioware combined 
 a very great RPG element with an effective shooter and did a near flawless job. Near flawless in 
 a few ways. Leading me now to the bad. The vehicle controls are aggravating. I found myself retreating 
 many times in a battle. It is hard to describe the difficulty in words, but this is a major issue 
 they need to patch (don't expect it though) . That's it, one bad thing that I had on my list. Overall, 
 amazing game. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Beatz-
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  So basically, Mass Effect is a RPG third person FPS. I myself, haven't tried Gears of War or anything 
 like it, so I haven't played other third person FPS, atleast not on the Xbox 360, if you count 
 out the GTA's on the PC, and some random others too, I might not remember. Anyway, this game talks 
 about a Commander Shephard, which you can choose the first name for, who goes to Eden Prime for 
 a mission. First, you don't know what kind of a big mission it's gonna be for you, but at the end 
 of the mission, you go to a beacon, which shows you a vision. Later on, your one mission mate Nihlus, 
 who is a Turian, is killed by another Turian, a specter Saren, who has gone rogue. While you in 
 your mind, and your eyes you witness Saren killing Nihlus, the council doesn't believe you. Soon 
 enough you find a Quarian, can't remember her name, he has a tape of a Geth (was it?) mind, where 
 is a record of Saren talking about reviving The Reapers to an Atari Matriarch called Benezia. Then 
 the council releases Saren from his Specter status and promotes Shephard to a Specter. From that 
 point, you go to other planets, destroy the geth, and kill Saren in the end. 
  
  Now, this game is 3rd person FPS, and also the elements of RPG's, such as stats, changeable weapons. 
 The team-mates are great company while fighting the geth, although it would be good to take Ashley 
 Williams with you, but he intimidates other life-forms, and that may bug you, or the one you're 
 talking to. There are like, I don't know, 20-30 planets you can explore. Pretty much of them aren't 
 hardcore temperatures. You can also survey planets, and get minerals for your one side mission. 
 This game's characters have levels, and while they level up, you get new skill points to add to 
 your character. There are many things like Assault Rifle Training, which makes you better at assault 
 rifles, also Fitness, which gives you more health, Specter Training, like reviving your teammates 
 when they're dead, and so on. Which thing you train, is yours to decide. Also, like many people 
 should know, you can say many different things to people you meet. The upper one, and the middle, 
 are usually the good ones, that don't make people feel hurt, sad, or anything. But the lower thing, 
 is intimidate. When you raise your Paragon bar, you get discounts at shops, and also many people 
 like you. When you raise your Renegade bar, when killing someone, and sayin to other his race species, 
 I should have done that anyway, or something, then you get Renegade. But if you talk nicely to 
 people, sympathize to what they say, then you'll get a raise for the Paragon bar. I did the game 
 with the Paragon bar, so I don't know how useful Intimidate could be. Also, you can add points 
 to Intimidate and Charm, which open up new dialog options. Also, when you ride around in the Mako, 
 a space-vehicle, then you'll meet Thresher Maws (big worms that come out of the ground) and you 
 pretty much have to kill them. I recommend this game to everyone. I don't believe there are much 
 people who don't like this game, because it is a very good game. Must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the first Bioware title to move fully into the realms of real time shooting, you 
 can of course argue that the superb Jade Empire was real time fighting but what we are talking 
 about here is guns. Fortunately as a veteran FPS player on consoles I am used to the left/right 
 thumbstick system, it is a system however that can throw off those who have not used it before 
 (I still remember swearing at Timesplitters when I was learning it) . Judging from messageboards, 
 a lot of people who have purchased this game find the combat controls and system tricky as its 
 a big move away from what they usually get from their preferred genre of game. Off the top of my 
 head I can't think of many RPG's that actually require you to aim at things and Mass Effect can 
 join titles like System Shock II as one of the few that does. The fast paced real time, ducking 
 and dodging gameplay while alienating those who like slower games does open the market to the more 
 casual gamer one who most likely doesn't enjoy indirect combat (or again judging from the average 
 gaming messageboard has a case of ADD) . Personally as a vetern of RPG's and FPS's this was fine 
 for me, but it won't be for everyone. What you have in Mass Effect is the usual Bioware reams of 
 dialogue and heavy character interaction interspersed with driving and casual style combat, a compromise 
 on Bioware's part perhaps to reach the whole market.
  
  Unfortunately mentioning driving sections leads me to the Mako, the games single biggest flaw. 
 Who designed this thing? Where they on crack at the time? It handles like a wet sponge that happens 
 to be heavily under the influence of alcohol and it's about as twice as useless in a fight. A great 
 deal of the games sidequests have you driving this piece of crap and I defy anyone not to lose 
 their temper at some point as the thing goes in the wrong direction/fails to climb the cliff face 
 you wanted it too/ gets blown up. The Mako isn't helped by the fact the games planet designs decide 
 to use terrain thats so full of ridges and craters you feel like your driving across the face of 
 a teenager with a bad case of acne, but it doesn't alter the fact the Mako is the biggest unadultarated 
 piece of crap to enter a Bioware game and I hate it.
  
  Fortunately that's most of the negativity out of the way, tanks aside Mass Effect is great. The 
 main storyline has you visiting some truly thrilling locations and has more plot twists than a 
 slinky would if it happened to be an exciting sci-fi Blockbuster. Your male or female character 
 "Sheperd" must battle his/her way through the galaxy to stop an evil rogue special agent named 
 Saren who wants to create an apocalypse and wipe out existence as we know it. Now while that may 
 sound generic at first things rapidly get complicated and combining the main story with side quests 
 and heavy character interaction with members of your crew what you have plotwise is possibly the 
 best Bioware have created since Baldurs Gate II. Some minor gripes with certain side quests are 
 the fact they have you roaming around identical sets of buildings on different planets and occasionally 
 just reward you with a lot of reading (like a cutscene missed the final deadline of being included 
 in the game) , they can be disappointing compared to the fewer in number more complex sidequests 
 but are worth doing for levelling ups sake and if you intersperse them with story planets you shouldn't 
 get too bored.
  
  Perhaps some of my favourite points of the game were the interaction with other characters (yes 
 as I mentioned in earlier posts I really enjoyed romancing Liara, heck if there were Japanese dating 
 systems over here id probably play those endlessly as the romance parts of Bioware games are my 
 favourite bits) , each cast member of Sheperd's crew has their own unique story and a few of them 
 can meet their deaths by the time the games final curtain falls, but that is all dependant on your 
 actions. The Paragon/Renegade system is not as black and white as good and evil usually is with 
 Paragon being charming and Renegade aggressive, some situations needing Charm and some needing 
 aggression and its a system that works well allowing you to balance your characters personality 
 as you see fit, influencing both the story, the crew and the sidequests.
  
  Visually this game still manages to be quite simply the best I have ever played despite it's tendency 
 to have ridiculous texture pop that can leave environments looking very bland for up to 30 seconds 
 at times while the data loads off the disc. Perhaps an option for those of us who own a 360 hard 
 drive to be able to actually use it would be good, but I don't see that coming. Fortunately the 
 texture pop and occasional game slowdown don't detract from the experience much and are more a 
 minor niggle than anything else. Couple the amazing visuals with some of the best sound in a video 
 game ever and you know this game is even more of a winner, top scores for both the voice acting 
 and the music itself. Fantastic stuff.
  
  Hopefully you can tell other than my Mako and side-quest frustration I loved this game. I enjoyed 
 the combat, I enjoyed the story, I enjoyed the character interaction and development (I don't want 
 to spoil but I actually liked the cast better than KOTOR) , I enjoyed the whole product. Mass Effect 
 may not be flawless, it has obviously been rushed out before the final polish of the game or the 
 scale of what could have been done have been put in place, but to Biowares credit, even the unfinished 
 product is the best of 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Locke9999
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a beautiful role-playing game with a brilliantly innovative dialogue system that 
 expands upon Bioware's previous games and makes this one of my favorite games. 
  
  The story, which is planned to span over three games (to my knowledge) , has incredible replay value 
 and is enhanced with awesome characters.
  
  Unfortunately, after preordering that game (which I very rarely do) there were certain disappointments. 
 Anyone who followed along with its release knows that it was missing two features, the ability 
 to literally interrupt others, changing the flow of conversation, and the ability to strategically 
 plan your team's movement and attack. 
  
  
  Pros: Awesome Story; Great Characters; Innovative Dialogue System
  
  Cons: Poor A. I. Most of 
 the Time; Lacking Combat System; Visual Glitches
  
  Bottom Line: Awesome game with eternal replay value and more greatness on it's way and while prevented 
 from a perfect score due to technical problems, Mass Effect will satisfy gamer's and make sci-fi/rpg 
 fans jump up and down like a chibi.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: setonj18
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas thinking it was gonna be a shooter version of Oblivion. It wasn't. 
 Don't get me wrong, the graphics are great, and the voice acting is just as good. What I didn't 
 like was the amount of talking. I don't know how bad it is towards the end, but in the beginning 
 it was horrible. All you did was talk to some random people on a spaceship and you dont even get 
 to kill anyone. Eventually you do but I just never got in to it. I could just be stupid but i wasn't 
 impressed by this game. If you're looking for a great RPG, save 30 bucks and buy Oblivion instead, 
 trust me. This game also didn't have any cool weapons and you feel overwhelmed when you start out 
 because you don't know what you're doing. I know a lot of people who loved this game but it wasn't 
 for me I guess. s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eo12601
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is space opera of universal proportions, produced by the hands behind games like Knights 
 of the Old Republic, and Baldur's Gate. No wonder the hype. But the inevitable question begs to 
 be asked. Does it live up? I'll let you be the judge.
  
  Positives- The character creation system is meticulous and complex, allowing you to craft exactly 
 the character that you want to play as, if you have the patience to toy with the system that is. 
 The series' story has a large amount of potential, and it looks like it might become one of the 
 best ever told in the video game medium-one that makes us ask questions like, can artificial life 
 forms that can think, feel, even philosophize, be consider real life? 
  
  It introduces the player to a complex universe filled with politics, the competing agendas of a 
 number of different alien races, and allows him to explore it at his will. Character interaction 
 is handled well, and some of the most enjoyable parts of the game are in fact the conversations. 
 
  
  The game features a few engaging boss battles, some memorable set pieces, a handful of puzzles 
 to give the gameplay some variety, and presents the player with some perplexing moral dilemmas. 
 
  
  The score is superb, and the voice acting is similarly well done.
  
  The graphics are some of the best on the system.
  
  And finally, the ending is climactic and 
 well done, giving the player a sense of closure while also making it blatantly obvious that the 
 adventure will continue.
  
  
  Negatives: The game is not user friendly. Unless you have a tremendous amount of patience and a 
 good eye, good luck crafting a somewhat decent looking character. There is also no tutorial whatsoever, 
 forcing you to learn the majority of the game's mechanics yourself. While some are relatively self 
 explanatory, others, like upgrading weapons with various equipment, are not.
  
  Combat is dull and uninteresting. It feels like an unsatisfying compromise between a third person 
 action game and a role playing game. Neither party will leave satisfied, and both will likely be 
 disappointed. The degree of control you have over your squad members is fairly limited, and the 
 enemies you will encounter are more or less brain dead, often charging headlong at your character 
 and exposing themselves to a quick death for no apparent reason. 
  
  The Mako, the all terrain vehicle which you explore planets with, is overly responsive and the 
 enemy variety during the Mako sections is severely lacking. 
  
  The majority of the side quests in the game feel tacked on. Their brevity is appreciated, but their 
 lack of depth is not. They often take place in the same recycled indoor environments, and what's 
 worse, you often find yourself battling the same sort of enemies. 
  
  Combat segments feel very drawn out, and often serve to artificially lengthen the game.
  
  
 The story is a lot to take in all at once, and in the beginning, it is very hard to care. It took 
 the game 15 hours before it seriously piqued my interest.
  
  The universe feels flat and sterile. It's really big. But it is also rather monotonous. The interaction 
 between the inhabitants of the world and the main character is very limited. Interactions with 
 squad characters are more fleshed out but still feel restricted. Don't expect them to ever approach 
 you and initiate a conversation, or to talk amongst themselves. Many of the conversations you'll 
 have with them feel more like interviews, and lack a certain organic, natural quality.
  
  The loading times are significant, and the game crashed on me four times.
  
  Overall:
  The 
 Mass Effect trilogy should have been compressed into one game. That way, instead of making the 
 game longer through artificial means by relying on a weak combat system, the player would be bounced 
 back and forth from set piece to set piece, boss battle to boss battle. 
  
  Sure there are tons and tons of planets, but the majority serve no other purpose other than being 
 there to click on in order to net the player resources. 
  
  There are a good number of side quests too. Too bad most are bland, and redundant. Bioware should 
 have concentrated on creating a handful of really great, memorable quests, instead of a lot of 
 lackluster ones. 
  
  In the end, Mass Effect is a good game, perhaps even a great game. But it does not live up to the 
 image that the critics and gamers alike have created for it. It is a disappointment, not because 
 it was bad, but because it could have, should have, might have, been much better.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: efoxneo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of the most original RPG's I've played for the 360 for some time, and both its 
 visuals and story are worth it alone to play. I finished it the first time in about 50 hours, and 
 completed almost every quest available. I liked the combat system, and if you are a fan of the 
 Knights of the Old Republic games or even any of the Baldar's Gate games, Mass Effect will more 
 then please. The game has some solid replay value (at least once more) so that you can see the 
 different endings, and play it with a different character type. The game can please any shooter 
 and RPG fan, and for that I think it deserves the 9.0 that I give it. The length of the game is 
 perfect for the amount of gaming I have the time for these days, and it isn't so in depth that 
 I have to become obsessed with it to be fun. My biggest problems with the game are that as polished 
 as it is the worlds do have a lot of issues with your character and your vehicle gettng stuck in 
 a few spots, as well, a lot of the sub-quests use the same basic levels with maybe more or less 
 crates in the rooms, or just different NPC's around to fit the plot of the specific quest. The 
 problems with the game didn't bother me as much as Gamespot, and I didn't have any issues with 
 the inventory menu's. I felt that the positive aspects of the game (graphics, story, combat system, 
 cool equipment and weapons, and even the length of the game) , heavily outway the negative. I highly 
 recommend Mass Effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonpuddish69
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be very hard to get into, but once I did I couldn't stop playing until I had 
 beaten it. It took me damn near 30 hours, and it's funny because I talked to a buddy who said he 
 had beaten it in about 6. So I'm like "Well, did you do any side quests?" and he replied with "Huh?" 
 Well there you have it. The's not a very long game without those side quests, which actually got 
 a bit repetitive, so I didn't end up doing all of them. But doing a few every now and then was 
 a great break from the main story, which was actually, in my opinion, very well. Upgrading weapons 
 and things of that nature were a bit hard to understand at first, but once you did, you were basically 
 unstoppable. An excellent genre-bending game for sure. If you like rpgs and shooters, pick this 
 one up. There is much to see and do, and the voice acting is really well done. A good game all 
 around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LIlSwank123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games where you tell your friends about it even if they aren't gamers. At 
 school I couldn't stop thinking about how I was going to defeat Saren and his cunning Geth henchmen. 
 The games story is better than most Hollywood movies, but that's the only amazing thing about this 
 game. Sure the character customization is great, but I can get more of that in Oblivion. I mean, 
 if you only like Video games to cap people in the face, that's fine but the gunplay in Mass Effect 
 Is far from perfect. The in-combat menu system really breaks up the combat and you never really 
 feel like a beast when you shoot a gun. The driving can be fun but that's only because your ATV 
 called the Mako handles like an RC car.
  
  My conclusion is that if you want to have your soul moved by a game this is great but if you want 
 to have a satisfying shooter; this is not the title for you. 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whirlbat
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  I began tracking this game in 2006, back when it was slated for release in May 2007. It wasn't 
 until late 2007, after multiple delays, that gamers were finally treated to the long overdue, new, 
 epic adventure that is Mass Effect. Now, please take note of that word "epic." I don't throw that 
 word around lightly. An "epic" game (not to be confused with a game made BY Epic) is one that has 
 truly inspired design in most (if not all) forms. Mass Effect has an intriguing and novel storyline, 
 unique game play mechanics, and astounding level designs. Let's start off with what I didn't like 
 about the game and get that out of the way first.
  
  The Bad: ... alright, I know it doesn't look good to not put anything in here, but there really 
 wasn't anything all that bad about the game. Sure, the vehicle combat was a little weak compared 
 to games like Twisted Metal or something, but frankly, in a game that totes an FPSRPG label, I 
 really don't want much vehicular combat. I want to be on the ground with a gun and teammates, casting 
 magic missile and firing a boomstick. The main storyline is also a little on the shorter side, 
 but the side quests do reasonably well to beef it up.
  
  The Neutral: You can only play as a human. I mean, it's kinda necessary within the scope of the 
 storyline, but personally, I would have really liked to have played as a Turian. Another interesting 
 note... most of the species in the game (with the notable exception of humans) only appear as one 
 gender or the other. You only see Turian, Krogan and Salarian males. You only see Asari females 
 (though I guess they can change or something) . It doesn't really detract from game play, but it 
 does take something away from the realism. Also, everybody speaks English, it seems. Maybe this 
 is explained somewhere along the way, but it is also unrealistic, but I prefer it in lieu of the 
 added realism because it simply make the game run smoother (without having to read a translation 
 of everything being said) .
  
  The Good: There are a lot of great aspects to Mass Effect, so I'll just touch on what was done 
 exceptionally well. The graphics, for one, are outstanding. The levels are designed beautifully, 
 the cut scenes are very cinematic, everything about it just looks right. There's nothing hard on 
 the eyes. Some levels seem particularly inspired in their designs (like Noveria and Ilos) . The 
 story is incredibly captivating and well-thought out. Even though it was only the first game in 
 the series, there weren't many loose ends or unresolved dilemmas with the storyline. Sometimes 
 you had to go search out explanations for certain things, but usually a satisfactory answer could 
 be found for every question in the game. The different customization options (skills, abilities, 
 ammo types, etc.) are very interesting and quite unique in many cases. Singularity, for example, 
 is a very novel and worthwhile power.
  
  I could ramble endlessly regarding what I like about the game, but I suppose it suffices to say 
 that Mass Effect is a very, very good RPG. I can see the Mass Effect series becoming the next epic 
 series (like Halo) along with Gears of War for the XBox. If you haven't played it, at least give 
 it a rent. I don't know anyone who truly dislikes this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrQuest77
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  The side quests were definitely very repetitive, but overall a very fun game to play. The story 
 was pretty well done, as I had come to expect from my previous bioware experiences (KOTOR) . Game 
 play was also pretty good: it was difficult initially to get used to a third person vantage point 
 for the shooter, but it worked well. I do wish that you had the ability to control your party members 
 more than activating their biotic/tech abilities though.
  
  One problem I had with the story however was that it was too short - had I not tried to complete 
 every single side quest I could possibly find, I probably would have finished the main story in 
 under 10 hours. Granted, some of the side stories were interesting, but I wish that there was more 
 than just 4 or 5 worlds to go to.
  
  Nevertheless a very fun game to play, and hopefully more dlc becomes available for the 360 to enhance 
 this game even further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polishprince214
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I got this game after my friend told me about it. So I tried it. At first I thought it was really 
 boring. It was full of talking. However, things quickly changed. While it did take me a while to 
 understand the controls, Mass Effect turned out to be an amazing game. The intense figting drew 
 me in in the short term while the story line kept me coming back. You can control how your character 
 reacts to other NPCs. You can be nice or be a complete jerk. I tried to play both but I just couldn't 
 be so harsh on some of the people. I ended that when my dude pistol whipped a special person. The 
 voice acting and the overall character diversity is great. It's like every NPC is unique and has 
 their own voice and attitude. If your looking for a good RPG for Xbox, you should definetly try 
 this one out. It's almost like Oblivion... In Space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainfez3
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I'll say it, I love Mass Effect. I've played it 3 times and loved every moment. However, my view 
 of this game before release was phenominally higher than after. I blame myself, mostly for thinking 
 that this was going to be the uber game, the gem of gems that would make me forget I had to eat, 
 bathe, and breath. I know that seems crazy, but as much as this game was hyped and how crazy excited 
 I was to have a 360 to play it on, every shortcoming this game had was like a gash on my heart. 
 Let me just say, don't make that mistake.
  
  Still, Mass Effect is the best story driven game anyone has put out to date. It's compelling, breathtaking, 
 and simply fun to experience. I recommend it to everyone who loves games as a medium. With that 
 said, it comes to gameplay. Mass Effect isn't a failure in the gameplay department. Using guns 
 in this game is about as fun as any other shooter, however, there is no unique sense of ownership. 
 Brands of armor have different appreances, but once you've seen all the brands, the only change 
 they make is in color. As far as weapons go, there are only 2 or 3 different models, otherwise, 
 all you get from weapon to weapon are stat improvements or different colors. I guess I was let 
 down that there were no unique or special items to find for Shepard.
  
  Morever, outside of the main story, gameplay can become stale. There is a whole galaxy to explore, 
 except you never feel compelled or driven to explore it, and outside from seeing the ecosystem 
 of a new planet (which all feel vaguely ripped from one scfi movie or the other) there is no reason 
 to visit them. Also, on the rare occasion a planet has an interior place to explore (a commodity 
 only side quest planets have) , the interiors are all the same, cloned from one planet to the next. 
 Also, whatever fantastic idea you have about driving the Mako vehicle, erase those ideas from your 
 mind. I found driving and firing around an object was nearly impossible, and crossing over any 
 obstruction is awkward and physically innaccurate.
  
  Basically, if you game for the sake of gaming, I would recommend that you avoid Mass Effect. However, 
 if you, like me, enjoy a game with a fantastic setting, memorable moments, and compelling characters, 
 then I'm sure you'll enjoy Mass Effect, short comings or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephallim
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  As with the last time I followed one of his reviews (Assassin's Creed) , VanOrd writes a solid testimonial 
 of Mass Effect and I won't waste time repeating all of the sensible things he has already said.
 
  
  I don't feel that he gave the piloting and fighting of the Mako the attention it deserves. It is 
 ten times more obnoxious than he lets on. It often feels like I am taking enemies down faster and 
 more efficiently on foot while simultaneously avoiding the mentioned problems in aiming. I can't 
 say that I ever had any problems with the Threshers, though, and have to wonder if he wasn't just 
 sitting still to fight the things for it to spawn beneath him so easily. I, myself, never stopped 
 moving or using my meagre jump-jets to hop around.
  
  The shorter sequences within the main storylines where you are called on to drive it are just not 
 fun, bordering on being anti-fun and bumming me out. The longer sequences whenever you decide (or 
 have) to land on a planet and look around are painful. All the bouncing around and ridiculously 
 repetitive terrain combined with the time-sink of dealing with it just kill me. I have adopted 
 a very "get in, get out" attitude towards planetfall, which is sad because there are a lot of mineral 
 deposits or other nifty things that aren't readily visible on the map but which earn you stuff.
 
  
  Mako = Flawed.
  
  While the game is superior in many... okay, nearly all... ways, I can't shake the feeling that 
 I am just playing a polished upgrade of Knights of the Old Republic without the Star Wars paintjob 
 or (obvious) D20 mechanics. There is more too it, sure, but I am still just flying from planet 
 to planet, getting into pre-defined adventures that are all-but linear, and endlessly upgrading 
 my crew's weapons.
  
  Yay.
  
  The redeeming feature for any of the game's minor letdowns is the story itself. It's wonderful. 
 It is worth suggesting that everyone play the game through... and I haven't even finished it yet.
 
  
  That's it, really. Stop reading, get up from your computer, and go play it some. It isn't a holy 
 relic of gaming, but it is good and you should figure that out for yourself instead of blindly 
 believing all of these sheep with their default 9.0 ratings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drgrady
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  The story is the best part of Mass Effect. It follows the usual format of RPGs where about the 
 first 5 percent of the game is spent setting the context of the game and introducing major characters. 
 Then about 80 percent of the game is played with one vague goal in mind (in this case, stopping 
 Saren) . It is about the last 15 percent of the game where the story gets good and you finally figure 
 out what is really happening, but Mass Effect has a story that is more ambitious and even broader 
 in scope than Indigo Prophecy and has fewer plot gaps than Halo 3. It is a solid story that leaves 
 you with only a few questions left unanswered and gives complete closure to the story while setting 
 the story up for a definite sequel. It is certainly no cliff-hanger, and yet, there is no doubt 
 that a sequel was planned from the beginning (and yes, I know it is meant to be a trilogy, but 
 looking just at the story in Mass Effect and not the Bioware announcements, a sequel is almost 
 inevitable) .
  
  The graphics are mixed between really good and really bland. The facial animations are handled 
 very well as are the body movements. The various skies over the different planets are also very 
 well done. However, certain aspects of the environments are reused continuously throughout the 
 game. From a distance, most mountains or valleys (any large, semi-flat region in the terrain) will 
 show hundreds of the same texture block. This does not really detract from the game, especially 
 because it is a very large game.. The repetition is also seen in most of the buildings and structures 
 on planets which are not essential to the story. There are a very limited number of structures 
 used on these planets, and then crates and other objects will be placed within them to make them 
 feel slightly different from one another. So this becomes slightly monotonous, but once again, 
 it does not ruin the game when you consider how massive the game really is. It is fairly obvious 
 that the developers needed to save some space somewhere, and this is one of the methods they used 
 to do it. One other issue with the graphics is that textures will sometimes take a few seconds 
 to pop into view. The first few times this happens, it is not an issue, but when it happens every 
 time a conversation is started with a particular merchant and every time the ship leaves the docking 
 bay and every time the equipment menu is brought up while wearing a certain armor and other random 
 times, it becomes very noticeable and irritating.
  
  The sound is pretty good. Sound effects are nothing spectacular, but the voice acting is generally 
 very good, and the music is good. Much of the music is so subtle that it is hardly noticeable.
 
  
  As far as the game play, there are some bugs and inconveniences, but it actually plays pretty well. 
 Overall, it Mass Effect feels similar to KOTOR but with a faster pace to the fighting. Instead 
 of switching between the squad members, the player only controls the main character and gives orders 
 to the squad. And instead of pausing the game, issuing orders for your squad, and hitting a button 
 to resume playing, Mass Effect utilizes a command button that automatically pauses the game while 
 the player holds it down. The game resumes whenever the button is released. This very small change 
 works wonders for keeping the fighting fast and exciting. Unfortunately, there are several things 
 that could have been improved for Mass Effect. First, the prologue does very little to inform the 
 player of the controls except through trial and error. Simple instructions of what buttons to press 
 for different situations would have helped (although, it is nice to be able to skip such tutorials 
 if you have already played the game once) . Alternatively, a detailed explanation of the controls 
 could have been included in the booklet that came with the game, but instead, the player is left 
 to press buttons until they figure out which ones do what. There are issues with the Mako (the 
 assault vehicle in the game) being able to aim beyond, namely below, where it can actually shoot. 
 There is also no way to cancel a command after it has been issued, so the player can either issue 
 a different command or just let the original command stand. And the inventory system is pretty 
 lousy. There is no way to categorize items in the inventory or to compare items except through 
 memory or equipping those items to party members. Since the inventory can not be categorized, buying 
 and selling items requires scrolling all the way through the inventory to get to whatever you want. 
 I've also had items in the inventory change order when I convert an item to omni-gel (an all-purpose 
 substance in the game) .
  
  If you like to get all the achievements in a game, be prepared to spend a lot of time on Mass Effect. 
 It takes a minimum of playing through the game four times to get all of the achievements. At best, 
 it will only take three complete times playing through the full game to get all the achievements, 
 but that will take a decent amount of planning to accomplish, and a 4th time through is almost 
 inevitable to get the level 60 achievement. None of them are very difficult (the hardest being 
 beating the game on the Insane difficulty) , but they can take a long time to acquire.
  
  Mass Effect is not a difficult game most of the time. Most of the fights are very easy so long 
 as the player is slightly cautious and uses tech and biotic abilities when appropriate. There are 
 only a few fights that are actually difficult, and those are generally boss fights at the end of 
 the different story-related planets. Unfortunately, there is a pretty big gap between the difficulty 
 in the usual fights and the difficulty in the boss fights that makes the boss fights seem even 
 harder. If the usual fights were more difficult, it would better prepare the player for boss fights 
 and make those less frustrating.
  
  The game is nowhere near the movie-esque masterpiece that Bioware and Gamespot advertised in its 
 previews ("'Mass Effect' is like playing a movie!" Jeff Bell, corporate vice president of global 
 marketing for the Interactive Entertainment Business at Microsoft http://www. gamespot. com/xbox360/rpg/masseffect/news. html? sid=6183191&mode=press) . 
 They claimed a much more involved character interaction ("one of Mass Effect's most intriguing 
 features is the ability to interrupt other characters while they're talking" http://www. gamespot. com/xbox360/rpg/masseffect/news. html? sid=6166898&mode=previews) , 
 but the level of interaction is nothing more than that seen in KOTOR. The game box claims "real-time 
 character interaction", but what does that even mean? You can start a conversation and leave the 
 room for hours just to come back and pick up the conversation in the exact same place. How is that 
 "real-time"? Also, I have not seen anything in the game that allows for vehicle modification despite 
 the game's website claiming, "Choose your squad-mates, your weapons, skills and abilities, and 
 customize your vehicles, armor and appearance" http://masseffect. bioware. com/gameinfo/#rp. Bioware 
 promised more than they delivered. Ultimately, though, Mass Effect is a wonderful game that is 
 very enjoyable to play through multiple times. I highly recommend it to anyone who enjoyed the 
 KOTOR games, and I eagerly wait for the sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a science fiction based RPG that plays like a 3rd person shooter. Bioware created 
 all new races and one of the best original stories to date. You get your own ship and can travel 
 to several new planets. Most of the missions are structured to be completed whenever you want. 
 The voiced dialogue is some of the best to ever be put into a game with all characters are voiced. 
 You can interact and steer most conversations in either a good (paragon) or bad (renegade) way. 
 These earn you points which accumulate and affect your ability to persuade outcomes. The game also 
 provides the opportunity to romance members of your squad. 
  
  You have the option to play as a soldier an engineer a biotic or a hybrid engineer or biotic. You'll 
 level up and earns points to allocate to skills. Playing as a soldier is the easiest but far from 
 the most fun way to play. Biotics can hurl enemies or create vortexes to draw enemies to them. 
 Engineers can destroy enemy shields and hack machinery. The powers are fun to use and spice up 
 the game play. You'll be joined by two other members from your party of 6 selectable characters 
 at all times. Which characters you bring on missions will depend on your characters playing class 
 and the enemies you'll be facing. You can choose from an engineer a soldier a biotic and 3 hybrid 
 characters. 
  
  The games graphics are good on the close ups and average for the environments with a few clunky 
 spots. The game play is good and the artificial intelligence is average. Your squad mates are fairly 
 competent if you manage them a little. Your weapons depend on your classification weapons range 
 from a pistol a shotgun an assault rifle and a sniper rifle. Instead of using ammunition the weapons 
 overheat and you wait for them to cool down. You can use walls and ledges as cover. The combat 
 is fast paced like you'd expect from a typical shooter. Your squad travels across the planets in 
 a vehicle called the Mako. It's a very maneuverable vehicle with a turret and a machine gun. It 
 is fun to drive however its shields are weak so it can't take a lot of damage. 
  
  What keeps this game from perfection?
  
  There's a mini game used to open boxes and doors in 
 this game where you match a random pattern of the ABX or Y button. This appears on too many items 
 and gets old fast. There are too many items in the game and most are useless. This combined with 
 the clunky inventory screen hampers game play slightly. About half way through the game if you 
 continue to sell all useless items you'll max out your wallet. Most of the stores goods are useless 
 so this doesn't matter. There are a handful of dungeons that are recycled. All planets look similar 
 with steep mountain ranges and traversing them in the Mako can get difficult. There are some occasions 
 when the game will pause for a few seconds to load and are and some long waits in elevators that 
 were used to disguise loading . The main storyline is short around 20 hours. 
  
  The interactive dialogue, original storyline, fun game play and free roam environments make Mass 
 Effect one of the best RPG experiences to date. The dialogue is some of the best ever. I highly 
 recommend this game. The ability to play as Male or Female, paragon or renegade, and different 
 character types give it a high replay value. The good far outweighs the bad in this game. 
  
  
  Good
  Excellent story
  Excellent character interaction
  Free roaming non linear experience
 
  Customizable Male/Female characters provide different playing style options
  Ability to make moral choices
  Replay value you'll need to play twice to see all outcomes. 
 
  40-50 hours per play through
  Adjustable difficulty level suits all levels of player skill 
  
  Bad
  A few long load times
 
  Inventory system is terrible 
  Money becomes obsolete halfway through the game 
  Too many worthless items 
  Button mini game is used too often
  Dungeons maps and planets environments 
 are recycled 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulreaper187
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  mass effect is a rpg like no other, it took everything KOTOR wanted to be an made it a reality. 
 this game has all the elements to become a instant clasic, with it's great story line, twisting 
 plot, excellent real time action, an great intercharacter development an relationship, mass effect 
 is a must have for all rpg game players!.
  To be fair there are some areas in the game that needs to be addressed,
  to help elimonate some 
 of the tedium of the game, for instance haveing to talk to merchants multiple times to look at 
 all their stock gets old quick, an the fact that the merchants stock is randomly generated is another 
 aspect that i would also change. Taking the game as a whole though I would say it is a great success, 
 I have to say one of my most favorit charcters to play with is wrex... I just love is attitude. 
 I trully enjoy being able to choose what path I want to take in going through the game wether i 
 want to be a nice guy... or a rouge. I love the fact that mass effect is really geared more towards 
 an older audience with it's more adult theme, it is a refreshing change of pace comepared to some 
 of it's more light hearted predisessors.
  It's good to see that game companies are staring to realize that there are much older gamers out 
 there who crave games with more grit to them.
  In closing if your game of choice are rpg's then mass effect is a muct have for your collection!!!. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chewygun
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect, as you know, is another RPG from Bioware. ****CONTAINS SPOILERS****
  
  Story (10/10) : Great story, you can tell Bioware spent a lot of time writing this. With tons of 
 options, there are ways for you to interact with the story, and ultimately change how the game 
 will play out. (An example is when you encounter this badass Saren at the end, you have the option 
 of convincing him to kill himself, allowing you to skip an entire phase of the battle.) Voice acting 
 is also very good.
  
  Graphics (9/10) : Visually appealing, although there are blurs in the picture, maybe just because 
 I'm on a SDTV. One of the better looking games on the X360. Character models are detailed, environments 
 look very good, but this is just on an SDTV, it'll probably look even better on an HDTV.
  
  Gameplay (8/10) : This is where it hurts the game a little. The game is very fun to play through, 
 lots of weapon options, lots of armors and stuff to choose from, I could go on for a while. But 
 I'll cut to the chase, this problem may be minor to some, but I found this VERY ANNOYING at times 
 when you're fighting bosses. Basically, it's the frame rate. There are frequent frame rate lags 
 whenever 8-10 enemies appear on screen all fighting each other. (I may be inaccurate on this, but 
 I remember that when 8-10 geth all shot at my team, the frame rate died and I started to have trouble 
 moving from place to place.) The same happens during boss battles, making the battle somewhat tedious. 
 Load times are also pretty bad in this game. You'll usually see a lot of loading screens throughout 
 your missions, usually takes around 10 secs, but you'll be seeing them often. This takes away from 
 the experience, but nothing major and most of you will probably be able to live with this.
  
  Lasting Appeal (9/10) : I can easily imagine myself spending 80-100 hours if I was to play on 
 each difficulty level and earning all the weapon achievements. If you only want to play for the 
 story, it should take you around 10-15 hours, maybe less, if you're playing on normal and do not 
 intend on doing any of the assignments.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bczican015
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a single player adventure and "Sandbox" style game from BioWare. Aside from the 
 open world nature of the game, the amazing graphics, the wonderful world design, and the remarkable 
 plot... This game features a conversation system that is deep as an ocean on the Artus Moons. (Hint 
 to Mass Effect) 
  The graphics in this game are amazing. Words cannot describe how well the various planets and moons 
 look to the eye of an HDTV owner. Colors are very potent and well used. The faces respond greatly 
 to emotion and grenadeur. The effects of the various ammunition that can be attained is priceless, 
 and well worth staring at for hours of the night. 
  Sound design can make or break a game, in Mass Effect it definatly pulls the game together. Mass 
 Effect is one of the two RPG's for next gen consoles that has succeded in creating FULL VOICE for 
 ALL characters, this itself deserves a medal. 
  The player takes the Role of Shepard. And can create any persona they wish to bring through the 
 amazing adventure of Mass Effect. The players avatar will retain the designation Shepard no matter 
 what, but it can be a man or woman, and can be one of six classes. 
  The classes are based on three "Pathways" 
  Soldier, Biotics, and Tech. 
  Players can also 
 choose from a few hybrid classes that blend two or more of the Pathways into one use.
  The storyline in Mass Effect will make the player sit down to play for extra hours, just to see 
 what happens. Also, it will stress a replay value. This game deserves to be played more then once. 
 
  
  In conclusion, Mass Effect delivers a very solid game experiance. As well as a very fufilling story. 
 Now, this review is burning time. Go vaporize some aliens with your INCENDIARY ROUNDS XII using 
 your SPECTRE-CLASS4 Rifle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFrieden0928
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Saving the world is a concept most gamers have experienced in their gaming careers, as hard as 
 it is to do that complex task, how would you manage to save a whole galaxy? Mass effect is your 
 chance to do that. Most games do not contain choices that effect the game, and most games do not 
 have emotions. Mass Effect breaks that barrier that has been holding us back of experiencing something 
 that will knock your socks off. not only has bioware created a truly great game, but it actually 
 teaches us a lesson and you can reflect it in real world issues. Mass effect is a perfect example 
 of what we will sacrifice for peace and security in the world to solve our issues. Where do your 
 priorites lie when everyting is at stake, where every choice effects the fate of a entire galaxy. 
 Most games dont punish you for a bad decision, but mass effect is different, at times i had to 
 actually put down my controller and think? Should I do this?, am i doing the right thing? This 
 leads to numerous playthroughs and is a fine example of storytelling at its best. 
  
  You might as well say Oblivion set a new standard in terms of character customation and development, 
 but mass effect brings new ideas to the table as well as some old ones. It is not expanding past 
 Oblivion but it is very vast in terms of character development. perks and skills are limited but 
 i still like the ability to choose what type of hero you want to be. Classes range from Soldiers 
 to force wielding biotics. The sad thing is that once you pick a class you cant change it or learn 
 a diffrent class adding on to you original, sans Oblivion. You can pick your pre service history 
 too but sadly, its not as large as oblivion . But, I love how Bioware has incorporated it into 
 the game, for example: if you survived an alien attack, the npcs in the game actually react to 
 it and put it in conversation, and im talking main story too. also one other strength the game 
 has is that you are seen in every cutscene and you can pick everything you say and do. Its like 
 a actually conversation. Unlike Oblivion you character says the stuff you pick. Sadly, Character 
 advancement is done by generic level up points, but is still very entertaining to level up and 
 you have to spend your "set" of points to unlock new abilites. Theres nothing wrong with it but 
 oblivion is still up above.
  
  The Game's graphics are Sound are some of the best ever, its just unbelievable. The Music is catchy 
 with an 80's sci-fi vibe and the visuals just explode off the screen. Unsually some parts in the 
 game have a striking simularity of epic's gears of war but you cant go wrong with a game looking 
 like good. It just reminds me of it somehow. The Water Effects in the game are just spot on, i 
 have to give a good pat on the back to bioware for that. and i give kudos to the fantasic voices 
 in the game too. These too factors are just icing on the cake for me, but it doesnt hurt to go 
 the extra mile.
  
  Combat is a mixture of 3rd person shooter and action rpg, depending on what class you choose, you 
 can have biotic force like powers such as lift, throw etc. Shooting is pretty much decent for a 
 rpg but its not going compete with real shooters. but its still fun as hell. You get four primary 
 weapons, (some are blocked off depending on you class) Everyone can holster a pistol, and sniper 
 rifles, assault rifles and shottys are for certain classes. Each are different but they arent really 
 distintiive enough for situations, you can basicly stick with one weapon through out the whole 
 game and i wish you could actually use them for what there made for. For example: i would like 
 a chance were my sniper rifle would be the best option since the enemies were far away, but for 
 some reason or some magical way ,my shotgun can shoot the same distance. i know its messed up. 
 but its a rpg i can cut some slack. The First playthrough the enemies are somewhat punishing and 
 cheap but as you level up they become easier. I wish the boss batlles in the game were much more 
 harder, most battles are point and shoot and the game need some type of enviroment usage. You also 
 have a wide variety of weapons and armors to choose from as each brand has another level of equipment. 
 An lancer will become lancer II and a Onyx armor will become Onyx II. Its pretty good to have a 
 variety but i wish the appearance would look diffrent. Luckily armors look different though. 
 
  
  As for the story, its safe to say that this is best bioware has ever told, mostly known for fantasic 
 storytelling, you come to expect mass effect to be great, no difference here. You start out by 
 creating your character which is pretty complex. You are commander shepard the XO on the Alliance 
 Spacecraft Normandy, you work for Captain Anderson, a witherd and experienced soldier that has 
 seen the good and bad of battle. He is your mentor and friend and is very important to you. It 
 seems as you have done ton of good work and you are selected to become a spectre, ( a special class 
 agent that works for the council, the ones that keep the galaxy in order) to show you are ready 
 to become the first human spectre you are assigned to investigate the geth attack on Eden Prime 
 and your work is to be evaluated by another spectre, a turian named nihlus. As you land on Eden 
 Prime you learn that a ancient beacon is being held there which is supposely linked to the extinction 
 of the protheans. Scientists have been researching the beacon and the geth seem to want it. The 
 Geth are a Alien Race being lead by Saren, another turian who at Eden Prime murders Nihlus, Saren 
 wants the knowledge of the protheans to find where the conduit is to return the reapers, another 
 extinct race who wiped out the protheans and desire to rule the galaxy. As you approach the beacon, 
 you are given a vision of this and are knocked out. You then go to the Citadel, a pillar of prothean 
 technologhy and ruin and expose saren of his doing. You then become a spectre and thus you embark 
 on a quest to stop saren of his road to the savior. Its a 10hr quest filled with action and excitement, 
 and also love and sadness like every good flick. This is the closest thing to a star-wars like 
 movie and something that you need to experience. There are many worlds to explore and many things 
 to discover all wrapped around with choices.
  
  Mass Effect is fleshed out to the core but it has its problems, although it took me 10hrs to beat 
 the game it isnt really standard for a rpg. adding all side quests and secrets took me about 30hrs. 
 where other rpgs take me 80+hrs and then some. Also, There are some glitches in the game where 
 im stuck in walls and floors and some how i cant get those wrinkles off my character, getting level 
 60 takes a pretty decent amount of time but i had longer leveling days, the second and third playthroughs 
 can take literally a day to finish the game and there are issues with combat. The character customation 
 isnt as wide as it should be and still Oblivion is still better to play. Although i feel it is 
 not funner than oblivion it does things oblivion cant, mass effect pushes boundaries in its main 
 elements but the lighter things need more polish such as combat, characte customation, longetivity, 
 and larger worlds etc. Luckily everything else in the game is so well done these things seem obsolete. 
 Star Wars Be damned, mass effect is right up there with my favorite space stories ever told and 
 i can back that up no questions asked. Mass Effect is a game that comes out rarely and sets new 
 standards and it is safe to say that it has reached goty status. But being legendary, thats something 
 up for debate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devxwill
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  "Mass Effect" is a science-fiction action and role-playing game (RPG) created by BioWare.
  
  I am currently on my second playthrough of Mass Effect, the story is compelling, the action 
 is better than most RPG's, and the game play is simply amazing. I have not been addicted to a story 
 arc in a game like this for a very long time, and recommend this game to anyone that has not played 
 it, and recommend playing it again to everyone that has already played it. The amount of choice 
 this game gives you in following different character elements increases the replay value to its 
 highest potential. The number of optional side quests available will keep you playing for hours. 
 You can play as male or female, each having a few plots exclusive to gender.
  
  Published by Microsoft Game Studios, "Mass Effect" is an exclusive title for the Xbox 360 video 
 game system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigonthewing
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a solid game. There are things that it does extremely well but it has its draw backs 
 as well. I will say first that i did really enjoy the game before i review it since my reviews 
 focus on the negative just so you know what to expect.
  
  First with the good. 
  
  Graphics. This game is beautiful. Even that is an understatement. This is one of the best looking 
 games to date. Not only is it technically good looking but these days its more on the art direction 
 that sets good looking games apart. The design of the environments is immense and really captures 
 that idea of a large space exploration game. Some very alien environments that explore a realistic 
 but fantastic view on the galaxy. For the characters this is even better. The aliens are not your 
 star trek type aliens with just some slight modifications to a human but this they are truly alien. 
 Also expressions are very well done giving you a good idea on how they react to you which is critical 
 in a game so heavy on dialog.
  
  The main story line is very well thought out. Mind you its by no means original even within video 
 games. The main idea is much like the story of Freespace but done on a more gradual and personal 
 level. Mind you this isnt saying that this game is stealing from Freespace, its not. Its a laid 
 out well. Has some interesting twists and the characters sell it for the most part. Yes the acting 
 if you want to call it that is done almost to perfection mind a few parts. The backstory to this 
 game is what i think sells everything though. Its what makes everything work and seem believable 
 without such a rich and detailed backstory I do not think that the games story would have worked 
 as well. Think of it as a Lord of the Rings in space concerning the amount of time and effort put 
 into the detailed world.
  
  Now with the bad.
  
  The actual gameplay is where things hurt. If your willing to put up with some annoyances you will 
 appreciate the story. But these problems will turn off some players especially your casual crowd. 
 First the actual way combat works. Its very cumbersome. They say it plays like an fps but honestly 
 if this was just an fps it would be a very poor one. The magic and tech systems are fine but i 
 found that its all combat based. There are no abilities that let you change how to go about missions. 
 It would be like Oblivion magic but just the destruction and alteration sections (just a game everyone 
 knows so seemed like a good example) . The ai of the enemies tends to be lacking as well. Most tend 
 to just run at you. That gets very boring and repetitive. I found i just grinded out the action 
 sequences to get to the next story part.
  
  The absolute worst part of the gameplay though is the driving. I hated driving it was a chore. 
 It doesn't work they way you want it to. Its hard to explain how it works, but lets just say not 
 very well. 
  
  The side missions on other planets are fine for awhile but honestly most planets play out basically 
 the same. Some do have some interesting side stories which is good but on a whole they are just 
 to gather items to get achievement points...
  
  Now this game i did one full run through and really enjoyed it, I started a second run through 
 but i found after about halfway through i was getting bored. Yes i was playing it differently and 
 using a different class but it was basically the same story with some different dialog, and a couple 
 new missions based on the new characters background.
  
  Now even with one run at the game I got my moneys worth. Its a long game and will take you 20 some 
 odd hours. Some people will want to play it again multiple times I am sure. For me once was enough. 
 I may play through it again before the sequel comes out. Its like a really good movie. You will 
 watch it again but not right away, you may check it out again in a year or so.
  
  If you look past some of the gameplay elements and its slow pacing (which for me i liked actually..) 
 you will find a great well thought out game that is one of the most ambitious games to date. It 
 also has one of the best endings or multiple endings ever in a game. That alone is worth beating 
 it for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamcool2121
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a Action Role Playing game from Bioware. You take the role as commander Sheppard 
 who is the games protagonist and your duty is to stop Saren in his quest to destroy all forms of 
 life and take over the galaxy. You will pick a class (Solider, Engineer, Adept, Infiltrator, Vanguard, 
 and Sentinel) Each class has its own unique abilities and talent upgrades. You can customize your 
 character the way you see fit. Mass Effect offers great graphics as well as detailed character 
 models and the atmosphere is simply amazing to explore. The guns are very unique and you can upgrade 
 them. The abilities go great with the fire power. Players can decide what conversation outcome 
 they desire. This happens with an array of choices that one can pick, and the ability to gain paragon 
 or renegade points. Paragon is rewarded when you say the right thing all the time without making 
 anyone angry and renegade is when you select an answer that goes against something making you a 
 rebel so to speak. The game starts off very slow but once you progress you will not want to put 
 it down. The cut scenes are amazingly done and great to look at. That being said Mass Effect can 
 be considered an open ended game because you can do a lot of side missions without even touching 
 the main quest. Which could include be finding something or helping someone. You take command of 
 a ship called the Normandy and you use its galaxy map to get to locations which could be connected 
 to the main mission or exploring uncharted worlds and exploring other systems for side mission 
 matters or Main quest matters Make sure you use your map and journal. That being said, along the 
 way you can gain certain squad members and can interact with others around you. The gameplay is 
 great you can use a cover system when in combat. Using your weapons and abilities and your squad's 
 abilities feels so rewarding in combat. . The A. I is top notch The sound is amazing and crisp. 
 The only down side of Mass Effect is that the frame rate can drop causing small loading times to 
 occur. You also have the use of the Mako which is a vehicle to help you travel in the game. The 
 ending is great as well. With that being said you also have a leveling system/ experience system 
 to help increase your strength in certain areas. Mass Effect has something called Omi Gel which 
 can be used to heal yourself and when you gather weapons and equipment during your journey you 
 can turn them into Omi gel . Mass Effect offers a few "puzzle" scenario's which could include repairing 
 something. Mass Effect is a game with many features and is a well put together Action Role Playing 
 game that anyone can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicknicknick333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  After tons of hype for Microsoft's wonder child, I decided to buy the game instead of the Orange 
 Box. I brought it home and instantly dug into it. Many of my friends told me how addictive the 
 game was, I disagreed. Almost instantly I was bored by the endless but beautiful cutscenes and 
 the seemingly pointless conversations. I played in on and off for a couple of days, and then one 
 friday night my internet connection was lost so I decided to play a little further, quickly I was 
 enthralled with the game and played for roughly 7 hours straight, straight to the end. I gained 
 a new appreciation for the game, and for Microsoft. Unfortunately, that's about as far as its enjoyability 
 go's, a second playthrough, I found to be impossibly boring. In conclusion, the story carries the 
 game, if you can play the game for 12 hours in a couple of days, its most likely not worth buying. 
 Overall, it's an enjoyable experience with some minor issues that impede a second playthrough. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDuskwalker
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a epic sci-fi RPG set far into the future where human's have made contact with multiple 
 alien civilizations. Story begins with you getting a distress call from a planet called Eden Prime 
 when they come under the attack of a robot race called the "Geth". Of course you go there to help 
 and to find out what's going on, and this is where Mass Effect begins.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay for Mass Effect is really unique. The core RPG elements is a improvement on what was done 
 in BioWare's last sci-fi RPG, Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, building on the conversation 
 system that was used in KotOR and Jade Empire by now making it more fluid and built in by giving 
 you 3 tones of your reply instead of having to listen to another character speak than choosing 
 from a couple of fully written out replies. The level up system is similar to KotOR since you get 
 points you use for raising your skill with armor, a certain weapon, abilities, or max health percentage. 
 Combat is very unique for a RPG since it plays like Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, with some 
 Gears of War thrown in there, and a pinch of Dirge of Cerberus: FFVII. You use the d-pad to issue 
 orders to your squad, LB to change weapon for you or your squad, RB to use abilities or to manually 
 choose what ability your squad will use. RT to fire your weapon, LT to zoom in over the shoulder 
 for better aim, X and B to pull out weapon and to holster a weapon, A to dash, Y for med pack, 
 select for grenade, and start for inventory. Aiming is smooth and responsive as long as the framerate 
 is steady, more on that later. You also get a vehicle called the Mako which controls very similar 
 to the Warthog in Halo, it's a fun little vehicle to drive but it will take awhile to get used 
 to the controls and sadly you can't customize it. There is tons to do and planets to explore, however 
 the main story quest is pretty short for a RPG since it will take an average gamer 10-15 hours 
 to complete if they skip the tons of sidequests, even less if they rush. Overall this is one of 
 the most fun RPG's I have played in awhile, just wish the main quest was longer.
  
  Audio:
  As you would expect this game has amazing audio. Voice acting is movie caliber with tons 
 of recorded audio from actors like Seth Green and Keith David, and professional voice actors like 
 Jennifer Hale, you MGS may know as Naomi Hunter, who does the voice of the female version of the 
 main character. Soundtrack is a little hit and miss, but mostly hit, some of the music sometimes 
 just feels a little out of place for the current situation. Weapon and explosion sounds are decent 
 but I have heard better. Overall this is a great sounding game thanks to a very talented and well 
 done vocal cast.
  
  Graphics:
  Good, but suffers from a inconsistent framerate and other performance issues. A big issue in graphics 
 is that the game suffers from a lot of texture pop-in, every time you enter a new area you have 
 to watch as the outer layer of environment textures or character model textures loads in, this 
 has been a issue in several Unreal Engine 3 games but this one seems to suffer the most particularly 
 in some cutscenes. Framerate is another big issue since if a lot of action is going on the game 
 sometimes nearly dies and looks like it's about to become a slide show, plus there is a lot of 
 framerate hitching which seems to be a problem in a lot of BioWare games, but it usually never 
 lasts more than a second. These problems aren't game breaking but they do drag down on what's mostly 
 a fantastic game. Overall this a great looking game, you just have to put up with several performance 
 issues in the process.
  
  Closing Comments:
  This is a great title for the XBOX 360 and a must own if your into RPG's or even shooters. It may 
 have several issues but with a fantastic story, plenty to do and explore, and tons of replay value, 
 this is a game that will be in your 360 for awhile.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  Pros:
  One of the best video game stories ever
  Plenty to do with tons of replay value
  Unique and 
 very fun gameplay for a RPG
  Try playing threw the game only once
  
  Cons:
  Several performance and graphical issues
  Encountered a few bugs threw out the game
  Main quest 
 is a little short by RPG standards 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlieprince
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is seriously the best RPG i've ever played, Gary Gygax would be proud! Mass Effect 
 starts out as a simple mission on a human colony; recover a beacon and GET OUT OF THERE! The mission 
 goes terribly wrong and you find yourself with only 1 squadmate because flying robots jump out 
 of nowhere and kill a fellow alliance LT. Jenkins. Those Little robots are nothing compared to 
 what you will face later on in the game, including a giant invasion force called the reapers who 
 made an apacolipse that erased the biggest race in the galaxy from all history, except for a few 
 beacons...
  
  I'd have to say this game has the best graphics i've ever seen in an rpg. Gamespot should have 
 rated it a perfect ten because of the epic experience. I'd describe Mass Effect as a FUN space 
 opera inside a game. Your character, Commander Shepard, experiences a twisty plot of discovering 
 what the geth are doing outside the veil. You also get to experience an epic romance plot that 
 gets VERY steamy near the end. Overall I LOVE this game and i hope Bio-Ware makes a sequel in a 
 few years. Its an Instant classic in my mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImmortalEat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I am a RPG game fan, there lots of fun to play for a while trying to get to high levels and what 
 not. This one is great. The battle scenes are easy to learn and get the hang of so thats a good 
 deal. This game has alot of talk scenes. In fact most of the game is talking scenes. This isn't 
 bad because it is a lot of fun picking what you say. Its also fun play renagade (the evil stuff) 
 or paragon ( the good stuff) . But the game also has a lot of talk about all this great stuff that 
 is about all the races and everything about them, wars, how they live, the weapons they make and 
 all that fun stuff, but you only get to see just a little bit of it, if any. I really don't like 
 that. Its great learning about all that but it would be better if you would get to see it. Its 
 also got some crazy things i wasn't expecting through the game, not really twist just some added 
 stuff. The only other thing i didn't like was the ending. It was great for setting up the next 
 game though. Other than that stuff, this game is great, i really enjoy this game and highly recommend 
 it to any person who likes futuristic games and RPGs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splinterminter
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a game that you don't want to miss, but if you have played previous Bioware games, 
 you will immediately notice the cover, the new skin.
  The story is great, but there weren't that many twists. It was somewhat straightforward, and seemed 
 to be open ended-but in the end you are stuck down a somewhat narrow path. I immediately noticed 
 this on my second round of play, as choosing different choices on the tree for replies brought 
 the same answer or a different one-but only to find out the people you talk to just say something 
 to counteract that, and to keep you on the same rails. The voice acting is incredible, but they 
 could have put more detail into movements. Early on, I saw alot of fist pounding. Almost to the 
 point of them getting calluses. Also, the visual/physical relation sometimes didn't exactly seem 
 to be right. Bioware seems to have even recycled and used the same voice actors from Kotor, as 
 Kaiden will sound familiar if you have played those games. Gameplay wise, it is a great shooter, 
 and the skills are awesome. But even on harder difficulties, I don't really notice any tactics 
 being used-at least at the point that I'm at. The Mako is hard to control at first, but becomes 
 second nature once you hit solid land. Lastly.... the game is somewhat short at 25 hours even after 
 doing most of the side missions (even then some couldn't be completed because the person died or 
 some other anomaly) All in all, this is a very enjoyable game with lots of quests to complete and 
 a story to figure out. Even as of right now, I wish you weren't just stuck in the Milky Way Galaxy...... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhaslkhwg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, Mass effect has one of best if not the best game story lines to date. It has 
 action, drama, suspense, betrayal, and much more all in a fascinating setting. The game takes place 
 in the distant future in which the human race has discovered technology allowing us to explore 
 our galaxy. The result is a politically driven realm that you are free to explore in whatever way 
 you wish with plenty of options to choose from that alter the story as you progress. The characters 
 are all richly developed and for the first time you truely feel as if you are making a difference 
 by choosing your own personality. The graphics make the characters come to life with the best facial 
 and body animations i have yet seen for in-game conversations. The voice acting also helps in that 
 respect considering its the best ive yet heard in a video game. The actual action itself may not 
 be the strongest portion of the game and takes some time for it to really kick in but when it does 
 you'll be having a lot of fun with it. You can get plenty of new abilities and weapons and the 
 squad command system is well integrated and i found it to work nicely. It involves a certain amount 
 of strategy as well as intense action. Although the game is around 20 hours long which is a reasonable 
 length for an action RPG and it has a ton of replay value, it feels like it is over much too quickly 
 and leaves you wanting so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueyeboy97
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  I didn't think that there could be an RPG that beat KOTOR. Then KOTOR II came out. Oblivion came 
 out soon after, and that was almost just as good as KOTOR I and II. I had solid expectations for 
 mass effect, but i was shocked to find my expactations surpassed. This game is amazing. Another 
 classic reason why science fictions stories are the best. This is the best stroy i have ever seen 
 other than Halo. And there are a lot of parralles between mass effect and halo and star wars. Some 
 might even say that mass effect simply mixed the two franchises into one game. Even if this was 
 true, which is mostly isn't, this game is good anyways. Definently worth at least three playthroughs. 
 Well over 100 hrs of gaming experience on this disc. This, other than halo, is my favorite game 
 currently. This game is definently in my top 10, maybe even top 5, best games of all time. PLEASE 
 PLAY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sosebee
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  I give this game a 9.0 because it has some really great features: like the in depth dialog, along 
 with the different directions that you can take the dialog. The game play is fantastic and the 
 ability to fully create your character is amazing. In game the game does have a few flaws such 
 as the camera angle which I believe could have been made clearer. The games graphics arn't amazing 
 but they are traditional for games out right now. In all this is a great game however I do believe 
 the achievements to be a little unreachable since you have to play through the game 4 times to 
 complete all the achievements, go gamers out there might not reach 1000 gamerscore with this game. 
 Mass Effect has some good quality to the game however if you are looking for an amazing RPG you 
 might want to wait for Fable 2 to come out. The squad based aspect of the game is good also because 
 you are able to fully customize your squad just like yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilmaster72
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game! The graphics, the vocals, the action, the story ... is a fantastic! When 
 creating your male or female character there are three backgrounds and military service info to 
 choose from as well as 6 different classes that your character can be. Update weapons and suits 
 allow you to constantly change and upgrade your equipment for whatever situation you may find yourself 
 in. The guns are the pistol, shotgun, sniper rifle, and machine gun= rapid fire rifle. The guns 
 and different psionic abilities your character posses depends on their class. Stats and what equipment 
 your using is either fully automatic or can be tweeked to the players liking. The range of locations 
 is varied with a city, cave, beach, ruins, snowy, 2 human complexes are just about all the locations 
 you'll find yourself in. The games story adjusts to your character which allows you to be a paragon 
 or a renegade type throughout the game. Also, some subplots and miny quests are also included. 
 The game has five different difficulties and I believe about 46 acheivments. In order to recieve 
 all the acheivments u must play through the game at least three times, twice on the two hardest 
 difficulties, complete all the extra tasks and play through the whole game with the same two allies 
 out of your team of six but must both be changed after each playthrough. All in All if you like 
 action, a good story that you can control, and don't mind doing some of the other tasks for the 
 acheivments woven into the larger story than this is the game for you.
  
  (WARNING: Game includes alot of dialogue but can be skipped with the x button if you don't care 
 or have already read it. Also, don't just keep hiting x or you'll make accidental decisions for 
 your character.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mythos12345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is easily one of the best games I've ever played. The story was phenomonal and the 
 combat was pretty good, despite how incredibly easy it can get as the Soldier class (late game 
 it's possible to make an assault rifle that NEVER overheats by using the the best anti-heat upgrades) . 
 The graphics are amazing, however there are some issues with texture loading in some cutscenes. 
 But, for the love of god, if you are a mindless shooter fan (not saying all shooter fans are mindless, 
 I'm talking about the "OMG TEH HALO 3ZORS!!! GEARS OF TEH WAR!!!" ones...) do not buy this game. 
 I've seen countless people posting bad things about the game just because they expected Gears of 
 War 2. It's an rpg, not a shooter. And while I've played it for over 100 hours, I've also beaten 
 the game several times. One play through should last between 20-25 hours, but if you hunt down 
 every single little thing in it, it could easily last you over 40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaink24
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a great addition to the RPG universe, by the folks who brought you KOTOR. It does 
 however have a few flaws that keeps it from being a total masterpiece.
  
  Pros: 
  
  Story - Epic scale, nice political/moral basis, loads of spoken dialogue
  Game play - Combat 
 is fun, nice combination of spell casting, gun play, and use of cover/squad tactics
  Graphics/Sound - Looks awesome, sounds awesome
  Misc - Your outfits/weapons change when you put 
 on new gear, and it shows up on you in the cut scenes. Very cool feature.
  
  Cons:
  Driving - the Mako sucks and there are TONS of hills
  Side Missions - All the side mission bases 
 are recycled from about 6 different models. Gets repetitive, and stands in stark contrast to the 
 effort put into the main storyline worlds
  Menus - Incredibly inefficient system to equip yourself and your squad mates, and keep track of 
 gear
  Items - Lack of variety means you simply find the best maker of a type of weapon, and upgrade that 
 one brand. The rest of the 100s of items you loot become wasted money because you rarely buy anything.
 
  
  As you can see, Mass Effect is a great RPG set in a epic story with high production value. But 
 some nagging flaws in certain parts of the game become annoyances and keep it from that perfect 
 10 rating
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadeyez5
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much fun. I've already played through it twice and I can't put it down. The more 
 I play it, the better it gets and there is always a different choice that you can do to make the 
 game a different experience every time. Bio-Ware did a fantastic job with the game play and the 
 graphics are amazing. The story line was also amazing and the attention to detail in it was ridiculous. 
 The individual planets and characters were created almost perfectly that they looked very realistic. 
 I would highly recommend this game for anybody who doesn't have it because it is a must for any 
 gamers' collection. There were only two things I didn't like. One is that you could only be Sheppard, 
 but I guess that I can live with it, but the second is the loading screens. Hopefully they will 
 fix that in the next Mass Effect. Otherwise this game was outstanding!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agni_1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- 9/10
  Graphics - 9/10
  Sound - 10/10
  Value - 8/10
  Tilt - 9/10
  overall- 9/10
  
  
  This game was one of the most hyped and anticipated games of 2007, it 
 was promoted as a game where a wide open setting and an emotional roller coaster of a story were 
 the main driving force . It came damn close to accomplishing both. From the moment you start the 
 game you will be in awe of the graphics and the amount of interaction that takes place. Characters 
 are beautifully modeled and the graphics rival that of any other game out there. Then again it 
 is to be expected of a game that is running on the unreal3 engine. The audio in the game is exemplary, 
 especially the voice acting. The audio complements the graphics very well as characters give very 
 good performances and the weapon effects are good too. The opening cut scene puts the basic story 
 in place and the developers take an unique approach when you "make" your character that is very 
 refreshing. 
  The first mission is considered to be a tutorial of sorts but you can immediately see that Bioware 
 put in considerable time and effort into the story. By the end of the first mission the game will 
 have you saying "hell no he did not do that/" This in itself is a feat that has only been accomplished 
 by few games; games in which the first level sets the bar for the rest of the game. Mass effect 
 for the most part meets and or exceeds the bar that was set. My only complaint about the story 
 was that if you have seen the trailers and the ad's they give away some key plot elements. Still 
 though its fun to be playing the game and get to a certain point and remember the ad and go "This 
 is going to happen now".
  Just like every other RPG, ME also has a number of side quests, although the number of side quests 
 might not exactly be mind boggling, they all for the most part have different plots and lots of 
 different characters to interact and kill. Also, bioware has gone ahead and included unchartered 
 worlds for you to explore. However, this is where things start to break down, most of the side 
 quests take place on these uncharted worlds and most of the building and the caves you will fight 
 in are the same models. In fact I think they only have about 4 kinds of building and caves. Over 
 a period of time this gets incredibly annoying. Also, unlike the main plot which keeps you guessing 
 and wanting more, the side quests dont really get you involved. The main reason for doing these 
 side quests comes down to credits and leveling up, both of which can easily be achieved. This brings 
 me to my next point; you will accumulate a lot of money by the end of the game and you will frankly 
 not have much to spend on. Most of the weapons and ammo are already available from fallen enemies. 
 This transitions to one of the worst aspects of mass effect, that is the inventory system. You 
 automatically pick up weapons/ammo/grenades/mods from fallen enemies and there is no clear way 
 of managing them. They are just clumped together in your inventory menu and if you reach 150 items 
 you will be forced to convert the excess into omnigel, while this doesn't seem bad consider that 
 you do not get to chose what you convert to omni gel. Everything you pick up must be converted 
 before you can move on and they cannot be dropped either. It seems like bioware really did not 
 think this through. 
  Another problem is while the graphics are breathtaking to say the least, you will clearly see a 
 lot of little quirks. Some times if you walk into an area you can see that the textures take a 
 little while to load. However, this really isn't much of an issue and you will hardly notice it. 
 Another problem is that the MAKO driving part isn't really that fun as I had helluva time controlling 
 it. However, this is a personal opinion and must be taken with a grain of salt as you might like 
 it. 
  The game isn't exactly long considering other games (oblivion) , clocking in at a little over 20 
 hours but it does offer lots of replayability. Also, the game offers up a tremendous amount of 
 "knowledge"; knowledge in the sense that there are detailed manuals explaining every species and 
 every technology (this info is in the codecs) . So, Bioware has really tried to make this universe 
 as believable as possible. With the upcoming downloadable content ME is going to offer up even 
 more excitement. Overall it is a very solid game that will keep you entertained for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adompe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Since KOTOR, BioWare has made a name for themselves in the RPG genre. Their latest efferot, Mass 
 Effect, is arguably their most ambitious. The game feels very fleshed out, in terms of story, and 
 this all thanks to the game's writer. Each race and planet you encounter and visit has its own 
 story and history. This level of backdrop adds a sense of a major motion picture to the game. Except, 
 you are in control of your actions and ultimately the outcome. From the graphics (the detailed 
 planets and facial animations of characters) to the game score (Chora's Den rocks out, and tense 
 shootouts are well paced with music) , every detail of the game feels as it was carefully crafted. 
 If you are an RPG fan, or played any of BioWare's previous efforts, this game is a must have. If 
 you are new to RPGs, I would strongly suggest beginning with Mass Effect, as it will not disappoint 
 anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerguy46
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I cannot begin to describe this game's just pure... awesome. So I'm going to break it down into 
 sections.
  
  Graphics: When I say this game has amazing graphics, it doesn't quite describe it. The texture 
 details are some of the finest I've seen (though they do tend to pop up mid-scene) . Snow looks 
 like snow, skin looks like skin, metal looks like whatever it's supposed to look like. Not only 
 that, but when the characters speak, it's some of the finest lip syncing I've ever witnessed.
 
  
  Sound: With a fantastic soundtrack, the sound effects are perfect, and the voice acting being great 
 (with a tip of the hat to Seth Green) , this is just a plethora of awesome for your ears.
  
  Gameplay: It plays like a 3rd person shooter... but you have stats like an RPG. You can get into 
 with relative ease, and it just gets better.
  
  Overall: I guess I have to recommend this game... to everybody. If you don't buy it.... well you're 
 a damn fool. This game can be described as a novel-movie-game-badass experience.
  
  Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delta_BITR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of those games that you simply have to play to experience how incredible it 
 is. The game puts you in the role of Commander Shepard, and (without giving away any of the story) 
 you are basically given a ship and free roam of the galaxy, with the sole purpose of eradicating 
 Saren from the galaxy. There are many different ways to accomplish this goal, from biotic powers 
 to uber-powerful assault rifles and shotguns. You are accompanied with two squad members at all 
 times, and the command system works well for the game. You will also acquire many abilities throughout 
 the game, ranging from an ability that can revive fallen squad members to one that disables electronics. 
 If you're looking for a great RPG, and have a 360 or PC, this is definitely something you need 
 to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneMercenary08
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Where to start, where to start.... This game is absolutely amazing. To the graphics, to the weapons, 
 the way you can choose what to say, your team, and just the game play for this game. Everything 
 is perfect in this game; I cannot think of one thing that they can do better. The graphics in this 
 game are unparallel to any other game. The detail of the character's face are breathtaking, and 
 everything in this game looks so realistic.
  
  The game play (campaign) is superb. You have certain planets/systems you have to go to, but you 
 can also travel to other systems and visit some of those planets... and some of those planets are 
 REALLY REALLY fun to explore.
  
  All in all, I believe this game is a must-buy for just about anybody. If you like shooters, then 
 you HAVE to get this game; Anybody that likes RPG's, then you HAVE to get this game... This game 
 is a must-have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_Del
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  I love Mass Effect, it's great in many ways. In the old RPG, you can only listen to what others 
 have to say, but in Mass Effect, you can do the talking too. The graphic is incredible, it's one 
 of the best there is I must say, the music isn't so great but it's just right. Combat is great 
 fun as you don't have to worry about your ammo, a bit like Gears of War with tons of guns (include 
 Sniper Rifle) and armors, but a little slow-paced sometimes but it's way better than other normal 
 RPG. A bit disappointed that you couldn't use material arts to beat the Geths up. 
  Mass Effect fills multiple choices, great story, great character creation, impressive voice acting, 
 lovable characters, dramatic/sweet moments and the main hero/heroine who can actually make you 
 to be proud of. One of the must-have game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiiperDrive
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Well, when I think of brilliant role playing games, along with Oblivion and the like, I think of 
 Knights of the Old Republic which I consider to be one of the best games I've ever played. That 
 was quite a while a go now, and its developer, Bioware, set a high standard for itself to continue 
 in future times, now, its new installment, Mass Effect, certainly equals and if not excels in some 
 areas to KoTOR as I yet again attempt to sum up the goods and the not so goods on the xbox 360.
 
  Starting from the very beginning, Mass Effect sllows the player to go down the default root in 
 terms of the character appearance, background and class or you can select different appearance 
 etc, this certainly at note for the games first decent aspect as there is an array of options to 
 customise your character with, from being male or female, to the width of your jaw or the thickness 
 of your bottom lip. The gameplay starts itself when you are dispatched to a human colonist planet 
 under seige, Eden Prime, as Earth and its surrounding planets have just entered the galactic scene 
 and are searching for acceptance from the governing species, back to the gameplay however, and 
 you are Commander Shepard whos serves upon the high-tech spaceship Normandy while you are accompanied 
 by Captain Anderson, a veteran of space combat, with the Spectre, Nihlus (Spectres being agents 
 to ensure peace in the galaxy by any needs neccasary) your objective is to touch down and recover 
 a beacon that was being studied by the humans at the time while being monitored by Nihlus as a 
 candidate to become a Spectre yourself. So, when you are left to your own devices the game itself 
 plays pretty nicely for a role playing game as the frame rate may stutter but is overall fine, 
 as well as the controls being simple and the combat effective and again simple.
  The storyline from Bioware is yet again top notch as it is in depth, easy to understand and great 
 to get involved in, the dialogue system that the game uses is absolutely fantastic wih Paragon, 
 meaning good, Neutral statements and also Renegade, meaning bad, statements all being able to be 
 executed which effects the levels that your character gets through and how others around you percieve 
 you, if you go far enough in-depth with the games amazing amount of side missions and continually 
 talking to your squad members, you can enter relationships in the game which is another fantastice 
 feature that enhances the game and keeps you interested throughout the games questline.
  Mass Effect does, as most games do, have some negetives. The first being that the game could do 
 with some tutorials as alot of the gamers that have played the game may agree with me as it took 
 me until near the end of my first playthrough how to fully cutomise, upgrade and also alterate 
 your weapons. Another one of the dissapointing negatives, is that everyone, including most of the 
 aliens, have all got north american accents which is annoying as if they did talk in Russian, British 
 or French accents it would flesh out the game alot more and give the gamer the sense that you were 
 changing your destination, unless in a hundred yeard everyone in the galaxy did have the same accent. 
 As many other critics of the game have already have pointed out is the combat physic for the vehicle 
 that is used on several occasions, the Mako, it does seem very odd how it can go up almost completely 
 vertical mountains, along with its crazy suspension which can see it bounce at least ten feet into 
 the air. What also would have been nice is some customisable options for the Mako itself, as again 
 it would had felt alot more fleshed out and the combat for the vehicle would not of felt as repetetive. 
 Also, when you do visit the amazing amount of planets, you may begin to feel that the settings 
 do get quite repetetive themselves as for the off-main-questline planets seem to be Mountains with 
 either grass, snow or volcanic rock put on top every time.
  Overall for Mass Effect I do really love this game for its simply amazing attributes to gaming 
 on the xbox 360, as yet again Bioware has churned out another piece of top quality work here, with 
 its fully customisable characters, different array of characters and species joined with the mind-dazzling 
 questline, amazing amount of side quests and eye candy visuals, it really does outweigh the games 
 dissapointing negatives like the odd vehicle suspension, the maneuvability of the vehicle and the 
 tedious settings off of the main questline planets, Mass Effect is a great game which shouldn't 
 be missed out on by any 360 gamer.
  
  /HiiperDrive Out\ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The best production values available in games today, superb story, and dialog tree, great 
 RPG/shooting mix up
  
  The Bad: Only one vehicle, very short on BioWare standards
  
  Where should I began? Well let's start with the story. You play (Put first name here) Shepard who 
 is a US Navy Alliance officer and tries to work his/her rank up the galactic ladder. A Turian, 
 named Saren, tries to unleash a supposed extinct alien race that's older than time itself. Can 
 you stop him in time while uncovering the past? With that out of the way let's start with presentation. 
 Mass Effect has some of the best graphics, sound, voice acting, and production values than any 
 game I've ever seen next to Gears of War (courtesy to Microsoft's bank account) . The game is packed 
 with tons of extremely detailed textures and models, remarkable never before seen character animations, 
 and BioWare's next-gen dialog engine. Just like any BioWare game (KotOR, Jade Empire) you decide 
 the fate of the game through your actions with people. You can intimidate them, charm them, or 
 just plain use force. With the dozens of alien races and characters you'll encounter there is limitless 
 possibilities. The game has third person gun play mixed with role-playing elements. You can upgrade 
 your character through an easy to use upgrade menu where you can upgrade tons of stats and attributes. 
 You also have powers that you can use such additionally. Along with you accompanies two other squad 
 members of your choosing and you can give them simple orders. You can hack objects to obtain new 
 weapon upgrades, different types of ammo, and even more armor. There are even a few vehicle sessions 
 as well and this helps mix up game play. You travel around by using the Mass Effect relay system 
 which can shoot you throughout the galaxy. You can travel to worlds to collect different types 
 of resources, complete side mission and more. Now while all this is wonderful the game does have 
 some major issues. The frame rate can never keep up. It's always skipping and chugging and there's 
 constant texture pop-up as well. There are also random load times every so often. The game is also 
 very short for BioWare standards ending in about 15-20 hours and with all side missions (about 
 a dozen) maybe 25-30. While there is no co-op or online play the game is still fun and is very 
 cinematic and is a wonderful masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shiny5
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  This game is a revolutionary step with RPG's and Third Person's, especially for the Xbox 360. Once 
 you load up, the awe inspiring graphics, are so amazing that, instead of playing the game, you'de 
 rather be looking at the enemy's or the enviroment rather than fighting it. And not just the graphics, 
 but the gameplay is to-die-for. From my perspective, it is unique, and probably could never be 
 matched by any game for a while. And the voice acting is amazing. The only flaws would include 
 frame rate, studering, especially when up-close and personal with an enemy, bump-mapping flaws 
 when the area looks smooth, but instead it's supposed to be bumpy or rigid. And face design, don't 
 even get me started. Over all, it's the best game I believe ever to be for the Xbox 360. Thanks 
 Bioware, and great job!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beaglesniffer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  Was always lookign forward to this game the story blows you away and is very gripping and im definetely 
 looking ofrward to the next two :P. The graphics were also great, the speech system was great and 
 interactive, the mako is fun and being able to travel freely is also kool, the cover system and 
 weaponery are also good
  
  but the slight lower frame rate whilst in combat and moving about fast makes combat not as great 
 as it could be
  
  so overall if you like space and story you liek this game
  
  frame rate and combat needs to be improved for the next one, aslo a few more speech options which 
 vary more would be nice, more planets!!!!
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobkinator
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of those games that you really should play. No matter whether or not you like 
 to play rpg's or not. I didnt and still loved it. O. k. well lets get on with the review. Mass effect 
 is very much like oblivion, in the respect that there is lots of custimazation. you begin the game 
 by choosing the gender of your commander shepard, his/her physical apprearancn, backstory, and 
 rolet ype. a there are three different basic types of roles, adept, the tech guy [can't remember 
 the class name] / and soldier. Adepts are more like healers and can use biotics [ kinda like the 
 force] . Tech people can have various mechanical abilites. And soldiers dont have any really stand 
 out powers but are the most solid role type [and my favorite] . there are also other role types 
 that are hybrids combining two types. The game features a unique little conversation tree which 
 states your intent not what your going to say. for example if you click on the reply that says 
 F**** you, you may actually say "go to hell". As you would expect from the importance of the dialogue 
 the voice acting is terrific. the dialogue becomes important to the game in the way you form relationships 
 and rivalries, like if your a total jerk to a guy He might not help you out later. the combat is 
 fun but nothing amazing. The game is very story driven because of the dialogue tree, and the game 
 has a very deep political world that you will have to work with. One of the worst parts is when 
 you have to use the MAKO [orbital drop tank] because it doesnt handle well and thats when the game 
 gets the glitchiest. the game is probably around 5 hours long if you play straight through, but 
 I dont advise this. You should definetly take time to do side quests. There are some fun ones like 
 when you have to get a nuke back from a colony of monkeys on Nordacrux. There ar hundreds of different 
 weapons and armors to pick up also. my advice is that you should definetly but or at least rent 
 this game, so go get a copy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogamesrock_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an amazing game but in the sequels is where it will truly shine. 
  After waiting almost forever for Bioware's next generation introduction; Mass Effect, for the Xbox 
 360 is finally here. Mass Effect takes place One Hundred years into the future; in a milky way 
 galaxy where Humans are united with alien alike. Humans are somewhat new to the new found galaxy, 
 and some of the alien species are not fond of them. Humans are arrogant, determined and strong; 
 their stay in the galaxy will bring them some unwanted beef with the wrong races.
  
  This is where you come in.
  
  You play as Commander Shepard of the Normandy crew; allied with 
 a ship full of humans at your side. The humans are becoming more and more popular by the minute, 
 and you are to help them by doing your military duties and meeting with the intergalactic council 
 for meetings. (Which consist of a Turian, an Asari, etc.) Humans are struggling in the universe; 
 growing too rapidly. What even makes things worse is that 'Saren', the main enemy in the game; 
 goes rogue and goes around looking for ancient artifacts to wipe humanity out.
  
  He has a Geth at his command; and he won't stop until he has wiped humanity off the face of the 
 galaxy!
  
  Before jumping into the game, you get to modify your Commander Shepard. You choose background information 
 and important events which happened before the current incidents you are in; which can affect the 
 storyline. You choose his first name, and get to modify what he looks like. Now I wont lie here. 
 The customisation is weak, no doubt about it. For the most part, your Shepard will look great. 
 But until you begin to edit the eyes and nose, as soon as you jump into the game, you will wish 
 you changed them.
  
  There are few sets of eyes in the game; half of which look Asian. The other three eyes which look 
 like they belong to caucasion or African American are either too big or too squinted. The eyes 
 will tick you off for most of the game; due to the limits. The nose customisation is great, but 
 what really gets me is the camera angles you are presented with whilst you are creating Shepard. 
 You only get to move his head to the side, or up and down; when you boot up the game, and see him 
 from a proper side on angle, you will realise you made another mistake.
  
  But these small flaws are not enough to ruin the game!
  
  The story, as said above, is very 
 deep and obviously I will not say any more about it to prevent spoiling it. The conversations are 
 fun to be in, as you can blatantly interrupt someone whilst they are talking or pull of a kick 
 ass line due to your renegade or paragon points. Each conversation involves you; you choose what 
 you want to say, when you want to say it. Also to say, each action contributes to the storyline, 
 so you are looking at an awesome storyline.
  
  The graphics are amazing; probably the best on the 360. Their are some minor bugs but when you 
 get into the game, they become overlooked. It is amazing that a game with this much content can 
 fit on such a small disc; and for this, I really couldn't care about the frame rate.
  
  The sound is amazing as well. The music not so much, but the sound effects literally blew me off 
 my seat. I sometimes even turned my volume down to how much the games sound immersed me. The sound 
 makes you feel like you are Commander Shepard, and you are in the game.
  
  Now I have heard heaps of complaints about the combat, but I have none. The combat is not overly 
 confusing, but not too simple. It works for the game it is, that is all that needs to be said. 
 It feels great and rewarding to win a battle. On harder modes, you are put to the test when you 
 need to use your Shepard's abilities to bring the opponents down, and not simple running and gunning. 
 You can pause the game at any time to select abilities and select targets, which helps it's RPG 
 genre. Mass Effects combat works for the game it is.
  
  Although being an amazing game, with 30 hours + sidequests, the game leaves me wanting more with 
 the cliffhanger endings it reveals. The small glitches may also be fixed, perhaps bringing this 
 game up to a ten. It will be a long year waiting for Mass Effect 2, but I cannot wait!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazilla
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a beautiful game to look at no doubt about it. It's downright gorgeous. That's not my problem 
 with this game though. My problem is that they ripped off one of their own games (KOTOR) and slapped 
 a new name on it. They ripped it off down to the armor descriptions. If you have played KOTOR you 
 know what I am talking about. This would be an immensely fun game were it not for the fact that 
 I already played it when it was KOTOR. The other problem for me is that there is nothing endearing 
 to me about this universe. It is a generic, cookie-cutter sci-fi universe. nothing makes it stand 
 apart from other game or movie settings. Everything is way to polished. There is no grime or character 
 on the space station. All of the NPC's are walking around and they have no life to them like in 
 Assassin's Creed. This game would have been way more exciting had it only been aliens and no humans. 
 
  The powers in this game for the biotics are almost directly ripping off the powers in KOTOR. I 
 guess the biggest flaw I find with this game is its complete lack of originality. I looked forward 
 to this game for a long time and it really let me down. I saw how incredible it looked, and just 
 couldn't wait to get my hands on it. 
  The other problem I have with this game is pacing. It chugs a lot in some places, storywise. It 
 doesn't have a lot that keeps it moving in a well paced fashion. It kinda stagnates, I guess. 
 
  There are a few characters that are really great and the voice acting is terrific. I just wish 
 this game had been a little more original in its story telling is all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lBravolASTALKER
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect, supposedly one of the most anticipated RPGs of the year.
  With one of the largest 360 fanbases next to Halo 3's legion of 12 year old fans.
  With a character 
 creation scheme that's even more impressive than The Eldar Scrolls 4: Oblivion, a great-looking 
 graphics engine, hundreds of places to go and supremely talented voice actors this game has to 
 be good. Right?
  Unfortunately once you dive into the game expecting the most mind-blowing experience of your life, 
 you're halted by the big, spiky concrete wall of failure.
  
  Let's start with the good things though shall we?
  Mass Effect's story is (at best) a fairly 
 decent piece and is executed in a fairly compelling way. The voice acting helps quite a bit, making 
 coversations with NPCs that much more interesting.
  It's also quite a pretty game, compared with some games of today (Crysis for example) not so pretty 
 that it should recieve every award for graphics out there but it has to be noted.
  
  Now that's over let's talk s**ttyness.
  Mass Effect has an impressive amount of dialogue I'll 
 give it that, however it's that same thing that seems to draw nearly every conversation you have 
 with an alien/human/other NPC mercilessly. NPCs will spill out their entire life stories and you'll 
 be forced to listen to it or mash the button that skips the bloody talking until your hand is numb 
 and raw.
  Oh yeah the dialogue's written well enough but was it really necessary to give each and every NPC 
 THAT much to talk about?
  
  This is supposed to be an action-rpg game and it does alright at the RPG element of the game, but 
 whenver it gets to the action part it throws a huge tantrum and sulks in the corner.
  The combat is a little sluggish and your friendly AI companions for some reason have a tendancy 
 to stop following you as soon as your reach a flight of stairs. And if that isn't bad enough your 
 allies are next to useless in combat, they rarely hit anything (as is the case with all your allies 
 in games like this that rely heavily on fighting alongside a team) and seem to follow you everywhere 
 even when you don't want them to, it's almost like they're following you in preparation to give 
 you a nice friendly hug, while this wouldn't be so bad in reality in a combat situation it just 
 makes you and your friends that much easier target practice.
  
  It's not always the case though as your enemies are nearly as brainless as your comrades and seem 
 to be drawn to you like a super-magnet.
  The vehicle sections are also a nightmare to complete as they handle like a fat man on a bicycle 
 with a trailer full of hippopotomi balanced on his back.
  
  I'd like to continue this review so as to beat it senseless (as a game that draws up this much 
 hype and lets everyone down deserves to be) but I'm rather pressed for time so I'll leave it by 
 saying that Mass Effect was not fun for me, the AI was duller than a cave and the vehicles handled... 
 Well like a fat man on a bicycle with a trailer full of hippopotomi balanced on his back.
  Nevertheless you should enjoy this game if you're a fan of beautifully created dialogue, and impressive 
 voice acting to go along with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ringlemin
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  The first time I tried playing this game I though to myself "Damn this is really lame..." I said 
 that for only playing for about half an hour. I thought that the way you could develop the characters 
 facial features was pretty cool, but I did not get into this game at all. That is until a little 
 while ago when I got inured and I played nothing but Mass Affect for seven days straight. I started 
 over from the beginning and I realized that trying to play this for the first time at 2:30 in the 
 morning was not a good idea.
  
  Once I got into the game I could not stop. The graphics are amazing. The game play is amazing, 
 there are some people that think otherwise, but compared to a lot of the newer games out for the 
 360 I think this handles very well in comparison. This game is purely amazing. It takes a little 
 while to get used to the controls but once you do it is an epic adventure. You are free to make 
 your adventure as long or as short as you want it to be. In reality the game can be fairly short 
 if you just stick with the main storyline, but why would you want to do that when there are so 
 many planets to explore? This is a very open-ended, story-driven, awesome game. 
  
  The only flaw I can see in the game is the vehicle. A kind of all terrain super dune-buggy. That 
 thing can take one hell of a beating but the controls aren't quit there. The guns on the rover 
 are pretty amazing, they pack a lot of punch. My only complaint is that the moving the damn thing 
 is kind of hard. Other then that this game is perfect. And since it is my firm belief that there 
 will never be a game that will be completely flawless, this is as perfect as it can get. Overall 
 perhaps the best game I own, or have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_Rc
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  when you hear BioWare and RPG you automatically think star wars kotor, but this game is superior 
 to both kotors and halo with ease.
  
  Story.
  you play commander Shepperd a human in the alliance navy who is sent to recover ancient a beacon 
 of a long dead species, (one that every race in the known galaxy has salvaged and used to achieve 
 space travel) but this beacon soon leads Shepperd to a traitor and a secret that will effect every 
 species in the known galaxy.
  
  suffice to say the story is a typical Bioware story, rich in detail and has many twists and turns. 
 This story is so good i would bet a movie comes out of it
  
  Gameply:
  a interesting twist from other Bioware is that the gameply is much more action oriented with combat 
 in the third person shooter and no melee weapons to speak of (which is kind of a downer but since 
 melee weapons are not used today in modern warfare it makes sense that they wouldn't use them in 
 the future) the classes are a nice mix, i suggest starting out as a solder as they can take more 
 hits than other classes and can help you get through it the first time around.
  
  Graphics:
  playing this on a HD tv is the only way to go (which is kind of bad) but when you 
 do the looks surpass Halo 3 in every way, there can be some texture problems but they only last 
 a second.
  
  Sound:
  the Music is superb and rivals that of great sci fi movies 
  the sound effects are amazing
  
  
  Overall:
  If you were still unconvinced about the quality 
 of games for the 360 mass effect is a prime example of sheer enjoyment, it has a longer lifespan 
 than halo 3 (even though it has no multiplayer) and looks better than gears of war and the story 
 is without a doubt better than both, any self respecting 360 owner must have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaneandlynch93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Just an amazing game a really good role-playing game a real next gen experience really good graphics 
 the game is really fun i really liked the landmarks. the game play is pretty good you actually 
 feel what your charector feels. I liked how you get to create your own character and your first 
 name but you can't create your last name if you like role-playing games and future games then MASS 
 EFFECT is for you. This game is really fun but it can get pretty hard. Ireally l really iked the 
 story it was a great story MASS EFFECT is really a great GAME.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vipsd1
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a very beautifull game, its dialogs and characters as the history are really above 
 everything that I saw in a game in the last years.
  
  But scenario, dialogs, history and voices are for movies, games = gameplay and Mass Effect gameplay 
 is weak, very weak in fact. From the combat menus to the button maping and wicked AI, it looks 
 as the combat and everything where you must interact with the game is not right.
  
  To just select a gun into the game you must acess a menu where selecting the gun you want is almost 
 a minigame where you fight the control to get what you want, that works for the skills you acess 
 also.
  
  Combat is so-so, you keep bumping on your on party characters that are most of time lost while 
 the enemy moves in strange patterns but at least they hit you bether than you can hit'em.
  
  The vehicle parts of the game are boring, frustrating and really really really repetitive, 
 after 2 or 3 times into the mako from hell any gamer would just love to jump right into the action 
 without wasting time fighting terrain in a crazy jumping bug.
  
  And on foot, you walk a lot too, and most of the 'quests' are very poor marked and you must keep 
 notes of some directions that are not recorded on your journal after you talk to the 'questgiver'.
 
  
  If you into deep history and plots and scenarios with very bad gameplay, Mass Effect is a good 
 game for you, but I would advice a movie insted of this game.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daxacid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect has the best of both worlds. It combines all the things you love about an RPG and a 
 Shooter. You have all the great storytelling and mysteries that keep you interested and affect 
 the story. Then you have the excitement of the shooter aspect in combat. The combat mode gives you 
 complete control of the entire team. I have just started playing this weekend, but I am already 
 hooked. Staying up into the wee hours of the morning to try and complete the next mission is not 
 a problem. You get so immersed in what you are doing, you lose all track of time. The graphics 
 and sound are so good, you want to watch and listen to all the conversations between the characters 
 (even the interactions that don't really affect the storyline) . The only thing wrong with the game 
 is the control of the land rover. When trying to kill the giant worms on different planets, it 
 gets a little frustrating. Other than that, this game is a definite "Must Have".
  
  Later Tater. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xKaTaHoMaSx
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  Well when i first played this game i had really high hopes it wasn't as in depth of a game as i 
 wanted it to be the reason people like KOTOR so much is that some choices effected the way the 
 game would end and quite frankly this game didn't have that in it. This game followed the storyline 
 too closely and although thats good i guess my expectations were too high but hopefully EA doesn't 
 screw Bioware over and screw up ME2 this game was still loads of fun and any game that i can play 
 over again at least 3 times is a good game in my books. There were some minor frame rate problems 
 but that shouldn't lower its score that drastically and yes driving can be a bit clunky at times 
 but the secret is to keep the aim button held down then drive so theres a nice way to get around 
 it. The game's customization wasn't what i expected and not being able to torture someone with 
 a torture chamber was upsetting or killing someones planet. The games controls were perfect in 
 all Bioware did a wonderful job on this game its something new for them so lets hope the second 
 one will be even more innovative and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urmom191
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  There are MANY reasons to play Mass Effect, and for the first 15-20 hours, I thought I was in love. 
 And although it does lose its luster a little past those hours, Mass Effect is still an innovating 
 and very addicting game.
  You start out by making your very own Commander Shepard. Like many RPG's, you can choose the appearance, 
 sex, class, and even your character's history. Once your character is created, you are thrust into 
 the action. The battles are in third-person, and you control Shepard. Your two allies will assist 
 you and even talk to you as the game goes on. If you try to play this game like purely like a shooter, 
 however, you will probably end up dying a lot. Instead of old-school "magic", many characters have 
 abilities called Biotics and Tech Attacks to throw enemies, hack AI units, and a number of other 
 effects to help you out in battle.
  After the first couple of battles, the story begins to unravel. As a Commander in the Alliance 
 Fleet, and the very first human "Spectre" agent, you must track down and capture Saren, a rogue 
 alien who has sinister plans for the galaxy. It seems simple at first, but the story really shows 
 off its depth as you progress further in the game.
  Technically, there are really only five main "dungeons", and the main game could probably be completed 
 within 10 hours for those who like speed. But a hefty number of interesting and action-packed side 
 quests will keep most players going for a long time. Overall, it took me 28 hours to complete the 
 game, and I didn't accomplish many of the side quests.
  
  So hears the Pros and Cons.
  
  The Good: The characters and dialogue hooked me from the very start. Each character has their 
 own back story, personality, and, of course, fighing style. Some characters you will like, and 
 some will make you cringe every time they talk (Liara) , but most of them have excellent voice acting 
 and well-written lines. 
  The story seems fairly simple with a few twists and turns thrown in. But the intense character 
 confrontations REALLY drive the story a lot, especially when your dialogue choices affect the outcome 
 of a scene. 
  But the thing that really stands out to me about this game is the combat. There are just so many 
 ways to take out your opponents, from shooting the repeatedly to using your biotic powers to throw 
 them off a ledge (my personal favorite) . You will often find yourself thinking of strategies in 
 your head along the lines of: "Okay those two are dead... oh those three are in a group I'll use 
 life to get them all... hmm better toss a grenade to take out those guys behind the shields..." 
 The list goes on. After each battle, you will be trying to find more battles to get more equipment, 
 to level up, or just to kick ass. It really requires more strategy than reflexes, since you can 
 pause the action at any time. 
  
  The Bad: Not much in this category, but still a few things worth noting. As the GS review says, 
 the vehicle combat is fairly clunky, and all the vehicle combat sequences really aren't much different. 
 Also, the side quests, while very fun at first, eventually get fairly repetitive. Basically its 
 like: Go to planet -- Find fortress -- Take all bad guys out -- collect loot. Also, for people who 
 like to grind levels, it is important to mention that there is no free combat. All fighting is 
 done in the main quest or side quests. 
  
  Overall, Mass Effect is a stunning game. It's action-packed, well-scripted, and VERY addictive. 
 You will probably see it like a movie at some points, due to some intense cut scenes. I'd recommend 
 this game to anyone who likes RPG's, shooters, or sci-fi series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Wolfe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  Mass Effect is a truly awe-inspiring experience, that delivers on all of its promises by bringing 
 you into an original and fresh world, brightened by fantastic cinematic cut scenes and a mesmerising 
 in-depth story. The Mass Effect has come, and with it, it brings a new age of video gaming.
  
  Game Storyline
  
  Mass Effects' (ME) greatest surprise comes in the status of humanity 
 within the ME universe, lo and behold, humans are not the centre of the galaxy, in fact, our small 
 race has only just become recognized by the mighty Citadel Council, and is now under consideration 
 for the SPECTREs, the very elite of the Council, agents with complete power and authority.
  You play Shepard, the first candidate for the SPECTREs, and as you set out with the crew of the 
 beautiful Normandy, your ship, you discover a dark and dangerous secret festering within the heart 
 of the so-called special ops SPECTREs, one that lays the fate of everyone, and everything in your 
 hands.
  
  Game play
  At first glance, ME looks to be a first/third person shooter, with squad based mechanics, however 
 if one were to play this game as such, one would find oneself dying, a frackin lot! I was humbled 
 many a time on my first few hours of gaming, as this is first and foremost, an RPG, and its RPG 
 thinking, that will get you through most of the inherent fighting found in all games of this genre. 
 You are granted full control of Shepard, at all times, and depending on which of the 6 diverse 
 classes you choose, are given total autonomy over what Shepard can do. The 6 different classes 
 are based on three major ways of doing anything in the ME universe; soldier, biotic or engineer, 
 consequently, these are also your first 3 classes, each devoted entirely to either weapons, psionic 
 abilities or performing mechanical feats with the well named, and oddly cool Omni-tool, respectively. 
 The next 3 classes are mixed hybrids of the first 3, which result in loss of or gaining of more 
 balanced abilities at the cost of the higher level ones of a more devoted class. Once you have 
 settled on a class for Shepard, and begin to play the game, you will meet team mates with one of 
 the varied classes as you go along, giving you the chance to be in control of not only Shepards 
 abilities but your two squad mates too. However, you will never have complete control over those 
 partners, they will think and act on their own if you let them, and as a rule their AI is not stupid. 
 In fact, later in the game, the more you specialize your mates, the more effective they are. I 
 had spent time focusing all of Garrus' training on being a sniper, and equipping him as such, but 
 by the end of the game, he was hanging back, covering me and the other member, and taking extremely 
 accurate and devastating pot shots at foes from afar. It was a proud moment, I can say.
  Mass Effects real crowning glory is the beautiful "Conversation system", all of the games CGI sequences 
 play out in real time, granting you full and immediate control of all conversational choices, which 
 leads to further choices, which in turn then leads to the greater actions you will take in the 
 game. Sometime though, these choices can appear cosmetic or rather shallow, but rest assured, the 
 depth varies, and becomes more complex as the narrative jogs along. This is achieved by means of 
 a wheel that links to all the things available to you to say, sometimes blue or red options appear 
 which relate to your charm and intimidate skills. As you make a choice, Shepard does not repeat 
 what you selected, he/she will use a far more elaborate or sometimes more catchy way of saying 
 what you want him/her too.
  These choices are all completely underline by the fact that they were all affected by the choices 
 you made at the very beginning when you built your entirely unique version of Shepard, from hair 
 style, to eye colour, and even sex. The lifestyle you gave them, and the very personality profile, 
 all contribute to the greater "Mass Effect" within the game, and the only true way to see this 
 wonderful system, is to play the game through again, and try to make as many different choices 
 as you can, its all about experimentation. Mass Effect allows you to hop around the galaxy by means 
 of the Galaxy Map, which is a very simple, yet, informative and extremely detailed way to view 
 and cross the vastness of space in the blink of an eye, this system will come into play a lot through 
 your many hours of questing.
  Another little twist of style is the Mako, the all terrain space buggy that you land on with and 
 use to traverse alien planets. This little rover can go anywhere, and I mean almost anywhere, even 
 defying physics at some junctures. The Mako even has these jet boosters that can be used to thrust 
 the buggy into the air to help navigate further. Your dashing white vehicle also boasts a nice 
 cannon, and a mass effect rail gun, not to mention the extremely difficult controls to master. 
 Don't let that put you off thought, when you master it, the buggy is a blast to play around with.
 
  Considering its very unique style of game play, ME is a wonderful game to play, after a while 
 it begins to flow so naturally, and feels more like an experience, than a game.
  
  Graphics
  
  Mass Effect has one minor drawback when it comes to graphical glitches, and I feel 
 pointing it out first, as it's the only one I can find, seems fitting, ME is the most beautiful 
 game I have seen to date and its inherent texture-poppage that occurs when a new area loads, is 
 a minor set back that can be explained away by one simple factor; massive areas, require massive 
 amounts of data, and that takes time to load. ME is by far the fore runner in facial motion capture 
 technology, and Bioware should be praised for their out standing efforts in recreating what can 
 only be described as pure cinematic amazement. Shepard, no matter what you make him/her look like, 
 always appears unique and animated, even the most intricate emotions can flash up upon his/fer 
 face as subtly as a humans. Every scene is a joy to watch as you choose what is said, then consequently 
 watch a fantastically rendered conversation play out live. When you think about it, its quite an 
 achievement, and one noteworthy of the next generation. Stunning as the conversations may be, it 
 is not the only area ME delivers, the rendered areas are wonderful to behold. Fine detail has gone 
 into creating rich and mesmerising worlds, unique in their own right. Awesome depth is achieved 
 when you first go extravehicular, and what a surprise awaits you. ME bursts out of the screen with 
 some of its action sequences too, biotic fights, and mass effect weapons rocketing through the 
 air, as you face off with groups of enemy forces can pump adrenaline through your veins with the 
 best of them. ME is just a beauty to behold, and should be praised at every turn for what it has 
 promised to and successfully achieved.
  
  Sound
  
  The voice acting in ME is utterly out standing, for want of a better statement. The actors for 
 both the female and male Shepards have no failings whatsoever, they conveys every emotion and part 
 of the script as easily and as naturally as you can choose what you want them to say or do. Some 
 of the other races are gems to listen to, like an overly polite jelly fish type race, or the monotonous 
 drones of another. Its all part of the melting pot that makes ME sound so rich and detailed. Acoustics 
 are a highlight in ME, as firing off your weapon on zone or area, will sound utterly different 
 from another. Rarely you hear the exact same sound twice.
  ME also has a masterfully crafted soundtrack, with some delightfully scifi-esque themes to brighten 
 your space-faring, to some dark, droning and downright spooky sound effects, ME is always best 
 play with sound turned up! The music also never gets in the way and responds well to any situation 
 to compliment various scenes and thrill you in others, it all blends together well to make the 
 cinematic epic that ME boasted it would be.
  
  Last ability
  
  The main storyline, without any deviations to secondary objectives should take around 20 to 25 
 hours, this is about right for any game of this kind, however, if you wish to squeeze the game 
 for all its worth, then your looking at over 50 hours worth of gaming. This time will all be split 
 up quite nicely between all the different game mediums, from the Galaxy map, to conversations, 
 to trekking around on new planets with the Mako, to investigating cases dotted around the Citadel, 
 to combat. Its all left very much up to you, what you do.
  
  Misc
  
  At the time of writing this review, information on Mass Effect releasing further episodes, that 
 would continue on the storyline you had etched yourself had been announced, these downloads would 
 come from Microsoft Marketplace, and would cost a certain amount of Microsoft points, but promised 
 plenty of new content, boasting 60 mins of further story. This certainly does revolutionise the 
 RPG one player era, an evolving game.
  
  End
  
  Bioware should be proud that Mass Effect has been so highly regarded, it is amongst some of their 
 finest masterpieces. Bioware have always dazzle their audience with their attention to detail and 
 story, and most of all choice. Mass Effect brings a new era of gaming evolution to our door step, 
 further showing the true nature of the next-generation of console games. A game that evolves at 
 varying points with varying size of depth is quite an achievement, and one that can be further 
 modelled with downloads, paves a way for the RPG genre.
  All I can say is, I cannot wait for the sequels, this promises to be the finest trilogy since Star 
 Wars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruuin
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  Epic in the grandest sense of the word. Mass Effect will feel immediately familiar to anyone who 
 has had the pleasure of playing any of Bioware's most recent offerings. However, once the initial 
 wave of nostalgia wears off, gamers will find that Mass Effect is a different kind of experience 
 that's worth exploring.
  
  The world of Mass Effect is absolutely enormous. The main quest offers somewhere around 20 hours 
 worth of gameplay and tells an engrossing tale of humanity's quest to gain acceptance and recognition 
 in the galaxy. Right off the bat, it's an underdog story that we all love, but instead of a single 
 alien threat to deal with, humanity discovers that space is already a colonized and thriving community 
 in which it must struggle to gain a foothold. The script is an offering worthy of a Hollywood screenplay 
 but instead of a sitting back and watching the protagonist grow, the player is offered privilege 
 of determining how he or she develops, starting with the backstory right at the character creation 
 screen. 
  
  Over the course of the game you're always guided down the main story`s path, but the decisions 
 you make via the dialogue trees (and occassionally your gun work) have the feeling of making an 
 impact on both the main character`s development and the world surrounding you. The pacing of the 
 main plot is outstanding and will suck you right in from the begining. The changes in focus over 
 the course of the game will be subtle at first but as the main quest nears it's climax everything 
 will begin to unravel. Mass Effect manages to avoid a major video game annoyance in this sense. 
 There is no cliffhanger ending and yet the possibility of a sequel is wide open.
  
  Generally, story and narrative in games don't really receive the attention they deserve, but neither 
 has been short changed in this offering. Not only is the gamer treated to a heavy main quest, but 
 the exploration of other planets through side quests offer up a backstory that adds considerable 
 depth to the experience. Bioware has obviously taken the time to craft a world with an interesting 
 and relevant history and it's quite rewarding for anyone willing to take the time to go through 
 all of it.
  
  Unfortunately, there is quite a bit of contrast between the main quest and the various side quests 
 that the player can undertake. While the main storyline runs at a good pace and has a smooth feel 
 to it, the side quests feel staggered, forced and repetitive. By the third or fourth time you run 
 a side quest you`ll be repeating the same process of exploring the terrain of a planet, following 
 the marker to a designated base and then shooting everything in sight or attempting to initiate 
 some sort of dialogue to end the conflict peacefully. It can certainly begin to feel more like 
 grunt work than exploration before long. However, for some players it will still be worth it.
 
  
  As a visual spectacle, Mass effect is a mixed bag. While the graphics look good, the overall package 
 seems to have way too many bugs that weren't taken care of before release. Avatars have trouble 
 with rocky and steep geometry, textures tear and light bleeds through. There's just an overall 
 sense that this one could have used a bit more time to work out the kinks before release. When 
 everything is working, Mass Effect looks outstanding. The main characters offer a great amount 
 of variety and detail and the lip-synch with dialogue is pretty good, but there are just too many 
 occasions where the game will randomly stop at unpredictable points to display a loading icon and 
 when it finishes up you're left to watch as the engine re-layers textures back on to characters 
 and environments. These glitches really hamper the experience in ways that should never make their 
 way into release like this.
  
  Mercifully, the rest of the package is good enough that these glitches can be overlooked. From 
 an audio standpoint, this game is top notch. The voice work is as good as any game on the market, 
 ambient effects never seem out of place and the soundtrack is suitably subtle for most of the game 
 except at key points where it will swell up for dramatic emphasis.
  
  Let us not forget that Mass Effect is a role-playing game, and from this standpoint the cream has 
 indeed risen to the top. Customization is deep and flexible and the dialogue between player and 
 virtual world is one of the most expansive offerings to date. The melding of these elements with 
 first-person shootout type gameplay works very well. While the essence of it is still 'twitch' 
 based, you are still offered the ability to pause the environment, survey your surroundings and 
 then proceed with your best course of action. It's a combination that works surprisingly well and 
 never feels like the game is trying to be too many things at once.
  
  The one thing that detracts from the real-time shooting in Mass Effect is how incredibly stupid 
 your other party members can be. About a quarter through the game I found that my best solution 
 was to order them to sit and wait at the beginning of a map while I cleared everything out solo. 
 Too often I was finding that I had to fight them for cover spots (a battle which they always win 
 by pushing the player out of the way) , or that they'd just randomly jump into my line of fire with 
 little to no awareness that I could accidentally gun them down for such stupidity. It frustratingly 
 detracts from the feeling of role-playing and teamwork, but not enough so that it took away from 
 the epic plot and surrounding world.
  
  In the end, there isn't such a thing as a perfect video game. Mass Effect certainly isn't one but 
 what it does accomplish is a role-playing and narrative experience so finely polished that it's 
 faults can be easily overlooked. These are Mass Effect's brightest moments. While the real-time 
 combat elements occasionally lack the sort of refinement that the game's story has, it will still 
 manage to suck you in right in. Therein lies the greatest thing about this title. What it does 
 right is so good that the existence of all but the most major glitches may go completely unnoticed. 
 Bioware should be applauded for the risks it has taken with Mass Effect, even if the execution 
 stumbles at minor junctures. It isn't the perfect video game, but there are times where it sure 
 feels like it comes pretty close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  
  The heart and soul of Mass Effect is the story it is engaging and told very well as you play through 
 the game. You get to create your own character male or female down to the details the only exception 
 is you cannot alter the body or change the last name this is neat option before starting a game 
 because it makes the game feel a lot more personal than just starting with the default character 
 you will actually believe that you really are the main character. 
  When I started the game I was a bit lost on what to do, there aren't much in game help when you 
 first start off you have to experiment and read the manual to learn what to do and it took me about 
 one hour or so to get used to how the game is supposed to be played I thought the game was too 
 complicated for my taste, but it all worked out very well in the end. The main game is made real 
 well because of the fantastic story the drawback is the side quests they get repetitive since the 
 developers used the same layout over and over again doing these is both fun and boring at the same 
 time.
  Another highlight of the game is the graphics it pushed the 360 to its limits, but it is not technically 
 proficient because many times you will find that the textures don't load as fast as they should 
 and the frame rate can get real annoying when you enter a crowded area. This game should've been 
 made for the PS3 so it could handle its graphical demands.
  Its interesting to see a hybrid RPG and shooter I don't believe it has been done before so overall 
 this game is a memorable experience, see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonRedfield
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a great game with some RPG elements such as choosing a character class, upgrading 
 weapons and so forth. The game is not perfect there are some occasional flaws that in the end do 
 not hamper the enjoyment of this title. 
  
  The combat is where the flaws in my opinion rest. Combat can be sometimes unbalanced with some 
 enemies dying rather fast until the next batch where you die in a flash. There are occasional frame 
 rate issues in combat that you'll experience. 
  
  The story is the best part of the game. It sets up a universe so rich in detail that by the end 
 of the game you'll want more. The story places you in the middle of a galactic struggle for power; 
 where the fate of humanity rest within your hands. It sounds clichd but the amount of interaction 
 is great where your choice affects the ending. When not focusing on the main mission there are 
 plenty of side quest to do that vary from traveling to other planets to talking various people 
 on a space station. 
  
  The replay value is high too as you can play the game a second time using the character you had 
 created the first play through. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  Story: Your Commander Shepard and your on a epic quest to save humanity or not.
  
  Missions: No mission are the same. all missions and quests tell a diffrent part of the story
 
  
  Controls: Diffrent controls. Xbox 360.
  
  Features: Story, driving missions, weapons, lots of areas to explore.
  
  A. I.: Stupid at times 
 but they do there job.
  
  Loading Times: Quick in between planet travel are quick and easy while the elevator loading times 
 are annoying and long
  
  Graphics: Look great. Could be alot more detailed tho.
  
  Audio: Voiceovers for all. Usually don't repeat which is nice.
  
  Multiplayer: None.
  
 
  Requirements: 360.
  
  The Good: Awesome story, giant universe, lots of chracters and weapons
  
  The Bad: Loadings can 
 slow the gameplay down...
  
  The Ugly: Aliens.
  
  Replay Ability: High. . Very Very High
  
  The Bottom Line: If you like Sci Fi movies and/or 
 RPGs you should tottaly pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glebglore
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 2:47 am PT
Review:  Well first things first, Mass effect is a good game. Ever review I've read so far has said more 
 or less "Mass Effect is awesome buy it or we will steal your first born and sell it to a hairy 
 man" When dealing with this level of greatness you know its good, but how good is it?
  
  The answer is obviously super awesome but lets go on the epic journey shall we. a warning though 
 if your only reading this review to see what I gave it, then piss off because I'll tell you now 
 9.0/10.
  
  Well onwards and such, Mass Effect is one of those rare games you can play over and over and you 
 get a different experience each time. The first time I played through the game I'll admit I was 
 more focused on the main story figuring I'll go back and search the galaxy for minerals and gases 
 however I would advice against that as unlike RPG's like oblivion once you finish the story that's 
 it, start again with the same character (and keep your level) or start afresh.
  Focusing on the story though had the major down fall of Mass Effect just wasn't that great. i mean 
 it was a good game, the combat was good as was the characters and story but all the little things 
 that annoyed me just stood out like a bee on the end of my nose (and I'm allergic to bees) .
  These things included
  * The damn elevators! You cant even walk around!
  * Only one city area 
 (although to its credit it was quite large)
  * The inability to talk to random people as seen in KOTR
  * You can only talk to your teammates 
 onboard the ship and the majority of them were on the lower levels only assessable by a damn elevator
 
  
  While these don't seem like much it did harm the overall enjoyment of the game.... and then I played 
 it again
  
  My was it different this time around all of a sudden the choices you make at the beginning of the 
 game, where you choose your characters life history goes from gimmick that makes you smile to a 
 full blown subplot! and I have to say fighting the geth and saving the whole universe is good killing 
 the sons of a b**** that killed your unit years in the past fells good.... real good.
  
  to put it simply the sub-quests are what makes Mass effect come alive and by damn is it a sweet 
 ride
  
  I apologise if this review sucked but it was my first one so be nice :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSWII60user
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  now im not gonna trash this game at all, or praise it to a limitless extent. Most people hate or 
 love this game, i like it. I have one major problem though, I CANT GET INTO IT. the first hour 
 of this game is boring enough to put you to sleep, then again so are most RPGs, but with other 
 ones the story is good enough to get you through it, this one just doesn't do it for me. i mean, 
 for an rpg there almost to much talking. I know that once i get into it i will love it, but for 
 me the beginning is so bad that i cant even convince myself to play it. i really want to give it 
 a chance. but after seeing that horrendous piece on fox news about there being full nudity and 
 they should be sued and whatnot, i want to play it just to spite those jerks (couldn't swear i 
 got censored) at fox news, man i hate them. anyways if your looking to buy a game thats start out 
 exciting and really story driven this isn't for you, but if you can grit your teeth and bear through 
 it like i cannot than good luck cause it looks great. I will update the review when i finish playing 
 it and hopefully give it what it looks to be like which is a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPAWNandVENOM_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  A new high mark for storytelling in games. Gameplay can be confusing at first due to a lack of 
 good tutorials. One of the most artistically and technically beautiful games of all time. Unfortunately, 
 the engine can't keep up and slowdown is rampant. An unprecedented amount of top-notch voice work. The 
 RPG elements are outstanding. Glitches, poor AI, and weak squad mechanics weigh the game down. Sure 
 to be a classic RPG that is talked about (and played) for years. In a year that has seen the Xbox 
 360 library finally round itself out with a series of quality Japanese RPGs, BioWare has shown 
 just how far ahead of the curve it is with Mass Effect. The cinematic design is nothing short of 
 masterful. This is a game that takes the aspects of film that make cinema so compelling and crosses 
 it with the interactivity of games with unprecedented success. Linear storytelling feels quaint 
 by comparison. 
  
  Mass Effect is game that is greater than the sum of its parts. Technical issues abound, but the 
 majority of Mass Effect is so expertly delivered that it can transcend its weaknesses. Applying 
 number ratings to a game like this doesn't do it justice because there is no way you can ignore 
 its technical flaws. Simply put, Mass Effect is a game that must be played. Then it must be played 
 again. Don't pass this one up. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecubedave000
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I first want to say that this game is not inappropritate in any way.
  
  Ok like in Saints Row, you decide on your charaters looks and even his or her back ground which 
 will effect the begining game dialoge.
  
  This game is a shooter RPG, hmm yea i said it right. 
  
  There are many planets to explore 
 and the missions are loads of fun. Visuals are awsome and dazzling but not like gears of war dazzling.
 
  
  Well you can choose how you character will perform in the game by being just a ranger or using 
 bio attacks and there are some more to choose from.
  
  I just played the game as a ranger but the guns control kinda weird, its all in 3rd person and 
 locking on the enemys make the game too easy.
  
  Yes you get your own spaceship but you cant fly it because you got a whole crew at hand to do various 
 tasks. 
  
  Interacting with different charater models in the game is pretty fun because you can make them 
 say different things. By saying things in story mode will effect you as a person and the story 
 line might change a little, so be careful what you say because someone might die :P
  
  Thats all i have to say, good game, very nice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefMrBam
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect for the XBox 360 is a game very much in the vein of the Knights of the Old Republic 
 (KOTOR) series of Star Wars games, which isn't so surprising as it is made by the same developer. 
 Mass effect takes the foundation built in those previous two games and expands in different unique 
 ways. 
  
  Combat this time around is handled much like any other 3rd person action shooter and as long as 
 you put thought into your approach to the various battle scenarios you face the game can be played 
 like this from start to finish. For those looking for a more in depth approach the combat can still 
 be played out more like the KOTOR games choosing commands for team mates and going at a slower 
 pace. 
  
  The freedom of choices given in this game also set it apart. Rather than having the good vs. evil 
 choices made during the game done on one meter this time they are separate allowing for a greater 
 sense of moral ambiguity, while not affecting your desired progress down one path should you make 
 a choice which works against your desired goal. 
  
  The main story is not terribly long in itself but their is plenty to do and see with many side 
 quests and planets to explore, as well as a good sense of re-playability with the many dialogue 
 options that affect the game differently.
  
  The character models and environments are well detailed, the voice work is excellent, and the game 
 universe really feels well thought out and is littered with history that can be absorbed or ignored 
 depending on the players preferences. 
  
  Mass effect does have problems though frequent texture pop-in tends to mar the otherwise great 
 visual aesthetic, load times seem reasonable but the game inexplicably tends to chug and slow down 
 at seemingly random and empty places (yet tends to hold up surprisingly well in battle compared 
 to out of battle) . And finally the few occasions Thresher Maws must be fought are painful (kind 
 of like pulling teeth) , that's not to say they are especially difficult so much as poorly designed 
 they randomly pop up around you when fighting and oftentimes you will find yourself instantly dead, 
 or stuck glitched into the body of the creature because they tried to pop up in the same space 
 already occupied by your rover. Also there was a good number of times characters inexplicably got 
 stuck on nothing while exploring worlds forcing a reload of a save game, or a teleport back to 
 the ship when the option was available, in order to get free and continue on.
  
  Despite its flaws (which can really pull you away from the experience at times) Mass Effect pushes 
 the ideas from the KOTOR series forward while replacing the combat system with one that many will 
 find far more engaging. If you like the KOTOR games, third person shooters or simply games with 
 good stories, Mass Effect is worth checking out despite its flaws.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  Mass effect is a game where you immediatly get engaged in the story and the situation around you 
 where you play as commander John Sheppard, a prebuilt character or a custom chracter which is all 
 chosen at the beggining of the game where a great amount of detail has been put in to the character 
 creation system which is quite similar to that of oblivion.
  the galaxy in mass effect is huge! and you can explore, fight, trade and live on 32 different planets 
 in the galaxy. Of course in the game you can be good or evil which depends on your actions, but 
 probably the thing that stands out the most in mass effect is the dialogue system where you can 
 practically find out just about anything to do with a character. The combat system is NOT turn 
 based it is entirely real time combat from a third person over the shoulder view similar to that 
 of ghost recon advanced warfighter and so is the cover system which makes combat much more interesting 
 and engaging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I wouldn't exacly call this KotOR like other people want to say conedering it has nothing to do 
 with jedi and has a realtime shooting system.
  
  The graphics were the first thing to stun me. They are really amazing. I have never seen any other 
 game put so much detail and lighting into people's faces ever before. And the special effects + 
 all the voice actors is awesome.
  
  It doesn't feel like a rushed project. They deffinetly put tons of work into it. The story is really 
 awesome too. I don't want to spoil anything so I won't.
  
  Another completely awesome thing is that you litterly choose what you say. And what you say can 
 change thousands of other things in the galaxy. Say people's lives, kill people, save people, destroy 
 them, lie to someone, do the right thing, do the wrong thing.
  
  You are you. You choose what you do and you choose who you become and who you are. Kinda like life 
 xD
  
  The Battle system is alright. It feels like a casual shooter. Nothing really special about it but 
 you can cast energy thingys!
  
  From flying ships and visiting hundreds of planets and driving cars and walking around, Mass Effect 
 is completely awesome and an amazingly lengthly game.
  
  The game is just HUGE just completely HUGE. You will take many many many hours on this game.
 
  
  
  PROS:
  
  graphics
  sound
  huge
  choices
  story
  
  
  CONS:
  
  can at sometimes be slow and has a couple of glitches u will stumble apon because its a big game.
 
  
  
  OVERALL:
  
  buy it?: yes
  
  huge/awesome/great story/amazing graphics/great voice actors/sound
  
  (9.0)
  ~Leakybubbles 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staticgod
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  title says it all. you are approaching a natural evolution in bioware recent products espicially 
 "jade empire". the new formula that introduced in jade empire is finally reach its ideal target. 
 in jade empire they focus first of all in narrative and story telling plus a good and rich action 
 pack battle system that came to life with stunning graphics and a beautiful world and character 
 design. all this element become better and better in mass effect. a entertaining action pack battle 
 system that comparable to the standards of action games in today action paradigm. best looking 
 rpg to date. although the gameplay is too short and you dont encounter a vast open end world and 
 unlimited skills you have in es4 oblivion, but in turn you get a rich story line with great graphics 
 and a tactical and engaging battle system that unlike other rpgs battle systems, it requirs fast 
 reflexes and movement. this game looks like a thirdperson shooter in rpg shape. there is good amount 
 of weapons and an acceptable cover system and shooting mechanism. this game looks too linear to 
 me and side quests is not that great but main quest is good and engaging (although short) . i think 
 bioware commit a radical choise and they choose graphics ,storyline , action and well design battle 
 system at the cost of linear gameplay without an open end world and vast number of skills and magic 
 that in the past we saw in games like baldurs gate 2 or...
  i think they made a great dinner for hungry rpg fans with a smart combinations of elements that 
 are too dear to must rpg fans (main storyline, graphics, character design and a great battle system 
 that never gets repeatative) , but they threw away some other elements that is too popular today; 
 one of them is the idea of creating an openend world and big number of skills with considerable 
 side quests.
  this game cure many diseases that rpgs have but dident cure all of them ( and i think this is impossible 
 to cure all of tham because u can cure some of them at the expense of others. ) this game focus 
 on some aspects of rpg genre but do this really good.
  this is without doubt the "best" rpg on 360 to date and a must have for rpg fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankees222
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  First off, i'll say that i was kind of wary when i played this game. But since its from bioware 
 (which is one of the best rpg makers) i decided its probably worth the time. So i got it and as 
 soon as it started i was blown away at the detail and environments, not to mention the incredibly 
 realistic charater interactions. Combat is very fun and exciting, and can get pretty intense. Stratgy 
 plays some role here, but not enough to affect your views. Firefights are very fun, especially 
 when using the duck and cover method of fighting. Biotic powers add a lot of dept to the way you 
 play, and make it even better. It has a lot of quests that will keep you busy for a while. As anyone 
 knows, the best part about an rpg is a great story. Well, Mass Effect does exactly that. Very interesting 
 story that keeps you interested throughout the whole game, and has some twists and turns along 
 the way. I loved kotor, and this easily competes with it for best story. Paragon and renegade (light 
 vs dark) is an interesting concept that is commonly seen, but never gets old. Overall, an incredible 
 game that is easily worth the time and money. One of the only problems that i hated was right at 
 the end (at least the ending i went through) they made it seem like there was a lot more to do 
 given what the people were saying and how they were acting, but nevertheless it was over. Grat 
 game, worth the time, and if you like rpgs, this is a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of the many reasons why RPGs are so popular. The main storyline is brilliant, 
 where you go after a rogue Spectre, who has almost unlimited access to anything he can think of, 
 until the Council (a group of aliens) sees he has gone renegade and strip him off his rank. Following 
 this deadly renegade pits you against loads of enemies, amongst which are the Geth, the Husks, 
 the Creepers, the Rachni, the Krogans, and mercenaries. All these enemies are as diverse as they 
 sound, with each one having their own ways of acting and tactics. The combat system in Mass Effect 
 works brilliantly well, depending on which class you choose acts towards how much you can help 
 in combat. You can use your abilities to either boost your allies, or affect the world around you. 
 The side missions are great fun as well, and help you to expand the plot and find out more about 
 the universe as a whole. The actions you take when talking to people have great repercussions, 
 and you can either be really nice to someone, or just bite their head off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5nake3yes
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 2:51 am PT
Review:  Immersive, long, varied, interesting, you get the idea. Theres a lot of hours in this one and you 
 can play it in a variety of ways, the final outcome was a bit of suprise so that shows they kept 
 me busy enough across the game to not see where it was going. Character interaction is good and 
 provides an interesting distraction from the game play. My only complaint is that in easy mode 
 you soon have so much money its ridiculous and you find that you have more powerups and guns and 
 armour to choose from than is healthy! In hard mode its a different matter altogether.
  
  The vehicle combat sucks but to be honest its such a minor part of the game its barely worth worrying 
 about. Normal combat takes some getting used to but once you realise that you need to switch weapons 
 and powers depedning on your target it soon becomes a dance of organised violence!
  
  If you like the Knights of the Old Republic style gameplay then I can highly highly recommend this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ant_lotr
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  After the releases of such RPG classics as KOTOR II and Jade Empire Mass Effect was highly anticipated 
 for all avid RPG lovers (myself included) . Everyone had very high hopes for Mass Effect, and creating 
 the game on such a hard topic of Sci- Fi make it even more of a challenge. But i can safely say 
 to any gamer thats has heard of the hype and hasn't already bought the game that this has met all 
 expectations and and had exceeded them in many ways. 
  Although the main storyline is relatively short for a game of such epic scale the side missions 
 or "Assignments" make it up for this many times over, giving a large array of planets, moons, and 
 ships to travel to and land on. Even though the main storyline is short, it has various twist and 
 turns that keep the gamer firmly (but safely) on the edge of their seat. Biotics (much like force 
 powers used in KOTOR) are very fun to use and bring humour to the game and enjot using them to 
 trow random things around, this is a good additon to any game. The codex is a brilliant addition 
 to the game, without this many people playing the game would become lost and not be able to comprehend 
 all the information surrounding the whole story (the guys voice helps as it stops gamers from losing 
 interest) . The history of all the races included in the game is amazing, i haven't seen anything 
 like it before. The species are all so real and really make you wonder.... The graphics are brillaint, 
 giving just the right amount of light in certain areas and atmospheres and really shows all the 
 hard work the designers put in to create such realistic faces and animals. 
  The only thing i would say is reasonably disappointing is the "Mako" when driving the vehicle round 
 it becomes extremely fun; however the turret on the top of the vehicle is very annoying. When trying 
 to hit enemies you have to be the right distance from them or the bullets miss. Too close they 
 go over the heads of the enemies and too far they all miss the target. This is only a minor fault 
 for an all round revolutionary game that will affect gamers for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0suchluck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Bioware has done it agian. Another great rpg game that anyone can enjoy. I have to admit when I 
 first started playing this game I wasn't that impressed. The main quest didn't suck me in right 
 away and the side quest, which is mainly just exploring planets that all look the same except for 
 color, was quite boring. But once I went back to the main quest, the story started coming together 
 and totally sucked me in. And I can say after finishing the game that I truly enjoyed the adventure 
 bioware put me through. So much that I will probably be playing it a second time. 
  
  The positives:
  -The graphics are beautiful
  -The story is ,as usual for bioware, excellent. 
 Alittle slow at first though
  -Gameplay is fun. A mix of shooter with rpg elements... you can't go wrong
  -Decisions in game 
 have an affect on the story. This has been implemented in many games these days. But I love when 
 a game has this feature. It really makes you feel like your part of the game
  -The voice over work in this game is spot on 
  
  The negatives:
  -The Mako. This is your 
 all-terrian vehicle that you drive when you land on a planet. Shooting anything in this thing was 
 so frustrating that I ended up getting out of the vehicle to dispose of enemies or wouldn't engage 
 in battle at all.
  -Side quests (exploring other planets) . This was just repetitious and boring
  -Main quest alittle 
 too short. Really wasn't that short I just didn't want it to end. It took me about 30 hrs to play 
 through the game. I would say half of that was on the main quest.
  
  All in all a great game and must have in your 360 collection
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  For everyone that enjoyed KOTOR then Mass Effect is a game you will enjoy. The game has good graphics, 
 story, and combat. The combat especially has improved since KOTOR. Although I do miss the lightsabers. 
 
  
  You play as Shepherd who can be male or female. You also decide his/her background. Shepherd is 
 a hardened war vet who is with the military alliance. You must track down a spectre turned evil 
 which in turn makes you become a spectre yourself. He is trying to resurrect an alien race to control 
 the galaxy. Just as in previous Bioware RPG's you have the choice to be either good or bad. Also 
 there is a lot of dialogue but this time you pick from a preset group of three phrases and Shepherd 
 interprets these phrases and actually speaks basically what the presets are. I felt by giving the 
 main character a voice that you really get a lot more into his/her character more than in previous 
 Bioware games. The dialogue actually is more fun and is scaled back from games such as KOTOR or 
 Jade Empire. So you won't have to sit through endless conversations quite as much. The main story 
 while good is also a bit short. Most players could finish the main missions in under 20 hours. 
 Although if you choose to do the side missions you could push the gameplay over 40 hours. The side 
 missions are not quite as tedious as in KOTOR but if you do a lot of them in succession then they 
 feel all too familiar. 
  
  The gameplay is quite good as this game is a lot like a third person shooter. I never once became 
 bored with the combat which is saying a lot for an RPG. Also although this game is not as long 
 as KOTOR that doesn't mean it doesn't feel as big. By traveling to different Nebula's throughout 
 the milky way the scale of the game feels huge. There are probably at least 20 different planets 
 you can land on. Granted most are for side missions and you mostly drive around but it still feels 
 like you are really traveling through the milkyway. A lot of the planets look a lot alike though 
 and you get a little feeling of de ja vu. But this is a minor complaint.
  
  Mass Effect doesn't feel as revolutionary as KOTOR but it is more original and a game that deserves 
 its own trilogy. If Oblivion is like LotR's then Mass Effect is the new Star Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serious06
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is up there with some of the greatest RPG's of all time in my book. It can appeal to 
 a wide array of different gamers as well. The things that hold it back from being perfect I think 
 are not as much flaws as necessary stepping stones to greatness. There are some small technical 
 issues, but nothing close to ruining the true greatness of the game. 
  Mass Effect is an RPG at heart , yet differs from the genre in a traditional sense. 
  The combat 
 system works rather well. It's actually more solid than you would initially think and can be pretty 
 exciting. There's a good amount of customization available for all of your equipment: weapons, 
 armor, grenades, etc. There are also Biotic powers which you could say resemble "The Force" in 
 Star Wars. These can also be a lot of fun and are good for switching up your strategies. You can 
 have two other teammates with you, who for the most part fight well, but sometimes AI issues will 
 have them firing blindly at a wall and stuff like that. 
  The best aspect of the game lies in the story telling and the "dialogue wheel." The decisions you 
 make can really affect the outcome of certain situations. You might find yourself truly contemplating 
 the decisions you have to make and the consequences of them. All in all, Mass Effect is an outstanding 
 game. Can't wait for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  Then you have definitely come to the right place.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Before we continue, I need to point out that I absolutely love BioWare games. From the days of 
 Baldur's Gate right through all the editions of Neverwinter Nights I have always enjoyed their 
 sheer ability to deliver a good storyline over and above everything else. Without sounding bias 
 therefore, in Mass Effect they have delivered the same  yet again.
  
  Mass Effect may not, however appeal to everyone, especially those players who insist on multi-player 
 (co-op or online) gaming as part of their role-playing experience. Mass Effect is strictly a single-player 
 game, not because it lacks in the technical department, but simply isn't that kind of game. From 
 that perspective, Mass Effect is almost a hard-core, old-school RPG in true sense of the word, 
 where the emphasis is entirely on the development of your avatar and the five or six team members 
 within the context of a rich, constantly developing storyline.
  
  Like most true RPG titles, new Mass Effect avatars are created from a number of specialized character 
 classes, not in the traditional D&D sense, but obviously fitting the genre within which the storyline 
 develops  a future universe where mankind has learnt how to do space travel to distant star clusters 
 within our galaxy by means of mass effect accelerator technologies discovered on Mars in the 22nd 
 century.
  
  There are several specialized classes to choose from and each of them brings with it a "slant" 
 in one of the three main character "attributes" used throughout the game, namely tech abilities 
 (sabotage, hacking, etc.) , biotic powers (psychic powers allowing your characters to warp space, 
 throw things about, create force-field barriers and the like) and finally pure combat skills, which 
 are probably self-explanatory. The latter attribute is somewhat fine-tuned in the pre-defined character 
 sub-classes, with certain sub-classes only capable of handling certain weapons such as sniper rifles 
 and pistols, where pure combat classes can develop their skills in any of the available game weapons.
 
  
  What all of this means, is that depending on the character "class" that you select from the outset, 
 you will have different challenges as the game develops and will have to make absolutely sure that 
 you have the right team selected when embarking on a specific mission. On this point, the game 
 only allows you to have three team members (including your own avatar) at any given point in time 
 during a mission, and this team cannot be changed once you have left the safety of the Normandy 
  your high-tech, stealth space craft.
  
  The gameplay therefore focuses on your ability to correctly "grow" your character as well as to 
 select the right "skills mix" of your team, i. e. tech, biotic and combat skills for each mission 
 at the point where the mission begins, since no single character that you meet during your travels 
 will be equally adept in all three these main "attributes", including your own avatar of course. 
 Dealing with the Geth (a common non-organic, galactic machine race you will encounter in many missions) 
 by means of tech skills will be far more effective than trying to use biotic powers on them for 
 example. There's nothing worse in Mass Effect than getting half-way through a major mission just 
 to find that you have brought the wrong team along!
  
  The question that most readers are probably asking at this point is exactly how the right team 
 selection can be made before a mission starts. The answer to this rather important question can 
 be found in another one of BioWare's game development skills, namely their ability to provide a 
 game universe filled with an enormous amount of information and data relating to, and tightly woven 
 into the main plot.
  
  By means of computer technologies built into your suit (or armor if you like) , you have access 
 to an ever-growing, astonishing database of alien race background information, strengths, weaknesses, 
 historical, cultural and even biological makeup, not to mention the well-defined and developed 
 political systems and resulting galactic intrigues. All of this information is cleverly woven into 
 the storyline and what makes it even more entertaining, is the fact that much of it is not too 
 far fetched and scientifically quite correct if one accepts the fact that a lot of hit is built 
 on hypothetical physics for the time being.
  
  Each charted planet, star, system and cluster is meticulously documented, from size, atmospheric 
 makeup and pressure, surface temperature and gravity, etc. and traveling between these clusters 
 and systems is easily achieved by means of the three-dimensional galactic map found on the Normandy.
 
  
  If you carefully analyze all this information, including additional hints forming part of each 
 mission narrative, you will have no excuse for not understanding your enemy by the time you hit 
 a planet surface so to speak.
  
  By the same token, this may in itself make the game somewhat unwieldy for players who prefer the 
 hack-and-slash approach and don't particularly enjoy reading through tons of information about 
 the biological and political makeup of a particular alien species for example.
  
  As far as the combat system is concerned, the system relies on a hybrid "over-the-shoulder" first-person 
 shooter style as I prefer to call it, with most of your character visible during engagements, including 
 your two team members that you brought along on the mission.
  
  My only criticism of combat in Mass Effect would be that it becomes somewhat repetitive after a 
 while, especially if you are the kind of player like me, who indulges in every possible sub-plot 
 and mission the game has to offer. Over and above that, the radial controls used for selecting 
 weapons and special abilities for your three team members can become a bit annoying in the heat 
 of battle, although BioWare had the foresight to "pause" the battle once you click and hold LB 
 or RB to get into the menu system. Depending on your skill levels in general FPS play, Mass Effect 
 will not prove too difficult, even for novice players, to get through the main quest line, depending 
 on your difficulty settings of course. Playing through the game for the first time, does unlock 
 additional difficulty levels, and I would yet like to see it on the "Insane" level, for what it's 
 worth.
  
  From my perspective, the main storyline in Mass Effect is a bit on the short side and anyone that 
 has used a Xbox 360 controller before, will probably make it through the entire main story in about 
 10 to 15 hours  not counting sub-plots and quests. Compared to the "old days" of Baldur's Gate 
 II Shadows of Amn, this is nothing more than a short story. Judging by the ending however, BioWare 
 may just have one or two sequels in mind.
  
  The dialogue system throughout the entire game is absolutely out of this world if you will excuse 
 the pun. In true BioWare style, each dialogue line and response, which also uses a radial "menu" 
 system, is carefully planned and will change the outcome of the short-term and even some longer-term 
 storyline events. In addition, BioWare have deviated somewhat from the traditional good-guy, bad-guy 
 thing as far as character development is concerned. Instead, the guys at BioWare have opted for 
 a "paragon" and "renegade" concept. As "paragon", your character will become a goody-two-shoes, 
 morally upstanding type of person, while as "renegade", your character will develop into somewhat 
 of a bull-dozing, get-the-job-done at any cost type of person. The interesting thing is that your 
 character can actually exhibit both traits at the same time, which makes for very interesting story 
 development as the plot unfolds.
  
  A last bit of criticism would be the Mako  a rather advanced cat-like (always seems to land on 
 its feet) vehicle that is used to navigate most planets where you decide to land. Navigating the 
 Mako itself can become quite annoying and a bit of a handful, especially if you find yourself eye 
 to eye with so-called Thresher Maws. Trying to pin the thing down, just to aim at it becomes virtually 
 impossible and by the time you actually get it into your sights it's usually too late. This aspect 
 of gameplay possibly deserves some improvements on the part of BioWare.
  
  Given these rather minor little problems that I am sure BioWare can be forgiven for, I would give 
 Mass Effect a 9/10 for Gameplay.
  
  Graphics
  
  From the outset, Mass Effect doesn't set the world alight as far as graphics are concerned. It's 
 definitely not in the same league as some of the other recent Xbox 360 or even PC titles. What 
 it does do however, it does very well and makes pretty good use of the Xbox 360 graphics capabilities.
 
  
  The best part as far as the graphics department is concerned, would be character animation and 
 especially facial expression animation as far as I am concerned. In fact, I would go as far as 
 to say that facial animation during dialog, etc. is probably the best I have seen in any game.
 
  
  Environmental graphics as far as various planets, etc. are concerned are also quite good and effects 
 such as snow blizzards, volcanoes, etc. are probably as good as can be expected.
  
  In general I would give Mass Effect an 8/10 rating in the Graphics department.
  
  Audio
  
 
  This aspect of the game is fairly simple to rate: it probably has the best voice-overs I have heard 
 in any game. Every line of dialogue throughout the entire game is narrated and while the voices 
 used in the production may not be from those in the top-ten Hollywood list at the moment, they 
 are absolutely professional.
  
  The music score is absolutely outstanding  never intrusive but still very effectual as far as 
 mood and ambiance are concerned.
  
  Sound effects as far as weapons, explosions, etc. are concerned, are also as good as they get.
 
  
  Simply put  I give Mass Effect a 10/10 as far as Audio is concerned.
  
  Value
  
  Given my latest rant about the cost of games here in South Africa, my scoring here may be somewhat 
 problematic. The big problem is basically that the main story quest in the game is somewhat short, 
 although one could argue that playing through the game multiple times with different character 
 classes and different difficulty settings is an option.
  
  At the time of this review, there were no on-line playing options or additional downloadable content, 
 but if you are the kind of player that enjoys playing every possible sub-plot and minor mission 
 in the game, you will probably end with approximately 50 to 60 hours of value here.
  
  As I mentioned before, I suspect that BioWare are probably planning one of many sequels to the 
 game based on the ending as far as I can see. Only time will tell, but if so, this will obviously 
 have a big positive effect on the value of the initial purchase.
  
  Given the equivalent exchange rate cost of approximately $85.00 US here in South Africa, I would 
 give Mass Effect a 7/10 in the Value area.
  
  Who Should Get It
  
  Anyone who has enjoyed the many hours of sheer pleasure brought to us by BioWare over the years 
 as absolute masters of the single-player RPG genre. This is a fresh new setting in a futuristic 
 environment, which I believe BioWare have done absolute justice, considering their years of experience 
 in more D&D oriented RPG settings like Baldur's Gate and Neverwinter Nights.
  
  Who Shouldn't Bother
  
  Any players who prefer RPG games that have more of a hack-and-slash 
 approach where very little other interaction or reading is required and where there are customized 
 on-line mission playing capabilities.
  
  Included here would also obviously be any players that do not particularly enjoy games in the RPG 
 genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent-Rage
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a really fun game that offers a very unique and original setting. The third-person-shooter-RPG 
 system was done surprisingly well and comes with great storyline, great gameplay, and amazing voice 
 acting. Also, the graphics are top-notch and the environments look real cool. The ability to explore 
 uncharted worlds is a really cool idea and is quite entertaining. The replay value is very nice 
 as well - certainly you will want to try the large customization out numerous times. The only two 
 flaws this game has from being perfect are that the Mako's controls are pretty sloppy most of the 
 time, and also, this game is a little too short - the game is easily beatable in 15 hours or less.
 
  
  Overall though this is a very great game and shouldn't disappoint you. Even if you are not a huge 
 fan of this gametype, you should definitely check this title out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoX80
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  After 27 years of videogames played, believe me, you won' t regret!! A great game experience in 
 any level possible!
  Great gameplay, unbelievable writting, great visuals, outstanding soundtrack, etc, etc.
  Worth' 
 s every penny and after de KOTOR series, Bioware proves once again, that a game only should see 
 day's light when it' s really finished.
  Tremendous immersion we can almoust feel that universe really exist since all the caracters, planets, 
 techonolgy are so well described.
  Fabulous story telling!
  It has everything you can wish in an interactive experience. 
  Some call this RPG and Shooter... 
 but it' s a fantastic journey.
  I can' t give it a label / gender... the game breathe on it' s own and we all fell it' s breath... 
 and love it. Remarkable achievement.
  
  The players say thank you very much!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marijuana_man2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Personally, when we think of Bio-ware, we think of turn-based strategy that made the company well-known 
 around world, but they really gotten something when they made this piece of marvel, the game itself 
 a reliever from D&D rules and regulation, and sends you into combat as any other person shooter.
 
  
  What I enjoy and love about Mass Effect is that customization on every piece of equipment, really 
 adds depth, and consumes the most time than the acutal game itself, however this part maybe a thumbs-down 
 from others, regardless it's another trait Bio-ware has a tendency to do... 
  
  Combat is standard, but somehow enjoyable being to take down a strong adversary with a pistol in 
 two shots makes me feel like Boba Fett but in my own universe of course...
  
  Voice Acting is excellent seeing that every character has respoken their lines until it's perfect, 
 making the whole scene as if it's interesting to watch. Which is actually a good thing, considering 
 no one wants to see cutscenes, we just want to play. But it's entirely detailed to the upmost perfection.
 
  
  Final Word (s) : Mass Effect is Phenominal and it deserves it's recognition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commachoice
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I had not been waiting for this game, I had not had high hopes for this game, I had not even been 
 planning to BUY this game. I was actually hoping for it to fail, one less distraction for BioWare 
 to make Jade Empire 2. But it was a few weeks after Christmas, and I passed by this game in a Circuit 
 City... and for some reason it was on sale...? Don't know why, I think it may have been a screw-up, 
 but anyways, I got it home and played it... and I was utterly frustrated. I enjoyed maybe the first 
 five minutes of storytelling, but as soon as I was stuck on Eden Prime, I was angered with all 
 of the map systems, item systems, AI, nearly everything. 
  Luckily, I made my way to the train station, where I actually had a little bit of fun, with finding 
 shelter and fighting and deactivating bombs and such. Ever since then the experience improved drasticly, 
 at least for me, and I've had plenty of fun with the game. The storyline is oddly EXTREMELY fascinating, 
 and I actually found myself spending somewhere around a half-hour scrolling through the codex. 
 
  One of the biggest catches of this game was another twist in the good and evil system. It seems 
 Bioware will never be satisfied with just good and evil. This time, with the Paragon and Renegade, 
 your meters are depended on whether your actions are to help one person, or are for the greater 
 good of the Alliance.
  All and all, this game is built up on feel, and Im really not a fan of Sci-Fi (can't even stand 
 to play Phantasy Star) , but this game can and will capture you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stormrider1285
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  For those of you who have not experienced that masterpiece of modern cinema that is Spaceballs, 
 let me explain the quote. There's a scene in the movie where the heroes are fleeing the villains, 
 and they make their escape by jumping to lightspeed. Not wanting to be outdone, the villains pursue 
 at Ludicrous Speed, which is evidently three times as powerful as lightspeed. While it is hilarious 
 to watch the massive evil spaceship overshoot the good guys' little ship at unimaginable speeds, 
 there is a lesson to be learned from the whole thing.
  
  When you try too hard, you may certainly get what you're looking for, but you'll have to take a 
 couple steps backwards to get to the exact point you're shooting for. ME does a brilliant job with 
 drawing you in and the combat is a lot of fun, but the devs really focused on the good stuff. The 
 game trips over a few technical issues and major balancing problems with the side missions.
  
  First off, the story. Mass Effect knocks this out of the park. Each character is developed, 
 and unsettlingly, you might see them in people that you know from real life. You have one squadmate 
 who desires that everyone get along, and has an irritating desire to act as your moral compass. 
 You have another who thinks that humans should look out for themselves only, ignoring the rest 
 of the galaxy, and using violence to achieve what is necessary. At each point in the game, your 
 squadmates will counsel you as to what decision you should make at a given point. One will insist 
 that you show mercy to the creatures that you have overthrown, whereas the other will advise you 
 to take bloody vengeance and move on. The main character, whom you control for the whole game, 
 still manages to seem interesting and 
  
  On that note, choices of that nature do come up fairly regularly in the course of the game. The 
 majority of them are typical "moral choices" for video games, which consists of "do you kill them 
 or save them? Either way, you move on without the game being impacted in any way. Save them? +10 
 good guy points!" A few times, though, you're faced with stuff that affects your squad on a very 
 deep level. Since you should be using most of your squad members regularly (unless you're looking 
 to get the unreasonable achievements-more on that later) , you'll want to be careful when it comes 
 to damaging their well-being. It gets a bit deeper under your skin when you consider that the game 
 does a pretty good job attaching you to the characters emotionally. 
  
  From a realism standpoint, the game does better than you'd think. Although you're granted authority 
 to act as you wish, oftentimes you get bogged down by the different politicians and interest groups, 
 all vying for power over the others. You really get drawn into the story when it's so obvious that 
 you could fix everything if you could only upset this one alien race or that other group of lobbyists, 
 but you can't. Instead, you have to look for loopholes in the law, go over your superiors' heads, 
 or do a favor for a disloyal security guard so he'll give you his key card. It draws you in like 
 few games before it, and it's always interesting to decide whose toes you want to step on to achieve 
 your ends.
  
  Graphics-wise and sound-wise, Mass Effect is dandy. The voice acting is excellent and there are 
 conversations that will genuinely infuriate you or make you laugh. Whenever you're in a city, you're 
 surrounded by the sounds of ships landing, and you catch snippets of conversations among unnamed 
 NPCs. Each environment is well-rendered, the alien species are creatively designed, and-for the 
 story worlds, at least-everything looks unique and rarely repetitive.
  
  Combat is fun, and feels a lot like Knights of the Old Republic (yes, you've heard it before, but 
 the games ARE similar) . You take cover, you can throw grenades, your squadmates will use their 
 tech and force ("biotic") powers without your urging (although it is possible to tell them to use 
 specific abilities on specific targets at specific times) . There are four different types of weapons 
 available to everybody, and their competence with each is determined by their class. The same applies 
 for you. Unlike KotOR, where you could use everything at a slightly reduced level depending on 
 your specialization, you simply do not have access to tech skills if you specialized in combat 
 or biotics. If you haven't invested points in your sniper rifle skills, then your scope will bounce 
 all over the place, making it difficult to hit anything. This emphasis on different combat styles 
 and different specializations for each of your squadmates adds a considerable amount of replay 
 value, especially on the unlockable difficulty levels.
  
  The non-combat elements of the game-talking to squadmates, talking to politicians, flying around 
 the galaxy, etc.-are all functional, and it's interesting to watch the conversations. You might 
 accidentally select a conversation option you don't want if you're trying to skip through all the 
 dialogue, but if that's the case, you probably won't mind anyway. The characters' lips actually 
 sync to their speech for once, and you can tell how you're doing by reading facial expressions. 
 This technology isn't perfect yet, but Mass Effect takes it a few steps forward, and the results 
 are appreciable.
  
  The achievements are reasonable for the most part: use this ability or spell 75 times, kill 150 
 organic enemies, kill 250 robotic enemies (easier than it sounds) , complete the love story side 
 quest, etc. You can an achievement for completing each story world, and there are achievements 
 for beating the game once, twice, and on each unlockable difficulty. However, seven achievements 
 center around finishing the story mode and a LOT of side missions with the same characters. By 
 doing so, you cut yourself off from getting all of the story, and you also force yourself to do 
 a lot of annoying side missions (more on this later) .
  
  As well as Mass Effect performs, it becomes easy to spot it when the game falters, shoots itself 
 in the foot, or falls flat on its face. First off, there are some technical issues that really 
 hurt the immersion that the game normally does so well with. You could be walking along a totally 
 innocent-looking corridor when you get hit with a 15-second loading screen. Every time you want 
 to go to a new area, you have to get there via a 20-second elevator ride, on which the only effort 
 made against monotony is a three-sentence news report or four lines of pointless chit-chat from 
 whichever squad mates you have with you. Since the game is so intricate, I'd be willing to forgive 
 occasional little pauses to load stuff, but far too often the framerate lags or the game just screeches 
 to a halt to load more stuff. This doesn't happen so much that the game becomes unplayable, but 
 as infrequent as it is, it's still annoying.
  
  As I said earlier, morality feels sort of shoehorned into the game. Of the major choices you face 
 (one or two for each of the major story worlds-eight or ten in all) , only three or four have a 
 major impact on the game after they happen. For the rest, you just get a truckload of morality 
 points and the story continues. On that note, the morality system means NOTHING. Unlike KotOR, 
 where being good or bad impacted the ease with which you could use your powers, ME's morality system 
 is just a way of telling you "that was nice" or "that was mean". Also, the game is afraid to tell 
 you that you're being evil. It calls the evil choices "Renegade" choices. The choice is between 
 "Paragon", which means "you work for the welfare of others", and "Renegade", which the game says 
 means "you finish the job by any means necessary". Well, you can still finish the job by being 
 a nice guy. I guess they just didn't want to step back to the Dark Side of the Force.
  
  Here's my biggest beef with the game: the story is excellent. The story worlds are excellent. Wherever 
 you can add to and progress in the story, the game is awesome. However, the game says you can explore 
 an entire galaxy. While this is true-every visit-able section of the galaxy is subdivided into 
 star systems that have at least one thing you can land on-the rest of the planets in a system just 
 look pretty. Each time you go to a new system, you have to zoom in to every world to see if you 
 can scan it, then land on the one habitable world to do a side mission. The problem is this: every 
 side mission is the same. There are over 50 of them, and they all happen on different planets (which 
 means a LOT of random flying around and scanning stuff before you can get to all of it) , but they 
 all mean the same thing: find the crashed probe for a couple bonus weapons, find the mineral deposit 
 to scan it, and find the enemy base to clear the big room full of boxes and  
 creatures. It doesn't help that every single base in the side worlds is identical, and the worlds 
 are either "snow", "lava", "desert", or "temperate". Every now and then there'll be something interesting, 
 like a chance to talk to your commander from a previous mission or the opportunity to find out 
 why a group of terrorists is fighting, but they all boil down to the same damn thing. I'd rather 
 have KotOR's nine interesting worlds than ME's seven interesting worlds and fifty identical ones.
 
  
  Also, although your squadmates are pretty smart, occasionally the AI poops its pants. NPCs shoot 
 at the wall they're hiding behind or get stuck behind a self-closing or something, but that happens 
 infrequently and doesn't really have an impact on anything. As a side note, the last time I played 
 the game, I had to fight the final boss short one squadmate because he got stuck on a wall in the 
 room before, but the odds of this happening to you are 40 bijillion to one.
  
  All in all, ME is an amazing game that's very well-made. It draws you in like few games before 
 it, and represents some of the most creative game design ever. However, it gets so fixated on the 
 awesomeness that it overshoots the point of perfection to have some irritating technical issues. 
 Still, this shouldn't stop you from experiencing the coolness that it offers. I probably made the 
 issues seem very big and game-breaking, but they really aren't. Just don't get hung up on getting 
 the achievements for finishing billions of side missions. Experience the story and all of the stuff 
 you have to do, because the side attractions are mostly boring. Don't let them get in the way of 
 finishing a game that's remarkably well put-together and is able to stand with the best RPGs of 
 our time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: illie_ollie
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  `Mass Effect`
  
  I was very enthralled by the very essence of Mass Effect. It was probably one of the most amazing 
 games I've ever played, and that's alot coming from a hard core RPGer.
  
  Some may say this game was an RPG, some may say Strategy or Shooter.
  
  This game was many 
 genre's pooled into one unbeatable chocolate for the brain.
  
  I felt that the story kept me guessing tell the very end with many twists, turns and plummets to 
 keep you very satisfied.
  
  It was customalizable enough with a fair selection of armours and weapons.
  
  The biotic powers 
 were unique though reminded me of Jedi powers all the same, which was fine with me who happens 
 to be a big fan of KOTOR.
  
  Your team members were a little dull and were quite mono tonned. They lacked personality in their 
 voices, which is where all the character comes from in these kinds of games.
  
  I found talking to them a chore, and this was one of the games slight downfalls, as well as the 
 inability to skip conversations.
  
  overall a great game and was worth my 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenerhai
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Alot of good things have been said about Mass Effect. Alot of good reveiws have been given to Mass 
 Effect. But, personally, I just don't get the hype. So I would prefer to write a review of all 
 the things I didn't like about Mass Effect. But it wasn't all bad, the great graphics (if you you're 
 not bothered by all the texture popping in 30 seconds after a screen has loaded) , the deep intricate, 
 entrenching tale (I'd even go so far as to put it up there with some of the great sci-fi tales 
 ever written) , and it's developers credits of such memorable and enjoyable games like KOTOR and 
 Jade Empire.
  
  But that's exactly where Mass Effect falls short in my book. I understand that Bioware wanted to 
 get away from the Star Wars liscense and delve out into their own massive sci-fi epic, but I my 
 humble opinion they took a step back. They traded in force powers for "biotics" and they ditch 
 lightsabers and stuck with blasters. Nope, no thank you, I'll take my lightsaber over a plasma 
 pistol or a energy assault rifle anyday.
  
  And can someone tell me who thought the Mako was a good idea? Sure it probably sounded good in 
 theory, and even looked better on paper, but it's final play mechanics were crap. Every planet 
 you can drive around on the Mako with suffer from the same gravity. Ok, I guess I can get used 
 to that. But what is with the guns? Anyone that's played it can tell you that something didn't 
 add up the first time you lined up an enemy dead in your crosshairs and shot the hill or building 
 behind them, completely missing the guy shooting you. . . okay? -Right, anyway. Mako sucks.
  
  But a more important part of the game, combat is another thing I just can't deal with. Ok, 
 so we determined that we are gonna throw away lightsabers and any other close range melee weapons 
 right? Right, just pistols, shotguns, assault rifles, and sniper rifles. Granted souped out super 
 alien guns, but mostly long range weapons for the most part. Then why is that almost every fight 
 I get into all the enemies charge at me and cluster around? And compounding the fact that my brain 
 dead allies AI always seem to find the best way to completely block my line of fire no matter where 
 I move?!?! *sigh. Sure, you can use your forc- I mean biotics, which are mostly defensive and supportive 
 and less offensive, but until you get to a higher level for those to actually affect enemies the 
 way you need, you're SOL. But I dealt with it. 
  
  Then there was the good awfull item mangement system. I think I'd rather manage a fast food resteraunt 
 supply inventory than deal with the mess that was Mass Effects.
  
  But one thing I couldn't take was how buggy and glitchy the game is. I can't count on two hands 
 how many times I was talking with a character in the game and they had a voice one second, then 
 none the next. Also a number I don't have enough fingers to count was how many times this game 
 froze on me. At first I thought it might be my aging Xbox preparing to give me the red rings of 
 death, but this is the only game that gives me trouble. Older games work fine. My brand new DMC4 
 is fine. And all my discs are in perfect shape, no smudges, no scratches. I even had to return 
 the game two days after I bought it. It wouldn't read the disc! Every other game worked. Just not 
 Mass Effect. At least until I returned it for another copy, only then did it work. Then it would 
 freeze. Alot. Often. Are me and this game hexed? Maybe, but all in all my experience with Mass 
 Effect was not a pleasant one. I will be hesitate of later instalements, but at least I'm willing 
 to give the next one a chance, just as long as Bioware learned a few things from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 67gt500
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  At long last, another Space-RPG opus! And from Bioware no less, creators of the much-beloved Star 
 Wars Knights of the Old Republic (on original xbox) comes Mass Effect in all of it's next-gen glory 
 on xbox 360! Does it live up to the hype? Can it eclipse the greatness of it's last-gen step-sibling (s) ?
 
  
  Well.... yes! And.... no.... Therein lies the biggest Mass Effect "Dilemma"
  
  From a technical standpoint, this game is - well - a mess. It seems like UE3, (Bioware's engine-of-choice 
 this time out) is well suited to some aspects of this game (ie: taking cover and blasting fools) 
 and not so well to others. For a genre that relies so heavily on immersion and suspension-of-disbelief 
 , It's disappointing to watch textures being applied layer by layer to the environment and character 
 models. And that's (according to Bioware) with full optimization. Ouch.
  
  And, for some reason, when running this game, my xbox360 sounds like the flight deck of an aircraft 
 carrier. I literally had to crank the volume up on the ol' receiver just to hear the game over 
 the roar of the 360's fans. Seriously, I kept a small fire extinguisher nearby, just in case. That's 
 okay though, because the dialogue in Mass Effect is brilliantly voice-acted and the sound effects 
 are delivered with a firm punch. 
  
  Fortunately for Mass Effect, the story it tells is great. Some of the moral-dilemma type choices 
 that you will be asked to make are genuinely compelling. But c'mon - parading around the galaxy 
 with the right to play judge, jury and executioner is kind of - well - lame in some ways ... and 
 liberating in others. Honestly, being a badass just isn't as much fun when you're ALLOWED to be. 
 Mass Effect does however, give you a (chillingly) good sense of what it would actually be like to 
 be a sort of inter-stellar cop who can [choose to] operate outside the boundaries of the law.
 
  
  Strangely, Mass Effect over-all, is well worth experiencing, despite it's glaring flaws. Having 
 said that, I'm quite convinced that If this game was made by ANY developer other than Bioware, 
 and if it's story wasn't as tight as it is, the critics would have had a heyday cutting it to pieces 
 for it's technical short-comings. And any story alone that can garner so much critical acclaim 
 and bridle the tongues of critics in the face of a plethora of technical issues, is definately 
 worth your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z00Mbite
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay (8/10) : It's your KOTOR with a little FPS. It's a great move, definitely a step in the 
 right direction. Still, they could have pushed it further. Guns feel under-developed and "bionics" 
 have too much emphasis. Controls are easy. Just balance out FPS and RPG elements, and everything 
 will be alright
  
  Sound (10/10) : From the great bass to the great sound effects, you'll find yourself turning your 
 volume down because the sound effects are so bold. Sound, possibly the largest asset to this game, 
 gives it the "deep space" feel.
  Voice acting is absolutely superb, top-notch. Very little puns and cliche phrases. You'll find 
 every main character bursting with his/her own style and personality. It is rare to find such an 
 authentic gem.
  
  Graphics (9/10) : The game has top-notch visuals. Very little to complain about. Though, the characters 
 can sometimes lag (especially when using massive amounts of powers) , and the background/ world 
 visuals can look repetitively bland. Otherwise, unnoticeable. 
  
  Story (7/10) : I appreciate the complex world and the politics behind this expansive universe, but 
 the word is "expansive" and that is what the story lacks. Basically filled with repetitive and 
 trivial side quests and missions, one wonders "why am I doing this again?" Eventually, you will 
 be left searching for minerals and gases in order to fully complete the game. For an RPG, I was 
 very disappointed with lengthiness of the story. It only racks in 15-20 hours for the main quest, 
 and 30 hours (most) for the side quests. So, you have about 1/3 to 1/2 of the game being meaningless 
 side quests. For an FPS, on the other hand, I would be very satisfied. Still, I wish the characters 
 were pushed further. They have history, but they still lack complex character. On the bright side, 
 the game puts the player up with some hard and plot changing decisions. This is expected by BioWare, 
 but it still makes the game feel unique. Still, by the end, you are left wonder, "Is that it?"
 
  
  Final Opinion (8/10) : It may not be your next Final Fantasy or KOTOR, but it will satisfy those 
 who are searching for top-notch game play mechanics and complexity. In games like this, the story 
 is everything, and that is what really hurt it. Now, it sits on my shelf, being judged whether 
 or not to be re-sold to GameStop.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenwickhotmail
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  New IPs always create fuss, especially when they're exclusive, and coupled with both being delayed 
 and from the hailed RPG gods Bioware, surely there was nothing to stop this?
  
  Well, no.
  
  After customising your character to your hearts content, your whisked away and 
 are instantly hit with how real and epic the game feels. You quickly become part a grand story 
 to save the galaxy, but it is so impeccably delivered that you have a real emotional attachment 
 to the main character throughout the entire rollercoaster.
  
  The way the majority of the story is conveyed is with the unique conversation mechanic. You have 
 the option of several dialogues, realistically delivered with the best in-game facial design to 
 date with good lip-sync and expressions but, most importantly, exceptional voice acting. Nothing 
 exciting? Oh, but they are. Reminiscent of previous Bioware goodies, they can have vast consequences 
 for later gameplay, ranging from extra sidequests or resolving disputes to the death of a character 
 or even sharing your love pump with a lucky someone. It may not sound like much, but the conversations 
 add real authenticity to the journey and a layer of originality.
  
  The freedom you feel is unmatched. You soon gain command of a ship which can travel the Milky Way, 
 where you choose which planets you touch down on. They contrast vastly, from snowy uninhabited 
 wastelands to weird alien infested lava planets. The main quest offers varying gameplay which is 
 naturally action packed and the epic-ness continues. The planets not connected with the main story 
 are too often void of much to do or see and offer little reason to return. In addition, it is unfortunate 
 to get to these places you'll need the MAKO, the most exasperating piece of junk ever created.
 
  
  While unique and interesting to begin with, you're bound to get frustrated not after long. It is 
 so damn twitchy it really gets to me sometimes. However, huge beasts often burst threw the ground 
 on some planets, and fighting those never tires in the MAKO.
  
  The combat the other gameplay giant and, fortunately, it's a lot of fun. Real time combat seems 
 to be the norm now in western RPGs, but Mass Effect also implements the cover system; a recent 
 gameplay mechanic to hit the market.
  
  Depending on which of the six classes you choose, you will be able to use a range of both guns 
 and magic attacks  named biotics. Pistols, shotguns and snipers are all available and can be modified 
 with upgrades you find or buy on your travels. Biotic powers include throwing your enemies, creating 
 a vortex which sucks and spins your foes as well as being able to turn them against themselves, 
 to name a few.
  
  Although you have a hot key for one attack, if your character is mainly biotic focused, you will 
 be spending a lot of time on the power wheel. This breaks up the action as it pauses the game, 
 which is a bit of a disappointment. You also have control of your teammates on the battlefield, 
 being able to place them behind cover etc, however, they are sometimes pretty brain dead which 
 can get frustrating on harder difficulties.
  
  After downing your foes, you will gain experience. Enough will warrant you to level up (duh) . The 
 leveling up system is simple to use to use and will mean a lot when you get further into the game. 
 One of the options is to choose charm or intimidate, which opens up new dialogues, and is also 
 coupled with paragon and renegade points which you receive from the dialogue you choose. These 
 shape who you are in the world, and will change the way certain people act around you and open 
 up other quests.
  
  Graphically, it is stunning, in particular the facial animations. However, it does suffer from 
 very frequent long texture pop-ins and sometimes choppy gameplay. The sound is equally incredible; 
 the voice acting especially.
  
  Mass Effect is one of those games that sucks you for the whole ride; an amazingly well delivered 
 story which is both rememberable and emotional. The sense of freedom is one of its largests assists 
 and the combat is a bag of fun, making the minor technical flaws and other drawbacks small potatoes; 
 a game which will stay with you for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humphreyscraig0
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  As a role playing game, you would expect the story to be innovative, or at least interesting. However 
 you would be disapointed. The story is a seemingly endless (when you are playing it at least) barrage 
 of clich after clich after clich. Now clichs are all well and good when you buy the game to 
 blow things up, or because it looks/sounds amazing, but when you buy it because it is supposed 
 to be an amazing, engrossing, wonderful original story laden with unforeseen twists with a backdrop 
 of a vibrant well thought out deep and interesting universe, it is a saddening disapointment.
 
  
  Speaking of the setting, it was supposed to be an all original vibrant, well thought out, deep 
 and interesting web of different cultures and species where you could if the story proved grating, 
 explore the galaxy from planet to planet immersing yourself in the nuances of interstellar diplomacy. 
 It isn't. One of the main reasons I bought this game was the lure of the supposed highly interactive 
 universe where you could explore to your hearts content, however it actually turns out that there 
 are precious few star systems and only 1 planet in each that you can actually set wheel on. For 
 the most part 'exploring' a planet means selecting it, seeing a planet that looks just like the 
 30 before and just like the 30 afterwards, pressing the scan button, and being told you've found 
 some random thing. And disapointingly, even the planets you can set foot on are blindingly similar, 
 there are the odd one or two with something notably different from the others, such as indigenous 
 life, or unusual ruins, but for the most part even the explorable planets are the same with the 
 difference being the ground is a different colour.
  
  And on the species and cultures in the game. The cultures are your standard rpg fare, with nothing 
 really making them interesting or differentiating them from any other rpg you have ever played. 
 Sure they look different but thats not enough. Chances are you will begin referring to the Asari 
 as Elves and the Geth as Goblins/Orcs and the Krogan as Dwarves. Even the cultures that aren't 
 completely copied and pasted are still very much like what you have seen before.
  
  And on the difficulty, one of the big draws to this (for me anyway) was that it was also a 3rd 
 person shooter featuring magic where you had to use elements of your fire-team tactically rather 
 than just wading in to be successful. However this is not the case at all, on hard and the difficulty 
 above it (I cant bring myself to complete it twice to unlock the hardest difficulty) You find out 
 that there's no point of trying anything more than just running up and spraying them, the AI don't 
 react intelligently enough (your side and the enemy) . A prime example is when trying to flank 
 a position, your AI doesn't know how to suppress, that doesn't matter though as the enemy AI walks 
 into fire without a care in the world. So by the time you've flanked all the AI is already dead. 
 
  
  However the terrible AI doesnt really matter as fairly soon into the game you become pretty much 
 invulnerable to small arms fire. And later on you become near immune to tank fire. I mean as much 
 fun as beating a tank to death is, it gets boring quickly.
  
  Despite these and many other flaws, the basic game mechanics are decent, and the vehicle sections 
 are fun (I like the fact they added limited vertical traverse, though it upsets more people than 
 it pleases, including the Gamespot reviewer but thats the way turreted AFVs are) . The graphics 
 are great, despite texture popping, the sound is good, though some enemy noises are used too often, 
 fighting mages for instance is just a constant barrage of shouts of "I WILL DESTROY YOU!", the 
 acting is OK despite often being very flat, it is for the most part well done, just horribly let 
 down by the writing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddington17
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a great example of how developers should make games. Bioware took what worked well 
 in it's KOTOR series and added a completely new combat system.
  
  Gameplay: The new combat system took me some time to get used to but it works quite well. Combat 
 works like a simple 3rd-person shooter with Biotic ('Force') powers added in. You can choose from 
 different character classes which have a different balance between Combat, Biotic, and Technical 
 skills. While the technical skills are better left to your NPC characters to use, the combat abilities 
 are helpful and biotics are fun to use. Like in the KOTOR games you lead a small team of allies, 
 each with their own background stories and abilities. In addition you can pursue a romance subplot 
 with one of your allies. The game's difficulty was an issue for me. In the early stages of the 
 game combat was pretty tough as I got used to the combat system. By the end of the game though 
 your character seemed nearly invincible. You could charge through enemies without much trouble. 
 Too hard early on, and too easy later in the game. Although I would say the end boss was in no 
 way a push-over.
  
  Graphics: The graphics look quite nice and the dialogue scenes are very detailed. Sadly there is 
 a somewhat annoying bug of skins taking too long to load. When you enter a new area everything 
 will look blurry and ugly for a second or two until the skins load. This is pretty minor but that 
 only got annoying towards the end.
  
  Sound: The voice acting in this game is great. The combat sound effects are all well done and helps 
 immerse the player in the action. The background music is also well done in matching the mood of 
 the game.
  
  Value: The size of this game is quite impressive. You can travel throughout the Milkyway galaxy 
 and actually land on a number of different planets. However, after you've seen a few planets, you 
 feel like you've seen them all. All the planets are quite barren with only 3-5 points of interest 
 besides the base you can enter to preform a mission. Along these lines the sidequests become somewhat 
 repetitive after you've completed a few. They all involve landing on a planet, driving to the base, 
 fighting through some enemies to an NPC and then killing/saving the NPC. 
  
  Tilt: While the game does become repetitive the story and background information on the galaxy 
 is very interesting. Bioware has created an entire galaxy and a few hundred years of history to 
 help flesh out the different races and events. The plots for the quests were all pretty new and 
 interesting. It keep the game quite exciting.
  
  If you want to play a good RPG don't overlook this one, it tries a lot of new stuff and does most 
 of it well. However there are a number of small bugs in the game which can become annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodbore8
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect does almost everything right. Great graphics, story, gameplay-All that is to be expected 
 from the creators of the Xbox's best RPG, Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic. Mass Effect raises 
 the bar yet again by delivering one of 2007's most amazing experiences on the Xbox 360 platform.
 
  
  Mass Effect delivers fun combat. Switching between weapons and armor couldn't be easier. Mass Effect 
 looks slightly better than Gears of War in some places. The soundtrack is epic and wonderful to 
 the ears just like the better-than-movies voice acting. Everything sounds perfect, right?
  
  You take control of a human named Commander Shepard of the Normady, one of the fastest space 
 ships in the galaxy. You can pick what sort of background you want your character to have and that 
 changes the way some parts of the story progress. Humanity has just discovered flight faster than 
 light via the use of newly discovered mass relays. Your decisions reflect that of humanity as you 
 are chosen as a representative for your race, a Spectre. You have to gain the aliens' trusts and 
 stop a rogue Spectre named Saren from unleashing something that has come before and destroyed all 
 advanced life in the universe. If you don't stop him, you know that humanity and the rest of the 
 advanced species are done for. During the game, you'll make decisions about whether or not full 
 species live or die and you'll drop nuclear bombs on planets to make for some truly epic, inimitable 
 moments not seen in other games.
  
  I could go on and on about how good everything in ME is but I'll have to summarize it all up: The 
 combat is excellent. It's just as good as the combat you'd have in any shooter. The only exception 
 is the Mako driving levels. While they're fun, they just don't compare to the rest of the game 
 and can get really tough sometimes because of sometimes imprecise controls. It's a good thing that 
 the on-foot combat (which makes up the majority of the game) is excellent.
  
  There has never been a game that has such a great story. KOTOR (a 10 from me) didn't even come 
 close to this awesomeness. While it's obviously not perfect and it's a little short, this is one 
 RPG that you cannot afford to miss out on. You just need to play it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Like I said the game has good shooting probably one of the best shooting of 07 but the talking 
 just down grades it. Theres more talking then shooting and thats not good. I mean really a guy 
 tells you to go to another planet just to say hi to someone else and its a 30 min travel from planet 
 to planet. The talking isnt really that fun to listen to but being able to choose your response 
 back is pretty cool. And whatever you say to someone will effect the outcome of some of the story. 
 I recommend this game to any one who is willing to take the time to listen to people talk for a 
 long time. Well thats all I have to say Im not saying its a game to not get but just be willing 
 to listen and wait for a good fire fight. But right now theres alot of better games like Turok 
 or Devil May Cry4 so wait till no good games are coming out and thats not going to be march because 
 Army of two, Unreal tournement 3 (xbox 360 edition) and Rainbow six vegas 2 are coming out so just 
 wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shufu7-11
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Bioware has brought us some wonderful rpg's in the past few years, and Mass Effect builds upon 
 and improves the same concepts introduced in past Bioware games. 
  
  The interactive dialouge system works wonderfully, although it's not with out it's flaws. During 
 any cut scene, your character is given a short list of responses: One towards the paragon side 
 (good) , one neutral, and one renegade (bad / evil) , and then others on the left side that will 
 give you more information on the current situation. Your character then speaks the line you chose, 
 although not exactly. You might choose one thing, but what your character says is completely different, 
 although it still implies the same thing as what you chose. This makes the dialouge actually worth 
 listening to. However, some responses give you the same dilaouge no matter what you choose, making 
 you feel like you are driving the story the way you want it to on your first playthrough, and then 
 realizing you really weren't on your second playthrough.
  
  The main story is a little short (about 10 hours) but is filled with excitement and suspenseful 
 moments, as well as several surprises. Should you decide to pursue the numerous side quests, however, 
 you will quickly find yourself swallowed up by a 50+ hour game.
  
  While there are quite a few side quests, the fun is nullified very quickly because of their repetetiveness. 
 They often include heading to an uncharted world to investigate something. This "something" is 
 usually in an underground facility or science lab, and they all look the same. You enter the facility, 
 head through a door into a large room containing a swarm of enemies you must kill, followed by 
 a hallway at the end of the room with a door on both sides. One door contains the "something" you 
 came for and the other may contain a few containers with upgrades and other goodies.
  
  Now for the gameplay. Mass Effect mixes third-person shooter elements with rpg elements, and the 
 result is a surprisingly good one. You are equiped with a pistol, a shotgun, a sniper rile, and 
 an assault rifle. These all work really well and feel just right. You can take cover by simply 
 moving behind objects and then use the Left Trigger to pop up and shoot (similar to Gears of War) . 
 You gain experience and credits for each enemy you kill. When you gain a level, you are given a 
 couple points you can use to upgrade certain stats, such as fitness (improves health) or damage 
 done with a particular weapon. 
  
  You will also find numerous upgrades spread througout the planets you visit. Each weapon contains 
 two upgrade slots: one for special ammo and one for a special effect. Some of these upgrades allow 
 for extra damage vs. syntetics or organic ememies, other allow you to better penetrate shields 
 or unjam your radar when it's jammed.
  
  Graphically, Mass Effect is like eye candy. The environments are lush with small details that bring 
 them to life, and the characters almost look like real people. The character animations are well 
 - done also, especially those of the characters faces. The animations do a great job of bringing 
 the characters to life and making you feel as if they are actually alive.
  
  The sound is really good as well. The musical score is an entirely original compostion that perfectly 
 fits the mood of the game. The dialouge is excellent, althought it's a little splotchy is some 
 places.
  
  Overall, Mass Effect is a great rpg with loads of worlds to explore. If you own a 360, you absolutely 
 can't miss Mass Effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterShake23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of those game we gamers started dreaming about back when the 360 was first announced. 
 From it's amazing graphics to intuitive gameplay, customization to amazing story line, this is 
 one of the best 360 games to date.
  
  Imagine Gears of War type gameplay crossed with Halo and a story that combines Star Wars, Star 
 Trek, an impending apocalypse and John Wayne and your pretty close to the atmosphere of this game. 
 Commander Shepard is charged with the task of tracking down a Rogue SPECTRE (special forces of 
 the galaxy) , Saren, in an effort to stop his plans of galactic destruction.
  
  The visuals in this game are amazing, and the facial modeling is on a level previously unseen in 
 actual gameplay graphics. You can create whatever Shepard you want, be it man or woman, hideously 
 disfigured or freakishly attractive. The emotions conveyed through the facial expressions of these 
 characters are almost creepy at times.
  
  I have only three issues with this game. First, the main story arc seems too short. Whether this 
 is due to the fact that this game can suck you in for hours that seem like minutes or if it really 
 is just short, it still satisfies. Second, you will find yourself in ENTIRELY too many elevators!!!! 
 This was a tactic used by the devs to get rid of load screens, which is great, but there still 
 needs to be something more going on than the occasional conversation or news brief over the radio. 
 Finally, the inventory screens are BRUTAL! There seems to be absolutely no organization to yor 
 items and you can organize them yourself. Also, there is a 150 item limit, which can become a pain 
 if you are out of space yet find a great suit of armor or weapon. If you do find that great item 
 and are out of room, you are FORCED to convert it to Omni-Gel (a type of fix all used for repairs) , 
 you cannot back out of the screen showing you what is in the chest. At times, it feels like you 
 are spending more time in inventory screens than actually playing the game, and hopefully this 
 will be corrected in future installments.
  
  GET THIS GAME!!!! If you like great stories and RPG/shooters, you will NOT be disappointed!!!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: retrocolumbo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Simply put this game is stunning. It's like an updated version of Oblivian only set in space.
 
  
  I liked Oblivian but it never actually kept me interested enough to complete the game. I am now 
 on my 3rd play through of Mass Effect and will probably give it another shot afterwards to gain 
 those elusive achievements.
  
  The story line and voice over acting are awesome, put this together with game play that lets you 
 take control over any conversation and therefore the outcome makes for one happy gamer.
  
  The combat system is very easy to get used to and control within no time.
  
  One of the best 
 part of the game I found is the ability to not only upgrade your players abilities but also there 
 weapons to suit how you like to play. 
  
  Best game I have played in a long time and certainly the best value for money spent.
  
  Well 
 recommended.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackBauer1005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a RPG game made by Bioware who are knowen for creating the Star Wars Knights Of 
 The Old Republic series. Mass Effect has you play as Commender Shepard who is part of the Human 
 Allience. You go after Alien called Saren who is a member of a special unit of the galaxy government. 
 You can choose from multiply classes (6 of them) which all have different abilites for the player 
 to use, you can also choose to play as a man of woman Sherpard. You have full control on how Sherpard 
 will look by changeing there face yourself and it is in more depth the the KOTOR games. You do 
 have good side and bad side options during the game but you have 2 seperate meters for each. The 
 graphics are the best to date on the 360 and the facial animations make it same like your are watching 
 a Sci-Fi film. The Combat in the game is great your have a wheel called the "Power Wheel" which 
 lists all of your tech, biotechs and weapon abilites along with your party members. You can fire 
 your gun which adds more depth to combat as you can get your party members to use certain skills 
 combained to kill the bad guys quicker. You have little control over party members and can only 
 choose they weapons, armour and what abilites you want them to learn and use. When you level up 
 you can add points to a certain skill on your character which will increase damage to that skill 
 and may unlock a new ability. The problem in the game comes when you have to drive the Mako which 
 is used on planets you land on most of the time, the weapons don't always hit where you aim which 
 is a pain. When you load from a save it can take a few seconds for the backround detail to update 
 which is easy to forgive because of all the great content. This game is a must for all shooter 
 and RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmartin1016
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a good game with solid gameplay and a above average story. The gameplay is the star 
 of the show despite what anyone else says. It's great, intuitive, fun, different than anything 
 an RPG has done before. Controls are tight. Graphics are beautiful. Sound is great. Music is appropriate. The 
 dialouge is interactive as well, which helps cause your gonna hear alot of it. Thats where I can 
 no longer give it praise. The dialouge is boring and the voice acting is not on par with a game 
 of this type. Emotion is displayed only a few times throughout the game, which seems odd considering 
 the story is full of tragedy and high stakes. I had really high hopes for this game and it satisfied 
 them all, except the most important aspect. Emotion. If I wanted to play a shooter, I'd play one 
 of many far superior ones available on the 360. I want a RPG with some heart, and Mass Effect came 
 up short. Rent it First! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shosta211
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  
  
  Mass Effect is an incredible game that brings together a revolutionary dialogue system, an engaging 
 story, and fun gameplay to make a great RPG. The huge galaxy filled with alien races and interesting 
 planets will have you exploring for a very long time. Although it is hindered by a few technical 
 flaws, I still consider Mass Effect to be one of the best games I have every played.
  
  Graphics: To start things off, Mass Effect stuns you with some unbelievable visuals. Superb lighting 
 effects and great detail make Mass Effect one of the better graphical displays for the 360. However, 
 the graphics are sometimes tainted by an occasional drop in frame rate or the few seconds of textural 
 problems after a loading time. These are both minor issues but nevertheless, they do deter the 
 visuals slightly. 
  
  Gameplay: The combination of biotics and weapons can make for fun and exciting battles, but the 
 ally AI can leave you shaking your head at times. Your two squad mates can irritate you by shooting 
 into walls and throwing themselves into the line of fire. Also, there were some problems with the 
 weaponry on the Mako. If you are positioned slightly higher than the enemy you can't hit them. 
 Setting the negatives aside, the true star of this game is the dialogue system. This is the first 
 game that I have played that lets you have real conversations with the other characters. You truly 
 feel like you have an impact on the universe with what you say and do.
  
  Sound: There's not much to complain about here. Top of the line voice acting makes the conversations 
 very enjoyable. The weapons and vehicles all sound very good. Also, the music in this game is very 
 fitting and well done.
  
  Value: There is awesome replay value in Mass Effect. The main story will take about 15-20 hours 
 depending on how you play and the difficulty the game is at. Aside from that, there are tons of 
 side quests. Any time when you are not in the middle of a main mission you can head to the Citadel 
 to get a task from someone. I have been playing this game for quite some time and I still have 
 quite a few side missions to complete. You will be busy with this game for a long time.
  
  Story: Mass Effect is hands down the best sci-fi story I have ever seen in a game. With a great 
 villain in Saren and a crazy plot twist I can guarantee you will never be bored with this story. 
 
  
  This is one of those rare games that combines a great story with good action to create a masterpiece. 
 I recommend Mass Effect to all Xbox 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arbiter98
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I Found Mass Effect to be, overall, a fun and interesting game. The Game play was slightly refreshing 
 and remains interesting even on my third play through. The Soundtrack was awesome and fit in with 
 the story, which retained my interest on the first play through, The Music also narrated the current 
 emotion that was trying to be expressed in certain cut scenes i gave that a plus. The only thing 
 i found to be frustrating was the seemingly endless exploration of uninhabited worlds and towards 
 the second half of the game i started to ignore much of the systems and just focus on the main 
 quests. So overall, With the good game play, story, and soundtrack, but with the frustration that 
 builds up over time while you explore the many unexplored worlds the final score averages out to 
 a 9. Thank you for reading my rookie review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcooper565656
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  "Almost Perfect!"
  This was probably the most anticipated game for the 360, for me. It was the reason I got one. I've 
 been a fan of the Kotor series and hearing about this I just absolutely was overjoyed. And the 
 results were exactly what I expected. The game is amazing, quite amazing. But as with most Bioware 
 games, its got a few minor glitches. This however is no where near enough to ruin the awesomeness 
 of the game.
  
  You start off as Commander Shepard, your back story and appearance can be determined by you, and 
 what you choose does affect the actually story. From there you are thrown into a galaxy of politics 
 and chaos. With you will be some of the most intense, if not interesting squad members. The game 
 is about interaction, and story and that is where it truly shines. But I'll discuss that more later.
 
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  The graphics are amazing, now you must wonder why I have only given it a eight. I will tell you. 
 The details are quite amazing, they have everything wrinkles, armor paint, clouds, right even down 
 to cracks in the ground. However, the details tended to take longer to load. Your character would 
 be talking to someone, only to see the details load about five seconds after the scene started. 
 It happened usually during conversation, and after cut-scenes. It was bearable, but still hurt 
 the look of Mass Effect. 
  
  Past that the look is amazing, one of my favorite places to go was the ship Normandy. They don't 
 leave a thing out, and the facial expressions at times had me actually believing I was there. Defiantly 
 one of the more impressive games for the 360.
  
  Gameplay/Replay Value: 10/10
  
  This was new for Bioware, and Rpg's in general. The game was a Role Play Game with bits of Third-person 
 shooter/Action Rpg integrated into it. This not only gave you feel of a RPG story, but the intense 
 action one would expect from a shooter. It made the game amazing. I found myself never bored of 
 combat. Leveling up your character was actually fun! Finding enemies was a different issue. Unlike 
 past Rpg's the enemies in this game only appeared in missions/side quests, however, you never really 
 needed to go searching for enemies to level you up, they came to you plenty.
  
  Another part of the gameplay was the exploration of planets, you would land on the planet in the 
 Mako, your own personal All-terrain vehicle. I will admit later on in the game the exploring of 
 planet will get a bit on the slow side, you will find yourself saying "I want to get into a battle" 
 but in the long run it added a certain feel of realism to the game. The mako itself was lacking. 
 This vehicle, which could climb up almost any terrain. I'll discus the controls later.
  
  The game did have a few minor glitches however, I would find my vehicle stuck on the terrain, or 
 I would load up a save only to find my vechle in the sky. Most of these didn't ruin the game, however 
 some got my character warped and stuck in one spot while during a fight. 
  
  But above all of this is the Dialog, it is the most engaging part of this game, no play through 
 will ever be the same. Not only does the system make for some intense conversations, but it actually 
 made listening to some of the non-essential talk fun. I would find myself looking forward to future 
 conversations, especially after upping my Charisma or Intimidation. Which brings me to my final 
 part on gameplay, the level up system. As with most RPG's you will distribute points to certain 
 skills, depending on which class you choose this could be Assault Rifles or Biotic Skills like 
 Lift, or push. 
  
  The biotic Skills made this game quite entertaining, I would find myself pushing people of ledges, 
 or lifting them in a no gravity atmosphere. Very fun.
  
  The game itself can be replayed several times, not only are their multiple endings, but multiple 
 classes and prestige classes, with the achievements you get making future characters even more 
 powerful, you will find yourself playing this game over, and over, and over. And did I mention 
 that most conversations you have will change depending on your character? Truly a must buy game.
 
  
  Story: 10/10
  
  This is the biggest part of the game, no longer do you sit back and watch the story fold, you make 
 it unfold. You are Shepard, you are the story teller. 
  
  Throughout the game decisions will pop up, game altering decision, and not only will your character 
 background effect what is said about you, at times you will find it affecting your decisions as 
 a whole. This game is like a giant cinematic to be honest, I felt at times like I was watching 
 a movie, no making one. No longer does your character remain silent, you actually interact with 
 other people, it is truly amazing.
  
  The story itself is amazing, every aspect that makes a good Science Fiction Space Opera is present. 
 A galaxy in danger, a daring hero, a beautiful woman, and many more. Also new is the Paragon/Renegade 
 system, it's no longer Good or Evil, but several shades of Grey. While you play this game you will 
 find you actually making a amazing character, one with flaws, and interesting quirks.
  
  The world you walk in is a used world, stuff has happened, its been going on before you. You will 
 notice almost every species is Xenophobic, mainly because of past actions, the back story sells 
 this game, you could actually see it happening. It makes the world more real then past games.
  
  Another bonus is the squad mates, they all have amazing back stories, and some of them are 
 just down right fun to talk with. I myself was found of Ashley, the more realistic of the bunch. 
 Also this is the first of a trilogy.
  
  My only complaint is the shortness of the main Quest, however the massive about of side stuff makes 
 up for it.
  
  Controls 9/10
  
  For the most part the controls are pretty basic shooter controls, the only beef I had with any 
 of the controls was the Mako scheme. 
  
  The vehicle controls were off at times, but for the most part you could look past it.
  
  Sound/Music 
 10/10
  
  Another wonderful score by Jack Wall. This music in this game allowed you to truly get into it, 
 I found myself hanging off the seat of my couch, at times the score was so in tune with the game 
 it would bring a tear at sad parts, and shout at intense parts. On top of that the combat sound 
 was realistic and on time. And there were never issues with lag or anything. 
  
  The voice acting for Shepard was odd at times. But any other character was perfect, also, there 
 were quite a few celebrities. Including Carth Onasi. 
  
  Overall 9/10
  
  As I said before, almost perfect. With a combination of a great and intense story, action packed 
 battles and almost perfect graphics, this is definatly a game worth picking up and keeping. If 
 only the story had been a little longer I would have given it a 9.5 and if the minor glitches were 
 gone a 10. 
  
  But flaws included this game is Massive, and worth the buy. Pick it up, you will enjoy I promise. 
 It is worthy of "Game of the Year" and on top of that, there are two more on the way. Go now, before 
 it is too late.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zenotyne17
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  Where can I even start lol.. everything about this game is perfect. The combat can get intense and 
 crazy when you have powers flying everywhere. The storyline can last ya for hours on end and keep 
 you in the story even doing the side missions. The only issues I really see are the controls for 
 the mako.. it's like controlling the halo 1 warthog only worse, the turret shoots where your not 
 aiming making the giant worm fights sometimes crazy, and the fact that it slows down when you play 
 for too long but it; s understandable seeing as how it has a huge universe so just restart your 
 360 after every 3 hours playing it and you should be fine. All and all it's a near perfect game 
 that I suggest you buy and play for yourself instead of reading a review about it :P now what are 
 you waiting for go on and buy it lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanifysatnaf
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  Every once in a while, there comes a game that forever changes the business. A game that's greatness 
 spawns sequels, cult-like followings, and endless hours of devoted play. As they created Mass Effect, 
 acclaimed developer Bioware probably sought to make their newest RPG exactly that. The result bears 
 strong visuals, a sweeping epic of a story, unrealistically good voices, (sometimes) Pulitzer-worthy 
 dialogue, and a great style. 
  
  Recently, the Unreal Engine 3 has been receiving quite a bit of use in hit games. Graphics rendered 
 by this program are consistently incredible, but I've noticed an equally consistent flaw. Details 
 (usually on armor/clothing) will load up one layer at a time. Oftentimes, I would go for around 
 thirty seconds before everything finished loading in an area. Another repeating drawback is frame-rate 
 issues. This one isn't as prevalent in Unreal Engine itself, but more in this specific game. Generally, 
 I don't mind slow-downs, but that's not the case here. Why? Mass Effect's combat is heavily based 
 on shooting. When the frame-rate stutters (which it does, a LOT) , the aiming process involved in 
 this kind of combat stutters with it. 
  
  On a brighter note, all the character models look great. Maybe the best of any RPG to date. Lip-synching 
 is extremely accurate, and lighting is decent. Although environments aren't up to the same quality, 
 they're not bad either. Camerawork, particular during the sprint, is cinematic. Cut-scenes don't 
 seem to have any graphical setbacks, and contain (arguably) some of the best moments in Mass Effect.
 
  
  Despite having called the plot of this game "epic" during the introduction, there are a few spoiler-free 
 flaws I must point out. There's more science-fiction clich in this than an 80's Star Wars rip-off. 
 What stood out most was the ending, which most will probably enjoy. Personally, I didn't care for 
 the last hour or two. In fact, I'd go so far as to say that I wish the game had ended after the 
 first conflict with the antagonist. My reason? Simple. That first conflict was masterfully executed 
 and sinfully climactic. My rating would have likely gone up to a 9.0 had the adventure ended there. 
 Any loose ends of the storyline could have been tied up in the upcoming sequels. Unfortunately, 
 Commander Shepard continued on his quest, and felt the need to participate in an overly-disappointing 
 final boss-battle. 
  
  Enough complaints. The time for praise is here. Only one aspect to point out, really, and that 
 is the choice making. It's awesome when it occurs, which is rarely. Most of the time, entire conversations 
 have no discernable effect. Almost all of the time, conversations do nothing to change the game 
 outside of quests. When the rare experience-changing choice is given, however, it's always cool. 
 No matter what is chosen, the outcome is relatively badass. 
  
  While conquering Bioware's latest output, you will eventually run out of space for items. By eventually, 
 I mean within a few hours. In order to obtain more space for the newest equipment, you're forced 
 to either sell or scrap your current stock. While hardcore players will probably micro-manage inventory 
 and frequently visit shops to sell, more casual fans of the genre will not. This will prove to 
 be a mistake. You see, once the limit is reached, you can't access equipment until the problem 
 is fixed. When you do go to rectify the setback, you'll find that the designers apparently felt 
 the need to conveniently place all of your greatest belongings at the top. No sorting option and 
 no page scroll. 
  
  The player is forced to go one-by-one (through hundreds) down to the outdated items in order to 
 be rid of them. To make matters worse, you're reset back to the top after every scrapping. Then 
 there's the inability to leave the menu until the job is done. Alternative options: lose top-quality 
 items in exchange for time and sanity, visit a store every twenty minutes, or never change equipment. 
 Unless you do any of these three rather dissatisfying things, about a fifth of Mass Effect will 
 likely be reduced to a bland blue menu screen. 
  
  In spite of several problems, the sheer amount of great things in this game can't be ignored. All 
 said, this is one terrific piece of entertainment. Things that bog it down are mostly technical 
 issues. If you're a fan of sci-fi, buy this. Fans of rope-playing, buy this. Fans of shooters, 
 buy this. Fans of video-games in general, buy Mass Effect. 
  
  Presentation: 7 (Great style hampered by poorly designed management systems.)
  Graphics: 8.5 
 (Some of the best looking models out there.)
  Audio: 9 (Phenomenal voice-acting and pretty good music.)
  Story: 8.5 (Very well written, but 
 some of it is a little too clich.)
  Gameplay: 8 (Innovative combination of shooting and power-based attacks. The same praise can't 
 go to the missions in the Mako vehicle, however.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suliman-Uchia
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  First off, I've been waiting for this game since the previews came out late last year (2006) . So 
 far, Bioware has done a great job of pimping out this game. And deliver it does...
  
  STORY: A+
  The 'cutscenes' are really not cutscenes at all. The conversations you have are pretty 
 dynamic and integration of the choices of stuff to say is so seamless it seems almost natural. 
 Early on, you get a sense of this when choices of stuff to do in the field enable you to remake 
 your character as a mission-oriented commander or more of a compassionate search-for-survivors 
 kind of guy, among some. The story picks up pretty much where the prequel book left off, and immerses 
 you in the experience. You keep on wanting to learn more. You definitely feel like a part of this 
 epic and that will keep you coming back.
  
  Unlike Halo 3 and Gears of War which launch you into an ongoing war, this game sends you into a 
 very deep, very complex world to explore. Imagine yourself as a hypothetical CIA agent before the 
 war begins. Expect to see yourself running around the world, talking to people and gaining intel 
 on people, and then having fight scenes from time to time. When you get sent on a mission to track 
 someone down and there are lots of enemies between you and the destination, then you begin to see 
 more of the combat-intensive aspects of the game.
  
  ---
  
  GAMEPLAY: A
  Expect to see a third-person shooter with a heavy RPG influence. While out in the field, it's like 
 a Gears of War experience with a basic tactical system. Run. Take cover. Take some guys down. Order 
 your friendlies to flank the enemy or to fall back. Outside of this, the RPG system comes into 
 play when leveling up, when you get to choose abilities to level up, weapons to equip (ie, if you 
 have 3 types of sniper rifles in inventory, which one will you equip?. I will cover this in more 
 detail below) . The controls were overall slightly different from control schemes used in comparable 
 third-person shooters. It didn't take me long to get used to the system used here in Mass Effect. 
 You can pretty much figure it all out in the first level.
  
  I had the mistaken view that only snipers and pistols can be trained into an over-the-shoulder 
 Gears of War camera angle when aiming (holding down the left trigger) . Apparently, this is because 
 I started off as an Infiltrator class. Different character classes can train different weapons. 
 The soldier class can train all weapons. Sniping took some getting used to. When you first start 
 off, Shepard is very shaky and thus it is very difficult to snipe. Adding points to level up your 
 sniping ability seems to limit this shakiness greatly.
  
  The tactical system is very very bare bones. You can order people to fall back, take on a specific 
 target, regroup, or storm the area. Nothing much to it. Therefore, players can fight with their 
 AI teammates as much of a unit (though I feel the AI tends to die a lot) .
  
  You also get to drive vehicles. Much of you have seen the trailers and saw that tank drop out from 
 the Normandy. That tank handles like a Warthog from Halo 3, except with rocket boosters and a repair 
 function. A heads up - repairing means you can't move or fire any of the tank's weapons. Therefore, 
 make sure you're in cover when repairing. I love the rocket boosters as it gives you an extra method 
 of dodging rockets and charged shots from the geth. The big disadvantage is that you have to drive 
 and shoot at the same time. This makes for some very frustrating vehicle fight sequences.
  
  I am a big fan of how the game feels thus far. Having RPG elements yields a lot of control 
 over how your character plays on the field. The shooting system is pretty good, but not flawless. 
 My biggest complaint early on was the many loading pauses you have to go through, but the deeper 
 I went into the game, the less it affected gameplay. Loading pauses don't happen in the middle 
 of the heat of battle, but it definitely wouldn't hurt to possibly fix this up in future patches.
 
  
  Finally, a decent portion of the game involves going out and doing side missions. This means jumping 
 in the tank and driving from the landing zone to various points on the map. I think driving around 
 like this is the most painful experience of the game. There's almost always nothing but an occasionally 
 frustrating 5-minute drive between the LZ and the destination, and once you get there, after doing 
 a few of the side missions, you realize that the site layout is a recurring theme. Therefore, if 
 anything else, the side missions are a great way to practice and to level up. There's some more 
 of that RPG stuff working for you.
  
  ---
  
  RPG Elements: A
  For weapons and armor, the feel is similar to something like Diablo II, where you pick up random 
 equipment as you go along. Each equipment has a certain class: armor, assault rifles, pistols, 
 sniper rifles, shotguns, etc (I haven't seen the other classes!) . Depending on the character class 
 you chose at the beginning, you have different combinations of these classes available to you. 
 For example, my character class may allow me to equip an assault rifle and armor only. This means 
 that I can equip only 1 assault rifle at a time and 1 armor. But since I pick up a lot of these 
 in the field, I must choose which assault rifle I want to use and which armor to equip. The equipment 
 select screen where you actually do this shows a lot of equipment data, ie damage of a weapon, 
 'clip size', so on.
  
  Upgrades for each weapon can also be picked up and installed, including different rounds (ie, shredder 
 rounds that add bonus damage when fighting organics, vs. armor piercing rounds against synthetics) 
 and a wide range of add-ons (ie, heat sinks to decrease gun overheating) .
  
  Another big thing is that you gain experience out in the field as you fight more stuff. You earn 
 points this way that you can spend upgrading, say, your ability to snipe or your armor's damage 
 reduction settings. There are definitely a variety of choices to look through while you decide 
 what to level up.
  
  ---
  
  CHARACTERS: A+
  I enjoy interacting with the characters to see what's going on in their heads. The characters are 
 all very multidimensional and very well thought up and implemented in the game. Voice acting and 
 video synchronization was flawless.
  
  ---
  
  REPLAYABILITY: A
  I have played through the story at least 3x by now, amassing more than 60 hours of gameplay. Having 
 6 character classes to pick from and 6 squad members to choose from, including the ability to choose 
 whether to build your reputation as a ruthless military man or a compassionate and humane leader 
 (or somewhere in between) definitely keeps you coming back to see how you can change the way things 
 play. The different character classes really play differently so have fun with them.
  
  ---
  
  To sum up, some of you may be looking at this game and wondering whether or not it's 
 worth the $60. And I say it is.
  
  PROS: Deep and immersive storyline that captivates from the beginning, well-made characters, seamless 
 incorporation of dynamic cutscenes, unique integration of 3PS with RPG. This game plays very differently 
 from anything you've tried before. It's no Halo 3 nor Bioshock. It's a very well-made original 
 game.
  
  CONS: Minimap is not intuitive at first, plays too much like a movie at times, driving between 
 points on a map in the Mako can be excruciatingly boring, a lot of recurring layouts with the sites 
 of side missions.
  
  FINAL VERDICT: A+. Very well-made game, well worth that whole wait from June till now. I've been 
 anticipating this game for a while and it delivers an epic storyline of gigantic portions in a 
 way that no others have done. This is definitely for people who want to experience being in an 
 all-new sci-fi epic and building up an altogether new and unique hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbark88
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect has proved to be an innovative and fun experience from BioWare. They continue to make 
 innovative games that really pull the players into the game. However, some of these innovations 
 seem to be both a blessing and a curse. In this review I will simply explain what I felt were the 
 pros and cons of this innovative experience.
  
  Mass Effect managed to do more right then wrong (thankfully) . The story is a refreshingly unique 
 take on humanity's role in the universe. In most space-oriented games mankind is a major power 
 in the grand scheme of it all. In this game, mankind is still considered a fledgling power granted 
 only a seat in the embassy. This is where your character comes into play. You take the role of 
 commander Shepherd (choosing whatever gender and first name you wish) . You are a commander (if 
 the name didn't already imply) in the human Alliance military. Throughout the game you play a large 
 part in the way the universe views humankind. Very quickly in the game the council (the governing 
 body of the central power comprised of representatives from the most prominent races throughout 
 the known universe) appoints you the first human participant of the right-hand military task force 
 known as the spectres. This puts you in a position where your actions help shape humanity's future 
 in the council. In this role you are faced with some tough decisions that actually have major consequences.
 
  
  The story is not perfect, though. On my first play-through I played as a Paragon (or good guy) . 
 The Paragon-Renegade system is interesting, but poorly executed. It is actually handled by two 
 different meters for both respectively. This means that you don't necessarily choose between the 
 two exactly. It is possible to get points in both at the same time. Although unique, I feel this 
 robs from the experience of choosing a specific side and getting rewarded and penalized for doing 
 so. The only time choosing a side has a satisfactory consequence is the end (sorry won't spoil 
 it for you) ; which is not that good. The side quests are also not very good. Most are not that 
 enjoyable, and offer little more than experience and money.
  
  The combat is hit-and-miss, mostly hit. With third person shooter controls it plays out like a 
 decent t. p. s. It did, however, become very redundant to me. That was not until towards the end 
 of the game, so rest assured. Also the class system is not fleshed out well. some classes are very 
 fun and others not so much. Most classes limit what kind of weapons you can train in to just a 
 few, narrowing the fun of combat. I won't spend much time on the inventory system, lets just say 
 it is very bad.
  
  Though I do have a few gripes. This game was very fun, but became repetitive and was ultimately 
 too short. I recommend you to at least rent it to see if you like it. Whether you rent or buy it, 
 you will have a satisfying experience on the first playthrough. Plus there will be some DLC so 
 if you really love it the fun can go on.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPiccoli
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  After pounding my way throught mulititude of side quests, while gradually making headway on the 
 story line, it occurred to me that as good as the main quests are, the side quests became repetitively 
 dull.
  
  Exploring the many worlds became a chore rather than a explorative thrill. All it would have taken 
 was the additional of a few "surprises" to flesh out the world exploration. Such as stumbling across 
 stranded survivors or undocumented settlements. Or random ruins of research facilities or ancient 
 civilizations or.... well, you get the idea. It ended up feeling like a scavenger hunt to locate 
 all "mineral deposits" or "medallions". Of course, with my anal personality, I had to try to find 
 them all, but that didn't mean I enjoyed it.
  
  Enough of the bashing though.
  
  The story line was thouroughly engaging and varied. I enjoyed how I was able to directly effect 
 the final outcome with the converstation options. I've tried both the "good" and "jerk" storylines. 
 It was actually amusing at times to see my parties reactions when my character went over the top 
 with a nasty reply. Sometimes they asked me to take it easy, other times they cowed like a beaten 
 puppy. 
  
  Combat was very enjoyable. Though, near the end, will all the upgrades and money I aquired from 
 the side quests, the enemy tended to get destroy. The biotic & tech powers were solid and well 
 balanced as well.
  
  I highly recommend this game for fans of the Star Wars-KOTR series. If you're more interested in 
 quick action like Halo, then this game may move a little slowly for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krow684
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  While there are certain games that appeal to certain individuals' sensibilities, like first person 
 shooters and RTSs and hardcore turn-based RPGs, I believe there is another kind of game that supersedes 
 the entire genre-labeled plane. I simply call these games "flagship system sellers," as they are 
 the games that EVERYONE needs to buy and play, the games that get consoles off the shelves and 
 sell computer hardware. We have witnessed many of these games throughout the years, like Super 
 Mario Bros., Halo, Half-Life, and Crysis.
  
  I intend to motivate a new motion to add Mass Effect to that list.
  
  This game was a wild 
 ride, from fast-paced, flash-fried immersive start to epic, heart racing finish, that kept me engaged 
 every moment. It is a masterpiece, not without its flaws, that spans people's genre-dominated interests 
 and creates an adventure that everyone should experience.
  
  First among Mass Effect's strengths are its visuals. Mass Effect runs on the Unreal Engine 3, the 
 revolutionary powerhouse behind Epic's hype-machine fed flop Gears of War. It seems there have 
 been quite a few tweaks as it looks real, even according to today's standards, a year after its 
 initial debut. The characters look incredible, lighting effects are stellar, and animations superb. 
 There are only two marks against the gorgeous graphics:
  A. The water reflections are not real time. Half-Life 2 did it three years ago, so I can't see 
 why today's games aren't able to, especially with all the powerful hardware at their disposal.
 
  B. The textures occasionally take a few moments to render directly out of a loading screen. As 
 much of a non-issue as it is, it is still a blemish nonetheless.
  I have heard complaints regarding framerate issues, It is true, there are moments when it can be 
 a problem, but I never encountered them in an area where they caused me any hindrance, such as 
 in combat. Considering how good the game looks, I think it's understandable that there are some 
 occasional slow-downs, and for this I give Bioware a pass.
  
  The game's innovation really becomes evident once the player starts talking to the games characters. 
 Every single line is so convincingly delivered, it couldn't have been more refreshing if they were 
 sung. Beyond that, the conversation system is revolutionary and engaging. Instead of reading your 
 entire response, to a T, the conversation wheel offers representational substitutes, so you can 
 choose your response on the basis of your initial reaction to the NPC's line. You can forget that 
 gap of silence spent reading and perusing your possible reactions during a line of dialogue. Now, 
 interactions unfold in front of the player much like they would in the flesh: gapless, emotional, 
 and interesting.
  
  The gameplay itself is very enjoyable, especially the action. The combat, while real time, isn't 
 as malleable as, say, a first-person shooter's combat. The game's shooting mechanics take some 
 getting used to, but once the player acclimates, it just gets better from there. The cover system 
 seems slightly unfinished but is functional enough to be relied on. As it is, it creates a more 
 enjoyable shooter experience than certain other third-person shooters that are considered the "pinnacle" 
 of third-person shooting. The combat is epic and quite intense and rewarding, especially in the 
 main story's last three hours. Walking around and gathering items and talking to characters bears 
 no beam of glory, but isn't necessarily blemished either. It is simply functional, which is all 
 it needs to be.
  
  The story is the game's strongest element. Every mission regarding the main story arc is nothing 
 short of awesome. The game levels twists and turns at the player in a seemingly unending barrage 
 of dialogue and cutscenes. That might sound like a criticism but believe me, it isn't. The story's 
 unraveling nature achieves its goal of spurring the player on. During the last five hours of the 
 game, I was unable to put the controller down, as my interest in the welfare of the characters 
 and the fate of this fictional galaxy was to much to simply leave hanging. After completing it, 
 my simple reaction is none other than, "that was unbelievably awesome."
  
  Now I would like to address the few complaints I feel must be voiced, in hopes that Bioware might 
 hear them and fix them to make the sequel as perfect as possible.
  
  While some people complain about the menu system, I feel that in most places, like the character 
 equipment and upgrade menus, it was rather intuitive and effective after getting used to it. It 
 was in the buy and sell menus that I found the most frustration. Instead of listing the items you 
 can sell logically, in categories and sub-categories like armor or weapons with subscripts like 
 pistols and shotguns, everything is lumped in one long, alphabetical list. That makes finding specific 
 items you wish to sell a frustrating endeavor that requires time and patience.
  
  The main issue, however, that I felt marred the game most, was the lack of detail associated with 
 tangent missions. Side missions mostly involved landing on a random planet in Citadel Territory, 
 and every one of those planets is bare to the bone. There are no cities or villages on these planets, 
 not even vegetation beyond the green grass that can be incorporated into textures. If the planets 
 were flat you would be able to see straight into the horizon for miles in every direction, without 
 so much as a pebble to block your view. I suppose that's why Bioware felt compelled to make every 
 single planet precariously mountainous. They are hardly navigable, and it adds some frustration 
 to the exploration process. One will find himself asking again and again, "Why is every base that 
 sends out a distress signal built into the side of Mount Everest?!?" However, the planets that 
 are incorporated into the main story are filled with so much detail that this error is almost forgivable, 
 but because side missions flesh out the universe so well and occupy a good chunk of playing time, 
 it is a shame that Bioware didn't take the time to create more unique, detailed worlds.
  
  Despite its failings, Mass Effect joins my list of essential games everyone must play, and it falls 
 into the ever-filling bin of Microsoft's console gaming successes.
  
  With all that said, I think I am going to start a new game now. I think I'll go biotic this time.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_zombie60
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Though a bit revolted by the ugliness of the first Shepard I made, this game only got better. The 
 combat being especially spectacular with the fast pace of biotics and flying geth, nothing could 
 of kept me more drawn into the game. The game also gave a good amount of amusement, with quick 
 judgement of a renegade to kill his own teammate and the pity paragons give to undeserving enemies 
 on their knees begging for their lives. Mass Effect, also really makes you think and gives you 
 a huge amount of customization. Choosing certain skills to put your points in is very necessary, 
 and can end up giving you your perfect build giving you something to brag about.
  
  The only part I wasn't very fond of was the glitches and how obvious it was to figure out what 
 you were doing was good or evil. A few times the glitches will even set you back, unpreparingly 
 sending you back to when you saved a bit too long ago, making you regret not saving before that 
 one fight. But its rare for that to happen, mostly the only glitch that occurs is your armor becoming 
 very low detailed for a few seconds.. When it comes to choosing whether you want to be paragon 
 or renegade, you are very guided, for the most part the "good" choice is at the top right and the 
 "evil" choice at the bottom right.. So you cant feel as proud for maxing out which ever you choose. 
 But when choosing Renegade, you do at the least get the enjoyment of seeing what they're gonna 
 do next.
  This game is for all types of gamers, keeping you on your feet for a very long time, as there is 
 a huge amount of replay value. Also the romance is optional for anyone that doesn't want to do 
 it, which i could defiantly see someone not wanting to do it.. XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakegx35
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect combines great storytelling, amazing graphics, and superb game play to deliver an unforgettable 
 experience in games. The amount of time I've put into this game total is about 250 hrs, and I'm 
 still at it! I kid you not there is tons of content and side quests (should you choose to accept) 
 to keep you replaying to find them or playing both sides of your alignment. The only problem I 
 had with the game is the repetitive "planet diving". Planets started to get into routine for exploring 
 and gathering. But side quests are connected to most of them. The animations are one of the game's 
 strong points. The character's eye movement, facial gestures, and movement help merge yourself 
 in another time and location that you control with your actions. The game play is real-time unlike 
 Mass Effect's predecessor KOTOR, so now you completely control the action. You can use pistols, 
 assault rifles, sniper rifles, shotguns, grenades, and specific powers based on your class. This 
 game will grip you and might not let go. From the beginning character creation to the end when 
 you determine the fate of the galaxy, Mass Effect is one of the treats that comes along for all 
 the RPG fanatics and will be one of your unforgettable experiences in games not seen in some time. 
 Overall this game is a MUST BUY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamekingpin
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  For those of you that expected this to be a constant futuristic gun battle, you could not be more 
 incorrect. This game is so much more. I am not too fond of role playing games but this one had 
 me hooked. you start off by choosing what kind of background you want your character to have and 
 also the characters appearance and then its off to explore the universe.
  
  From the beginning you get a sense of confusion as to your mission, your relationship with other 
 characters and races, and also what you are looking for. The game starts out on a brief mission 
 that gives you some of the combat basics and how to work the menus and so forth. It also gives 
 you a brief idea of the plot as you discover a beacon that causes you to have a vision of a very 
 possible end to civilization. After that you will start your journey at the Citadel which is a 
 key location for most of the main characters and the plot. It is there where you will start to 
 get into the Role Playing aspect and learning to interact with characters and making decisions 
 that will help you gain experience and decide what kind of person you want to become as far as 
 being a Paragon (Which is pretty strait laced) or a renegade with an attitude. You can always stick 
 to the main missions but you will be missing out on so much if you don't take the opportunity to 
 explore every possible environment, sub plot, and interest in the game. The more you seek out to 
 do the more experience you will gain to build you and your team's stats.
  
  There are so many characters and environments to explore that it may seem like a lot of ground 
 to cover if you plan on hitting all of it, but in all actuality there are only certain planets 
 in the Universe that can actually be landed on and even less of those deal with the main plot. 
 Some of the side missions get a little repetitive as far as going into a small base, lab, or mine 
 because the layout of each type will be the same and it usually involves killing everybody inside 
 and recovering some info. The planets are pretty diverse and some of them have their own hazardous 
 weather conditions but what you find on them doesn't always vary unless it has something to do 
 with the main plot. While searching these planets, however, you will be able to exchange dialog 
 with a lot of interesting characters of different races. Although you will have a choice as to 
 what you say to them, it does not really often affect the out come, it merely changes the actual 
 wording preceding it. Although, there are times where you will be forced to make decisions that 
 will effect the game on a small level. You will also be able to get to know your squad (some you 
 will get to know very well if you know what I mean) which also results in gaining experience to 
 power up your stats. Although this may not appeal to those of you who want more action, the RPG 
 fans will love it all. 
  
  The game play will take some getting used to but it actually is very appropriate for the game. 
 The gun fighting may be a little frustrating until you get the hang of using cover and moving around 
 while firing on enemies. To help you in battles you have 5 main weapons at your disposal: Pistol, 
 shotgun, assault rifle, sniper rifle, and grenades. There are what seems to be endless variants 
 of these types of weapons because throughout the game you are constantly collecting and purchasing 
 more powerful and accurate versions of each on top of the many upgrades you can add to each to 
 make them more effective. The same will go for all of your equipment such as armor and biotic arms 
 and clamps that some of your squad members use to unleash attacks and perform special skills that 
 aid you. The best part about the weapons is that they never run out of ammo they just overheat 
 if you do not know when to take your finger off of the trigger. The grenades are limited, seldom 
 needed, but do come in handy.
  
  The only low points of the game is some of the repetitiveness that you come across in the side 
 missions. They also could have done a better job with the vehicle control and combat. Also, the 
 sniper rifle action is the worst I have probably ever seen on a video game. Other than that this 
 is a captivating universe to explore with plenty to see and things to do. The fact that there are 
 decisions to make along the way depending on what kind of person you want your character to be 
 also give it some good replay value. As the story unfolds you will become deeply submerged in the 
 game unless if there was not enough action to keep you playing. This title will be in gamer collections 
 for a long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DementedOutkast
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  this is the first review i have written on gamespot so i thought i would dedicate it to mass effect.
 
  
  this game is nothing short of awesome, it is the best game i have played so far and as soon as 
 i got it i played it for 20 hours strait!!!!!. 
  
  the game has a lot to offer as well as a lengthy main quest it has lots of sub-quests to keep you 
 occupied. where ever you go in the masseffect universe something is happening and depending on 
 how you play you can wipe out entire races trust me i have done it :-) .
  
  graphics = 8/10 the graphics are great but at times they can be bad when there trying to load
 
  
  gameplay = 10/10 there is so much to do in masseffect you miss quiet a lot of it and you first 
 play so and you second play you get a lot more done 
  
  sound = 10/10 the sound is the best and is nice to listen to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: healdkw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  Had a ton of run playing this game. Normally I am more of a sports / first person shooter type 
 of gamer. Every time I buy a RPG and I make it half way through the game and then forget about 
 it.
  
  I don't always have a great deal of time, and it is testament to this game that I actually stuck 
 with it. Took around 30 hours of game time to complete the game. Great voice acting, very good 
 story, and a surprisingly good ending. The game is paced very well in that there is a good deal 
 of action mixed in with good in-engine cutscenes. 
  
  Main beef is the controls on the Mako. Really quite frustrating. After some time you get used to 
 it, but it still really makes you play more hide and seek than actual battle. Also the game hung 
 a couple of times, but I have feeling that is more related to my 360.
  
  Would love if Bioware would release more content online for this. Would definitely buy it. I guess 
 I will have to just wait until Mass Effect 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a big game. It seems that everything Bioware did with Mass Effect, it did so in 
 a epic manner. The story spans entire galaxies, side quests are numerous and interesting, weapons 
 and armor are plentiful, and the characters are deep. Were it not for a few flaws, mostly technical, 
 then Mass Effect could have easily achieved a perfect score.
  
  Let's start with the story. Mass Effect places a huge emphasis on the plot, which is a very good 
 thing in my book. The basic plot revolves around Commander Shepard, the first human to be allowed 
 entrance into the intergalactic Spectre "police" force (the Spectres are responsible for upholding 
 peace, but operate outside of the law,) and his/her quest to stop synthetic beings called Geth 
 from destroying the galaxies. From there, the story will evolve and spread over many different 
 paths. Over the course of about 25 hours of playtime, I have never once grown tired of Mass Effect's 
 main story. It can really be quite gripping, and it stands amongst the best video game storylines 
 that I have had the pleasure of experiencing. Each of your squadmates also has their own backstories 
 and personal tendencies, so if you keep up with what is happening in their lives, you could become 
 attatched to some of them, and even develop a romance with certain other squadmates. As stated 
 before, there are numerous side quests to be found in Mass Effect. Many of them are engaging and 
 fun to play through, but there are a few that simply require you to eliminate X number of Geth 
 bases or something along those lines. 
  
  The graphical and audio direction of Mass Effect are great. Every alien race is shown in photorealistic 
 detail, as are the human characters and their surroundings. Unfortunately, once you get outside 
 and start exploring unknown planets, the terrain can look a little more jagged, but the weather 
 effects look great, and overall Mass Effect is a stunningly good looking game. Stunning until, 
 that is, the framerate drops and the textures start popping in. Framerate drops come at odd times, 
 such as when you're running down a flight of stairs, or when you're just taking a leisurly stroll 
 down the sidewalk. It's strange that the framerate should drop when nothing is really happening 
 rather than during combat, but at least the combat plays smoothly enough. Also, texture popping 
 is pretty frequent; more so than other games powered by Unreal Engine 3. Every single time I've 
 docked my ship, the Normandy, in a port, textures have popped in all over the place. 
  
  Mass Effect's audio design takes a sort of minimalist approach. When you are exploring the surface 
 of a planet, you won't hear any music. It's just you and whatever sounds are naturally occuring 
 on the planet. The opening theme sounds sort of hushed, but it's also pretty catchy. Mass Effect 
 can belt out an epic tune or two when it really needs to, but most of the drama is driven by the 
 character voiceovers. Most of the voiceovers stop just short of sounding exactly like a real person 
 would sound in that situation. That is, if I had just shot a character's co-worker, she would sound 
 distressed, but not actually afraid. The voices of the main characters are all masterfully done, 
 though.
  
  I've gone a long time without mentioning much about the gameplay. After all of that praise about 
 the sound and the story, it seems strange to say that the gameplay isn't all that it could have 
 been. Yes, the role playing elements and the shooter elements meld perfectly. In fact, I'd like 
 to see a similar meshing of genres in other games. Characters will level up, just like in typical 
 RPGs, only you will actually be able to see the results in real time combat. Your entire party 
 will level up at once, which eliminates the worry of having a few strong characters and a pile 
 of useless ones. The shooting itself is handled similarly to GRAW or Gears in that it places an 
 emphasis on stop and pop shooting and tactical thinking. Don't go rushing into this expecting Halo. 
 The on foot combat works well enough, although sometimes hit detection seems a bit wonky. I once 
 failed a mission four or five times because when I shot an enemy in the face, he wouldn't take 
 any damage. Finally, with the aid of my pistol's improved zoom, I managed to take the enemy down 
 by holding down a position in a back room. Vehicle combat suffers the most. Your MAKO all terrain 
 vehicle handle much like a Warthog in Halo, with the addition of a turret mapped to RT, a zoom 
 function on LT, and rockets on RB. Also, you can do a rocket jump by pressing A. Occasionally the 
 jump will help you dodge rockets or scale mountains. The problem is, if hit detection for on foot 
 combat was just SLIGHTLY bad, then hit detection for vehicle combat is just wretched. Your cursor 
 must be in the exact right spot for your bullets to hit the enemy; I often found it easier to just 
 run them over, then line up a shot when they were squirming on the ground. And do you know what 
 the worst part is? Sometimes, when I took careful aim at that downed enemy, I STILL missed. I am 
 not too bad at shooters; I've played Halo 1-3, Gears, GRAW 2, FEAR, Lost Planet, Bioshock, and 
 many more, so I don't think that it's my fault that my turret misses a lot. Worse than the turret 
 is the rocket launcher mapped to RB. It often seems as if you press the button, and your MAKO swiftly 
 delivers a rocket to a random location on the map. It's far from game-breaking; it's just that 
 you really have to be precise with lining up your shots. Eventually, you will learn that it is 
 more effective to strafe around your enemy while shooting before stopping behind him and taking 
 careful aim with LT. 
  
  As a strange side note, I have noticed that out of all of the planets I have visited, none of them 
 have been populated by friendly AI except for those critical to the story. It's just a little strange.
 
  
  Mass Effect features a deep story that is complemented by a deep conversation mechanic. During 
 conversations, you can choose the gist of what Shepard will say without knowing exactly what he/she 
 will say. It makes the whole experience feel more streamlined. I love the illusion of control that 
 players have over the story, but if you go back and replay a conversation, you will find that many 
 of them turn out the same way no matter which options you choose, other than your avatar appearing 
 slightly more good or evil in NPC's eyes. Other conversations, on the other hand, really allow 
 for some pivitol plot points to fall under your control. I have talked rebellion groups out of 
 killing hostages under very delicate circumstances, when the situation easily could have turned 
 violent had I not made the right decisions. I have even been forced to shoot a man when he tried 
 to forcefully take cotrol of a goup of survivors that he was, quite fankly, not mentally fit to 
 control. Who knows what could have happened had I chose a different option? It's moments like these 
 that really have a deep impact on the player. 
  
  Overall, Mass Effect's high points easily manage to overcome a skittish framerate, texture popping, 
 and sometimes messed up vehicle combat to deliver a great and memorable experience. In my openion, 
 it was the high point of gaming in 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBeano
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  One of the most anticipated games of recent memory lives up to a lot of the hype, but certainly 
 not all. There is no need to talk about how good the visuals are, since that is to be expected 
 in all games these days and yes they are good. The environments are quite impressive and deserve 
 much praise for the artistic beauty; the music should be praised as well. And as expected from, 
 Bioware once again delivers a great story with many good characters and impressive voice work. 
 The game play is good also, but it can take a while to get used to. It has a cover system that 
 functions much like Gears, but without the blindfire or cover-hopping. It makes up for that with 
 biotic or tech powers really make the combat shine. Creating a massive vortex your enemies float 
 around helplessly or hacking into a geth and watching him take out his partners is entertaining 
 and so are the basic firefights themselves- most of the time. The Mako can also be a love/hate 
 vehicle so you'll just have to test that one out for yourself. One of Mass Effect's problems is 
 balancing. Quite often every enemy in a building will just rush you and will probably lead to your 
 death, and after awhile it can be rage inducing. And sometimes textures take a few seconds to load 
 in which can hurt some cutscenes, but it doesn't happen very much. The biggest problem with ME 
 is the lack of originality on the uncharted worlds and their subsequent side quests. To be fair 
 though 30 something explorable planets are bound to similar anyway. Most of the sidequests are 
 similar, but that happens in many role playing games. Some of the best quests that build up some 
 interesting stories don't really go anywhere- they just end. But the bland and barren uncharted 
 worlds and their dungeons is what does the damage. If there were more originality or even things 
 to do on uncharted worlds and dungeons a lot of sidequests would be more enjoyable, even if they 
 are basically the same. Luckily sidequests aren't terrible, some are good, others are ok, and some 
 are tedious- of course you don't have to do them. Everything that revolves around the main quest 
 is very good and unique so that makes up for some of the bland extra worlds. The uncharted world 
 problems might seem major but there is some much good to this game it will far outweigh the bad, 
 and it is really the only flaw that will bother you. If you like role playing, you should definitely 
 give Mass Effect a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chakkerz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a good yarn, it sucks you in and makes you curious about what is going to happen. 
 But when you think about it, it is extremely simple: discover alien plot; become the chosen one; 
 piece the evil plan together; stop it.
  
  It sounds just a tad formula based, and that is because it is. Strangely enough being a successor 
 (if not in spirit, definitely in form) of KOTOR it strangely fails to live up. It takes about 25-30 
 hours to complete (and that is if you have more patience for surveying planets than i did) and 
 the main story line in all its cutscened glory takes up maybe 8-10 hours of that, that is assuming 
 you decide to complete all missions on the worlds you go to, which amounts to core story gameplay 
 of about 3 hours (plus cutscenes) . 
  
  Don't get me wrong: there is plenty to do here, but core story is minimal. Sidequests get boring: 
 1 there is one mine that has it's layout recycled (i played it twice) ; 2 there is one bunker, which 
 has it's layout recycled (though the crates are in markedly different locations (i played that 
 bunker about 15 times +) and there is one ship / colony building which also has it's furniture 
 changed (12 times +) . Getting to those locations for the most part involves navigating across planets 
 which were not meant to be navigated, and the terrain is such that if you get out of your car, 
 you may not get back into the car, because the terrain to get back is too steep.
  
  Combat ... there was a bit of publicity about the combat system, and (sadly) it is completely optional. 
 most of the time the battle is over before you get a chance to tell your people what to do, because 
 they just blasted all enemies. If you are playing as the default character, you are near invincible, 
 if you customize ... you'll die. It seems odd, but something seemed broken in the dynamic there, 
 just as well, because dying would probably have meant i would not have kept playing, then it would 
 have been boring AND frustrating.
  
  On that note, i did customize, and the bionic powers were rubbish (that said, i had customized 
 and thus incurred the destiny of dying over and over, something the default setup as the male soldier 
 did not do) ... odd. thought hardcure and difficulty setting could adjust that, i was too fed up 
 with the game to try again.
  
  Cutscenes are gorgeous, they drive the story along and for so much of it, you are just watching, 
 with the game progressing without you. Graphics on their own are also great, but there are frame 
 rate issues, and noticeable slow-downs. Remember above i mention that the fights are occasionally 
 over before you get a chance to interact? there is one fight early on where you have to clear an 
 alien infection out of a research facility. The first time i met the aliens for the first time, 
 there was a cutscene, presumably triggered by one of the party members wandering into the trigger, 
 which meant i had to cross the room to where the scene had happened from (where the scene showed 
 me as being) , to find that the scene had not ended with facing the enemy (as the scene had shown) 
 and to find the enemy stuck on a window wall. Walking around the corridor to face the enemy the 
 xbox chugged so bad that could do nothing (presumably related to the alien's using biotic powers 
 to incapacitate my character) while the frames on screen slowed to about 0.5 per second, and when 
 about 5 seconds the Xbox had caught up, there were no enemies left. The sound though told me there 
 was a big firefight. Shame really, i didn't get to do anything in the cutscene, or in the fight...
 
  
  But besides the locations and the fights being boring there are also the lifts.... you get in a 
 lift and it takes time.... real time... to get from one floor to another. And here's the catch, 
 you are moving not the human everyday one floor distances, you are going up a 30 story building. 
 I've just been at a place (IRL) where i was going from ground floor to level 35. The real world 
 elevator ride was shorter than the single floor transition in Mass Effect.
  
  But what is such a huge shame about this game is the following: i did not go to a single shop to 
 buy anything. I did not use the (great?) combat features except maybe twice and finding it worked 
 just as well as if i didn't use it. I used my special powers (earned by leveling up) maybe 4 times. 
 The weapon customization features are buggy and annoying (they are also a drag when you have to 
 spend 20 minutes every 6-8 hours or so cleaning out all the junk you accumulate) . 
  
  Overall Mass Effect was lots of bursts (30 seconds or so) of great fun, separated by hours of tedious 
 and annoying, though mostly very pretty, stretches of doing the chores. 
  
  Maybe if i'd played as an evil person i would have had more fun, but i find it most fulfilling 
 to take the actions i would normally take myself.
  
  Oh yeah, dialogue, almost forgot. Mostly great, but often it uses strange loops where you ask a 
 question and end back at the start of the conversation and need to work yourself back through it 
 to get the rest of the information (in short use the "Investigate") option early on, that seems 
 to prevent it.
  
  In closing, i finished the game and traded it in within about 30 minutes, so certain was i that 
 i could never be bothered to play through it again. It was pretty amazing early on, got boring 
 as i did the side quests, and then got good again when i went back to the main story. The end got 
 painful again because in space you can't move your limbs to target properly... Overall the game 
 has a great story and a few painful glitches, and a lot of horrible failings. Personally i don't 
 feel i want my 30 hours of playing back but knowing what i know now, i probably would not have 
 played it to begin with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bio_Sm0g
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is great. Whether you like a good story line, or just some good ol' shooting, there 
 is something you'll learn to love in Mass Effect. The graphics are great, and the story-line is 
 gripping. There's even a romance :P. Further more, Mass Effect gives YOU the choice of - Renegade, 
 or Paragon (good or evil) , which people you help, and what planets you travel to first. Mass Effect 
 will have you glued to the screen and intrigued from the first moment you begin. 
  
  Notes on gameplay:
  
  Graphics : The graphics are great, not as great as Gears, but still up 
 there.
  
  Game Controls / Mechanics - Controls are simple and easy to use, I loved them. Mechanics are great, 
 however sometimes your party members dont listen (however this is rare) .
  
  Story Line - Exceptional... one of a kind. Likely the best storyline in a game yet.. 
  
  Mass 
 Effect is truly one of the best, if not the best RPG for 360. 
  
  Graphics - 8.7
  
  Mechanics / Game Controls - 8.8
  
  Story Line - 10
  
  Overall - 9.1
  
  Go Buy Mass 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green-Day1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  I Love this game, i played it through being Paragorn ( Good ) , every second was exhilarating, i 
 loved the story so much im playing again, this game is amazing.
  
  Pros: Wonderful storyline that will keep you on your toes for 20 hours or more.
  
  Awesome 
 side-quests and planets to explore.
  
  Dialogue is amazing, voice acting and speech choices are fascinating.
  
  Graphics pretty good, 
 well very good.
  
  Gameplay and combat are excellent, very fun.
  
  Renegade ( Evil ) and Paragorn ( Good ) is very good and changed the course of the game allowing 
 to play multiple times.
  
  Cons:
  Well theres only two minor ones, some of the planets are quite similar and barren with not much 
 life on them.
  
  Maybe the Mako ( the vehicle ) is quite awkward, and there are some minor glitches
  
  Thats 
 pretty much it. As you can see the Pros list is much larger, this is a must, i mean must buy for 
 any 360 owner even if your not too keen on RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordasher2002
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 12:08 am PT
Review:  Let me just start with the fact that this game is riddled with minor glitches.
  But if it wasn't for the extremely well crafted story line, "voice acting", "side quests" and "fairly 
 well developed game play mechanics", those minor game glitches would have got the best of it, But 
 since that's not the case they really just come and go unnoticed. 
  
  I usually almost never stay with a game like this to the end, due to repetitiveness and lame story. 
 This game has neither of these faults. I really liked Jade Empire which I almost finished, but 
 once I heard a plot spoiler I had lost my appetite for it, owe well, if someone leaks a spoiler 
 for Mass Effect I will be very disappointed, cause I know a game like this doesn't come around 
 to often.
  
  The Graphics are incredible, but they do slow down the "framerate" sometimes, but like I said it 
 won't really matter much to you anyways. 
  
  I see this game as very much like an interactive "Novel" or "Movie" where you also have some action 
 game play to go with it. There is also no reading at all, it's all voice acted which honestly blows 
 my mind because there are so many characters and so much dialog in this game.
  
  Also every choice of what you say has consequences and makes it very engaging and interesting for 
 the player.
  
  And once last thing I bought an XBOX 360 just so I could play this game, yes I did feel very much 
 like a fricken idiot while making the purchase but I honestly believe now that it was definitely 
 worth it while I had spent around $350 for the game and console I have no regrets. 
  
  If your an RPG fan who likes to watch movies and is of course a fan of Star Wars and Sci Fi, or 
 possibly just someone who likes to really get involved with a "great science fiction story", then 
 MASS EFFECT is the best gift the world has to offer at the moment.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedifro
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  An evil threat has arisen and you are the only one who can save the entire galaxy from destruction.. yeah, 
 we have heard this one before. It is one of those classic staples for a story in a video game. 
 I have played a lot of games like that, and when I first heard about the story in Mass Effect, 
 I wondered how different it could be from the many RPG stories out there, especially Knights of 
 the Old Republic, which was released by the same developer back in 2003. But let me tell you, you 
 haven't heard a tale quite as good as this one in the last couple of years. Bioware has truly outdone 
 themselves with this killer title. Mass Effect combines a great story, awesome action, and the 
 most incredible dialogue system ever seen in gaming. As a trend, many RPGs have taken the good/bad 
 route, giving the gamer the choice of what kind of person they want to be based on the decisions 
 they make throughout the game. Mass effect takes this idea to the extreme. No longer are the decisions 
 limited to save or kill the citizen, there are some tough decisions that have to be made. This 
 is especially true later in the game. This idea is strengthen by the innovative dialouge wheel 
 which revolutionizes the way dialogue has been done in games. With the wheel, conversations are 
 seemless, giving you the choice of cutting to the chase or digging deeper into the conversation. 
 All the dialogue in the game would be arduous if the voice acting was bad, but luckily Bioware 
 has done their magic at making some of the best voice acting to date. Considering how much dialogue 
 there was, this is quite a feat. Another amazing part of the game were the amazing graphics. This 
 is by far, the best looking game I have seen for the 360. The character models, their expressions 
 and the environments looked amazing.
  As great as this game was, it was not without it's flaws. One of my biggest problems with the game 
 was how jumpy the frame rate was when going through the various worlds in the game. You would think 
 the loading time at the beginning of each level would handle the whole traverse of once. Nope. 
 The game would load several times just walking through a busy city. Another issue was in the worlds 
 being explored. Sure there was a lot of places to explore and a good variety on each planet, but 
 I really wanted to see some more life and civilizations in the universe. Outside of five different 
 planets, the rest of the planets were just open space and a couple of research facilities. Some 
 more original planets would have been helpful as well, many of them seemed just like one another. 
 Luckily for all of us, Mass Effect was the first game in a trilogy. The guys at Bioware will see 
 the issues and hopefully make the necessary improvement for the sequel.
  Mass Effect is definitely one of those games that are a great reason to pick up the 360 if you 
 have not jumped on board yet. There are a lot of places to explore, and many different character 
 profiles to play through, which makes it a game worth playing again and again. I will be playing 
 this again very soon. If you are looking for an amazing story and a great RPG, Mass Effect is defintely 
 worth every penny.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaenMO
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  From the excellent squad based combat to the meticulously detailed environments to the fact that 
 you get to drive a tank it's just a great game! I've been playing this game for weeks every opportunity 
 I get, which means maybe 2 hours or so a day. Even with such short time spans, I always feel a 
 sense of accomplishment because you don't have to spend along time to get things done. There is 
 so much to do, I've not counted them but I've heard there are about 12 missions and 60 minor assignments 
 that can be completed during the course of the game. I'm on my 3rd playthrough, not only for the 
 XBL points but also because you can only play with 2 squad members at a time and they each add 
 something different to the game. I'm looking forward to the new content that I will definitely 
 buy for the $6 price tag. I think this game deserved the award. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonChild88
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Like i said this game was good but not as good as i expected. First off the custimazation of the 
 main character was really weak they all look the same but at the same time the background info 
 you could create was really interstrting and plays out throughout the story. The gameplay is very 
 easy and simple to use and just plain fun. The cast of characters are okay but could of been better 
 some you well probably never use just because they arent that good. Alot of the alien races dont 
 seem very spectacular at all. There is a reason I gave this game a 8.0 because it has a lot of cool 
 gamelpay features like very interactive dialogue all throughout the game which is used really well 
 for instance being able to intimadate others or charm them. Another good thing is being able to 
 explore the galaxy which is a really good feature but unfortuntaly alot of the plantets have nothing 
 and just seem to be a waste of time. The storyline is well done, the graphics are nice, and the gameplay 
 is fun and easy to learn all in all its a great game but lets hope if theres a sequel they correct 
 some things 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealMadrid7
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes I really have to wonder if folks get paid to say a game is good. Hmmmlets see, lets 
 take Metal Gear Solid, Oblivion, Gears of War and Star wars mix them in a bag and call it Mass 
 Effect. I bought this game with high expectations. What I got was a freaking soap opera where the 
 main character is a stiff who asks questions like he's a freaking robot- "Tell me more about the 
 Spectres". What the hell this is the new gameplay innovation, if so it sucks bigtime. If I want 
 a soap opera I'll watch daytime tv. Now for the gameplay. Sheeshjust plain bad. They're slow and 
 slow doesn't equal tactical people. We can be tactical without crawling. The weapons pack no punch 
 your team is dumb, and the Mako drives like a Halo 3 Marine is at the wheel. I can't even say its 
 an original idea, I've already palyed Star Ocean and KOTR. I want my money back, well at least 
 I got a fair trade in because my copy was brand spanking new! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_rage864
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Now where should i start? 
  
  Mass effect? 
  
  At the time the game was announced everyone expectation came true when released. But some not... 
 
  
  Mass effect is a Science Fiction Role Playing Game. Travelling on a huge spaceship called the Normandy, 
 you could DISCOVER, you could EXPERIENCE, you could ACKNOWLEDGE the world of Mass Effect. 
  
  Lets start with the graphics. Bright and early for a beautiful view of the stars in the sky. 
 The faces of the characters look almost a clone of real life. The lighting is clean as shade. The 
 interface is smooth as leather. Next Generation graphics are the key in this game. However Bioware 
 did a pleasant job. 
  
  Now the gameplay is engaging however keeping the same weapon catagory through the whole game is 
 kinda boring in a way. At least Bioware could allow players to choose up on different types and 
 better upgrades of the weapons. Only four weapons in the game; Pistol, Shotgun, Machine Gun and 
 a lovely sniper. It is easily said that a pistol can just be used for the whole game since you 
 can effectively almost have maxinum damage depending on the required level. The leveling systems 
 has a good impact to the game but the worst thing about the levelling is that it isn't hard at 
 all, seems pretty pointless really. The conversation system is just great, on the other hand a 
 bit lame. Why lame? because it can get repetitve and also boring if you willing not to listen to 
 soo much. There are absolutly hundreds of places you can visit. You can jolly ride on a vehicle 
 named Makko (a basic armoured vehicle that can jump like a kangaroo) . The character creation is 
 cleverly invented, the customisation options are fantastic. 
  
  Thats pretty much ive covered :) 9/10 is right 8.5/10.0 (no gamespot!! your wrong AGAIN!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake4eva_92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of those rare games that comes along and blows the minds of gamers around the 
 world. Even at first glance it looks incredible, the graphics are sharp, vibrant, and just all 
 round amazing. Undoubtedly, it has some of the best graphics to grace consoles. This comes at a 
 sacrifice though, one of the only drawbacks for this game are the texture pop-in, and frame rate 
 drops. Rare though they are, they are still jarring, and subtract from the overall experience.
 
  
  At first, the combat seems overly simplistic. This however, is not the case. You have a wide array 
 of weapons and armours to choose from, as well as masses of upgrades. Throw in the different allies 
 you find along your way, all with their own speciality, as well as being able to completely customise 
 your own character, and you have one deep experience.
  
  The sound is where Mass Effect really shines. The game has thousands of lines of dialogue, some 
 that you may never hear, and every word is spoken believably. The voice acting is top notch, and 
 the sound track variates from ambient sounds to pulsing music. Everything about the sound is perfect.
 
  
  Mass Effect has a heavy focus on immersion, delivering believable dialogue is one thing. But making 
 the player feel as if his actions affect everything around him is another, and the Bioware team 
 have successfully captured this feeling. The game throws decisions at you that will affect how 
 the game plays, whether you choose to be a Paragon, Renegade or whatever feels right can have huge 
 consequences. Without spoiling the plot, the decisions really make you rethink your game strategy. 
 Which brings me to my next point, the plot.
  
  The plot is what you would expect from Bioware. Epic. It's the type of game to keep you saying 
 "just one more mission" just to find another piece of the glorious story. From begining to end 
 it will keep you guessing, and even after the experience ends, you have the next installment to 
 look forward too.
  
  The game is typical of an RPG, being that it's long. Without touching the side quests the main 
 story could well take you 15 hours or more, but every single minute is gaming bliss.
  
  To wrap the review up, Mass Effect is a rare gem of a game. Which doesn't fail to impress on any 
 level. If you own an Xbox 360, I can highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dumbell_44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  If you have played the star wars knights of the old republic games and liked them then you'll probably 
 want to get this game.
  Great voice acting and the endlessness of dialogue is utterly amazing.
  Mass effect is one impressive 
 game that includes a great story and even better game-play.
  There are very few bugs however, such as frame rate spasms or just things in the game that just 
 anger you. For example, driving the mako (mass effects vehicle portion of the game) is extremely 
 frustrating but also very rewarding.
  If you are into rpgs you'll like this 
 
  If you are into action games you'll like this 
 
  Mass effect has a perfect blend of the two making it almost the perfect game, my opinion.
  Anyway, this game is good ,very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomjay31
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  Regardless of what type of game genre you prefer, Mass Effect is one title any and everyone kind 
 find some kind of enjoyment in. There's role playing, adventure, shooting, suspense-you name, Mass 
 Effect has it. From the customizatin of your character to the choices your character makes, it's 
 all in your hands. There are so many classes, weapons, abilities and just all around choices to 
 choose from, you'll never have the problem of running out of things to do. As you progress through 
 the game, as does your character adding to the excitement of the game. The story is original, well 
 told and interesting enough to pull anyone into it. While the main missions carry the weight, the 
 true fun is in the side quests which help to extend your gaming experience. Character models and 
 dialogue is well contructed. The galaxys, planets, and overall environments have an space-driven 
 atmospheric look that comes off beautiful to say the least. You'll find yourself in the middle 
 of one playthrough and already thinking about next. Gameplay is very easy to adapt and most will 
 probably be conformed to it by the end of the second mission. One thing for everyone to remember, 
 you character is not perfect from the beginning. He/she has to be upgraded respectfully to be at 
 their full potential. Once a playthrough is completed, you can choose you use that same character 
 again or begin from scratch. I'm not sure how it would have worked, but the only keeping it from 
 a 10.0 is the missing online component. Besides that, this is a winner without doubt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaladinJoo
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  If one recalls my Assassin's Creed review, I spoke about a game not delivering on the promises 
 it makes during development. In a way, this point relates to Mass Effect, a game that, despite 
 the LOFTIEST of promises made during the games lengthy production, seems to have followed through 
 with each and every one. However... this leaves the game feeling more than a bit... scatter shot 
 in some key areas.
  
  The story is, for all intents and purposes, the highest point of the game here. In fact, this might 
 be one of the best told and fleshed out stories in any game, RPG or otherwise. The tale goes that 
 in the not so distant future, humanity uncovers artifacts from an ancient alien race known as the 
 Protheans that slingshots their technology, especially in the areas of military and space travel, 
 centuries into the future. Now successfully part of a galactic alliance with several other alien 
 races, humanity has once again unearthed a Prothean artifact, a beacon, that you, as your very 
 own created Commander Shephard, are sent to retrieve and bring before the galactic council. Things 
 immediately goes south, as a rogue SPECTRE (essentially super privilaged secret agents) named Saren 
 seeks to use the beacon for his own devices. The whole thing becomes infinitely more complicated 
 until soon, the fate of the entire universe rests on Shephard and his team.
  
  The way the story is presented, through several well produced cutscenes, and countless engrossing 
 conversations of which the player is free to progress through as they see fit. It's all very deep 
 stuff, and it is voiced to perfection by each and every actor in the bunch. Indeed, sound is another 
 excellent aspect of the Mass Effect package, as guns sound impactful, creatures sound appropriately 
 alien and ferocious, and music switches between epic space opera to beeping and booping techno 
 beats during specific sequences. 
  
  The visuals keep up for the most part as well, as characters are detailed and expressive. This 
 is a good looking game overall, but many graphical glitches occur when textures forget to load 
 or environments pop up out of nowhere. It's nothing too major, but it takes away from the otherwise 
 spectacular presentation and sound package (not to mention the story) when a scene switches only 
 to see textures finishing loading while the action is already well under way.
  
  This sets up Mass Effect to be quite the high end adventure, and as far as ground covered, Mass 
 Effect offers a LOT to explore. An entire universe, practically, is set up for you to explore relatively 
 early. Although the actual story missions only take you to a handful of these, there will eventually 
 be one of the game's well written side quests that leads you to the other ones. The games sense 
 of scale is amazing, and it truly is a treat to see how large this universe that Bioware actually 
 is.
  
  Now this may seem like the pros FAR outweigh the cons, and... lets be honest, this game really 
 had no chance of being BAD.
  
  However...
  
  We haven't reached gameplay. And gameplay is where things all start to go wrong for Mass Effect. 
 For one thing, the interface here seems to be... broken. Navigation and inventory, two things that 
 should be on lockdown in any RPG, are somehow unforgiveably screwed up in this game. Managing items 
 is very frustrating, and on planet surfaces, where navigation is hardest to get a handle on, the 
 mini map provided is completely useless.
  
  Secondly, the combat employed here is nothing special. It's just the experience here is too lopside-ed. 
 If you play as a soldier, you'll only get the games somewhat boring shooting mechanics, and miss 
 out on the games funner aspects, like using tech and biotic powers. It just seems that the combat 
 tries to be a shooter, but can't hold up it's end, while still maintaining a magic system that 
 seems stunted to make way for the shooting aspects. It works in some instances, but in others, 
 completely fail.
  
  Mass Effect is an ambitious game, but in it's ambition, almost misses basic game mechanics that 
 NEED to be there. It's redeeming qualities make up for the flaws it entails, but one can't help 
 thinking that things should be more solid than they are. Mass Effect still gets an 8.0 for being 
 a well crafted game with a fantastic story, but with a pile of minor annoyances that just should 
 not be there in such a title.
  
  PS: Auto save MY ASS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toshirouhitsuga
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 7, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game I was very excited until I started getting into it then I realized 
 how boring it was a mean every part is pretty boring simply because it's not paced right you have 
 a small fight then you have to walk around for about an hour asking people questions then you have 
 to go somewhere else to get into another small squirmish then run around some more and repeat the 
 cycle over and over another thing is that the shooting system is totally screwed up since unless 
 you are a soldier the only weapon you can hit anybody with is the pistol and then you get into 
 the bionics which break up the combat even more. now I know that alot of people love this game because 
 of the choices you can make but in my opinion it's just to slow paced so it really comes down to 
 if you like these type of games but I like faster paced games so it definetly isn't for me or anybody 
 who love faster action based games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixInferno
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I would give Mass Effect a 9.5 (or better...) except that there's a lot of Gears-of-War-"me-too!" 
 going on. The squad based combat, carrying 4 weapons (GoW had 3+grenades, ME has 4+grenades) , the 
 cover system - all ripped out of Gears of War. Gears was great, but it was designed as a third-person 
 shooter from the beginning and had excellent controls. Mass Effect is a role-playing game - the 
 game's focus should be on playing the role of the main character Cmdr Shepard and his quest to 
 save the galaxy, not on getting the targeting reticule over the enemy and pulling the right trigger 
 repeatedly.
  
  Once you get past the combat system, the game is great. There are incentives for immersing yourself 
 in the game's lore, all-around good voice acting and FULL SPEECH! The dialog system is effective 
 - you only read a short summary, decide among the choices and your character engages in an almost 
 fully realized conversation! Almost like an interactive movie.
  
  Another gripe about the game is that the main quest feels too short. The side quests are fun to 
 get you traveling to other planets/systems/clusters, but I think there's more sidequest than main-quest 
 to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigCat2K20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game about two months ago, it was mind blowing and can't wait for a sequel next year. 
 This was the first time I've ever played an RPG game. I'll choose Mass Effect over most t. v. shows 
 or movies that's put on T. V. any day. It's just that good of a game! There are my pros and cons 
 of this blockbuster game.
  
  Pros: Excellent story, great character and weapon customization, traveling from galaxy to the next 
 is crazy good, it lets you make your own decisions ( even it's a tough one) , sounds of Mass Effect 
 including voice actors, it makes you care about the crew and relationship is real, there are alot 
 of missions as well and that's a huge plus for me.
  
  Cons: Graphics is good, but it can be a hit and miss sometimes. Enemy A. I. can unbalance at times 
 and no customization for Mako.
  
  Expectations for Mass Effect 2 will be higher than the first. The question is will it be better? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guccio312
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game, I was very confused. I had a hard time with the controls and didn't 
 know which attributes to increase. But something about this game got me to keep playing and give 
 it a chance. It was almost disturbing, in a good way, which got me into it. The music and the setting 
 is really creepy and what is great about it is that it's not trying to be. You have to have patience 
 with this game because it's not all shooting and action. You have to communicate with other people 
 and explore and do many difficult puzzles. But the game is very well done and does its job to suck 
 the player in. I recommend this game to someone who likes RPG's. If your more into fast-paced shooters, 
 this game might not be the one for you. The reason I didn't give this game a hight score was because 
 there isn't any multiplayer or any other game mode. I understand this is strictly a role-playing 
 game, but I thought this game would be awesome if you could play co-op. This is just my opinion, 
 but it still is a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John666666666
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  I had just finished Enchanted Arms, and it was a very disappointed. So I really hoped Mass Effect 
 would be a good game. It is a amazing game, I haven't played anything like it. It's a RPG, but 
 also a first person shooter game. You would think it wouldn't work, but it blends the two types 
 of games perfectly. It also lets you make decisions that effect the game. Also the attitude you 
 have toward people effects how they react. One decsion choice might get you opponent to surrender, 
 another will have them attact you. The Sci-fi story blends themes from Star Wars, Starship Troppers, 
 Battlestar Gallactic, and thems from many other shows perfectly creating it's own unique universe. 
 BioWare did a amzing job with the graphics, which are unbelivable. I've seen nothing like it, it 
 helps bring the characters to live. The game play is easy to learn, and use. The characters come 
 to live through the story and BioWare's graphics. Finally the music is amazing it add to this perfect 
 game. Overall this game is a masterpiece and I'm going to put it in my top 10 vidoe games I've 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinWinthrop
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I made the big mistake of playing this game, and getting wowed by it and then giving it a rating 
 that was too early. I have to agree with everyone else after playing it awhile. Its not bad by 
 any means. But it doesn't deserve a 9. Some times the controls are a little chopy. When you are 
 aboard the ship, there is little to do accept talk to a few people and navigate. You don't have 
 ownership of it. You can't sit, sleep, manipulate things in your private quarters. All you do is 
 just navigate to different systems. Not much to the ship after that. Just a few deck levels with 
 tthe same people, doing the same things the whole game and nothing changes. That was a big downer 
 to me. Also, there was no element in the game that made it scary or thrilling. I love to be scared 
 or have the feeling of fear while I played to get a thrill. That didn't happen so I was often bored. 
 There was plenty of stuff to do and it was great sci fi but it just wasn't thrilling or scary at 
 all. 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zach68486
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing in almost every regard. A few flaws tarnish it just a bit, but these 
 flaws don't take away from what is truly an amazing gaming experience.
  
  In Mass Effect, you can explore the galaxy. You can land on terrestrial planets and search them 
 for resources, ruins, life-forms, anomalies and even civilization. Though many of these planets 
 aren't very remarkable, it is still very interesting and fun to be able to explore planets.
  
  You can take the main story at your own pace as you explore the galaxy. Though this story is 
 not one which you would want to miss out on.
  
  The story behind Mass Effect is that a turian Spectre called Saren has gone rogue and attacked 
 a human colony to get to a Prothean beacon. To avoid spoiling the story, I will be brief. Your 
 job, in the game, is to hunt down Saren at any cost and prevent him from destroying all sentient 
 life in the galaxy.
  
  The graphics in this game are top-notch. Some annoying texture pop-ins appear frequently, however, 
 and the frame-rate noticeably drops whenever too many enemies are onscreen or too many things are 
 exploding at once. However, the frame-rate generally recovers quite quickly.
  
  The voice-acting in the game is also top-notch. Each character talks as if they mean what they 
 are saying. The dialogue options, also make the game alot more interesting and can slightly bend 
 the story to your will.
  
  The gameplay is brisk and well done, although the squad AI and controls could use a little work.
 
  
  Some flaws that tarnish the game are...
  
  The Mako, a six-wheeled tank-like beast of a vehicle, is used in many missions and to explore just 
 about every planet. The Mako sequences tend to be frustrating in the earlier levels because the 
 vehicle is simply too fragile, but once you upgrade skills, the Mako is hard to destroy. The sequences 
 tend to be long, drawn-out and rather un-stimulating. The controls for the Mako are annoying, and 
 these sequences seem fun the first few times, but become a hassle later on.
  
  Also unfortunately, in a game this massive, there are a number of annoying glitches. Many a time 
 I or squadmates have become stuck in scenery, thus forcing me to load back to my previous save. 
 Not a game-breaker by any means, but annoying nonetheless.
  
  Otherwise, you have an excellent game with an excellent story. Its like a great sci-fi novel in 
 videogame form.
  
  Mass Effect is an experience that you truly, don't want to miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terror616
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I got Mass Effect knowing it was going to be a good game. And yea, it was a good game... and still 
 is. Right from the start its fun and a great looking.
  
  Pros
  -----------
  -Great storyline, the ability to choose your own character, and your own path in the game by selecting 
 different options during cut scenes, each one can affect you and your squad in many ways. 
  -Lots of sidequests to do. You'll always seem to have time to do a sidequest in exchange for cash. 
 You can even eventually charm or intimidate people into giving you more then the standard reward 
 for your work. 
  -Lots of places to explore. A lot of big, open worlds and cities for you to explore, doing sidequests, 
 missions or just looking around. Cities often have marketplaces, interesting people and info and 
 ways to gain cash and have some battles along the way too. You may even get lost in some bigger 
 places.
  -Great graphics. Levels are highly detailed (some more then others) and look very futuristic. Lighting 
 is amazing and can sometimes really set a mood and atmosphere.
  -Good Soundtrack.
  
  Cons
  --------
  -Driving is awkward
  -Could be more weapons 
  -Previews in shops for armor 
 is just a block, which makes it hard to decide
  -Though fun at times combat can get boring
  
  Overall, highly recommend it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D3R1N
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect, like BioWare's critically-acclaimed Star Wars: KOTOR, allows you to fully customize 
 your very own character in a seemingly endless amount of ways and thrust him or her into the "Traverse" 
 via a high-ranking position in the Alliance Navy. With this in mind, one customizable option available 
 to you is that of picking from a variety of different backstories to outfit your character with. 
 Such a thing will ultimately change how the character in question will be viewed by others throughout 
 the game, whether it be somewhere along the main storyline, or sometime during one of the game's 
 many side missions.
  
  In conjunction with the somewhat superficial character customization features, you're also required 
 to choose a specific class for your hero. These classes range from your stereotypical, gun-toting 
 super-soldier, to those who rely almost solely on the use of "Biotic" powers that are in a sense 
 similar to the "Force" powers a Jedi would possess, but much more in-depth and fun to use. You 
 can also make your particular character excel in the "Tech" department as well, meaning they'll 
 be extra useful in more tactical situations throughout the game's many on-foot battles. However, 
 no matter what class you end up choosing, your character will ultimately possess and utilize many 
 a different ability specific to said classes. These abilities are then able to be upgraded as you 
 and your squadmates obtain experience points and, ultimately, higher levels as you progress through 
 the game.
  
  To expand further on the aforementioned "Traverse," it's simply just another name that's been coined 
 in order to refer to our much more familiar "Universe." The difference you ask? Well, in Mass Effect, 
 this so-called Traverse consists of an EXTREMELY extensive array of planetary systems, all of which 
 are navigable by space vessel, more specifically you and your crew's Normandy; a high-end Alliance 
 Naval vessel with an intense amount of power under the hood if you will. The organic lifeforms 
 present throughout every planet present within the Traverse are greatly in danger however, as a 
 traitorous soldier by the name of Saren is plotting to destroy all of them. Now as basic as it 
 sounds, Mass Effect's story can arguably be considered one of the best in science-fiction history, 
 both in actuality and in video games. I say such a thing mainly because there's much more to the 
 story in terms of painstaking detail that I simply cannot mention in a mere review such as this 
 one.
  
  In order to stop Saren from successfully completing his mission, you, your squadmates, and your 
 ship's crew must do whatever it takes to stop him. To aid you in doing such a thing, a plethora 
 of weapons and upgrades are at your disposal. Weapons range from your standard pistol to much more 
 powerful firearms, such as assault rifles, sniper rifles, shotguns, and even grenade "throwers." 
 Like I said, you can upgrade said weapons to make them even more powerful, in conjunction with 
 the ammo each firearm is outfitted with. Even your soldiers' armor can be upgraded to give you 
 extra protection against enemy forces. Certain classes are also outfitted with things such as "Biotic 
 Amps," which allow you to utilize the Biotic powers I briefly mentioned earlier, as well as "Omni-Tools" 
 that aid in performing other tasks including salvaging artifacts, weaponry, and so forth.
  
  The combat in Mass Effect is most definitely something to remember it by, as it's often very 
 fast-paced and exciting by all means. You generally gain a small amount of experience every time 
 you successfully kill an enemy, complete any mission objective, or even do something as simple 
 as examine a computer terminal aboard your own ship. This experience obviously goes towards your 
 and your squadmates' leveling up as the game progresses, which I also mentioned briefly before. 
 What's really good about this particular system, however, is how all of your fellow squadmates 
 essentially stay at the same level you're currently at, and if you so choose, you can manually 
 distribute both their and your talent points, or simply leave it up to the game's AI. This comes 
 in especially handy when you come to rely on a particular squad member for their Biotic, Tech, 
 or Combat expertise. All in all, the battles incorporated throughout the game require you to utilize 
 an almost strict balance between both standard weapons combat and a character's particular forte. 
 Granted, this can be frustrating at times, but once you get the hang of Mass Effect's seemingly 
 tactical combat system, you'll have a great time.
  
  On the other side of the combat spectrum within Mass Effect lies the almost monotonous vehicular 
 exploration and combat. Why monotonous? Well for starters, it is quite a treat to ride around in 
 the ol' Mako, otherwise known as a typical Alliance rover, for the first couple of times you get 
 to do so. After that, you'll soon find out that the Mako itself doesn't handle all that well, albeit 
 a great deal of firepower it indeed possesses. When exploring other planets though for secondary 
 mission objectives, you'll discover that your trusty Mako is essential for survival inside the 
 harsh atmospheres of much more distant and ultimately hazardous planets. On some of these planets, 
 you'll encounter giant worm-like creatures known as Thresher Maws who, annoyingly enough, viciously 
 assault your vehicle until you've driven safely out of its range or spend several minutes killing 
 it. They aren't that prominent on most planets, but when you do manage to cross one's path, you'll 
 probably wish you hadn't. To be perfectly honest, I just feel the vehicular combat falls a tad 
 flat compared to the on-foot portions of the game, without a doubt.
  
  Graphically, Mass Effect delivers on all fronts, with breathtakingly-rendered environments and 
 simply stunning character models. The amount of detail put into every single environment is just 
 remarkable, regardless of essentially how important that particular environment is to the progression 
 of the game. Great examples of this can ultimately be seen when traversing one of the many aforementioned 
 planets in order to complete a majority of the game's side missions. Another great example that 
 supports the game's graphical excellence is that of not only the character models themselves, but 
 more noticeably their faces during the game's many dialogue-heavy sections. Their facial expressions 
 in conjunction with the way their mouths sync perfectly to the words they're uttering left me in 
 awe after the first twenty minutes. Excellent work, BioWare. Excellent work indeed.
  
  The musical score in conjunction with the voice acting being showcased throughout the game greatly 
 exceeded my expectations as well. Some truly top-notch performances by pretty much all of the actors 
 really, for lack of a better phrase, suck you into the game and every excruciating detail that's 
 present within it. As for the aforementioned musical score, it strikes up at just the right moments 
 with just the right amount of emotion thrown in for good measure. Such things really help the game 
 progress smoothly and satisfyingly on all fronts.
  
  To be frank, I've never played an RPG as good as this one, even if it is considered to be an "action-RPG." 
 An almost perfect balance between exciting combat scenarios, excellent graphics, voice acting, 
 and the best science-fiction story you'll come across make Mass Effect a true force to be reckoned 
 with in the gaming industry today. If you're still not sold on buying it, let alone renting it, 
 it took me roughly 20 hours to complete on my first playthrough, and I didn't even manage to complete 
 the last half dozen or so side missions I'd been working on throughout the entire course of the 
 game. Simply put, if you consider yourself a "completionist," this game is the game for you. If 
 not, the main storyline will take you anywhere from 8-10 hours to complete, leaving you to potentially 
 complete the game on the two harder difficulty settings for those hard-to-get achievement points. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oshaun123
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect launched onto the market last year with high regards, the best part, it lived up to 
 the hype. Mass Effect is a very immersive game that has you playing as commander Shepherd, an Alliance 
 Marine who is in command of the most technologically advanced ship in the universe, The Normandy. 
 It throws you into a massively interactive version of the place we call home, the Milky Way galaxy. 
 Nominated for countless awards Mass Effect has changed the way traditional RPG'S will be played 
 for countless titles to come. Gameplay is nothing like any other RPG before it, dialogue is near 
 flawess (and on some occasions hilarious) , graphics are off the chart gorgeous, and sound rivals 
 that of any hollywood movie or any current game on the market. The only drawback to this game is 
 that it is any RPG that means if u play it, it will take a while to get fully going but once you 
 do it is worth it. I will say this right now this game is not for everyone, if you have previously 
 played RPGS before you know what i am talking aobut if this is your first RPG ever played you have 
 made a great choice. This game has the best storyline of any game i have ever played, it even beats 
 out the Halo series in my opinion. This game should have rightfully won game of the year award 
 but i absolutely love this game and recommend it to anyone who likes space travel and science fiction. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to playing this game. I love role playing, first person shooter, and 
 sci-fi so this was the perfect match. Lets start out with what the game does well. The dialog is 
 really good. Everyone talks in the game instead of just reading text. The voice acting is decent, 
 but there are some moments when it is not so good. Being able to choose what you want to say and 
 how you want to play your character is awesome. The story is epic, which you should expect in a 
 good role playing game. The graphics are not bad, but it does stutter at times. 
  Now the bad. FIrst off, there is not much action in the game. You start off on a mission, but after 
 that you spend about 4 to 6 hours just talking and doing quests that require little combat if any. 
 The game just starts to drag and you just want to shoot something already. Finally you leave the 
 citadel and when you do go on missions the combat is not that great anyways. I tried doing some 
 of the side quests and going to other planets but they are so dull, ex: click on a planet and collect 
 date, look for a minerals on the planet, etc. The game is also very linear, not much room to explore. 
 The environments seem very empty, no detail just floor and wall textures with a crate here and 
 there. Also, upgrading armor, weapons, etc is not so inspiring. Nothing really cool, and when you 
 do add upgrades it does not show how your attributes are effected, ex: increase accuracy by 20%, 
 but your accuracy rating on your weapon is still the same? 
  I think most people that play this game will understand what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rorkror
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  A lot has ben said about this game and I think no more good things have been left to be told. So 
 I will make reference to everything disappointing to this game.
  
  First of all it's replayability has one thing that is disappointing, that the use of the skip dialog 
 button, the x, a lot of time selects an answer for the conversation, it should only skip dialogs, 
 not select options.
  
  The alignment system shouldn't ask you to spend points to open new dialogs, it should have been 
 a creations sleection option and as you play the game gets points and those opens you a new range 
 of options in dialogs.
  
  And one of the biggest problems of the game is the item selection for sell and buy items, the never 
 ending scrolling is one of the most boring and nerfing things i have experienced in a game.
  
  But it will be one of the best RPG ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashwyn16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  Ok so Mass Effect a game which at first, i was alittle sceptical about as i didnt know wether an 
 RPG and third Person shooter could mix genre's but i eventually completed it and here's my indepth 
 review of it....
  
  Story:
  
  The game begins aboard the experimental Human Systems Alliance frigate SSV Normandy, commanded 
 by Captain Anderson and his executive officer, Commander Shepard. The Normandy is being sent to 
 the human colony world of Eden Prime to recover a beacon built by a highly advanced extinct race, 
 the Protheans. To assist in recovering the beacon, the Citadel Council, the main government for 
 most of the galaxy, have sent one of their top agents, a turian "Spectre" named Nihlus.
  
  Nihlus, Shepard, and a small team discover that the Eden Prime colony is under attack by alien 
 synthetic life forms known as the Geth. Nihlus encounters and is then killed by another Turian 
 Spectre named Saren. Saren orders the Geth to destroy the colony, but Shepard prevents them from 
 doing so. After the battle ends, Shepard discovers the beacon but it suddenly activates. Shepard 
 receives a vision of biological creatures being slaughtered by machines before the beacon explodes.
 
  
  The Normandy and its crew are summoned by Ambassador Udina to the Citadel to report on Saren. The 
 Citadel Council concludes that there is not enough evidence to charge Saren with treason. Shepard 
 discovers a recording of a conversation between Saren and one of his allies, an asari Matriarch 
 named Benezia, discussing their victory on Eden Prime. The recording also mentions the return of 
 a force known as the "Reapers", which the Geth believe are a race of sentient machines that wiped 
 out the Protheans, as well as an artifact called the "Conduit". Confronted with this evidence, 
 the Council revokes Saren's status as a Spectre. Since the Council cannot send their fleet after 
 Saren without provoking a major war with the independent Terminus Systems, they decide instead 
 to make Shepard the first human Spectre, and charge him with hunting down Saren.
  
  Command of the Normandy is taken from Captain Anderson and given to Shepard. He uses the ship to 
 follow up on several leads given by Anderson and Udina, but as a Spectre, Shepard is free to follow 
 them in any order. Traveling to the planet Therum in the Artemis Tau Cluster, Shepard finds and 
 rescues Liara T'soni, Matriarch Benezia's daughter, who is an expert on the Protheans. Liara identifies 
 the beacons as devices that transmit information directly into the user's mind, but the information 
 is useless without the collective unconsciousness of the Prothean species, also known as the "Cipher". 
 Arriving on the besieged colony world of Feros, Shepard fights off an army of geth and discovers 
 that the colony is housing an ancient life form known as the Thorian, a sentient plant-like creature 
 that has absorbed vast knowledge from the Protheans. This knowledge forms the "Cipher" that can 
 help interpret the contents of the beacons. Shepard battles the Thorian and acquires the Cipher, 
 learning of Saren's flagship, Sovereign, which seems to be capable of unique mind-control capabilities.
 
  
  Shepard finds out that Matriarch Benezia is on the corporate-controlled world of Noveria. He tracks 
 her down to a research facility where he is attacked by both geth and alien insects known as rachni. 
 Shepard discovers that the Matriarch's goal was to recover the location of the Mu Relay, the location 
 of which is possessed by the last surviving rachni Queen. Benezia attacks Shepard but is defeated, 
 and reveals that her mind is being controlled by Saren, through his ship Sovereign. She soon reverts 
 to Saren's control and Shepard is forced to kill her.
  
  After completing two of the previous three planets Shepard learns a salarian spy unit has uncovered 
 a base operated by Saren on Virmire. Traveling there, Shepard and his team learn that Saren is 
 creating an army of krogan warriors, and studying the process by which Sovereign controls minds. 
 Shepard assaults the base to detonate the fusion reactor of a ship inside it.
  
  With the assistance of the salarian commandos, Shepard's stealth team breaches the base. Inside 
 they discover another Prothean beacon, which transfers its knowledge to Shepard. Shepard is then 
 confronted by Sovereign itself, which reveals that it is what the Protheans and geth consider to 
 be a "Reaper." Sovereign explains that the Reapers allow organic life to develop, allowing species 
 to discover the mass relays to influence future technology, before extinguishing them when they 
 reach a certain level of advancement. After planting the nuclear bomb and attempting to escape 
 the facility, the team is attacked by Saren. He explains that he has aligned himself with the Reapers 
 to save organic life by making it "useful". Shepard refuses to accept Saren's plan and escapes 
 Virmire before the nuclear warhead is detonated.
  
  With the Cipher and the information from the two beacons, Liara is able to make sense of the information 
 Shepard possesses. She pinpoints the Conduit's location on a Prothean world known as Ilos, a world 
 that can only be accessed through the Mu Relay. Returning to the Citadel with this information, 
 Shepard finds that the Council does not accept the Reapers as a genuine threat. Ambassador Udina 
 locks Shepard out of the Normandy, but Captain Anderson steps in and allows Shepard to steal the 
 ship back.
  
  On the surface of Ilos, Shepard follows Saren into an ancient bunker deep within the planet and 
 encounters a Prothean computer system named Vigil, which explains the Reapers' methodology. The 
 Citadel Station is actually a mass relay facility built by the Reapers that will summon them from 
 the dark space outside the galaxy. Before the Reapers invaded, the researchers at Ilos were on 
 the verge of understanding the mass relay system, and were able to finish their studies upon re-awakening. 
 The Prothean researchers sabotaged the mass relay in the Citadel and created the Conduit, a miniaturized 
 mass relay that allowed them to travel to the heart of the Citadel. Sovereign intends to use the 
 Conduit to transport Saren and his geth army directly into the Citadel and bypassing its security 
 systems.
  
  Shepard pursues Saren through the Conduit. At the same time, Sovereign and a massive geth fleet 
 assault the Citadel itself, breaking through the Council fleets defending the station. Sovereign 
 lands on the central tower of the Citadel and begins activating the relay, while Saren uses the 
 Citadel's central control systems to close the station around the Reaper to protect it. Shepard 
 fights up the tower to the control center and confronts Saren, either killing him personally or 
 convincing him that he has fallen under Sovereign's indoctrination, prompting Saren to kill himself. 
 The Human Systems Alliance fleet arrives to reinforce the beleaguered Council fleets while Shepard 
 reopens the Citadel and exposes Sovereign. At this point, Shepard has a choice between ordering 
 the Alliance fleet to save the Council, who are under attack by the geth, or going directly to 
 Sovereign. Saren's corpse suddenly reanimates under Sovereign's direct control, and begins attacking 
 Shepard while the Alliance attacks Sovereign itself. When the dust settles, Sovereign is destroyed 
 and the reanimated Saren corpse disintegrates.
  
  The precise ending of the game depends on several factors, among them whether or not Shepard opts 
 to save the Council during the final battle, and whether Shepard has a higher Paragon or Renegade 
 meter. If Shepard saves the Council, they are inspired by Shepard's actions and bravery and grant 
 humanity a seat on the Council. If the Council is destroyed, the Systems Alliance assumes control 
 and humanity steps forward to lead the galaxy into the future. Shepard is also allowed to choose 
 between Ambassador Udina or Captain Anderson as the new leader in the aftermath, but regardless 
 of the choice, Shepard realizes that the Reapers are still a threat, and that they must be stopped.
 
  
  Controls:
  
  Ok for this action based RPG as i like to call it, its obvious that there are going to be a fare 
 lot of controls which is the case with ' Mass Effect ' of course you have your shoot and zoom in 
 buttons which would be your back triggers but then theres the left and right bumber...
  
  Left bumber brings up a type of weapons inventory as the Right bumber brings up your boi-Tech powers.
 
  
  As well as these manditory buttons theres also little mini-games that you ' the player ' must participate 
 in to brake into medikits.. weapon storages ect..... For these you must press the corresponding 
 button that appears on the screen before the time runs out.
  
  I found the controls to be ok and the only problem i had with them was i kept forgetting which 
 control was which from time to time becuase of the amount of controls used within the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  it is possible for the player to fully customize their character's appearance, 
 gender, abilities and even military background. [12]
  
  The game includes six character classes. Each class contains several talents; as each talent is 
 leveled, the character either gains stats (extra health, stamina, etc) , unlocks new abilities (leveling 
 the Shotgun talent unlocks the Carnage ability, which allows the character to fire a concentrated 
 blast from the Shotgun) , or unlocks other talents. Each class also possesses a unique talent with 
 the same name as its respective class; the characters may also have talents tied to their background. [14] 
 Characters who have reached level 20 will unlock a "Rogue VI" side-mission on Luna (Earth's Moon) 
 in the Sol system, in which upon completion, allows the player to choose one new specialist class. 
 This unlocks one new "bar" of talents which can be earned. The specialist classes the character 
 is offered depends on the base class.
  
  When characters are first created six classes are available: Soldier, Engineer, Adept, Infiltrator, 
 Sentinel and Vanguard. Soldiers are the most skilled with weaponry, Engineers make use of the omni-tool 
 and tech-abilities and the Adept are the best at using the biotics. The other three classes are 
 combinations of the first three. Infiltrators are a combination of Soldiers and Engineers, the 
 Sentinel is a combination between the Engineer and the Adept and the Vanguard are a combination 
 of the Soldier and the Adept.
  
  Players also have some control over their character's back story. They are able to choose either 
 to have been a "spacer" (born and bred in space) , a colonist or an "Earthborn". They also choose 
 whether they have been the sole survivor of a terrible battle, a war-hero or a ruthless soldier. 
 These backgrounds have only a small effect in the game, although many characters reference the 
 player's chosen background when talking to Commander Shepard and these can also affect whether 
 some side-quests are available. Except in a few situations, the player's background does not affect 
 the player's dialog choices.
  
  Also aswell as the gameplay and character customization the graphics are proberly using the 360's 
 max power which means they look phemominal and possibly could not be beaten ..
  
  The problem i had with the gameplay was although im a big fan of indepth RPG'S and third person 
 shooters Mass Effect may of tried to mix the Genre but didnt do it very well thanks to the combat 
 system which feels clunky and also like it didnt have enough thought put into it.
  
  Also like gamespot said when you use viechles within the game its very clunky and some of the weapons 
 are good to look at but useless in battle.
  
  A. I:
  
  For the most Part the A. I in ' Mass Effect ' are really good as they interact with each other during 
 gameplay, begin conversations with you and with each other and the enemy A. I are pretty smart as 
 in the heat of battle they will hide behind walls and try to flank you as they see fit.
  
  Even your allied A. I works pretty well as there not completly useless like most games ive played 
 and they will actually kill enemy's with you.
  
  The main and possibly big problem i had with this games A. I was when your walking around the Citidel 
 they would sometimes get stuck behind walls or automatic doors which gets fustrating as it happened 
 to me several time in a matter of minuites.
  
  
  Achievements:
  
  Ok so im adding in this catogory for Mass Effect because not only do you unlock achievements in 
 this game (like all 360 games) but when you unlock certain one's you unlock something in the game 
 itslef which is pretty cool.
  
  Mass Effect contains achievements that are unlocked when certain conditions are met. Examples include 
 registering 150 kills with a weapon or using a biotic/tech ability 75 times during the course of 
 play. In addition to displaying on a player's Live profile, certain achievements will grant in-game 
 bonuses for the player once unlocked. Others will open an extra option during character creation, 
 allowing a player to pick one bonus skill (depending on which have been unlocked) that their chosen 
 class would normally not have had.
  
  
  Overall Mass Effect doesn't blend genre's that great but with a gripping story and great graphics 
 you will find yourself hooked within the game for days.
  
  The Good:
  
  Graphically one of the best
  Great story 
  Replay value thanks to many different side quests 
 and dialogue options
  
  The Bad: 
  
  Pretty short for an RPG
  Boss battles can range from easy to fustrating
  
  The Ugly:
  
  Load times are sometimes 
 bad
  Interface issues anoy you
  Allied A. I sometimes isnt that great
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguindapimp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  This game gets you right from the start. Great storyline, great characters, amazing interaction 
 between characters, a non-forgetable storyline. This game many many many plus sides, but the controls 
 for the vehicle are really crappy. Choosing what you can say to people makes the game even better 
 because you can either want to choose if you watn to be a suck up you can be nice to everyone but 
 you can also be a pain. The exploration that you can do is amazing. You can go anywhere. The story 
 line can keep you interested in the game since so much can happen. Also when you get to go to certain 
 planets you can choose to either save them or perform genocide. The eivironment is the best I've 
 ever seen. It's never the same it always changes. You won't see the same thing twice. Altogether 
 this game is one of the best games I've played from last years games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeonLiev
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of those games where you clearly notice the amount of time the developers put 
 into details. Not only graphical details (backgrounds and rendering of the surrounding is very 
 good) , but also the game details (discussion topics, conversations by people in the background, 
 just about everything!) And details are what make games like these so fantastic to play. 
  
  The game is a combination between a shooter and an RPG, balancing both games in a pleasant 
 way. The shooting parts are fun, challenging and have a nice feel. The RPG part lets you choose 
 how to manage your surrounding as the story evolves around you.
  
  There are some minor downsides as well. For some reason, the writers found it necessary to throw 
 in a love story on the background. It feels awkward and out of place. Furthermore, it sometimes 
 seems like whatever decisions you make, it does not matter at all for the outcome of the story. 
 For the main story, that's understandable, but at least minor details (like the way people look 
 at you) could be adapted. And finally I got the feeling that you sometimes suddenly change weapons 
 in the middle of a fight, because you somewhat clumsily gripped you controller. Though I do admit 
 that's mostly my own problem of course :)
  
  But don't put too much emphasis on the downsides. Most of all, the game drags you along a surprisingly 
 decent story, with also more than enough side questing to be done. The graphics and sound are amazing 
 and the whole game just feels more than good for the entire 20-30 hours you will normally spend 
 getting to the ending. this game is absolutely worth your money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRM114
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect has been heralded as the next great thing from Bioware on consoles. Does it live up 
 to the hype? Well, yes and no. It is certainly a deep, fun, and impressive game (both in terms 
 of its graphics and the quality of its storyline) . The gameworld bioware has devised is fun to 
 experience which will appeal to both newcomers, as well as fans of bioware's previous games such 
 as KOTOR. Unfortunately, Mass Effect just isn't as good as KOTOR. Yes the transition to real-time 
 action is probably a welcome change, but it's been made at the expense of the pause/squad management 
 option that made KOTOR such and interesting and strategic game to play. Complete AI control over 
 your squadmates (commands aside) was a major letdown, and was all the more frustrating when my 
 teamates failed to stop dying. A step backwards really.
  
  Another unfortunate backwards step was taken in mission design. I'm taking specifically about the 
 game's bifurcated mission structure. Storyline worlds are intersting, both visually and content 
 wise, and are clearly the primary focus of the the game. Unfortunately, they can be beaten in as 
 little as 12 hours if you're persistent enough. There's just not enough content there, which is 
 too bad, because what is present is absolutely fantastic. 
  
  The remainder of your time outside of the main storyline will be spent exploring the galaxy. Exploration 
 consists of traveling between Mountain world type A and Mountain world type B, and leaves the player 
 temporarily sadled with the MAKO all-terrain vehicle, easily the most frustrating experience you'll 
 ever have with a vehicle in a video game, it controls terribly. The generic carbon copy nature 
 of each world soon makes exploration tedious and little more than an XP grind, I would've much 
 rather preferred one or two more fleshed out storyline worlds (a la KOTOR) then the tedium of raiding 
 generic pirate base number 7. 
  
  Despite its flaws ME is still a very good game, just don't expect anything as majestic as KOTOR. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnoCowboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Like all of the KOTOR games Bioware has succeeded in making another game that will keep you playing 
 over and over again. The sheer vastness of the galaxy is unbeleivable. I was completely amazed 
 at the detail and the depth of the story. The acheievments are good to work for, and it is definatly 
 set up for a sequel ( I hope) . Bioware really did a good job at making you emotionally involved 
 in the story also. This game is a must have rpg, just because of the scope of it. it's unlike anything 
 you ever played before. If you've ever been a fan of the KOTOR series then you will have no trouble 
 at all enjoying this game. I'm also quite a fan of the mature themes throughout the game. I'm glad 
 they didn't hold back on language of violence. Some people might think depictions of people committing 
 suicide shouldn't be in games. But that is precisely why this game got stamped mature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyroSniper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Didnt know what to think at first, heard is was an RPG and I am not a big fan of console RPGs, 
 but this game is worth playing.
  
  I wouldnt really call this game an RPG, its more like a third person shooter. Other than that, 
 it does have all the elements of an RPG.
  
  The Good: Great graphics, GREAT Story, good variety of weapons and armor, interesting characters, 
 addictive, good variety of achievements, good use of achievements to get bonuses in the game.
 
  
  The Bad: Repetitive level design, vehicle movement, minor glitches (getting stuck and such) , SLOW 
 elevators, the "vision" cutscene is annoying.
  
  I have clocked over 100 hours on this game, and I have beaten it about 10 times on all different 
 difficulties, I also have all the achievements, the hardest by far is getting the Asari ally achievement. 
 I just cant seem to get enough of this game, and although I have played it through about 10 times, 
 I found something new each time I played it, and there is still more.
  
  The story in this game is insane, there is so many different things in this story that you can 
 discover. Thanks to their use of "good" and "bad" points (kinda like in Fable) , you can unlock 
 different events in the game. The more good points you add through lvling up or acquire just by 
 resolving certain disputes in a nice way, it will determine weather or not you can unlock more 
 speech options that will resolve situations that would usually end up getting someone killed. This 
 also goes for the bad side, in situations where someone would usually survive or get away or something 
 like that, the evil points will allow you to do something rude or mean to get that person killed 
 or something of that sort.
  
  I really enjoy the variety of skills and weapons that you can use in this game, the biotics are 
 an interesting idea, and all the engineering skills do come in handy, especially the shield overload. 
 My suggestion to anyone who is going to play the game for the first time, it to play through as 
 a soldier first, and get all the achievements for the weapons then select a biotics or engineering 
 character and just add whatever weapon you want that isnt included on that character, my preference 
 is the shotgun because it is really handy in close spaces which there are a lot of in this game. 
 All the weapons have their strong points, the assault rifle is good for killing numerous small 
 and easy to kill enemies at any range, the pistol is one of the most versatile weapons in the game, 
 and you can use it for just about anything and is a good alternate to use with the shotgun and 
 it can be used for long ranges. The sniper is good if you want an accurate shot from a long range 
 that will usually kill in one shot, but after that, all the enemies tend to scatter and take cover, 
 and the sniper isnt all that good until you get the better series like the Spectre weapons after 
 which I ended up using it somewhat like a shotgun. Now, as for the shotgun, it is a great weapon, 
 and after a while it becomes great for close and medium range, it can kill from a good distance, 
 and a good type of ammo to use with it is the sledgehammer or hammer rounds which add weapons force 
 to the weapon and allow you to knock various enemies down, even the larger ones, also the shotgun's 
 special advanced ability, carnage, it great for long range one shot kills against the larger enemies.
 
  
  As for the traveling throughout the galaxy, it works, but the level designs do get rather repetive 
 and annoying. In the game, you use these things called "Mass Relays" to go from point A to point 
 B in a very short time, after which you use the "FTL" drive to get between systems and planets. 
 Once you land on the planet, you will more than likely use the Mako which is basically a 6-wheel 
 drive off-road vehicle with insane shocks. The Mako is annoying, it bounces around a lot, and it 
 is easy to end up going a direction you dont want it to, I end up driving in reverse a lot. Also 
 the Mako's gun sucks, just keep in mind: if the crosshairs are pointing there, dont expect the 
 gun to hit there, the gun is greatly effected by the terrain it is driving on. Which is another 
 thing, the terrain in this game is beyond annoying, the mountains are gigantic, and the Mako often 
 cant scale them, so you have to find another way around.
  
  The level designs for the side missions is extremely repetitive, and chances are each time you 
 go into a building on a different planet, that building will look exactly like any one of 3 types 
 of buildings that you have been in before, and the only difference is the bad guys inside, and 
 their sense of interior design (the stuff inside the building has been rearranged) .
  
  Other than those few things I mentioned, this is a great game, and I will most likely continuing 
 to play this game, because I am sure that there are a few things within the story that I have missed 
 or not yet touched on. Anyway, overall, this is a great game, and well worth looking into RPG fan 
 or not, it is still a lot of fun, and I cant wait for the other two games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPstyle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is plain and simply the best story driven MMO around. Sure oblivian has the vast almost 
 no load world, and WoW has the huge user base, but no other game ( that I have played at least, 
 and I have played a lot) has a story driven quite like Mass Effect. Character development is on 
 par with that of KOTOR *Knights of the Old Republic*. as far as graphics go, there are parts where 
 you will think your watching a Sci-Fi movie, character animations are done brilliantly and with 
 the exceptions of the few and far between glitches everything runs very nice. combat is like that 
 of Oblivian and WoW you have gear you can train up to and you can customize your gear to be basicaly 
 what ever type of soldier you want to. the Bio abilities are really fun to. They basicaly operate 
 like the force... only way better animated and have actual physics driving them. Use the throw ability 
 and guys will be believable thrown across the room. This game is solid on story though, if your 
 looking for somthing with tons and tons of hardcore action this game may not be for you. while 
 there is PLENTY of action to go around, there is also lots of character development and story to 
 learn. Just be aware ahead of time that this is not an "action" game, its a story driven experience 
 that utilizes really fun action to further its plot. all in all the only reason I dont give this 
 game a 10 is because as of now before the any downloadable content has been realeasd there are 
 a few minor graphical bugs. Its nothing that detracts from the fun at all, its just that to me 
 10 is a game thats all but prefect... and this game is right on that line 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkner_ram77
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is easily one of the best games to come out of 2007. Best RPG by far. I won't ruin 
 the game for you, but I will say that the story is possibly the best I have ever seen in a video 
 game. Much better than a Final Fantasy in fact, and even has a universe that could easily rival 
 that of Star Wars and Star Trek.
  Gameplay is another strongpoint for this game. The cover system is great and the easiest to use 
 of any game. There are several powers to choose from, and if you want, you can just be a soldier 
 and let your squadmates do the powers for you. 
  One last thing, when you do finally make it to the climax, and ending of the game, you will be 
 on the edge of your seat with your heart beating a hundred miles an hour wishing every moment would 
 last just a little bit longer. Also, with Mass Effect being a planned trilogy, you can take your 
 created character through each iteration saving the galaxy from the.... well, you'll just have to 
 play the game to find that one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadalus91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect allows you to create your own character choosing from a wide variety of selections 
 to which you make him or her, you can even make a background story for them!
  Mass Effect is the best RPG i have ever played on any console it adds a wide range of fantastic 
 new elements to RPG's such as:
  Amazing new voice selections
  Allowing your actions to effect your storyline
  Making a background plot for your own character
 
  Having a great story 
  Setting it in the future and making sci fi is very new and sucks you in.
  Addictive storyline 
 allways wants you to come back for more.
  The ending is amazing you do not see an RPG with an ending like this.........
  
  Sometimes 
 though the game can be annoying for example free roaming around the galaxy is very fun but you 
 can only land on a few of the uncharted worlds which can be boring as they all have the same gravity 
 and once you have completed the missions there is really no point going back.
  There should be more visitable location and whilst it fun going to the Milky Way solar system (our 
 system) you can only land on the moon and nothing else not even Earth : (.
  
  Even with these flaws it is still a fantastic game though and worth hours of your valuable gaming 
 time.
  
  Some of the factors above may not be new but the way Bioware has encorperated them feels like a 
 totally fresh game and idea.
  Proberbly one of the best games out on Xbox360 and definelty pick this game up.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil202mcr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  The basic story behind Mass Effect is that you are Commander John Shepard and you lead a team from 
 different races (Human, Asari, Salarian, Turian etc) .
  You and your team are in race against time to stop a rogue Spectre called Saren, he has a army 
 of these creatures called Geth at his command and you have to stop before he finds a way to destory 
 the universe and all that lives. 
  
  In Mass Effect there are several key points that i will go through, firstly when you are in converation 
 with another character, you can choose different options (These are called Paragon and Renegade) 
 Good and Evil, these determine the way the other character responses to you, whether he or she 
 likes you or dislikes you and whether you will be able to get information from them quicker.
  Next is the biotic powers which you are given, these range from Lift, Throw, Warp, Barrier etc. 
 Finally is Omni-Tools which are multipurpose diagnostic and minifacturing tools used for a variety 
 of battlefield tasks, such as hacking, decryption or repair.
  
  You can control your three man squad when you land on a planet to take cover, retreat, attack etc. 
 Also you can command your teammates to use their biotics.
  On to the weapons and armour, through out the game you can collect or pick up new weapons, armour 
 and upgrades for them as well. All the weapons and armour have ratings for their key features. 
 The weapons are the Assault Rifle, Shotgun, Sniper Rifle and Pistol. You have different types of 
 armour due to your class, Light, Medium and Heavy Armour can only be worn by certain classes. These 
 classes are Soldier, Engineer, Adept, Infiltrator, Sentinel and Vanguard.
  
  You can customise the way your characters face looks and the first name of Shepard. (Ok it isn't 
 as great as Oblivion, but at least Bioware tried) . As you roam uncharted planets in your MAKO, 
 finding lost treasures and artifacts you realise this is just one of those games that has been 
 so well prepared. The visual is outstanding and one of the best for the Xbox 360, though there 
 are framerate issues where the textures seem to take about 5 seconds to load. The sound and voice 
 acting is excellent, done by true profeesionals.
  
  To be honest, I can recommend this to anyone who likes action-adventures, RPG's and shooters because 
 this has to be up there along side Bioshock and Oblivion as one of the best RPG's for the Xbox 
 360 and is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hschaf
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -Detailed, immersive story line 
  -amazing dialogue leading to multiple outcomes 
  -huge galaxy with tons of freedom to explore or do side quests
  -great character developement
 
  -good mixture of RPG and shooter
  
  Cons:
  -some graphic glitches (texture pop-in, some shadowing issues)
  -terrible vehicle controls 
 
  -cliffhanger ending (could be good or bad)
  
  If your like me and love a game with a great, immerssive story line then this is a must have! Gameplay 
 takes a backseat to story telling in Mass Effect which is made evident through the seemingly endless 
 back history on all the planets, characters, aliens, vehicles, weapons.... etc! The huge galaxy 
 provides tons of sidequests that will keep you playing for a long time. Some small glitches (such 
 as texture pop-in) have made its way into the game but is not hard to overlook them in exchange 
 for the beautiful environment around you. The major downside to Mass Effect is the vehicle controls. 
 The Makko is very "jerky" to control and failry unrealistic in terms of its maneuvering. Another 
 downfall to the vehicle is the weaponry. If you are not on the same plain as your opposition, it 
 is not possible to take it down with the guns on the Makko.... which is extremely frustrating to 
 say the least. Overall Mass Effect does an excellent job at telling the story of galaxy wide drama... 
 a must have for you suckers for story lines!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: laughlyn12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the epic action/RPG from Bioware. What this means is that the story is going to 
 be top notch as well as very well executed RPG elements. The graphics are about as good as they 
 get but still suffer from some minor issues that only act as minor annoyances. The music and sound 
 are on par with those that you would hear in any epic Sci-Fi/fantasy movie such as Star Wars or 
 the Lord of the Rings trilogy. Where Mass Effect suffers is from parts that don't accentuate Bioware's 
 strengths such as weak squad AI as well as a horrible driving mechanic and camera.
  
  Mass Effect's most endearing quality is the story and its presentation. You begin by choosing the 
 backstory, look and sex to the protagonist that makes most wrestling games create-a-character pale 
 in comparison. After your character is created it drops you into this epic story that is beautifully 
 well paced not giving you too much or too little at any point thus allowing you to really understand 
 what's going on and who you are as the character. The story inevitably leads you to the whole save 
 the universe from some evil faction thing but at no point seems clich or cheap. The story is well 
 done and is clearly the best part of the game. If you play games for the story then this is a game 
 that you MUST play.
  
  What really sets Mass Effect apart from other supposedly story driven games, (I'm looking at you 
 Bioshock) , is an honest and true moral choice dynamic. Your choices and the way you treat people 
 have a genuine affect on the story and not just at the very ending cinematic. If your group wants 
 you to talk to someone about potentially joining the team and you say you don't need them, you 
 don't ask them to join the team and that choice could have major consequences down the line. The 
 choices are also a lot more grey then simply killing a child or setting her free which really makes 
 you think about your actions and also switches it up by giving you bad results to what seemed to 
 be a good action.
  
  Mass Effect takes cut scenes to an entirely different level than any video game before it. The 
 graphics and animations for the characters are almost photo realistic. While that's not a huge 
 accomplishment in this day and age of technology where it excels is in the way these characters 
 express emotion non-verbally. It's a lot easier to get an actor to convey and emotion by simply 
 saying, "That makes me sad," than it is to get a character to show it with their eyes. If you yell 
 or get mad at some of the NPC's they will get this almost unexplainable look of disappointment 
 and sadness in their eyes that I've never seen before in a video game and that also helps carry 
 the story.
  
  These emotions are helped by an absolutely top notch voice acting cast that includes my personal 
 favorite Keith David. Video games usually take lesser known and less talented people to fill out 
 voice work in their games especially one as large as Mass Effect but there is not a single bad 
 piece of dialog through out the entire game. It's beautiful.
  
  Where the graphics go south is that during the cut scenes. There is a constant texture popin that 
 looks like an overhead transparency presentation from high school. Layers are just added in, sometimes 
 10 to 15 seconds after a cutscene has begun. Bioware, I appreciate how great you made this game 
 look but that kind of thing through out a 20 hour console game is almost inexcusable. 
  
  Most of the planets are also substandard in their looks as they come in only a few varieties: lush 
 green planet, blue/white icy planet, orange desert plant, and red volcanic planet. To make these 
 planetary themes even worse all these planets are completely uninhabited with the exception of 
 the people or items that you are on that planet for. If you're going to go through all the hassle 
 to completely create an entire fleshed out galaxy then put some random life on these planets to 
 complete this beautiful fleshed out section of the universe that you've created.
  
  So, the game looks great, it sounds great and the story is great and now comes the point where 
 we talk about how the game plays. Keep in mind, I gave this game a 9.5 and would easily call this 
 game the greatest game of all time were it not for the major problems in the gameplay. Keep in 
 mind, these gameplay issues are huge, they are not "slightly irritating" or a "minor annoyance", 
 they are HUGE gaping problems. I can still give this game a 9.5 because the parts that are great 
 are so great that they even cancel out what I consider MAJOR issues.
  
  Mass Effect is played with a squad that consists of you main character as well 2 other NPC's that 
 are almost completely autonomous. They can attack who they want, more or less move where they want 
 and use their special abilities as they see fit. While all this sounds good where the whole thing 
 falls apart is the fact that your squad mates are basically "pants on head retarded". I spent more 
 time being shot in the back by my squad mates than I did being shot by the enemies. As the leader 
 you are always out in front and the second you start shooting, they start shooting and if you're 
 in their way, too bad! As a group of super space soldiers this is just not cool. Friendly fire 
 exists in large battles with different units coming from different angles. It does not exist repeatedly 
 with your squad shooting you in the back instead of moving to a position for them to shoot from.
 
  
  The major weakness of Mass Effect is the driving component. When you're not moving through the 
 same hallways and military bases over and over again you're driving out this interstellar dune 
 buggy from place to place on these planets. Bioware is an RPG developer and has little to no experience 
 with driving games and it shows. 
  
  The controls for driving the dune buggy are as close to broken as possible for a game of this quality. 
 They are not intuitive, they do not provide for accurate aiming (which you will need to do because 
 some of the driving missions include killing some major enemies) and what makes all this worse 
 is the camera! At times when you fall down into a deep canyon while trying to fight the camera 
 turns into what I call the "Jiffy Lube cam" as it decides that its time for you to inspect the 
 underside of your vehicle instead of fighting. The camera is so bad that it makes the original 
 Resident Evil look like it was shot by an Oscar-winning cinematographer. 
  
  The driving is so bad that I would rather slam my hand in a car door non-stop for three hours than 
 drive the dune buggy for five minutes in Mass Effect. I'm not usually someone who engages in hyperbole 
 but this might be the most horrendous component to a great game ever. It is so bad that I strongly 
 contemplated not playing the game but once I remembered how amazing the story and other parts of 
 the game were I trudged through it, albeit with grinding teeth.
  
  Were it not for the horrible squad AI that can end battles because of your death and the absolutely 
 atrocious driving mechanic I would have no problem calling Mass Effect the greatest game of all 
 time. The negatives were huge and almost made the game unplayable at points but the story and positives 
 of Mass Effect are so great that they can even outweigh such huge and resounding negatives. Even 
 with those things I would still recommend Mass Effect to anyone who plays and enjoys video games. 
 Its positives far outweigh its huge negatives to still put in on the Mount Rushmore of gaming along 
 with Final Fantasy VII, Super Mario Brothers 3, and The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: corbinator4
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Excellent game this game should be played by everyone. Good story great action game. I highly recommend 
 this game to everyone. But there is one problem that alot of ppl have found but i think there is 
 no problem is that there is alot of dialoge. I think there is a little bit to much for cutscenes 
 but after you playthrough the game once there is no problem and this can also be avoided by pressing 
 the X button to skip dialoge. You can fully customize your character by sex, armor, weopens, etc. 
 You should buy this game because there is so much in the game that you cant rent it and complete 
 the entire game and the side missions just from renting it. If you want the game for achievements 
 you can approximately get 400-500 in one playthrough. Definetley a must have. my xbox live gamertag 
 is: corbinator04 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stupid_snip3r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  All Joking aside ME (Mass Effect) is a good game the in depth storyline and Kotor's awesome combat 
 system. The game was made to stop and survey before continuing the combat. The story is top notch 
 and the player choices that effect the game are more consequential than in any other RPG. However 
 playing as many RPG's as i have the story is done right after it starts. On my first try in hard 
 mode the main story took me 17 hours to complete. This is very short for an RPG that is an average 
 FPS game time. However aside from the short main story line but hundreds of hours of side quest 
 time the game is really fun. However there are many geometry problems which occur more often than 
 they should. I got stuck every time i tried to use the star map. However a quick crouch and I was 
 free. If not for the geometry problems and the short storyline this game would have gotten a perfect 
 10.0 from me. They should have kept with KOTOR3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sw2093
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  When i first got this game i thought it was just another RPG game but when i played the first hour 
 of the game i realised that it was just more than that. 
  
  You play as Commander John Shephard An alliance Marine on board a prototype ship called the Normandy. 
 The story is about a rouge Spectre called saren and his ambitous goal of bringing back an ancient 
 race of machines called the reapers who wiped out the protheans. The Council on the citadel makes 
 The commander the first human spectre and takes charge of the Normandy. You as the player must 
 stop saren from accomplishing his goal by going to the different planets in the milky way with 
 the help of allies that you will find throughout this game
  
  If you are looking for a good game to play for your Xbox360 then i would recommend this .
  
 
  By
  Sw2093 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legather
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  I had played Bioware's Knights of the Old Republic and so was prepared for another quality Sci-Fi 
 RPG and indeed you could sum up Mass Effect as a quality RPG. But that would be rather nondescript.
 
  
  Mass Effect is a grand outing into Bioware's new original universe. This itself is Bioware's first 
 success. Sure, they could have played it safe and made another Star Wars RPG but by making the 
 effort they have succeeded in creating a fresh setting for our shenanigans. Everyone misses the 
 lightsabre but that is dwarfed by the rewards awaiting you. A whole new set of characters, races, 
 technologies and plot lines are ready to be experienced in a rather attractive graphical setting.
 
  
  Mass Effect's plot is advanced mostly in dialogue which is portrayed in scenes similar of KotOR. 
 The significant difference is that dialogue options are offered just before a character's line 
 of dialogue is finished. This usually means, disk catch-up aside, that a conversation can occur 
 fluidly rather than in the stop-start manner one may be familiar with. The options are offered 
 in a radial menu, the right hand side offering options which advance to the end of the conversation, 
 the left offering options which will investigate topics further. Conversations also offer a platform 
 for your character to choose to be a 'good guy' or a 'bad guy'. Similar to the light side/dark 
 side element of KotOR, your actions can lead you on a moral path however, there is no balance of 
 a good act cancelling out a bad one. You character accrues paragon (+) and renegade (-) points. 
 Once a certain amount of points are gathered, this opens up particular dialogue options. It will 
 also give a passive bonus to health, a high Paragon rating will add a flat amount of health whereas 
 a high Renegade rating will add health regeneration.
  
  Mass Effect's plot doesn't so much twist but builds up enough questions and excitement in its advance 
 to ensure your sustained interest. We start off as just another Human soldier in the Alliance Military. 
 On board the Normandy, a prototype stealth vessel co-designed by Human and Turian engineers, Commander 
 Shepard is part of the Human crew which is carrying Nihlus, a Turian SPECTRE (Think of the Jedi 
 Peacekeepers sans the Force or expectation of 100% virtue and altruism) to investigate a 50,000 
 year old alien beacon on humanity's most successful colony Eden Prime. We do not even get to touch 
 down before our mission is changed as Eden Prime comes under attack by an unknown force with great 
 destructive power. So, in fine Bioware style, we hop straight into the action.
  
  The action, one can immediately notice, is improved for the better from KotOR. The combat options, 
 instructions for your party to use abilities for example, while thematically similar in that they 
 are accessed and given through a menu which pauses the action, seems a lot more immediate. It does 
 not feel as though you are perusing a menu for options. By pressing the left shoulder button you 
 can instruct your party to equip one of the four classes of weapons they have equipped (pistol, 
 shotgun, assault rifle and sniper rifle) . By pressing the right, you can instruct them to use any 
 of the class based special abilities they have available. By using the D-pad, you can issue real 
 time instructions about deployment, whether they should hold position, advance or fall in. 
  Mass Effect makes effective use of cover, there is almost always available cover to make use of 
 in ducking enemy fire. The enemy AI will make similar use of cover to evade your fire. This is 
 important as mele combat is vastly reduced in effectiveness in Mass Effect. While you or the enemy 
 can smash you with the butt of a rifle, it does not happen very often. This of course leaves the 
 enemy AI the opportunity to scare you to death when you see some of the larger enemies running 
 pell mell towards you when you have no available stopping power.
  
  While a significant portion of in-game combat is in the party format, a sizeable amount is done 
 in an all-terrain vehicle launched from your ship to uncharted worlds. The planets can have environmental 
 hazards which encourage you to spend little time out of the lander. The vehicle has its own shields 
 and armour and sports a top-mounted turret which spurts automatic rounds or launches shells. This 
 vehicle can cross most terrain, usually only running into difficulty when encountering near-vertical 
 surfaces, deep water or lava.
  
  The choice of class is important to combat. Principally there are 3 class types: Soldier, Biotic 
 and Tech. The Soldier is he who makes extensive use of traditional ranged combat, he can train 
 in more weapons, in heavy armour and abilities that make ranged combat more effective. 
  The biotic chap covers what might be called 'Force powers', you won't get lightning from your fingertips 
 but you can create an eponymous Mass Effect field. This means that you can nullify gravity making 
 your enemies float useless off the ground, can push enemies over or off precipices, lock them temporarily 
 in stasis or inflict damage over time in an area or project a damaging sphere of energy. The biotic 
 can only make effective use of pistols and can only wear light armour.
  The Tech chap covers... well, tech. He can use various abilities which afflict enemies' equipment 
 or abilities. For instance, he can overheat weapons, overload shields or add a cooldown to enemies' 
 biotic and tech abilities. This class also has available the ability to decrypt locks and use electronics 
 to access otherwise unavailable information relating to missions or containers of equipment.
  You also have 3 classes which cover a little of 2 areas, a tech/combat guy, a tech/biotic guy and 
 a biotic/combat guy all of which can include a few of the strengths and weaknesses of each class.
 
  
  Mass Effect features a traditional levelling system whose only variation is that each character 
 that you have access to shares the experience pool. When one character can level up, they all can. 
 Each level will see you being able to invest talent points into various abilities. These cover 
 weapon proficiencies, armour proficiencies, class proficiencies (which tend to add a bonus to class 
 critical abilities and are worth investing in from the get-go) and ability proficiencies. Investing 
 in one proficiency will yield a small percent increase in its effectiveness, some of them also 
 open up new equipment options or new, previously locked, proficiencies.
  The previously mentioned Paragon/Renegade element makes an appearance in the talent screen. Players 
 can place their points in Charm and Intimidate talents which are Paragon/Renegade respectively. 
 Once a character has accrued so many +/- points through behaviour choices, this opens new ranks 
 of each ability. Charm can be used to positively resolve dilemmas, Intimidate to do so negatively. 
 Investing in these can also impact the merchant interactions you make by giving bonuses to sale 
 prices or discounts on purchases.
  
  Equipment in Mass Effect is similar to KotOR. Each character can equip armour, as limited by their 
 class. They can also equip any weapon, though their class will limit which weapons they can train 
 and become more effective in. A Biotic could wield an assault rifle, but would have damage and 
 accuracy bonuses with a pistol. Also, a class can equip an omni-tool (if they have access to tech 
 powers) or a biotic amp (if they have access to biotic powers) which will add variable bonuses 
 to ability recharge, ability power and shields. Most pieces of equipment can be upgraded with different 
 classes of upgrades, a weapon can be upgraded with an ammo type and a weapon bonus. The main character 
 can equip grenade upgrades which can be chosen to suit a player's style or a situation's requirements.
 
  
  The music of Mass Effect owes a large amount to the sci-fi movies of the 80's and benefits from 
 it. The electronic soundtrack matches the traditional 'futuristic' setting well. Rather than match 
 modern visions of overly dystopian landscapes or completely contoured design, environments are 
 clean cut and angular. Rather than seeming anachronistic with our sense of what the future should 
 be, it portrays a perfectly viable vision of shining potential.
  
  Virtually every element of Mass Effect is geared towards a perfect rpg delivering a treat of a 
 sci-fi story. This game wants to be the best an offline sci-fi RPG can be. Unfortunately, a few 
 oversights keep it back from attaining this accolade and are annoying enough not to forgive.
  
  In combat, occasionally your party members may switch weapons. This is possibly due to a better 
 choice according to the situation. However, often this will mean them switching away from a weapon 
 in which you have invested their talents and have a superior proficiency in. And it can take an 
 accident on your part to notice this choice.
  Also, there are situations where you will want your party members to stay put while you scope out 
 a location or otherwise want to engage in combat solo. So you can tell them to hold position. Unfortunately, 
 when the game decides that you are out of combat, all 'combat' instructions are rescinded so they 
 will come eagerly running to your side. This can prove infuriating in dicey situations.
  Occasionally, your party members will muscle you out of the cover you have chosen for yourself, 
 leaving you high and dry and more pointedly, open.
  
  You will pick up a lot of items in Mass Effect. There are different brands of each of the weapons; 
 light, medium and heavy versions of armour which can only be worn by a particular species; different 
 classes of upgrades for most items and then different versions of those upgrades.
  You can only carry up to 150 different items at a time. This can provide the impetus to return 
 to a merchant to increase your wealth and provide fuel for a secondary resource called 'omni-gel' 
 which has various uses in the game. When browsing the equipment menus, normally you can scan down 
 the lists and pick out what you want to convert to omni-gel then scan further. When browsing the 
 upgrades however, you enter a sub-menu specially for upgrades of weapons or armour types. When 
 scanning down this list and finding an item you want converted, doing so will send you right to 
 the top of the list. This is annoying as upgrades constitute the majority of items you will pick 
 up and so this list will be long and full of repeated names of upgrades differentiated mostly by 
 version number.
  
  When fighting in the all-terrain vehicle, the turret lacks a robust vertical aiming ability. Occasionally 
 you will be able to strike an opponent who is located on a different surface or at a different 
 height to you but occasionally you will not.
  
  These errors can make you kick and scream and do enrage you a little bit but for the most part, 
 Mass Effect is a gem. Only held back by these small but irritating flaws, it is worth investing 
 your time in.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_Fernandez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is without a doubt the true definition of evolution. Every inch of this game is moving 
 gaming foward. The dialogue wheel is an innovation that gives what is most likely the most immersive 
 experience one can have with a videogame just short of virtual reality. You truly feel like you're 
 making decisions that are effecting an entire galaxy, So much so that when you lose a team mate 
 as a direct result of your actions you actually feel guilty. Ultimately it doesn't feel like you're 
 controlling an avatar but rather you are Commander Shepard, commanding a crew to save and police 
 the galaxy. The combat at first feells overwhelming and intimidating but once you take the time 
 to learn its customization it starts to feel even better than Gears of War. As a shooter alone 
 Mass Effect would have been awesome but the rpg elements are what make the deal. No matter what 
 you do, leveling up your weapons and skills never becomes tedious. As the developers of Star Wars: 
 Knights of the Old Republic and Jade Empire, Bioware had high expectations to meet with this one. 
 The result is one of the best next gen games on the market that makes its predecessors feel like 
 beta tests. Buy this game and forget about the outside world, you won't be going back to it anytime 
 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xDJxGodx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game is a must buy for EVERY xbox 360 owner, whether you like RPG games or not so much. 
 There are so many nice components to make this game really become a masterpiece.
  
  In conversations, there are so many options which can twist, bend, and mold a near complete different 
 story for every person. Seeing as this is from BioWare, one should expect this. Also, the intimidate 
 (and its counterpart, charm) make this even more fun. The response to everything you say is unique. 
 Next, making my Shepard was really fun, I really get into those types of features. But during battles 
 theres nothing like getting shot in the back by your teammate. It happened frequently for me. If 
 I had a nickel for every time it happened, I would buy myself a house and move out! 
  
  Pros:
  Nice graphics, amazingly deep story line, character development, and solving situations 
 with words.
  
  Cons:
  Wrex can't keep his bullets out of your back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navyboy87
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is really the best RPG game I've ever played since KOTOR. Sure it has some technical 
 and gameplay issues but all of it can be looked through. If you are a RPG fan or even a third-person 
 shooter fan, I'd recommend this game. This game will lure you in and it'll be very hard to get 
 out of it. The storyline is the element that keeps you engaged, it's deep and unique. It does borrow 
 some elements of some sci-fi game and movies but it has a lot of originality of its own. There 
 are definitely some parts where you just think to yourself "what just happened?" The issues that 
 some people brings out are pretty minor. The frame rate is pretty rough but it can be looked through 
 by some people because the game is just that much fun to play that some people won't even notice. 
 One thing I will complain about regarding technical issues is the texture pop-up, its very noticeable 
 and happens very often. Another issue about this game is the driving part, which is Mass Effect's 
 weakest point. It can be fun sometimes but not when you are battling against a thresher maw.
  
  The voice acting is absolutely top notch. There hasn't been any other games that pulled off 
 such a perfected voice acting before. The casting for the game speaks for itself, Keith David, 
 Jennifer Hale, Lance Henriksen, Marina Sirtis and many more has delivered their dialogs perfectly. 
 This really helps the game to keep it's players engaged and really care for the characters.
  
  Overall this is a great game to play, sure there are rooms for improvement but it never breaks 
 up the experience. If you are like a game with great stories, be sure to pick up a copy of Mass 
 Effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dereky
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  For the RPG fan's this game is a definitely a must have. If your a FPS or TPS fan it's definitely 
 a rental. As any true role playing game, it's all about your surroundings. Story, characters, and 
 environment all have a part in this game. Free choice is present as in the past Bioware series, 
 KOTOR. A lot more side missions than in KOTOR and some well placed humor. A romance subplot is 
 present as in KOTOR, but seems a bit more refined. I will note that there are sex scenes in this 
 game, but it has been falsely reported by FOX news as full nudity scenes. This is not the case, 
 in the scenes there is really not much to see and they truly only last a minute at most. I could 
 watch better scenes on a Fox show than this game. Combat is there, but not as important. The combat 
 you can choose any six classes each with their own speciality and can control your squads powers 
 and what weapons they use. All party characters are upgradable and level up with your character 
 to unlock new abilities. The voice acting is spot on and some beautiful environments. Minor bugs 
 and pop-up loading screens may have taken it away from top spot, but non the less a solid game 
 and great single player experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skarwolf
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 2, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  I'm not that far into it and the story hasn't really been fleshed out yet but my main impression 
 is that this game appears identical to KOTOR style games except it takes place in a different universe. 
 The gameplay is only slightly different in that its FPS although KOTOR offered that if you chose 
 not to use turn based battles.
  
  I'm almost curious if this game was originally intended ot be KOTOR III and they decided to go 
 with a separate storyline ? If you changed the character models slightly the various alien species 
 would fit right into Star Wars themes.
  
  My only gripe thus far is the sheer amount of innane dialogue. Everyone you talk to has lots to 
 say and you basically have to listen to it. In previous KOTOR games you could click through it 
 which was nice but this one you're forced to listen to everything an NPC has to say. I find sometimes 
 I'm just clicking "I have to go," because I don't have the patience to stand there for 20 minutes 
 talking to one useless NPC.
  
  I chose the renegade path, why can't I just pistol whip the person and get the info immediately 
 instead of jabbering away constantly. 
  
  At this point I'm playing for lack of anything else to catch my interest. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rechact
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is what we've all been waiting for BioWare to create since it embarked on console development. 
 They have created a new, uniquely convincing world with endless possibilities for the future, and 
 a wonderful Galactic adventure to fill it. 
  
  The storytelling in Mass Effect is its true highlight. All other elements to the game are secondary, 
 and if you do not enjoy story-heavy and dialogue-heavy games, then this may not be for you. The 
 voice acting and the characters are top-notch, and the story will drag you from start to finish.
 
  
  You begin the game with a basic set of character creation, including choosing sex, facial appearance 
 and one of six classes. The classes are pretty typical, one for each of Combat, Tech and Biotics 
 (magic) specializations, and then three hybrid classes that combine two of them. You won't find 
 the same suite of options you would see in a P&P style game, but that's fair enough. You are then 
 launched strait into the game world. 
  
  There is really no tutorial, and the game has a steep learning curve. But once you get it, combat 
 is never too difficult. Many articles will tell you that it is really an RPG, and will tell you 
 not to let the FPS aspect fool you into thinking it is an FPS, but for the most part, gameplay 
 is similar to an FPS. RPG elements essentially help you shoot, giving you better and better auto-aim 
 and increasing your damage. Your powers are fairly limited, and are only occasionally necessary 
 for the hardest fights. Most biotic powers only stun or move your enemies, and do little damage. 
 Tech abilities are useful for taking away shields and stopping enemies from shooting you, but in 
 the end, its nothing a good gun can't handle. That doesn't mean you should take the combat classes, 
 as class choice gives you other useful skills such as the ability to open locks or enhance your 
 shields or wear different grades of armour. Whatever you choose, however, you can always bring 
 along party members who have the requisite skills, as you can take two with you where ever you 
 go. 
  
  Items are a bit of an issue in Mass Effect. The equipment screen is confusing and unwieldy, and 
 although you can only ever carry 150 items, there is no way to view all items in one simple list. 
 Instead you have to go to each of the slots, or weapon upgrade screens, to view the individual 
 types of items, which you will often have to reduce to omni-gel to preserve item space. Also, the 
 item designs are pretty uninspired, with every item type having different manufacturers and then 
 a series from 1-10, where 5 is always better than 4, and some manufacturers always being better 
 at certain item types than others. Also, none of the items or armors look particularly interesting, 
 which goes along with a utility-first mindset, but unfortunately means you won't look much more 
 badass at the end of the game than you do at the start. The item properties for the most part are 
 basic damage, accuracy, magazine size stats for weapons, and shield strength and damage reduction 
 for armors. They don't influence other stats in any way. They can also be upgraded with different 
 types of bullets or shield modulators that usually improve these in some way. There are also no 
 unique or special items in the game, which makes sense, but is a minor gripe. 
  
  The graphics in Mass Effect live up to appearances, but sometimes slow down during big fights. 
 There are also very few large areas that don't require frequent loading screens, other than the 
 bland planetary surfaces you'll explore in your rover. Loading screens and long elevator trips 
 are an unfortunate aspect of the gameplay, but they thankfully aren't quite as bad as KotOR, and 
 can be avoided with good route planning. 
  
  Once you get control of your ship, you can go to various systems about the galaxy and complete 
 sidequests, survey some planets from orbit, and land on a few in your handy Mako tank. Most non-story 
 planets contain the same things: an anomoly, usually with some item needed for a collection quest, 
 debris, which just contains upgrade items, and some sort of side-quest structure where you'll go 
 inside and fight a few enemies to complete a quest you procured somewhere else. The planets also 
 contain a few ore deposits not on your map to be surveyed for money and quest completion, and possibly 
 a thresher beast (a large tunneling worm you fight from the Mako) .
  There are four well-developed plot planets (most of which you dock at instead of using the Mako) 
 each taking a few hours to beat, and then the endgame. The whole experience can take you fifteen 
 hours at the fastest, ignoring all sidequests and planets, or up to 35 doing just about everything. 
 Unfortunately most of the sidequests feel a little hastily done and aren't very fleshed out. Even 
 the quests which have a big impact on the character stories of your party members don't change 
 them much or provide a large reward. 
  
  The main story, however, is the real draw, and hearing the comments of the different party members 
 you take with you and the conversations between them is very worth-while. You'll be drawn right 
 into the heroic efforts of your protagonist, and you'll play just to find out the next bit of the 
 story or to hear the next conversation. Mass Effect is a game for people who like a good story, 
 and for those who do, it is an excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BattleSword1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2009 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the spectacular new space RPG from Canadian developer BioWare, the masterminds behind 
 both Star Wars KOTOR games. It's got everything a good RPG needs, like a facial customization feature 
 for your character, skill-building based on Experience points, and plenty of optional side quests 
 as well. 
  
  In the year 2148, humans discovered the remnants of a long-gone alien civilization; this discovery 
 led to scientific developments that jumped technology forward centuries. To most, this discovery 
 was known as the Mass Effect. Now, set the year forward 35 years. You are Commander Shepard, captain 
 of the Normandy SSV. A turian Spectre (Citadel space's answer to top-tier law enforcement) named 
 Saren has gone rogue, aligned himself with a 300-year-old race of synthetics called Geth, and is 
 attempting to re-activate an ancient race of artificial beings called Reapers, who have the capability 
 to destroy the universe. What are YOU gonna do about it?
  
  Mass Effect features more than 30 explorable planets (take that, SWKOTOR) that sometimes feature 
 side quests, and also different character classes; the Soldier is weapons-based and has bonuses 
 for each weapon. The Vanguard has Biotic powers, meaning he (or she) can lift and throw objects 
 such as enemies or crates. Quick change of subject: did I mention that the game's graphics are 
 unbelievable? Some planets are eye-popping, character models are very warm and believable, and 
 you'll melt the first time you see the Normandy in flight. See the game in action to decide for 
 yourself.
  
  The combat is a major point of interest; however, IGN complains that the in-game menu controls 
 are unsatisfactory and "mar the action of combat." Ignore their blasphemy - the controls are fine 
 if you know how to use them correctly. A cool little menu allows you to quickly swap between weapons 
 and abilities, and the combat itself is deep and unusually fun for an RPG; you'll mow down waves 
 of Geth and other enemies, human and non-human, with an arsenal of weapons or, if you prefer, Biotics 
 - telekinesis-like abilities that enable you to pick up and throw enemies and objects, and perform 
 many other useful functions as well. The game's violence is so beautiful and fluid, it's almost 
 poetic.
  
  Mass Effect has managed to achieve an astonishingly low rating from GameSpot; an 8.5. This priceless 
 diamond deserves much more love than it is given here.
  
  My final verdict: Mass Effect is the best game I have ever played. It is truly an incredible achievement 
 of human skill, and I send my best regards to the fine folks at BioWare in hopes that they will 
 release new and amazing games like this in the future.
  
  Truescore: 10 (holy crap!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KodaksPoptarTs
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes when mass effect came out. i was not disappointed at all. This game is so amazing 
 on so many different levels. The graphics are very well done. audio is probably some of the best. 
 The voices of the characters are well done, and each time you interact with one the have a number 
 of responses. The music is one of the best things of this game. It definitely gives you the vibe 
 as you are in a 80's sci -fi movie. Now the gameplay is a bit different. You cannot play this game 
 like a 3rd person shooter. this is a tactical rpg. The story is where the key is its amazing.
  the ony few things i had against this was not being able to customize your own weapons, the side 
 missions were not that interesting, and it was short.
  If you have a 360 and want something like KOTOR. Then this is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strokesFC
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Mass Effect, I thought that it might be a pretty cool game. I never say 
 a game is good or bad before I play it, but it looked like a promising title, especially from those 
 beautiful screenshots that came out before it was released. I enjoyed Mass Effect from the beginning 
 to end. It was fun discovering the planets and helping people with problems for money. I only played 
 through it once and that was a good 25 hours.
  
  The graphics for Mass Effect are gorgeous, as well as the effects. Sometimes the frame rate will 
 drop, but that is expected. I would like to admit I'm a graphics whore, but this game not only 
 had amazing graphics, but I felt the gameplay was good aswell. The cover system worked well, and 
 it was cool seeing how accuracy would be better when attached to a small broken over wall.
  
  Overall Mass Effect is an amazing game and is worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3v4n7h3h4x0r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  When I first played it, I didn't have the time or patience to adjust myself to the Third Person 
 Shooter RPG, but when I finally decided to take a good weekend off from friends and family and 
 play this game, I finally discovered how awesome this game was. The combat system was fun (I played 
 as a vanguard) , when I could hotkey a certain biotic, while gunning other enemies down. That's 
 not the best part, though. I enjoyed the conversation concept as well, being able to interrupt 
 people and feel like a bad ass was way better than it was in the demo videos. The distance you 
 could go from uncharted planet to uncharted planet, with miles and miles to explore, and the best 
 thing here is, almost every time you go to a new planet, there will be a mission for you to undertake, 
 hence something to do at nearly every planet or system you discover. Now for the cons. Mass Effect 
 is sweet, but there are a few minor issues with graphics, and repetitiveness. Almost at the beginning 
 of the game, the graphics had to load during cut scenes. Now on the subject of repetitiveness, 
 almost all of the uncharted planets are the same looking, and the missions are quite similar as 
 well. The storyline is very gripping, although the main missions don't take too long to complete. 
 Overall, Mass Effect is one of the greatest games I've played, and I'll be waiting for #2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Space truly is a marvelous and wondrous frontier. It is no surprise than that BioWare chose to 
 base their next project in the vastness of the universe, a place so big and enthralling it leaves 
 much to be desired, and so much thrills to be had. Mass Effect is a game with unlimited potential 
 on its hands, and with a pedigree as good as BioWare, there was plenty of hype abound. Thankfully 
 enough Mass Effect more than encompasses the feeling of being lost in a bigger world and gives 
 you the ability to detect your own path in truly magnificent ways.
  
  Mass Effect follows the adventure of one Commander Shepard as he is thrust in the middle of a war 
 for the fate of the universe. A big chore for even the toughest soldier indeed. As you begin your 
 journey you soon hear a distress call on a nearby planet and land to investigate. While there you 
 soon meet an ill-tempered alien named Saren, a rogue Spectre who has evil intentions of ruling 
 (and possibly destroying) the universe. As a fellow Spectre, you are tasked by the Council (a sort 
 of intergalactic UN if you will) to stop Saren by using all means necessary (as a Spectre you are 
 above the law) . The story only gets more dramatic and intense as you progress, and for the sake 
 of keeping things in suspense, no more shall be revealed besides some minor plot gaps.
  
  The sanctity of the story is the core of Mass Effect. You will come to enjoy just how human many 
 of the characters in the game are. You will see them traversing with one another as you walk down 
 corridors, some will approach you for conversation, while others will be off doing their own thing, 
 whether it be fighting or resting. What is so amazing about the world of Mass Effect is how truly 
 interactive everything is. All the characters, whether related to the story or not, will have the 
 ability to talk to you. The immense satisfaction of picking a person at random and engaging in 
 a stimulating chat could have you hooked for hours trying to learn everything about anything.
 
  
  What makes the conversations so thrilling is how personal you make Shepard. Right from the start 
 you can customize Shepard in any way you see fit. The limits are endless and the templates in Mass 
 Effect are some of the broadest and most diverse selections available- with anything from skin 
 color and tone to the size of your eyebrows. After choosing your basic look, you will than be tasked 
 with choosing your professions to help suit your preferences in battle. There are numerous classes 
 that are suited based on your preferential tactics. Soldier for heavy gunfire and support, Technicians 
 which can help hack computers and lower enemy's defenses, and Biotics who use "force-like" powers 
 to help sway the flow of battle. All of these classes can be blended with one another to offer 
 truly unique and interesting forms of combat.
  
  The beauty of Mass Effect relies heavily on the story, and it is a great story to be told. The 
 dialogue options get much more advanced than anything you encountered in KOTOR or Jade Empire. 
 Instead of just picking simple lines of text depending on your preferential style of play, you 
 now create a series of branching arches based on your words. For example, if you choose to be nice 
 to a person, all the lines of text reflect that voice of reasoning. Same goes for the opposite 
 end of the spectrum as well. You will even get the option to intimidate or Flirt with characters 
 and time progresses, opening up even more options for the dialogue. There are literally fifty different 
 options available for every conversation, so the limits are endless on how you can achieve certain 
 goals.
  
  The game is laid out in a very linear manner, but it is the choices you make which depend on how 
 fast you accomplish your goals. Saren is going to four separate planets in an effort to put his 
 master plan in order and you must travel to these planets accordingly to find out what he is up 
 to. You could simply do that if you want, but your adventure will round out very short and not 
 well worth the trip. Taking on side quests is where the adventure lies and you will spend most 
 of your time traversing barren terrain lands on inhabited planets. While the concept is interesting, 
 it is a shame to say that most of the planets look the same with the basic distinct signs of a 
 mountain and desert. Plus man of them require you to infiltrate a remote building, wipe out whoever 
 is inside, and reap the benefits. Its fun, but there could have been a bit more diversity.
  
  With Mass Effect relying heavily on the story, it is easy to get lost in the dialogue and forget 
 all about the combat. Thankfully enough the structure itself is not too advanced as the dialogue 
 is, but it still takes some skill to master. At the start of battle the screen will freeze giving 
 you a glimpse of your surroundings and the enemies. At this point you can than issue commands to 
 yourself and fellow squad mates for their next attacks. Similar to KOTOR you can issue each character 
 a separate attack or skill for higher efficiency.
  
  Using the right bumper allows you to switch weapons on the fly. By utilizing each character's strengths 
 you can totally dominate the enemies at will. The left bumper is used for biotic and tech powers, 
 which can send foes flying in the air, caught in a force field, or catch on fire. The way you utilize 
 your skills to their fullest potential is a key component throughout the course of the game.
  
  As you kill enemies and complete missions you will earn experience points which help you upgrade 
 your character's abilities and looks. The more you use a certain skill the more powerful it ultimately 
 becomes, so find something you like and is effective and keep using it a lot. Depending on which 
 road you take in the story also opens up new branches of classes later on, making your choices 
 even reflect how you fight in battle. Your experience also reflects your weapons and armor you 
 can use, as less experience neglects the higher and more powerful weapons and so on.
  
  The visuals in Mass Effect are some of the best on the 360. Almost everything in the world looks 
 real to the touch and the water effects are so lifelike, you have to stop and stare for a good 
 while to enjoy the fascination. In fact, one level in particular, the Citadel, is so magnificent 
 it literally blew me away the first time I saw it that I had to stop playing and catch my breath. 
 It was THAT awe-inspiring. The music too is well-blended, offering a great sense of a futuristic 
 space feel with a military-esque ballad when battles commenced. The voice acting is also top-notch 
 work, almost something you would find in a Hollywood flick.
  
  When all is said and done, Mass Effect goes to the far reaches and delivers the most satisfying 
 and enjoyable experiences in years. The dialogue system leaves options for replay open for years 
 to come and the exciting combat and visuals will give gamers more of what they love on the Xbox 
 360, quality games. If this is only the first game in a set trilogy, I cannot wait to see what 
 BioWare has in store for the remaining two titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFuze
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect is undoubtedly one of the best video games of 07, with astounding graphics and superb 
 voice casting (Joker) Mass Effect is sure to shape the way RPGs are looked at and made in the near 
 to distant future. The only thing i wish this game had more of was a longer storyline and a greater 
 amount of side quests and explorable planets. The Vehicle controls were a bit shaky to learn but 
 when you finally master the art of the Mako M35 Rover, nothing can stand between you and sweet 
 sweet carnage. I was also surprised to find out there was a short sex scene near the end of the 
 game as well, and if i may, Ashley Williams is the most scorching video game babe ever. Period... 
 That being said, this game supplies a good challenge. Although i hope they will release the next 
 game with one more difficulty setting, hardcore became a breeze after about an hour and insanity 
 was just a tad harder. All in all, this game is an addiction epidemic not just waiting to happen, 
 but a full blown SARS case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zekere
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  While wandering around websites reading reviews Mass Effect always had the same closing comments 
 : "An incredible storyline and characters but many issues !" These issues regarded gameplay glitches, 
 clumsy menus, repetitive locations, boring mechanics, etc... 
  However, the game still received quite impressive scores for such great minors . It was in this 
 way that Mass Effect drew my attention and had to be played to see for myself how this was possible 
 . 
  Mass Effect tells the story of John (or Jane) Shepard . In the near future, humanity has discovered 
 that they're not alone in the galaxy . However, as a "young race" they are NOT the center of the 
 galaxy . In fact, humanity still has to earn its stars and stripes to earn a seat in the Galactic 
 Federation, a united government of the strongest races in the milky way . Without spoiling more 
 of the story, Mass Effect has one of the greatest storylines ever written . If you follow it from 
 beginning to end in one go, without doing any sidequests ( more on those later ) , you'll find 
 yourself screaming for more when the end credits roll . 
  The main character can be customized according to your personal flavour, and can even be given 
 a preset background that must be chosen among a few options . Also, a class must be selected that 
 will determine your style of play . Soldiers are combat specialists, Engineers are tech specialists 
 and Biotics are ... well, biotic specialists, the equivalent for magic in Mass Effect . It is nice 
 to see that this background story around the main character follows you through the entire game 
 . In fact, Mass Effect was the first game in a long time that managed me to replay the entire experience 
 again immediately after the first time , just to see how the game would unfold if I played it exactly 
 the opposite way . Opposite means not only another class, but also another background, a female 
 instead of a male and going the renegade way instead of the paragon way . This renegade vs paragon 
 way represents evil vs good, or noble vs selfish, and so on . In every interaction your character 
 has, a choice can be made that determines not only the outcome of the interaction , but also the 
 outcome of the game . These interactions with other characters are impressive to behold, and it 
 feels more like you're watching an interactive movie instead of a game . Actually, the game has 
 a great "movie feelingduring the entire experience . A few more cutscenes would have added a 
 lot to the atmosphere though . 
  Okay, now that the great story and characters have been mentioned, it is time for a little more 
 game-related subjects . 
  Graphically the game is good, but not great . While textures are sharp and nicely detailed , there's 
 a lot of pop-up in them constantly . Also, the framerate is not stable and can drop drastically 
 from time to time . The alien races are incredible well designed and look amazing . In fact , there's 
 a certain race existing entirely of blue females that are more sexy than anything human I've ever 
 seen (call me freaky, but damn they're hot !!) . Mass Effect has the most beautiful character models 
 ingame ever designed . Unfortunately the same can not be said about the locations you visit . While 
 some of them manage to be impressive, most of them are simply boring . There's also no interaction 
 with the environments at all, and that's a pitty for an RPG . Also, every space station, mine and 
 research facility has exactly the same layout, which becomes tedious after a few visits . In my 
 opinion, outdoor is good, indoor is lame . 
  Soundwise the game is good . The music is spacey and helps creating the right atmosphere . Sound 
 effects are top notch, and the voicework of the characters in the best ever, really !!
  Gameplay then . The game indeed has several gameplay issues, such as being unable to go back and 
 forth between some of the menus without selecting an option . Also, the inventory system is clumsy 
 . However, nothing is extremely serious and after a while, you come customized with the flaws in 
 the menus . There are other issues that weight graver on the overall experience . The Rover for 
 example . It is a vehicle you use to drive around the various planets . While it is the most robust 
 car ever in history and is a lot of fun to drive, it has the worst gun ever mounted on it . It 
 seems as if it only shoots in a straight line . Reminds me of the first Doom game, only, in Doom 
 an enemy above died too if you shot straight . Not in Mass Effect . You simply can't hit enemies 
 within the car unless you're at the same altitude, forcing you to leave the car and destroy the 
 enemy on foot . 
  Combat on foot is fun . Your party exist of 3 "organics" , which can be chosen from a pool of 6 
 . Of course, your main character is always the main guest of the party , and you must choose your 
 allies carefully to balance your combat, tech and biotic skills . You choose weapons and special 
 abilities from ring menus and your characters then follow your commands . Combat is real time though 
 , and the AI will control your allies while you control the main character . AI isn't bad, but 
 ain't good either . Allies go standing in your line of sight and while you can give orders to them, 
 you can't order them individualy . I send them most of the time out of sight and killed enemies 
 on my own, to prevent my allies from dying . At later levels though, they helped me out of trouble 
 a lot more . 
  The side missions are boring . They take away the punch the main game offers and have absolutely 
 nothing in common with the storyline in any way. They mostly involve surveying an uncharted planet 
 searching for the before mentioned research facility, base or mine . There's little reason to go 
 for the side missions except for experience points and achievements . 
  The achievements are great . They encourage you to give the game another try in another way . 
 
  Last point of critic goes towards the RPG factor in the game . It's a little shamey that there 
 are no special weapons or items to go hunting and searching for . Instead, you find stronger versions 
 of your items while you progress in level . While this is important in the beginning of the game, 
 you'll simply lose interest when you reach the higher levels . Building out your party with skills 
 and abilities is fun , easy and interesting . You distribute points to unlock them, and choices 
 have to be made...
  
  So.... time to draw the final conclusion . Mass Effect had the potential to become the greatest 
 game ever made . The story is nothing less than astonishing . Game characters are the most believable 
 ever thanks to an incredible voice cast . 
  But, there is so much potential left behind . This game contains an entire galaxy to explore, and 
 you only visit a handful of star systems . Most of them are just empty planets (maybe because space 
 just IS empty, you know!) . But some visits to the home locations of the different species would 
 have been nice . 
  The game gets 10/10 if it had been a movie instead of a game, and a 6/10 as a game, because there 
 simply are too many isses for a game under development this long . Strange enough Mass Effect succeeds 
 in drawing your attention from beginning to end , despite all issues . So yes, I understand why 
 the game scores bigtime , and my score follows the Mass Evaluation , a big 9 !!!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoccm
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect is in a world of its own , the game is complex on the outside but controls and interface 
 reveal the experience as more easy to play game. Mass Effect offers you the chance to become part 
 of a constantly changing universe as you take up the role as captain of the Normandy space exploration 
 ship a combination of human and Turian technology. Turians are one of the many races of aleins 
 scatteed throughout the game. You start with you future in your hands as you choose your profession 
 , your mental profile and even your face with details to the shape of your eyebrows, eyes, ears 
 and hair. You must first earn your way into the game with 1 real mission , Eden prime after a few 
 kills and a life changing experience of the beacon your on your way to the citadel after completing 
 a few tasks and making a heroic speech the game is truly afoot. 
  
  The game is about galactic peace but the story follows your conquest trying to solve the many problems 
 of the many worlds. Take command of your own future with your own armour, weapons and crew, explore 
 many planets across the galaxy as you earn skill and credits the in game currency. The basic game 
 format is a friendly RPG style the HUD displays your health and your weapons and simple things 
 such as your Grenades and a handy tool your Omni Gel. Your character is adjustable and always with 
 the customize option, the pause menu is a very useful tool as it holds your codex, journals maps 
 and more , and in a world this big you need every bit of help and guidance you can get so if your 
 new to the game or even a bit lost the pause menu is a great place to start, it also helps you 
 check and update your character progress, with the skill points earned through out the game. Unlocking 
 various different abilities for your character to harness.
  
  The games progression makes the full experience feel like you are part of the world as you take 
 charge of your own purchases, life style and even your approach to over people , you are constantly 
 evolving in your own world. 
  
  Many elements come together to make this game a personal success such as the character dialogue, 
 which is a very nice quality to add to the experience, the voice record sessions must have went 
 on for hours because of the games many paths you can go to when choosing your spoken responses 
 , the terms renegade and paragon which is basically the in game version of good and bad are the 
 2 different paths. The graphics in the game are quite descent and are absolutely up to standards 
 the galaxy map even though not that complicated is really stunning as you choose your next destination 
 in the many star clusters of the galaxy. The sound effects in the game help build the experience 
 as this game as a truly sci-fi RPG revelation. 
  
  The games many different routes is what i believe makes this game playable for many hours, with 
 endless sub missions and miles of planetary exploration to be drove in the 'Mako' the Normandy's 
 very own moon buggy complete with machine guns, cannon's, and jet boosters what more can you ask 
 for. 
  
  If your a fan of sci-fi or RPG you will love Mass Effect, the history and depth of the game knows 
 no bounds , as you forge your own career in a future of politics, war and intergalactic racism, 
 its all these things and more which built my verdict of this game to a 9/10 , so enjoy your space 
 travelling and thank you for reading, 
  
  Andy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alfandango
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  Someone told me that if you don't like Babylon 5 box set, don't buy this game. I couldn't agree 
 more. I don't like Babylon 5 and I don't like this game.
  
  I expected a massive RPG set in space (something I really enjoy) . Instead I got an epic story delvered 
 by never ending dialogue between characters with spats of shooter action and running around delivering 
 messages to NPCs. There's even opportunities to drive badly controlled vehicles.
  
  My expectations were really high for this game, so can anyone please tell me why I'm wrong, but 
 I found the RPG aspects of this game really weak, very linear and uninspiring. Whilst the shooter 
 elements were clunky and unoriginal.
  
  With all the technology and potential available for the XBOX 360, can't they do something really 
 special? To me it seems gameplay has gone backwards... I don't know why but I had flashbacks of 
 playing Captain Blood on the amiga! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lakeerie_effect
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  First off the first 3 hours were boring and I almost didn't make it through. But once you start 
 gettin some upgrades and become a spectre it gets awesome. Missions are awesome, worlds are awesome, 
 story is awesome, guns and upgrades are awesome. The predator armor is possibly the sweetest lookin 
 thing anyone have ever virtually put on video game character. The makos driving capability is horrid 
 need to fix that. but still it climbs over whatever the f gets in its path. the geth look so legit. 
 i suggest being a renegade. personal favorite part was when this girl ratted out some stuff and 
 tried to make piece but since i was a renegade i said no u must pay the price and die and shes 
 like ok i will face my fate she gets on her knees faces the other direction i pop to bullets in 
 the back of her head. wtf bioware that is outta control i was so high i was awe struck im like 
 how the hell did this get into a video game. i seriously was like wow sheppard is one bad man look 
 out cuz hes killin for fun. AWESOME GAME BUY IT OWN IT KEEP IT PLAY IT 20 YEARS FROM NOW. IT WILL 
 STILL BE AWESOME. 9.5 cuz the mako seriously made me irate. And cuz the first 3 hours were so freaking 
 boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Targrathek
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  This is my game review for Mass Effect. Well I have to say that I was really impressed with this 
 game. I thought it was among Bioware's best. The Storyline was amazing, the graphics were awesome, 
 and I really loved the way you explore the galaxy. There is some problems I had with the game such 
 as, I thought it was too easy to level up and I thought the storyline was to short. The romance 
 mission you have with one of your party members was interesting, but a bit cheesy. But aside from 
 that, I can't find anything else wrong with this game. Mass Effect was a really fun game and I 
 would recommend it to everyone. If they plan on making a Sequel, I hope it is just as good as the 
 first, heck maybe even better. The game fully deserves the rating of 10 out of 10. I hope that 
 if there is a sequel in the works that the humans kick the crap out of the Reapers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an excellent game that strives to create an interesting and immersive environment. 
 The story of ME ranks among the most popular space operas such as Star Wars and Star Trek but It 
 does not borrow any elements from these shows/movies, which makes mass effect so damn unique and 
 awsome. You take the role of COMMANDER Shepard and set off to take down a Spectre named saren who 
 is going to destrroy all the galaxy if not stopped.. The Graphics in mass efect are beautifull and 
 create awsome environments. Some planets are pretty blank and boring but that is quickly overlooked 
 by the amount of places available to visit and the characters to get involved in. The gameplay 
 in ME is based upon which class you choose at the begginging. Soldiers can use different guns and 
 can take more damage while adepts can throw and lift enemies using there biotic powers. This creates 
 much replayabilty with mass effect because youll want to go and explore what each class can or 
 cant do. In terms of side quests ME has a good amount but most seem to be pretty boring doing things 
 such as persuading characters to do something for another. This isnt a bad thing it just gets tedious. 
 The main Quest is shorter than most say clocking in around 10 hours for a 1st time player. The 
 story is interesting enought though that u will want to bury yourself deep inside whats going on. 
 Overall Mass Effect is an awsome RPG but it doesnt come close to Oblivion standards IMO. Deffinate 
 pickup for any 360 owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsuihosuro
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up this game, I was under the impression that it was going to be a mediocre 
 space RPG with guns, at best. I honestly had no idea what I was getting into. The beginning of 
 the game is admittingly extremely slow, but once you get a few dedicated hours in, it will grip 
 your soul so tightly that every millisecond of your spare time will be engrossed into this game.
 
  
  I'll start off with the storyline, which in one word could be described as mind-boggling. You are 
 a typical military "good guy" soldier that believes in racial equality, political fairness, and 
 working an honest job. That is, if you choose to be a good guy. Expansive dialogue situations in 
 countless situations allow you to choose the peaceful, politically correct way of handling things, 
 or if you like, the hell bent, burst through the door, kill everything and take names side, and 
 everything in between. These features have been seen in other games before (KOTOR) , but it creates 
 so many different options that it instantly allows very many replay options. Details of the storyline 
 here will be spared to save spoilers, but consider yourself thrown into a massive and gripping 
 science fiction movie. It twists and turns like a corkscrew rollercoaster, honestly leaving you 
 racked and exhausted sitting on your couch as you try to grasp the fact that you are playing a 
 video game, and you really aren't trying to save the galaxy in real life. Once the credits roll, 
 however, it will leave you screaming for more.
  
  Mass Effect's gameplay is well balanced and intriguing. There are so many different things to do 
 you feel like a kid in an ice cream store trying to decide which flavor you want. The fact of the 
 matter is that you will never get bored, whether you are mining minerals on various planets, helping 
 civilians take care of their dirty laundry and other various side missions, studying and learning 
 about the countless species and other research material, or taking on the larger-than-life main 
 plot missions. There are dozens (and I mean dozens) of planets to explore, each unique in it's 
 own way. Even driving the rover on the planets' surfaces is fun in it's own way. The gameplay itself 
 really makes you feel like you're playing the story, rather than the two being completely separate 
 entities, they mesh together very well. There are a limited type of weapons, but each class has 
 many different options and upgrades that you can customize to your own taste. 
  
  Graphics are gorgeous, and playing it in HD is even better. All characters are beautifully toned 
 and detailed, to the point where you can watch the eyeballs dart around during conversation. The 
 planets and landscapes are breathtaking, each one with it's fare share of eye candy. The water 
 effects in this game are some of the best I've ever seen, I spent a good half hour shooting a puddle 
 and watching the water spew up and the ripples expanding. All in all it's the details that amaze 
 you, the floating dust particles in the air, the beams of light, the crooked smiles from characters. 
 I'm not one to rave about how graphics make the game, but Mass Effect's graphics definitely make 
 you feel like you are there, which for me is extremely impressive.
  
  The cutscene video sequences are mind blowing. The graphics in-game, as said above, are incredible, 
 and they blend in with the cutscenes as if it were the same animation. Intense video sequences 
 throw you to the edge of your seat, waiting to see what happens, shouting at the television set 
 if something happens that surprises you. Combined with the music and sound effects, these are some 
 of the best cut scenes I've ever seen, right out of a Hollywood movie.
  
  The sound effects, background music and cinematic musical score helps give Mass Effect the spit 
 and polish that allows it to be called in my opinion one of the best games on the Xbox 360. Sound 
 effects are accurate and realistic, but definitely have the futuristic science fiction feel to 
 it, which helps make the entire game on a whole a believable future event. Background music is 
 dramatic but not overwhelming, and changes up enough that it doesn't bore or annoy you. Cinematic 
 music is especially dramatic, but only when appropriate, giving the game a complete and proper 
 feel. 
  
  Now that I've raved about Mass Effect for the past fifteen minutes, you will notice that even though 
 I think it is the best game of it's kind in many years, I did only give it a 9.0, and let me tell 
 you why. Number one, for whatever reason, when I try to review a game on this website it only lets 
 me rate it on a .5 scale, so if I had the choice, I would have given it a 9.3. The other reason 
 I didn't rate it higher than 9.5 is because there are a few minor annoyances that did effect my 
 gaming experience. Even though this is a self-proclaimed "action RPG", and I did expect a good 
 deal of storyline building, the sheer amount of dialogue can be tiring, especially in the beginning 
 of the game when that's one of the only things you can do. I did notice a handful of technical 
 glitches in-game, mostly on the landscapes of planets. While walking at the edge of certain hillsides 
 (usually where the hill starts) , my character would get "stuck", and I couldn't move in any direction, 
 thus forcing me to re-load the game. This definitely motivated me to save often in case such calamity 
 would happen again. Also all of the side mission mining camps and science facilities on various 
 planets were mapped to look exactly the same, to the point where far into the game I could foresee 
 exactly where all enemies would be hiding because I knew the layout of the facilities so well. 
 There aren't many other issues I can think of that are worth mentioning, and honestly the problems 
 aren't enough to keep it from being an absolute amazing game.
  
  In a nutshell, Mass Effect is an absolute incredible game. I would recommend it to players young 
 and old, casual and serious. I would be daring enough to consider it one of the best video games 
 in the past five years, and definitely the best of it's kind, ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archiekins
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  This is the only XBOX 360 game to date which completely took use of next generation technology 
 and provides a Story that dares to compare to the Star Wars Saga. Like in previous Bioware games 
 this one allows the freedom of choices, but unlike those games.... there is emotions to be felt, 
 relationships to be had, and moral decisions that determine the fate of the galaxy........ and your 
 in the drivers seat.
  
  Where most games take you on a rollercoaster of action and lead to a big bang and leave you with 
 nothing but another game under your belt, Mass Effect takes you on a journey.... a road trip across 
 the milky way into a sci-fi masterpiece with significant replay value. I Recommend this game to 
 anyone who has a sense of adventure, a desire to "choose your destiny"..... and of course those 
 out there who love shooting aliens in the face :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kokiri-Kid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect opens with the creation of your personal version of Commander Sheperd. Boy or Girl 
 the options are very vast and give you the option to make a seriously awsome looking character. 
 Of course, the option to make Sheperd an alien is not offerd. Which was a major upset. The graphics 
 are amazing, voice acting is wonderfull, although the dialouge with random NPCs can be ridicules. 
 The combat gets a bit more then repetative, it begins to make you rather read the game then actualy 
 play it. Although thats no reason not to buy it. 
  
  Mass Effect is nothing less then an Artistic Masterpiece. 
  
  Whether girl or boy, your choices 
 to fall in love or be good/bad are wide as well. 
  
  The game is wonderfull, BUY IT. You will own it for a while, if you play it correctly, you will 
 be playing it for a while.
  
  Either way, im gonna have to go with the research on this, and say Mass Effect objectifies women... 
 No I have never played it.
  
  
  hehe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarnagedOne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  What do you look for in a game? Action? An immersive story? Great Graphics? Whatever you are looking 
 for in a game, you can find it in Mass Effect. With character customization, not just physical 
 features, but your background, this game gives you total control over your experience. Mass Effect 
 incorporates "Fable" like choices into the story, but where in Fable the choices were black and 
 white, Mass Effect takes them into the grey area. It will leave thinking about your decision. Was 
 it right? Or was it wrong? Don't think to hard.... the game is good enough that you won't mind 
 playing it again to find out what happens if you chose to do something else! Mass Effect does lack 
 one thing, Multi-player. But don't worry, the game does such a great job of connecting you with 
 your AI squad members that you won't even miss having your friends playing along side you. In closing, 
 Mass Effect is the best RPG on the 360! But since that isn't saying a whole lot, I would put Mass 
 Effect into the catagory of a gamer's dream. It is worthy of all the attention it has received. 
 Game on!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azmodan128
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Here is the breakdown of my scores for this game:
  Gameplay: 10-Great .The smooth reproduction that make RPG or even an FPS great
  Graphics: 8.5- 
 Great but can be better (for an RPG of this scope its quite good)
  Sound: 9.0- Great
  Voice Acting 10- Great. The best hands down, you wouldn't want to ask for more
  Interface 9.5 
 Great. Well made and lacks many flaws of other RPG interfaces
  
  I do have to admit that this is one of the few Xbox360 games that drew me in and made a lasting 
 impression. I personally prefer RPGs on a PC because of the lack of the limitations that consoles 
 frequently impose (lame interface, lack of immersion and sometimes subpar graphics) . This particular 
 title lacks the 
  annoying tendencies of many console games with respect to the breadth of their content and the 
 style of execution. This game has everything going for it
  and I believe they should make a port and a sequel this amazing RPG to PC.
  The story is indeed 
 a masterpiece that was well written with many outstanding 
  twists and turns that put some Hollywood movie scripts to shame. Also, I applaud the developers 
 for making the lip syncing work the way its supposed to. Finally, I am amazed at the depth of this 
 game's presentation on the XBOX 360 not a small feat considering there are some limitations that 
 most of the fanboys of the console world seem to overlook (this is not a 
  place to discuss the internal hardware of consoles) . 
  P. S The game always needs to access the 
 disc- big negative considering that some of the game could have been cached onto the hard drive 
 but unfortunately Microsoft thinks that its a bad idea for developers to require the 
  hard drive for the gameplay to occur. I also noticed that the graphics tend to 
  be incredibly 
 bad when the level first loads and then adjust to the proper HI-DEF resolutions; again I think 
 it might have something to do with the lack of proper hard drive caching but its probably three 
 things: game engine, Video chip (Xenos) and the hard drive issue. The Pc would probably not have 
 those issues as all the graphics are preloaded into the vast ammounts of RAM and VRAM that the 
 enthusiast computers have these days.
  
  All minor problems aside nice presentation !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlOoDyDeAtH360
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me just start off by saying WOW this game is everything you could want in a Western 
 RPG game. you can choose a male or female character, there hair color and what not like in Oblivion, 
 but in this game is all just looks absoutely amazing. There are only a total of 5 main quest planets 
 (incudling Eden Prime, which is the first planet you do that gets you ust to the game and how its 
 played) but there are so many sidequests that you will be playing this game for quite some time, 
 and if you love RPG's as much as i do, and more specifically this RPG you may find yourself playing 
 this game for years to come. The main villian in this game is named Saren and he's out to destroy 
 the galaxy. He was once a Spectre (they can do anything they want to to get the job done and no 
 one can interfere with there decisions except the council) but when he met an alien from a race 
 called the Reapers, he was corrupted to join him to help him bring the rest of the Reapers back 
 and wipe out the existance as they know it. your job is to find him and stop him. I wont say anymore 
 then that as to not spoil the game too much (i hope i already diddnt!) If you like Bioware's games 
 KOTOR 1 and KOTOR 2 (Knight of the Old Republic 1 and 2) then you should buy this game. those two 
 games are what inspired me to buy this game and im glad i did! i cant wait for Mass Effect 2 and 
 3 to come out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an action RPG from Bioware, and is an overall excellent game. A lot of what makes 
 it so cool, is how it combines the spirit of Gears of War and Oblivion into a single game. When 
 you're taking cover behind a wall, and sniping off the geth, it feels like you're playing Gears 
 of War. But then when you can pause the game and tell your party members do different things, and 
 make all your own decisions with exploring and what you will say, it feels like you're playing 
 Oblivion. Mass Effect also boasts many side quests to do and planets to explore, to the point that 
 you could easily spend over 40 hours playing the game. If you just play directly play through the 
 story however, you can finish the game anywhere from about 12-15 hours. Mass Effect also has an 
 excellent story, and your ability to make all of your decisions about what you say is also very 
 cool. Occasionally in Mass Effect you will travel in your vehicle, in which the game is not as 
 much as fun. All you really do is drive and aim and shoot. It isn't nearly as interesting as the 
 onground shooting in which you can pause the game and direct different actions for your party. 
 Unfortuantely there is not Xbox Live co-op, and that really is insanely dissapointing, as Mass 
 Effect would be a flat out excellent co-op game. Bioware shouldn't have been so lazy and not add 
 co-op because it would be really easy for three people to play over Xbox- Live or local. The action 
 in Mass Effect isn't always as good as it could be, and the enemies are pretty repetative. Sometimes 
 you feel like something is missing from the battles, and lacks that insanely intense Call of Duty 
 4 gameplay, or the extremlly smart a. i. in Fear. Mass Effect's a. i. could definetly be improved 
 as well, as they can get pretty predicatble after awhile. Graphically Mass Effect looks amazing, 
 and the game also boasts well done music and voice acting. In the end Mass Effect could definetly 
 be better. But the innovative, fun gameplay, great value, and excellent story, still make it a 
 game that most gamers in general would have great fun with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ichigo22
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  mass effect is not only the best game from bioware to date but it's the best rpg i've played in 
 awhile. it does pretty much everything right. it has one of the coolest battle systems i've seen 
 in an rpg in awhile. the game is entirely in real time but you only use guns and grenades so it 
 feels like a third person shooter. like most bioware games the game changes depending on your actions. 
 however unlike bioware's previous titles such as jade empire which only had one meter that kept 
 track of your actions and would go up the more good you did or go down the more bad you did, mass 
 effect has 2 separate meters with one keeping track of the good things you do and the other the 
 bad. because of this the game let's you be somewhere in the gray area as opposed to being only 
 in the black area or only in white area. so this lets you create a character who is usually kind, 
 noble and willing to protect those in need but who doesn't show mercy to criminals even if they're 
 unarmed. also because the game changes drastically depending on your actions it's pretty hard for 
 2 people to have the same experience with the game. also it's impossible to find everything the 
 game has to offer on only your 1st time through. you'll need to play the game at least 5 times 
 to find every nook and cranny of the game. also achievements earned not only give you gamer points 
 but also unlock certain things within the game. for instance unlocking the shotgun expert achievement 
 not only gives you gamer points but allows you to use shotguns with a character class that normally 
 couldn't before. also this game has a great story and when combined with the great gameplay makes 
 this game addictive and you'll want to play it over and over again. so if you own an xbox 360 you 
 owe it to yourself to go get this game as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevorbaer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect is everything Bioware has been trying to accomplish from the beginning. It is massive, 
 inventive, exciting, and just soaked with lore. I have never played a game that was so immersing 
 and open ended at the same time. The Renegade/Paragon feature is a nice change from the drab Light 
 Side/ Dark Side feature that is in just about every RPG of this genre. I like being able to be 
 a nice guy and a bad ass in the same sentence without contradicting myself of falling out of character.
 
  
  Even all of the shortcomings of this game have things to offer. The AI of your party seems to be 
 lacking, but this lends itself to fun micromanagement and the desire to become an uber bad-ass. 
 Many people dislike certain features such as "driving", but IMO that is tons of fun as well. All 
 though roving around is much slower paced than the rest of the game, it adds to the level of immersion 
 by making you truly feel like you are exploring a universe of mystery. I have never played a game 
 like this, and I am happy that I get to enjoy 2 more installments. This goes without saying, but 
 if you like KOTOR and you like shooters, play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Honkey-Kong
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Bio-Ware; that's all you need to say for millions of gamers to begin drooling on their keyboards. 
 
  
  Knights of the Old Republic is the bar in which all console RPG's (in my humble opinion) should 
 be measured. So how does Mass Effect stack up? Well...
  
  Mass Effect is without a doubt a great game. It has:
  ~AH-MaaaaaaZING graphics (in my best impersonation 
 of Nick Frost from Hot Fuzz)
  ~A ridiculously cool & deep storyline
  ~Great toon customization
  ~Cool Shooting and Powers
  ~Tons of worlds to visit
  ~A bunch 
 of side quests
  ~Wrex; you'll see.
  ~Cool bad guys; Saren is a bad bad man... uh... alien... whatever
  ~It's made by Bio-Ware
  ~And 
 tons more
  
  What it lacks:
  ~Driving is chore
  ~AI apparently stands for Artificial Idiot
  ~My squad can lift things with their minds but can't 
 figure out how to get around a box...
  ~A depressing sound track
  
  Buy it, just stop reading and buy it. You'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LosDaddie
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  A game no RPG fan should miss. Mass Effect is the epitome of what a "Western" RPG is, from story 
 to gameplay.
  
  I'll make this review short and to-the-point. You can read GameSpot's Mass Effect review if you 
 want a more in-depth review. 
  
  Alright, the most important aspect of any RPG is the story and Mass Effect does not disappoint. 
 In true Bioware fashion, you choose how the story plays out for your character and the voice acting 
 is superb. There are chances at love. There are chances to be the hero/villan. You get to decide 
 which members of your crew lives or dies. Like I said earlier, Mass Effect is a "true" Western 
 RPG in how the story is told.
  
  In the end, the story wraps up nicely, giving the gamer some closure while setting up for Mass 
 Effect 2. I wouldn't consider the story to be "EPIC", but the story will keep you engaged for the 
 entire playthrough. As in most RPGs, Mass Efffect's story takes off about 5hrs in. Personally, 
 I thought KOTOR's story was slightly better, but my inner Star Wars fanboy may be the reason why.
 
  
  GameSpot summed up Mass Effect's gameplay perfectly: "The combat feels like it belongs in a third-person 
 shooter at first, but if you continually approach it this way, you'll die. A lot. Like in many 
 previous BioWare RPGs, you're meant to pause, survey the situation, and perform your actions. As 
 long as you stick to that method, you'll find combat to be a lot easier than it first appears."
 
  
  It will take you at least 5hrs to get comfortable with Mass Effect's gameplay. Once you reach that 
 point, the game will become immensly satisfying. You may even find yourself re-playing certain 
 battles just to see how different tactics work.
  
  Graphically, Mass Effect looks great. While I can't honestly say ME's graphics blew me away, I 
 was never disappointed in the graphics. 
  
  Again, GameSpot said it perfectly: "Facial animations are among the best in gaming: Characters 
 move their lips believably with the dialogue, further expressing themselves with subtle tilts of 
 the head or with a slight raise of the eyebrows. Character models are beautifully detailed, such 
 as with your Krogan teammate Wrex, whose every wrinkle and ridge is carefully textured and molded. 
 There are some technical hitches, however. The framerate can dramatically dip at the worst possible 
 times, and there is a lot of texture pop-in."
  
  No game is perfect and Mass Effect certainly has its flaws. For one, the equipment inventory screen 
 is a clunky mess and you only become comfortable with it about 15hrs into the game. Loading times 
 can be annoying. And it might be my Xbox360, but I had to re-start the game sometimes because my 
 x360 stop reading the DVD and I had to eject it. My last complaint is that Mass Effect is too easy 
 once you reach Level 20 or so.
  
  Score: 9/10
  One of the few games I'll play through at least twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jediprince
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Bioware is definately on my list of favorite developers in the last decade, and this time I was 
 surprised to see Mass Effect, a third person shooter slash RPG that not only takes advantage of 
 the now veteran developing minds of the team but also improves on all their previous endevours 
 to bring this adventure, which in the tradition of sci-fi genre, comes complete with backgrounds 
 to species, worlds, technology, anatomy and investigation which nowadays many stories lack.
  
  The work invested in creating the world in Mass Effect is pretty noticeable, from the characters 
 up to the massive worlds that it takes you. You play as Commander Sheppard an elite marine from 
 the Alliance Military which is conformed of all Earth's best. Surprisingly, the humans are the 
 newcomers in this universe and as such are not treated as equally as the Asari, Turians and Salarians 
 which are the species that conform the ruling Council which has its home on the massive Station, 
 the Citadel.
  
  Sheppard can be constumized in various forms, form gender, all to it's facial features and although 
 it doesn't offer too many options for customization it does let you toy with the characters profile 
 shaping it the way you like it most from all the options available and will affect how the characters 
 interact with you during the quest often commenting on your past.
  
  The game also offers the now traditional multi-response dialogue that you've come to get used to 
 from previous Bioware games. It offers you two sides to your character, the Paragon which is mostly 
 a diplomat and generally good guy, and the Renegade which all on itself is a tough guy who firmly 
 believes the end justifies the means. But it also allows you to take paths that will not make you 
 radically one or the other but a balance of the two.
  
  This game also makes you think about many political issues as this side of the story is what dominates 
 over the rest. It will have you question if sacrifice is a good decision for the greater good? 
 Sacrificing an entire colony is morally right? Is Genocide sometimes justified? All these questions 
 are something that the game throws at you making it more interesting and at the same time serve 
 to keep you focused on what will happen next.
  
  Many of the Sidequests you'll find yourself doing will seem much like each other with a few variants 
 but mostly it's the traditional locate building, enter building, kill everyone inside. This is 
 something that happens a lot but believe me it's worthwhile as you keep going up on levels and 
 getting stronger weapons.
  
  The combat system is really good, mostly you'll be pitted against loads of enemies which are not 
 very smart but are powerful in their attacks and will sometimes surprise you as how well they can 
 work together. But if you think you can just take the game by running, shooting and ducking for 
 cover then you'll most likely end up dead more than you'd think. The game requires you, and only 
 for the sake of making it easier and more enjoyable, that you pause the game, take a look at your 
 surroundings, select attacks that your fellow party members will use to support you and asses the 
 best course of action. Doing this will most probably help you breeze through more easily in an 
 area rather that just spraying and praying for the best.
  
  Your fellow characters as well as you, if you so choose, have magical powers referred to as Biotics. 
 These abilities will help you dispatch enemies easier by throwing, lifting, and so on. These are 
 specially good when in tight spots when you're pinned down. Other characters will not have biotics 
 but will have tech abilities, these are specially good for overloading enemy weapons which will 
 disable them for a moment, taking their shields away for you to take the enemies down faster, and 
 so forth.
  
  The game flows basically with you travelling on your ship, the Normandy to all sorts of planets, 
 landing or surveying on them. You travel from system to system finding clues, salvaging items, 
 or just looting. The missions themselves are lengthy and very interesting. The action barely stops 
 to give you a breather.
  
  Now for the quirks. Although the game plays beautifully and the graphics are some of the best today, 
 some of the bugs and glitches take a little from the experience but it's not something so big as 
 others will have you believe. There are some frame skips, but these are not too often to keep you 
 frustrated, there are also texture jumps, basically what this is is that sometimes the game is 
 playing but the textures and details are loaded a few seconds after the scene is playing which 
 makes it look weird for a moment. But I do have to say I believe it's nothing a good update can't 
 fix and believe me, Bioware is most interested in expanding the experience for all the fans of 
 Mass Effect so you can expect updates and downloadable content soon.
  
  Overall the glitches and bugs are something you can look past unless you're really looking and 
 expecting them to be there, but they do not take away as much as others will have you think. Great 
 music, terrific voice acting by hollywood stars such as Keith David, Seth Green, Jennifer Hale 
 and others, really top the game which presents a beautifully crafted and researched story that 
 takes elements from existing sci-fi material but expands it on it's own with technology that even 
 scientists find possible in the near future. If you were looking for the definate sci-fi RPG game 
 or just a great game with lots of replay value, then this is definitely the game for you.
  
  Jedi Prince. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXRockAweaRXx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a great game. It's inspired by Knights of the Old Republic, there are many similarities 
 due to the same develepor. If you can get past that both games are similar in somewhat odd and 
 annoying ways you should really enjoy playing this game.
  
  Gameplay - This game is in third person and can be difficult to get used to, but it feels just 
 right after a while. If you have played Gears of War you will notice a similarity of taking cover 
 behind walls and holding the A button to run (even though you can only run while fighting which 
 is a little annoying seeing how your character moves at a jogging pace) . You also have abilities 
 called biotics, these abilities allow you to throw, lift, create barriers and ect. They can be 
 useful but they do take time to recharge, sometimes alot of time. This may result in you dying. 
 
  
  WARNING : By the way the autosave system is terrible for Mass Effect... Save often because if you 
 die you will most likely have to start over from when the level started!!!
  
  Graphics - I was impressed by the level of detail for the graphics. There is an issue where the 
 textures load and everything looks funny. This does happen alot so if you can get passed the issue 
 of having the graphics load while playing you should be fine. Honestly it ruins a few serious moments, 
 I wont spoil anything but during a fight scene the "enemy boss" tried talking to me and his face 
 had no texture.. It made me laugh during one of the most serious moments in the game.. Nevertheless, 
 the graphics are excellent for Mass Effect
  
  Sound - The soundtrack is fairly good, although it can get a little dull at parts. The guns sound 
 futuristic and the rockets/turrets sound great when they're being fired, a nice bass sound follows 
 a shell being fired. The voice acting is superb and should be remember and be set as an example 
 for other games to follow.
  
  Online - There is no online gameplay.
  
  Mass Effect is an excellent game with an amazing story and voice acting cast. Despite the few technical 
 issues Mass Effect is worth buying. There is soo much to do and soo many options to choose from 
 in the game.
  
  *Replay Value - High 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect like Bioshock is a game that I've been anticipating since they first announced it. 
 In general the experience is very enjoyable; though you have to take most of the affair, especially 
 the gameplay, with a grain of salt. The gameplay structure isn't broken but than again it's not 
 that well done; what does put this game above many other American based RPGs is the storyline and 
 dialogue branching tree. 
  
  Graphics: The visuals are quite impressive but they aren't worth the constantly dipping frame rate. 
 Artistically the game does resemble an old 60s science fiction movie which I personally dig but 
 than again the user can always turn off the "sci-fi screen." The main mission planets are very 
 detailed and really illustrate a living society in the future. The side mission planets are the 
 exact opposite. They're basically cookie cut outs; structural and environmental elements are identical. 
 Side planets consist of debris, an anomaly and some type of side mission structure. Overall, the 
 design is fair but the graphics aren't the main selling point in this game; in my eyes. 
  Story: The story in Mass Effect is quite good even though the events are pretty standard scif-fiction 
 stuff. I'm not going to ruin the specific events so I'll focus on the dialogue structure which 
 is how the story is conveyed. The dialogue tree is somewhat innovative in the sense that depending 
 on your charisma or intimidation gauge dialogue can be altered, depending on the situation. The 
 user chooses the statement and the character makes an interpretation of the event. The problem 
 is the dialogue that goes into the system is pretty standard. Each situation usually comes down 
 to either finding a peaceful solution or killing the current fugitive. The slight variations are 
 just minute and don't really evolve the dialogue system as Bioware originally proposed.
  
  Features: This is strictly a single player game but like most Bioware RPGs they require multiple 
 play throughs. Which extends the enjoyment from just 20+ hours to 40+ hours and so on. 
  
  Gameplay: The rpg gameplay mechanics are very americanized and streamlined. Instead of focusing 
 on the development of the actual character the focus is placed on the third person action elements. 
 The development can be done simply by pressing a single button. If you don't want to streamline 
 your development, the game allows users to go indepth but again the categories are quite limited. 
 The main attraction being over the shoulder shooting which at first makes the game feel quite Gear 
 of Warish. Eventually, the feeling subsides and the true nature of the game is shown. At the very 
 least the game is saved by the option menu icon that allows the user to select a variety of powers 
 on the fly. When the menu is brought up the game actual stops and allows for some strategy. Beside 
 this single element the game feels to much like a action game. In the end, the gameplay is fun 
 but doesn't feel like a true RPG.
  
  Conclusion: The hype of this game doesn't match the end result but it's still a solid RPG. Personally, 
 I don't quite like the gameplay though it's fun; I enjoy the development side of an rpg which is 
 lacking. The bottom line is the story should be your main incentive to play this game. Anything 
 else will disappoint you!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  I personally found Mass Effect somewhat of a contradiction. It's an RPG but also a third person 
 shooter, it's got good graphics but suffers from slowdown and frame skips, it's got a fantastic 
 original story, yet all the side missions are dull and repetitive, it's got good music.... and erm... even 
 better voice acting! But overall I have found it very hard to judge this game. I most certainly 
 enjoyed it; in fact I think it's a fantastic title. But deep down I can't help but feel a lot of 
 disappointment and frustration with the small things that hold this game back, the tiny bugs that 
 push the game down and stop it from being the perfect game that I feel it could have been.
  
  Mass Effects story is very well written, though clearly draws from many other sci-fi shows 
 as inspiration. You play as Shepard, a human alliance marine who has been selected as a potential 
 spectre candidate. The spectres are elite agents working for the intergalactic council stopping 
 trouble. However on your first mission things go bad right off the bat when a legendary Spectre 
 operative goes rogue, and you get selected to find him, and find out why.
  
  From start to end every little thing you hear and say has relevance to the outcome you get but 
 all still intertwines in the confines of the path laid out before you. This is because unlike other 
 RPG's, Bioware's games have a dialog tree allowing you the player to choose how your character 
 reacts and what they say in any given conversation. Want to be as pure as an angel? Or perhaps 
 you prefer to play dirty? The choice is up to you. However, there is a catch, because those choices 
 in many ways will affect the outcome of the game, and also how you feel about the end result.
 
  
  The tree essentially works like this; at certain points in conversations three different options 
 pop up, the top choice is what a person of the light would choose (Paragon) , the middle being as 
 neutral as Switzerland and the bottom leading towards the dark side (renegade) . I have thus far 
 played through the game twice, the first time I went for the paragon option and felt good about 
 my character and her actions. The second time I played though as a renegade. And I found it hard 
 to take that path; I had actually formed an emotional attachment to the party and crew through 
 the game and quite frankly felt bad with even a slight harsh word. Which path you take gives slightly 
 different endings, same result yet a totally different playing experience. That is good writing.
 
  
  There are other things in the game that also make a difference to the way the game plays and that 
 involves the gender of the character you pick, as some characters will react differently to you 
 due to this. At the start of the game when picking this gender, you may also choose to change their 
 appearance with a variety of options (or use Bioware's default characters) . These options are fairly 
 diverse from hair style to scars, but are purely for your own aesthetic pleasure.
  
  Once your character, her/his crew and spaceship are let loose across the galaxy there is a lot 
 to explore. There is only one real city in the game which is a giant space station known as the 
 citadel where the council resides. Every system you explore pretty much runs like this; look at 
 each planet which includes plenty of different scientific jargon, survey some for rare metals, 
 land on the one planet you can then look around on the mako.
  
  Now I must stop there and explain the mako. It's a futuristic APC your crew ride around in which 
 is armed like a tank, handles (as Yahtzee says) like a fat man on a unicycle, has a targeting system 
 from a spectrum, yet shields aside is armored like a snowplow. This is a one way ticket to frustration. 
 Bioware seems to believe that every planet in the Milky Way is made of nearly impossible to climb 
 cliffs and many mountain/hill ranges. Getting to a lot of the side quest points dotted on each 
 planet you can visit can be aggravating to say the least. (I swore like a pirate often) Let's just 
 say I did not find driving the mako fun at all, even the warthogs in Halo handle better. Yes it's 
 that bad.
  
  The purpose of all this exploring is for the plethora of side quests that Mass Effect contains, 
 which is good in a way as the main story is very short, yet bad in another because the quests are 
 so dull that by the end of the game your intelligence may have melted. By this I don't mean the 
 quests themselves, as they have a lot of variety. However the environments they are set in... don't. 
 Let's see there is a mine, an underground bunker, a spaceship and a building. That's it. Every 
 single building has the EXACT same room layout. Run in, kill bad guys, leave. By the 30th one it 
 is no longer fun, believe me.
  
  The main quests are very unique to each other though, and a lot more fun to play, it's just a shame 
 there are only about 6 of them totaling about 10 hours playtime, even less if you are playing a 
 new game plus character. And there are also side quests available during the main missions which 
 are also slightly more varied.
  
  Combat outside of the mako is a lot easier. You can have three party members at any one time, though 
 you can only control Shepard directly. These party members can only be swapped when you leave your 
 ship. Mass effect plays combat out in a third person view all in real time. It has the newly standard 
 use of a cover system, but is not implemented all that well as I tend to find that Shepard would 
 go into cover mode when I didn't want her to, and when I did she wouldn't. By the end of the third 
 mission I stopped trying to use it. You have the choice of 4 weapons, pistol, shotgun, assault 
 rifle and sniper rifle (and grenades if you count those) , though these can be swapped during battle 
 on the fly. Depending on what class you chose Shepard to specialize in will depend on what other 
 battle abilities you can use. Biotics use very telekinetic like attacks, while others are aimed 
 more towards AI hacking and lock picking, all useful depending on which team mates you choose.
 
  
  These team mates can be controlled either by telling them to cast certain abilities through the 
 power wheel or through squad commands using the D-pad. These commands when they work are great. 
 But often they wouldn't and would find an AI challenged party member wondering in front of your 
 sniper scope when you had told them to hold position. Useful as a sewage encrusted lollipop.
  
  The inventory and whole menu system is pretty clunky to use at first. Once you are used to 
 it there isn't too much problem, I just wish there had been a slower introduction to it rather 
 then throwing you to the wolves liver pate smothered. Each of your party can add upgrades to both 
 weapons and armour with a degree of effects, and there are quite a lot of options with more throughout 
 the game.
  
  After battle as with most RPG's you gain experience, well actually you get experience for a lot 
 of things in Mass Effect; killing enemies, finishing side quests, exploring conversation options, 
 etc. Once these points tally up your characters will level up. With each level up they will get 
 points that you can spend on a given skill. There are a lot of options in regards to this, improved 
 armour, better skill with a certain weapon or ability, there is even a charisma or intimidate skill 
 for conversations.
  
  Graphically Mass Effect looks excellent with some excellent artistic designs and textures, when 
 they show up anyway. This game suffers from a lot of texture pop up issues after load screens, 
 this can even occur in cut scenes which can make the game look really ugly. Strangely it also suffers 
 from frame skip issues, a lot of the time on the citadel, which needless to say can be very irritating 
 while running along.
  There are also loading issues revolving around elevators. These elevator rides disguise load screens 
 and often your party members will have conversations which are a nice touch. But to go down one 
 floor in your ship take quite a while.....
  
  The sound to this game is however flawless. It has the best voice acting of any game I have ever 
 played (that's a lot let me assure you) the entire game is voice acted, even the smallest part 
 is fully voiced and everyone is perfect. You really have to hear the variety amongst the different 
 alien species yourself to understand what I mean. As for the music, the game uses a brilliant atmospheric 
 orchestral score that fits every moment of the game perfectly.
  
  EDIT: Since doing this review the downloadable content "Bring down the sky" has been released. 
 Here is my take on it.
  
  Bring down the sky is a pretty good steal for 400 points as far as DLC goes. This DLC is essentially 
 similar to many of the side quests found throughout the main game, though the difference being 
 that it introduces the Batarians, a species mentioned but not shown before now.
  A bunch of extremist Batarians have hijacked an asteroid that was being moved for its mineral value 
 and plan on crashing it into a nearby colony in what they see as revenge against the humans, as 
 a human alliance commander and Spectre it falls to Shepard to stop them. There are some new backdrops 
 and interesting side parts to this though. Like weaving in and out of a large mine field, activating 
 the asteroid radio station and other nice little touches available on your way to stopping the 
 terrorists. There is the usual use of the mako as well as several buildings to explore and some 
 items to gain along the way too. To put it simply, if you enjoyed Mass Effect then Bring down the 
 sky is worth picking up.
  
  Mass Effect is a like a flawed diamond. It's still very pretty and you love it, but you could see 
 how much better it could have been if those flaws weren't there. No matter though, it's still one 
 of the must play titles the 360 has, and also perhaps one of the best in many ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Major_9000
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a Sci-Fi Role Playing Game. This game really has it all. If you want action, it's 
 got action! If you want freedom to move around at your leisure and explore the galaxy, it's got 
 that! If you like a deeply immersive plot with lots of dialog, it's got dialog galour and lots 
 of dialog options too! You can develop your character anyway you want, you can be a badass, a goody 
 two shoes, whatever you like!! Tons of differant ways to equip yourself and lots of different skill 
 options.
  
  The plot is well developed and it is a great story.
  
  The controls are easy to use and the game is easy to learn. And the graphics are amazing, the characters 
 are incredibly lifelike.
  
  All in all it's an unbelievable game, bioware should be very proud. I'm already praying for Mass 
 Effect II!
  
  My final thought is that Star Trek should give bioware the rights to build a role-playing game. 
 They would do an amazing job after seeing what they did with Mass Effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooterdo75
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I was a fan of the KOTOR games on the original Xbox, so I was confident that Bioware could deliver 
 an interesting story. They didnt let me down with the story, or the gameplay. 
  CONS- Driving mechanics suck. Riding in the MAKO is clunky, and some of the terrain is nearly impossible 
 to menuver. Trying to hit a target with it is near impossible if you are'nt on level ground, or 
 if your target is too close. The bad part is if you choose to accomplish most of the smaller tasks 
 in the game, then you will be spending alot of time in it.
  PROS-The fight mechanics are good and not turn based (not a big fan) . There is a good variety of 
 weapons and endless combinations of upgrades for them. There is a good selection of armors. It 
 is easy to obtain money for purchasing said items. Good selection of classes to choose from. Alot 
 of options to customize your characters appearence. All the characters are original and interesting, 
 and sometimes you find yourself playing the characters you like for their personalities rather 
 than there abilities. All the chicks are hot. The scope of the game is huge, tons of aliens races, 
 planets, galaxies, ect. You could play the game again and again and make it different everytime. 
 The best overall part of it however, is the story. Even if it seems a little predictable, it throws 
 in a shocker every now and then to keep you on your toes. 
  VIRGINS- If you have never seen a actual naked women, this game is for you! If you schmooze either 
 Liara or Ashley enough, you will finally get lucky! You must choose wisely however, you have to 
 decide between blue alien, or plain old human AI nudity. I suppose either way, they are both hotter 
 than any actual women you are ever likey to get if you are reading this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabose420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of those games that come out maybe once a year that make you say "Whoa!" The 
 story, graphics, dialouge, and just basicly everything is top notch. like previouse Bioware RPG 
 games, all cutscenes are interactive, but unlike previous games, it is delivered in a more pure 
 cinimatic form. the first one may actually catch you by surprise that it is interactive. This is 
 greatly enhanced by the fact that the voice overs for all characters are fantastic. you can sence 
 emotion behind most of the words, and can even see it on the characters face. If they're talking 
 in a sarcastic tone, you'll see the rolling of the eyes and the slight head tilt, or the squinting 
 of the eyes when they get angry. all of this is tied together by a great story.
  
  The combat is a mix of a 3rd Person tactical shooter with RPG stat increasing elements. you gain 
 experience for killing enemies, completing quests, and interacting with the world around you. though 
 dont misunderstand me that this is a TPS, its an RPG with a TPS elements. you will level up causing 
 more damage, increase your accuracy, and will have to buy better equipment to get through the game. 
 though you'll have the help of your squad mates to help you out. though they dont have the best 
 AI, they will help you out at easier difficulty setting, but at higher ones they just serve as 
 a distraction to your enemies and can buff you or debuff your enemis, but wont do much to kill 
 them.
  
  also to help you out (if your class lets you) is biotics, the games magic. biotics allow you to 
 throw your enemies into the air, toss them around like dolls, or put up a shield around you. most 
 do direct damage or stuns them. there are also tech skills that are mostly debuffs and cause damage 
 against robotic enemies. and of course theres your gun. all classes come with the same guns, but 
 depending on what your good at depends on your class, such as a pure biotic class uses only a pistol, 
 while a soldier is master of all weapons, and it varies for different classes.
  
  the graphics for the game are beautiful, and the scenes will really emerse you into the game on 
 main mission levels. but on uncharted planets, the scenery is usually all the same in topography, 
 ranging from very mountany, to not so mountany. there are no plains, just smooth valleys. though 
 some differ in climate, some will be volcanic, and others will have snow storms, but besides that 
 they're mostly just bland. 
  
  The score of the game is top notch. The music will really emerse you into the scifi feel of the 
 game and as music should, make scenes dramatic, sad, happy, or any feeling needed for progress 
 the story. Voice acting is also great, having actors such as Seth Green and the guy who voiced 
 the Arbitar in halo (cant remember his name atm) , and otehr great actors fill in rolse for some 
 of the major roles, and do a great job doing it as well.
  
  This is a great game for any Xbox owner to get. though they should know that if they're a shooter 
 fanatic that the game is not a shooter and is a RPG, as the shooting aspect of the game isn't like 
 halo and is not supposed to be. the unexplored worlds are a bit bland, but the rest of the game 
 is great and fun. Achievements are ubundant and will have you playing the game at least a couple 
 times to get them all, but the game is so fun it wont feel like a hassle to play thorugh it again 
 and again for the achievements, and you may just want to play through it again jsut for the hell 
 of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yosaburo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect... for those of you that are sick of mindless action games and tired of the same 'ole 
 D&D feel of RPG.
  ========================================================
  
  For those of you that love action rpg, but are getting tired of the same old knights of the round 
 table song and dance, this is the game for you. It's got a very good story, better voice acting 
 than Oblivion - which I love too by the way - lots of exploration, and good diversity in the quests 
 that you undertake.
  
  As far as the combat system, the pause and strategize functionality is cool for those that like 
 to plan their attacks, cast their biotics, etc... but the action piece of the combat system is good 
 too. All in all a good mix of planned attacks and eye-hand co-ordination.
  
  So why didn't it get a 10? Couple things:
  
  - The galaxy map "press b to exit completely" 
 and "press x to zoom out" gets annoying. I'm used to pressing b to navigate through levels of a 
 menu structure.
  
  - It would be nice if they greyed out conversations you've had with people. Without it makes it 
 hard to sort out which dialogs you've heard and which you haven't.
  
  Other than that though, it's a completely awesome, totally immersive game... one that I find myself 
 thinking about playing all day when I'm at work... the only times I've found myself getting this 
 into a game in recent days was during Oblivion and Bioshock...
  
  Mass Effect rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  When I heard Mass Effect would be a similar game like knights of the old republic, I was thrilled. 
 I really enjoyed the star wars rpg, especially the part about choosing the dark/ light side. I 
 saw all the great ratings and I was really looking forward playing this game. 
  
  Now that I have completed it for the first time, I can say I definitely had a good time playing 
 it. The part of choosing between paragorn and renegade decisions really put something extra in 
 it. I was not overly excited about the combat part of the game, I felt I had to do the same shoot-outs 
 over and over again, but then in a different enviroment. The combat engine could have been a bit 
 smoother I think, but maybe that's not fair of me to say since I have just played Gears of War.. 
 Also the game has many graphical issues like slowdowns..
  
  But the overly excellent graphics and epic soundtrack really gave me the feeling I was playing 
 in a SF-movie, and one with a fantastic storyline! It is a good sign when you feel emotionally 
 involved with the characters of the game, especially when you have to say goodbye to a person..
 
  
  If you liked KOTOR and Sci-fi movies, go and play this game now! Now, do you hear me, N O W! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsiper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Mass effect , There are so many good no great things to be said about this game! I know its been 
 out for a while now but I have recently finished it for the 4th time and have thoroughly explored 
 the galaxy and can say with all the confidence in the world that this game is as close as you can 
 get to perfect. Bioware has no doubt made very awesome games in the past Knights of the Old Republic 
 just to name one because its a space science fiction title, was excellent. Personally the only 
 problem I had with KOTOR was the battle system, I like to control the battle not to just say strong 
 attack, weak attack, or defense. Needless to say the growth in the battle system on mass effect 
 had me absolutely jumping for joy wow yes wow I loved and still love it. The different options 
 you have with armaments and armour is just simply mind boggling. You can adjust any armour or weapons 
 load out to be specific for the kind of threat you are going to come up against and it is very 
 very effective! Now this doesn't just affect the damage numbers or defense numbers but it effects 
 the look and actual function of the weapon or armour, even the color of the gun or the fire coming 
 from the weapon! You can even tweak your biotics and tech with different implants and tools! AMAZING!!!!!!!!
 
  
  All of that in its self is great but what about story? This is where Mass Effect really shines! 
 The story is varied and great. On the surface it may seem to be just a simple run of the mill good 
 guy versus traitorous bad guy but it goes so so much deeper and wider than that. Most game's or 
 companies would have just put in the standard amount of background and personality in to make it 
 serviceable, Bioware on the other hand actually created this entire galaxy of history and in-depth 
 emotion stirring history! It's this history that affects each and every person no matter the species 
 that you run into and interact with. Because of the history and its effect on the people you will 
 get different personality's, and missions to do. You can beat the game just doing the main story 
 arc missions but that would be and is an utter waste of all the work that Bioware put into this 
 game. The story really shines once you do the side missions or "Assignments" as they are called 
 in Mass effect's codex. Here that history becomes more and more fleshed out and evident really 
 changes the impact and scope of the game and your own personal story within the Mass Effect universe. 
 The really awesome part is that what you will learn and how the different people react to you and 
 interact with you will differ depending on what and who you are. Your actions every one of them 
 is going to have some kind of impact on your characters being. They will be perceived differently 
 and people will respond in the appropriate manner according to your reputation so to speak and 
 how you talk and react to them makes all the difference in the galaxy!
  
  So before I put any spoilers in this review I recommend that you go, go right now and buy this 
 game. Don't do your self the disservice of flying thru it go thru every mission play the game multiple 
 times and get ready to sit on the edge of your seat and be fully consumed in Mass Effect you wont 
 be sorry!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryptonite09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  I rented mass effect after hearing it was released. I am a huge fan of the KOTOR series. This first 
 was created by bioware who did an amazing job. 
  
  The game itself has an awesome concept. I myself liked the combat, considering its a big step forward 
 for new roleplaying games. There were a few problems with graphics such as the textures taking 
 a few seconds too load during videos, or the neck skin showing through the collar. But not all 
 too bad.
  
  The only problem i found with this game was the length. Without any side assingments i registered 
 a good 16 hours. The game was good enough for me to immediatley start a new character as a paragon 
 vs renegade this time.
  
  If you're looking for a long game this isn't your game.
  If you're looking for a game with a fun, new combat style, amazing graphics, and an even better 
 story, look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nikodemus87
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Okay, please bear with me when i say that i like GOOD sci-fi as in Star Trek and Star Wars and 
 i know that Bioware has tried before in doing an own IP ( which failed miserably) but after playing 
 this shiny new HD space "opera" i am lacking in words.... what were you guys thinking!?
  
  Lets start of with one of the most important "things" in a RPG, the combat system.
  
  The system 
 used in Mass Effect is clearly inspired/stolen from Epics "Gears of War" but with numbers and chance 
 tackied on for the hell of it.
  You take cover, pop out and shoot your enemies and then repeat this until all hostile targets are 
 dead.
  Exciting? hardly, where Gears of War s combat aleast tried too move, Mass Effects are more like 
 Virtua Cop momentsnow you see me, bang bang, now you dont "
  While i can understand Biowares try too move away from traditional RPG combat with turns and such, 
 they have seem too forgotten that tactics are rather important in combat; sure you can order your 
 fellow soldiers too use special abilities and the like, it dosent reallyfeelthat good.
 
  
  
  Within a few minutes you and your rag-tag group of space marines are facing it off with space zombies 
 from the planetAnkwardand chasing a super covert operative all across the galaxy, all while 
 trying too avoid the lengthy dialogs about other races, culture etc.
  
  I understand that Bioware has to build up all the lore in one game byt please spread it out more 
 across this supposed trilogy of games: just a tip
  Next up for the charge ofstrangest game design momentis when you open the inventory system, 
 it looks good ( as everything else in this game ) but after further inspection you begin too question 
 why Bioware has ignored the better solutions that has appeared in other RPGs for the one that is 
 in this is.... rather broken; the system works in such a way that things do never stack and for 
 some strange reason you have a limit how much yoursuper backpack from the futurecan hold 
 which leads me too another gripe with this game.
  
  Thepickup stuffsystem; Lets say that your group of rag-tag warriors have backpacks that are 
 stuffed and you decide too open a chest or a locker; the game will then warn you that you cant 
 take more things into your inventory and here comes the tricky part: you can leave thatchest 
screen, you have but one choice, too reprocess the things in the chest and let them join your 
 pool if repair "things" that repairs one other gripe ( does it ever end!?) with this game.
  
  The Mako; your trusty space rover that you use too explore bland and lifeless planets in search 
 of sidequest and items.
  This vehicle is more of a future tank if you count in how it handles, this is nowhere near the 
 response and feel as a warthog on the surface of Halo has, not to mention that the controls for 
 it are rather cumbersome.
  
  Now comes the most serious thing in the whole game, the one thing that makes this game bland and 
 boring; the sidequests
  Were Baldurs Gate 1 and 2 had wonderful sidequests and always another location too show you, Mass 
 Effects designers seems too have gotten bored after a while; there are generally three different 
 types of places you go tosolvesidequests; there is the mine, the colony and the colonial 
 warehouse; period.
  There are three! 3 places! sure, they can have different placements for all the crates, enemies 
 but the general design is all the same, all over the galaxy; colonists seems too have bought the 
 same house modules from one manufacturer so in other words; if you seen one "type" of them, you 
 seen them all.
  
  The mainquest involvescatchingthe super covert operativeSarenand his diabolical army 
 of hell -er.... space robots, you chase him and his subordinates from planet too planet until the 
 big finale with "EPIC" music and "EPIC" moments, i must hand a thing too Bioware, the ending is 
 nearly as cool as the trench run in Star Wars or the final duel between Anakin and Obi-wan BUT 
 a good ending can not save this game from a huge andGears of war-ishletdown... can it?
  
  No, of course not, this game is too flawed in the general gameplay elements and it nearly takes 
 itself too serious; the one thing that creeps up into my mind when playing this game is this:
 
  
 Wouldnt it be cool if i was fighting a huge dragon in my white paladin armor, while my wise 
 wizard throws fireballs at it, instead of now, fighting a plant that has space zombie defenders?" 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faceman420
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect received a lot of hype before release and I was unfortunately sucked into it as well 
 since it came from Bioware and it seemed to be the spiritual successor of Knights of the Old Republic. 
 This game requires the patience of an RPG-enthusiast in order to get through the hours of mostly-bland 
 dialogue. Most convos occur in the same manner.. there's rarely a time where you have convo during 
 some sort of action scene. It also takes a few hours of gameplay to get used to the framerate issues, 
 mostly in the Citadel locale. 
  
  Fighting is a blast, but it you end up wishing there was a lot more of it. You have many cool powers 
 at yours and your squadmates' disposal, of which you can have full control of. This makes for a 
 strategic and exciting battle experience, but these are just slivers of happy between some pretty 
 drab jibber-jabber. 
  
  The graphics are great, with some nice artistic creations. The sound is on the level of Halo and 
 slightly less as great as the score in Gears of War. Voice acting is topnotch, but the scripts 
 aren't necessarily. 
  
  The game can be finished in 10 hours or less, but there are plenty of side missions you can choose 
 to do which are fairly cool but most worlds you will land on are vastly barren and mountainous.. 
 well, at least you can wander on the moon.. 
  
  Rent it or wait till it appears in the bargain bin.. This is a game you likely will not even want 
 to keep b/c you have to go through so much dialogue just to get to the action, and the "good vs. 
 bad" choices don't affect enough to validate a second or third play-through. Besides, they've already 
 announced that this is the first part of a trilogy. I will be buying the sequels, but only if they 
 manage to score higher than the original. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  Mass effect is just like Ratchet and Clank, It is long, not easy, Has good graphics, gameplay, story, cool 
 weopens, combos, Solid Action ,Mass effect is 1 of the best 360 game.
  
  The story line is fantastic, you get to travel in alot of galaxies, purchase weopens and teamates. The 
 gameplay is so solid that it might have everything you need. Shooting is fun, and so traveling too 
 , There are so much galaxies that i even cant count. The enviroments are just work of art, Canyons 
 , ships ,galaxies and universies are all well made. Graphics goes with the enviroments ,characters 
 are really nice, aliens are escpecially.
  
  Its not easy nor hard, But somepoints in the game ( like using the car ) are really hard. Almost 
 wants to swear at it. It last long probebly 5 days. Also selecting teamate is helpful , sicnce some 
 parts of the game are hard , you can alwayz count on your buds. Weopens are cool to , camera doesnt 
 get in the way, and has a solid Action in it.
  
  Mass effect has what a good RPG needs , i sure hope there will be a sequel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ag3ntz3rox0x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  I was Very surprised when i picked this game up. some of my friends said it was boring and too 
 slow, so i decided to wait a bit to get it. What was I waiting For!! This is one of the most compelling 
 story lines in a gme that ive ever seen. some people say the combat is weak, I say there 100% wrong. 
 using all of the powers to life people then throw them (etc) . its just good plain fun. Most addicting 
 game ive ever played in my life. ice had it for 5 days and ive beat it twice and im going on my 
 third now. amazing game, bioware has struck gold! cant wait for mass effect #2. if you havent played 
 this game because of what people have said about the combat, trust me its not weak combat. this 
 game is amazing, from all of the side jobs you can do, you need to make vital decisions that wont 
 be easy, but can decide the outcome on the game. i loved bioshock, but i think mass effect deserved 
 Game of the year. MASTERPIECE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a55a55inx
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- 7.5/10
  This game is an RPG and isn't meant to be a shooter that is up to Call of Duty or Halo standards, 
 so It wouldn't be fair to judge the game on the fact that this is a very sub-par shooter. The shooting 
 portion of the game is probably mediocre at best, however, anything that takes away from the old 
 turn-based combat is more than welcome. Weapons and powers are upgradeable, just like any RPG should 
 have, I just wish that the combat was more satisfying. The A. I. in the game (on both sides) is 
 pretty bad. Most of the time, you can catch your enemy standing still while you constantly lay 
 fire on him. This also holds true for your companions, they will take fire until they die without 
 moving an inch. There is also a lack of a much-needed damage indicator. It is difficult to realize 
 that you are taking damage, until you hear your character say "I lost shields!" and your energy 
 depletes quite rapidly, it's a good thing that the enemies aren't smart enough to put up a strategic 
 fight. A simple shake of the controller would have been fine, but I guess the developers decided 
 that it wasn't important. There is no running in the game (except during combat) , instead, Shepard 
 will slowly jog everywhere you go and it can be a bit annoying when you're trying to reach certain 
 areas and makes exploring places seem like a chore. Good thing there is a vehicle for large areas, 
 but the controls on the "Mako" are a bit "wonky" in some areas, especially when reversing and firing 
 the vehicles weapons at a slanted angle. Unless your vehicle is perfectly level, your weapon indicator 
 will almost always be off.
  Graphics- 8/10 
  the game is gorgeous, when everything is loaded, but there are very few times when that happens, 
 unfortunately. The game suffers from way too many hiccups and pauses that it can ruin the experience 
 of a believable galaxy. every time an area or cut-scene loads up, there is always a lack of textures 
 being properly loaded. It makes the game feel rushed and it appears as if the game could have used 
 a few more weeks of polishing up. As for the design of the worlds, it's not what I expected. If 
 you've played KOTOR, then you'll find pathways very familiar. I was hoping that the worlds (other 
 than the uncharted worlds) were much more open, instead, every place you visit has a narrow and 
 linear path everywhere you go. Every area is also lacking details and sometimes, areas that are 
 inhabited feel lifeless or unbelievable (and I use that word literally) . I was hoping that they 
 would have changed this design element that was used in KOTOR.
  Story- 9/10
  just as the past Bioware games, they fail to disapoint in this department. The story all together 
 is very interesting and gripping, the addition of multiple choices which change the story a bit, 
 is awesome.
  Sound- 9.5/10
  Absolutely great voice acting and the music isn't bad either. Each character race has a certain 
 voice and way of speaking. The way that this is all combined with the excellent lip-syncing is 
 astonishing. It's hard to imagine how much time was taken to give each character you interact with 
 a great voice and response to many decisions you can make. Weapons could have had a more satisfying 
 sound, however, the sound of a weapon can change the fun factor of combat quite a bit.
  Replayability- 9/10 There are many choices you can make, just not in the story and dialog, but 
 also in character customization, character features, side quests etc... and you can also bring 
 a few things over to a new game after you have finished it the first time. Many people would be 
 coming back for more.
  Buy or Rent? If you are looking for a good RPG, then look no further, Mass Effect has enough content 
 for any RPG fan to enjoy. A definite buy for RPG gamers. If you are expecting a decent shooter, 
 or pick-up and play-style gameplay then look somewhere else. Mass Effect is not for the casual 
 crowd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord239
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Well it was hyped as one of the 360's triple A titles for 2007, and with good reason. Mass Effect 
 gives you great shooting action that shooter fans will find enjoyable, and addictive RPG elements 
 that will keep you playing long after you beat the game. What really makes this game so great is 
 the story and how you can really be who ever you want. When you first start out you can either 
 just jump right into the game or create a custom character for you to play as. Some of the customization 
 options feel kinda limited to what you can create, like choosing facial features, but for the most 
 part you'll be satisfied. 
  
  The game starts you out when humans discover a beacon on one of there colonies, and your job is 
 to pick it up. As expected things don't turn out as planed and the mission is a failure, and a 
 Turian (one of the alien races in the game) named Saren is trying to destroy all of the human race. 
 Its your job to figure out whats really going on, and put all the pieces together. Its a great 
 story that will have you playing on to figure out things, and its the biggest highlight of the 
 game. 
  
  Gameplay wise the coolest thing Mass Effect does is change the way you talk to people. Every conversation 
 you have feels like a real conversation, and the voice acting is probably the best in a game to 
 date. Characters will express real emotions and act like actual people, really making you care 
 more about the game. How it works is instead of giving you things of what your character says word 
 for word like KOTOR, it really just sums it all up into what your intent is. Instead of being marked 
 as if your good or evil, it marks you as if you do things by the book (paragon) or if you do things 
 your own way (renagade) but its really just the same thing as good or evil.
  
  When its time for you to actually start fighting thats where you encounter some problems with the 
 game. While for the most part shooting is sharp the AI in the game will do some bonehead things. 
 For example say you start fighting a couple of guys, and you beat them, sometimes suddenly one 
 of your allies will randomly use a spell to make them invincible or to make there gun stronger, 
 after the fight is over. Another thing is after you get through the beginning of the game and start 
 getting all the good weapons and armor, which the game will give you constantly, combat can become 
 really easy. There are also some tech problems with the game like graphics taking a little time 
 to load after you start a point, and collision problems. It really feels like Mass Effect could 
 have used a little more time to fix out these issues, and was just rushed out to meet Microsoft's 
 demands. In saying that though does not take away from what makes this game a blast to play. There's 
 always something for you to do, and the world is so well created and thought out it feels realistic 
 in some ways. 
  
  In terms of buying or renting it offers a lot of content and missions to do that if you like RPG's, 
 playing side quest, and exploring this is a buy for you. If your the person that just likes to 
 finish the story mode once or twice your probably better off just renting this one, since if you 
 were to just rush through the story you could beat in one day.
  
  In closing Mass Effect is the best RPG for 360 owners out right now, and if you enjoy RPG's you'll 
 definitly have some fun with this game. And if you don't like RPG's this really wouldn't be a bad 
 place to start. 
  
  Pros
  Great Story
  Deep, Creative, Imaginative world
  Best voice acting in a game to date
  
  Cons
  Some combat problems
  Tech problems
  Does 
 feel a little rushed
  
  Overall-9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoov_B
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  To comment on this review or read a more visually friendly version, check out the copy on my user 
 blog.
  
  Fair. What's a fair score for a game that is rich with story and character development with breathtaking 
 visuals to boot but fails in technical performance and repetitive environments? A game that leaves 
 you speechless by the end but trying to drive around to complete missions and actually get to the 
 end is a frustrating chore? A game where every choice you make will have an impact on how that 
 mission, and possibly future missions, plays out but auto-saves are so poorly placed that failing 
 a battle will have you talking through the same dialog over and over?
  
  Before I go any further, let's get one thing straight. I loved Mass Effect. Certainly one of the 
 best games I've played in a long time. It could possibly go on my "ever" list. Despite all its 
 technological shortcomings, 35 hours later I can't wait to start all over again with a completely 
 different character. It's story isn't original and is something of a hodgepodge of Halo, Star Wars, 
 the Matrix, Contact, Battlestar Galactica, you name it. Some may call it predictable. But it works. 
 And the characters make it work on a personal and emotional level as well.
  
  Unfortunately, the game is riddled with problems that ruin the game for many. So let's get those 
 problems out of the way first.
  
  Biggest issue? Definitely texture pop in (up?) . The graphics in Mass Effect are gorgeous and understandably 
 it takes time to load them  especially in open world environments where the system is trying to 
 buffer data around your location before you get there. While a few games have been successful at 
 this in the past it seems developers haven't quite got the handle of it yet on the new consoles. 
 So the biggest visual drawback is lots of texture pop in. Mostly only after loads but it can really 
 occur anywhere. I even had it happening during cut-scene conversations which I think is inexcusable. 
 That's just bad programming and resource management.
  
  Random loading. While you're playing, Mass Effect is trying to load content into its buffer before 
 you get there. Unfortunately, the buffer can't always keep up, even when you're not moving quickly. 
 While it's not nearly as bad as Elder Scrolls: Oblivion, it happens and anytime you're walking 
 around freely, only to be interrupted by a frozen screen trying to load content, it breaks the 
 mood and takes you out of the environment. An interesting side-note: All the slow-moving elevators 
 that people complain of are actually cleverly disguised loading screens.
  
  Inventory management. This one has come up a lot. It was even discussed with the people at Bioware 
 in a 1up. com article who said they didn't think it was a problem. And no, it's not huge. Inventory 
 management is certainly doable. The problem is that there is no way to sort your items. So like 
 Oblivion, you're stuck scrolling through long lists of items. This is so easy to fix. Why can't 
 developers get this sort of thing right? And how do these poor management systems get approved 
 to begin with?
  
  Poorly placed auto-saves. Part of the problem here is that they're inconsistent. On some missions 
 they'll be at the perfect spot  right after long dialog and right before the battle. In others, 
 even if you save manually (which you can at any time as long as you're not in combat) you're forced 
 to go through long sections of dialog before the difficult boss battle. Fail the battle and you 
 restart from your last save (however far back that was) only to have to go through the entire dialog 
 again... and again, and again. Very irritating.
  
  Terrain variety and the Mako. Driving the Mako around in and of itself isn't so bad. Sure, trying 
 to back up or get turned around can be frustrating but I can deal with that. Mostly though it's 
 the terrain that you're constantly bouncing wildly over that's the issue. Why is it that every 
 planet you land on has very little flat ground and instead has super steep cliffs that take ages 
 to crawl up? Although it is nigh impossible to flip the damn thing. I did however manage to do 
 it: on flat ground nonetheless. Which sucks because there's no way to right the thing.
  
  Terribly written love saga. For such a wonderful story this inclusion sucks. Seriously, who wrote 
 this part? The same people that wrote Star Wars: Episode 2?! "Hi, we just met. We're suddenly awkwardly 
 in love. Let's do it. No, we have to wait." I'm all for a little love story but it could have been 
 handled much better. For how quickly things start, the mood just wasn't there.
  
  Mission environment variety. It's not really that the missions are repetitive. In any game you're 
 pretty much going to be doing the same thing over and over. The missions here even do a pretty 
 good job at distinguishing themselves. But every moon base and cavern is exactly the same. You 
 can walk into each one and know exactly which rooms the enemy will be in  also because there's 
 only four rooms. It's for this reason that non-story missions begin to feel tedious. Enter a system. 
 Pick the one planet you can land on. Bounce around wildly for 10 minutes. Reach objective, maybe 
 encounter outside base defenses. Enter base. Enter hall. Enter main quarters. Defeat bad guys. 
 Explore other two rooms and wrap up mission criteria if necessary. Blah.
  
  Short. At 35 hours?! Yes. Truth is, if you skip all the side quests Mass Effect only has about 
 6 "chapters." Each chapter may take you a couple hours to play through but it's a little disheartening 
 when you look at your mission list and can see 3 objectives that, once completed, will lead right 
 to the last mission. More story development and searching the galaxy would have been excellent.
 
  
  Crates. Yup, just like any RPG you have your standard crates full of weapons and health packs. 
 Ok, clich but no big deal. Except you have to play some little "Simon" mini game for nearly every 
 one. Fine, but is that really necessary?
  
  Unrelated dialog options. Admittedly, this isn't a big deal and most RPGs of this nature are guilty 
 of it but, to me, I feel it affects the mood of the game. The scenario is some kind of heated situation 
 when suddenly you're presented addition dialog options to inquire the person on a more personal 
 level. It's not the response you'd make naturally. And that response is present in your options. 
 But you know that if you want to get more info and experience you'll have to take that awkward 
 dialog detour. So it's a matter of do you stick to the feel of the situation or do you play the 
 points game? I wish developers would come up with better solutions for these types of situations.
 
  
  Still with me? Good. Because if you can overlook all of Mass Effect's little inadequacies you'll 
 be immersed in an imaginative world full of unique and memorable characters with a great story 
 to boot. Which is what this game is all about. If you can lose yourself in the story, then just 
 like a good book, it'll be hard to put down.
  
  While it's unfortunate that the revolutionary dialog system (the one that let you interrupt NPCs 
 while they were talking) got dropped from the final build, you're still left with several dialog 
 options that will affect the outcome of that meeting and may impact future missions. Increase your 
 Charm or Renegade attributes (I went Renegade which was a blast) and you'll open more options that 
 can dramatically change the course of a conversation or even avoid a conflict altogether. It's 
 through these options that you'll face some tough choices  the outcome of several which will lead 
 to some amazing "holy ****!" moments. The ability to make choices with a real impact as well as 
 the number of different character c1asses you can create and teammates you can play with really 
 adds some worthwhile replay value. It'll be the same story of course, but it certainly won't play 
 out the same way twice.
  
  Example: In one side quest I found myself confronting a soldier holding a scientist hostage at 
 gun point. Well, no, not hostage. He was about to kill him. The scientist was meek and non-threatening 
 so my initial reaction was to simply take down the man with the gun. I am a Renegade after all. 
 But rather than hastely kill him, I chose to ask some questions and it turned out that the situation 
 was related to an earlier mission and the scientist was part of a group that I had dispatched of 
 earlier - so technically, I was on the same side as the would be killer. With this info I now had 
 four options: kill the soldier; try to convince the soldier to "stand down;" let the soldier kill 
 the scientist; or kill the scientist myself. I won't spoil the ending but my version was definitely 
 a "holy ****!" moment. I'm eager to find out how that, as well as many other missions play out 
 when I make different choices.
  
  And yes, that little irrelevant side mission was superbly detailed with unique actors for each 
 part - or well unique enough. Which brings up the point again that the story and the visuals are 
 really the hallmark of this title. If you're willing to immerse yourself in this universe, the 
 cut-scenes will be a joy and will carry you through to the end. And really, any time you're talking 
 with another non-player character it'll be easy to get wrapped up in it. While the lip sync is 
 far from perfect, it's good enough to be believable. Add in the excellent voice acting, lighting, 
 modeling and textures and you're left left with truly cinematic scenes that are engaging and fun 
 to watch as well as play through.
  
  But the story is only half of it. This is an "RPG-shooter" after all. Even with some squad based 
 tactical elements. This too I've heard complaints about. For me I thought it worked well. Your 
 teammates may not be the smartest but I never once found myself at a disadvantage or killed because 
 of their actions. That's not to say that you or they won't die. It's not uncommon for them to die 
 but it isn't the norm either. Plus, you'll eventually get a handy little ability to resurrect fallen 
 teammates during battle so it's not really an issue. Unless of course, "dead" teammates returning 
 to "life" ruins the feel of the game for you. The key to combat in Mass Effect is using your team's 
 powers to your full advantage. Everyone has something to offer and in difficult boss battles it's 
 worthwhile to make use of those abilities.
  
  Except for some frustrating boss battles, the combat is straight-forward and relatively easy - 
 especially as your hero (ine) levels up and acquires more powerful weapons. Playing as a Vanguard, 
 I found the Pistol/Shotgun combination to be quite effective - the shotgun taking down lesser foes 
 with just a single shot on the Normal difficulty level (from just about any range) . A nice feature 
 of Mass Effect I feel is the leveling system itself. On normal your team will level up by themselves. 
 As you increase the difficulty, enemies will level up as well to match you. Personally, I've never 
 cared for enemies leveling up. I think it defeats the point of leveling in the first place. (If 
 we're going to remain on even ground, why go higher?) This seems to be a really good compromise 
 however, allowing the player to adapt the game to their preference of play. On the whole, my teammates 
 did a fair job of protecting themselves: they'd take cover and use shield power-ups when necessary 
 while I managed their attack biotics and special abilities.
  
  Mass Effect's version of "magic" or "the force" is biotics. A special case that grants the wielder 
 the ability to physically manipulate others around them. This includes things like pushing groups 
 of charging enemies away with an invisible burst of energy or suspending them helplessly in the 
 air, to disabling enemy shields or causing their own weapons to explode and damage them. While 
 it's doable to play through the whole game just shooting your way, I found it much more enjoyable 
 when I employed my own biotic abilities in conjunction with those of my teammates to easily bring 
 down difficult foes. There's just a very satisfying sense of power when you can have one teammate 
 disable the shields of a Geth Colossus while you lift it helplessly into the air with another going 
 fully automatic on it with an assault rifle, then finishing it off with a shotgun blast of exploding 
 bullets.
  
  Despite side missions taking place in similar locations giving them a somewhat repetitive and tedious 
 feel, they are enjoyable. The real meat of the game though is within the main storyline. Some of 
 the side quests feel a bit tacked on as if Bioware was just trying to fill out the game and make 
 it longer. While the story is very well developed as it is, I wish Bioware would have spent more 
 time creating a longer story that involved more missions and more exploration and detective work.
 
  
  When all is said and done, I think Bioware put out a remarkable product and I can't wait for the 
 sequels. While the ending of Mass Effect sets you up for the next chapter, it ends well with a 
 fairly solid conclusion, albeit a bit cheesy. There's still questions left unanswered of course. 
 Mass Effect is intended to be a trilogy however and one that I'm quite looking forward to completing. 
 And with any luck, Bioware will be able to complete all 3 for the 360 before the next-gen consoles.
 
  
  While there are many technical problems, I never found them to be so distracting or insurmountable 
 that they detracted from the enjoyment of the game. Driving the Mako got laborious and repeating 
 scenes of dialog over and over after dying in battle was frustrating these were minor instances 
 and once overcome they were quickly forgotten. Even the constant texture pop in after loads weren't 
 enough to disrupt my pure enjoyment of this story.
  
  Whether or not Mass Effect is a must buy depends on your personal taste and own buying habits. 
 Personally, I quite often regret outright buying games without trying them beforehand. Mass Effect 
 is not one of those. I enjoy it immensely now and it's the kind of game that I'll be able to go 
 back to a year later and enjoy all over again without feeling like I've "been there, done that." 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fanning110
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  Bioware as a developer is, in the minds of many, responsible for that rapid growth genre - the 
 Western RPG. Baldur's Gate, Icewind Dale, Neverwinter Nights; these games, based on backroom enthusiast 
 gaming system Dungeons & Dragons, greatly elevated the profile of the RPG where you, the player, 
 defined the role you wanted to play. Do you want to side with the evil dragon or slay it to protect 
 the surrounding villages?
  In more traditional Japanese RPGs, like Final Fantasy, the choice was made for you by the game's 
 writers and this technique, whilst fantastic for the purpose of telling a grand storyline and creating 
 characters that you cared for deeply (who among you didn't shed a tear at the death of Aeris in 
 FF VII?) was always something of a setback in more individualistic cultures such as the US and 
 the UK, where gamers were hungry to do things their way and with an avatar that they felt truly 
 represented them. This thirst for an experience defined by your own desires could not be satiated 
 by becoming Cloud or Squall, gamers wanted to be themselves in the situations presented by the 
 game. 
  It is somewhat fitting, then, that Bioware, the firm that brought us the game experience shaped 
 by our own decisions, are also the people upon whose shoulders lay the responsibility for furthering 
 the RPG genre with Mass Effect. 
  Their earlier attempts to create a hybrid of Japanese story values and Western individualistic 
 ideals through the acclaimed Star Wars: Knights Of The Old Republic met with both critical and 
 public acclaim. The ability to go through this already magnificent universe making your own decision 
 whether to persuade or fight, whether to do good or evil, coupled with characters for whom you 
 felt genuine, if not hugely powerful, affection came off marvellously but gamers were left wanting 
 more; more choice, more options but importantly bigger and more moving storylines and characters 
 to love. Mass Effect, the end product of years of careful development and none too few innovative 
 technical devices represents the peak of RPG achievement. To have created their own unique Intellectual 
 Property, a galaxy populated with entirely new races, cultures, technology and concepts is no mean 
 achievement and this world in itself, if placed at the centre of a 'traditional' RPG where you 
 are given a character and no real choices, would certainly have made a fantastic game that many 
 thousands would have loved.
  But that was not enough for Bioware, they wanted to push the genre further, they wanted to maintain 
 the choices and custom character creation that served them so well in Baldur's Gate but combine 
 them with a grander story and more developed characters and in Mass Effect they have truly achieved 
 this.
  From the moment you select 'New Career' from the main menu everything that happens is down to you, 
 the player. You shape both the face and history of Cmdr. Shepard, your avatar, in any image you 
 choose. Through a detailed series of sliders covering everything from hair style and colour, face 
 shape and complexion, right down to any scars you feel need to blemish your visage and, more importantly, 
 you make key decisions about who Shepard is and where he or she has come from. You choose whether 
 they were an Earthborn alley rat who developed into a ruthless military executor who does anything 
 to get the job done or a spaceborn stargazer whose entire life has been a history of clean morals 
 and heroic actions or, through a mix and match or simple neutral options, just a soldier who displays 
 extraordinary skill. The available classes also offer you the option to focus on one of the game's 
 mechanics, shooting, tech skills or biotics (Mass Effect's sci fi form of magic) or whether to 
 pick a balance between any two.
  Unlike the tradition in both kinds of RPGs, (I'm looking at FF X and Baldur's Gate II in particular 
 here,) Mass Effect doesn't then dump you straight into the fighting, hoping to hook you with the 
 battles and feed you the story once you're in, instead it gives you a chance to explore the Normandy, 
 the top of the line Human Alliance warship that will be your home for at least the next twenty 
 hours, and speak to her crew. Right from the off you're making choices about how you want to intereact 
 with those around you. Your first direct game input will be to decide whether to chastise your 
 pilot's semi-racist dislike of an onboard alien observer or whether to play chummy with the prejudices 
 of your crewmates. These interactions are nothing new, KOTOR enabled you to talk to your crewmates 
 and shape relationships, but Mass Effect makes good on it's promise of a more 'cinematic' style 
 through the game's major innovation: the Conversation Wheel. This device enables you to pick your 
 response before the other parties in the conversation have finished talking, but after you've got 
 the gist of what they're saying, so that there are never those awkward gaps in conversation that 
 typified RPGs like Oblivion. These fluid character interactions made conversations feel much more 
 like the interactive cutscenes that made Resident Evil 4 stand out so far above the rest. This 
 device, combined with a finely crafted story dynamic, creates a fluid story that constantly grips 
 and never bores, you never feel like you're wasting time watching a cutscene or having a conversation 
 and the quality of the writing rarely drops below magnificent.
  To go with this fluid character interaction dynamic is an overhauled combat system. Still based 
 on Bioware's standard "behind the scenes" stat mechanic wherein your and your enemies' stats determine 
 how much damage any given attack will do, the game goes even further into the realms of action 
 with a fully functioning third person shooter dynamic and a cover system much akin to that of previous 
 360 hit Gears Of War. Whilst there is the standard "pause and think" Bioware system for the selection 
 and employment of special powers. this faster-paced action-oriented combat goes hand in hand with 
 the fast moving story in providing a polished and exceptional gameplay experience.
  Perhaps the downfall of Mass Effect's triad of gameplay elements is the third aspect: that of 'exploration'. 
 Once the story opens up in order to allow you to travel around the galaxy you are given access 
 to what at first appears to be a vast number of star systems, surely packed to the brim with exciting 
 secondary adventures, thrilling space chases and surly bar-room shootouts with disgruntled pirates 
 and real characters. 
  Unfortunatly this is not the case. There are perhaps a dozen star clusters on the galaxy map, all 
 of which are clustered to the 'east' of your navigational display. Whilst this is understandable 
 from a storyline point of view, (The game's action is focused on a politically charged and militarily 
 contested reagion in that particular part of the galaxy,) it actually leaves what should be a full 
 and vibrant galaxy looking rather sparse indeed. This impression is magnified when you zoom in 
 on a cluster to discover that there's only one or two systems to visit. The most populous cluster 
 has four systems to visit, a number which should ideally have been the bare minimum, not the poor 
 maximum.
  And whilst the main story is thick with characters who will constantly enage, you'll fully support 
 Captain Anderson as he attempts to get the job done despite the meddling of humanity's ambassador 
 and you'll feel genuine sympathy for Beneziah as she chokes out an admission that she has been 
 manipulated with her final breath, these characters are nowhere to be found in the majority of 
 sidequests. With the notable exception of the sidequests you encounter during the main storyline, 
 Asari high-class hookers and Krogan bounty hunters making a colourful distraction from the rather 
 monotone Geth enemies, the sidequest characters you encounter out in the uncharted systems are 
 normally cookie-cutter pirates or slavers, many of whom don't even stop for the pleasantries of 
 conversation and the collection sidequests are normally just a case of "find planet, find artifact, 
 interact with artifact, done."
  But these shortcomings are far more a matter of my own lust for further gaming and even more of 
 what Mass Effect has to offer than they are a flaw with the game itself. In truth Mass Effect is 
 just what it says at the head of this review: an almost pitch perfect hybrid of Japanese and Western 
 RPG values resulting in a truly magnificent achievement that everyone should experience all the 
 way through at least once. Bring on the sequels, Bioware, and maybe lash on some extra content, 
 for you've achieved the ultimate goal of any piece of art:; leave them wanting more, now all you 
 have to do is deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  The great developer does it again, Bioware, the developer who brought you Knights of the Old Republic 
 and the great title, Jade Empire -- brings you this amazing RPG, Mass Effect. There has been huge 
 expectations for this game and I can firmly say it delivers everything. The game combines amazing 
 voice acting with literally thousands and thousands of voice samples in which you'll choise how 
 your character plays out the situattion. Shall he or she be the nice guy, be in the middle or just 
 be the hardass? You choose.
  
  Mass Effect is set somewhere about 200 years in the future in a huge and great and quite diverse 
 universe. It will place you in a huge galactic danger of being conquered by a legendary agent gone 
 rogue who's leading an alien sentients known as the Geth to destroy the universe. You'll start 
 off creating a character, you could use the standard Shephard, or create your own character and 
 choose his or her background. Whether it's that your family was killed off or you followed your 
 families footsteps in the Alliance military. You're the best soldier in the Alliance military. 
 You'll end up on a advanced human ship, known as the Normandy, and you'll be put on your first 
 assignment on a human colony known as Edon Prime.
  
  Since I don't want to spoil anything, I won't go any further on the story. The gameplay is superb 
 for a RPG. When you create your character, you get to choose the class you want to be. Whether 
 it's a soldier or a biotic or a engineer. Now, you may think it's a action-adventure or a shooter 
 based on first glipses when you see the class "Soldier" in action. But this RPG is definitely a 
 RPG through and through. What class you'll choose will play throughout the game very differently. 
 It's a whole new thing, it's hard to get used to but after sme practice you'll be good in no time.
 
  
  I'm not really a RPG gamer, and never really been interested in RPG games either, so this is my 
 second RPG that I've ever played with Oblivion being my first. So I didn't know exactly what to 
 expect. In the visuals department, it's absolutely superb, better than mostly every game out there. 
 Since the game does use teh Unreal engine, you'll get some popping in and some minor framerate 
 issues during loading and auto-saving. Overall, everything looks absolutely amazing. The planets 
 and areas you can explore are all different and are very exciting to explore save a few frusterating 
 planets/moons.
  
  Where Mass Effect truly stands out is the music and sound design. It has an unprecedented amount 
 of top-notch voice work with thousands of voice commands. This is one of the rare games where it 
 seemed as though you will truly play a role and feel the impact of your decisions. Do you want 
 to be the good guy or the renegade? The score is amazing and may sometimes in some areas give you 
 a slight chill due to the dramatic tone of the music.
  
  Overall, this is a RPG that people will be playing for years to come and will be talking about 
 until a new Mass Effect game is released. Bioware really outdone itself here, it's RPG elements 
 are second to none. If you own a Xbox 360, this is a must have game. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rick_Moni
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Ok guys, it has been long since I wrote my last review, but I couldn. t let pass the oportunity 
 to share with you the great experience that was playing an incredible game such as Mass Effect.
 
  
  Mass Effect is the last product from Bioware, same company who developed games as KOTOR and Jade 
 Empire, both for the previous Xbox, and if you played those games before, then you can imagine 
 how great Mass Effect can be.
  
  Mass Effect is about the future of humanity, and how they are discovered by other alien civilazations 
 that were rulling the galaxy already, they are the newbies in the Galactic Council, nobody really 
 like the Humans, you might even think that they are kind of scared of them somehow.
  
  All this was possible due some ancient ruins the humans discovered in Mars, those ruins belonged 
 to an ancient culture called the Protheans, who left some sort of technology behind and with it, 
 humans where able to travel through the whole galaxy.
  
  You are Commander Shepard, the local hero, the man or woman, whatever you choose, that will be 
 in charge of changing the history of the whole galaxy, and to do so you will have to take desicions, 
 none of them easy, and all of them will affect your surroundings and how people react to you, so 
 with this in mind, you will have to think about the outcomes on every desicion you take or make.
 
  
  Mass Effect has this special feature which is taking you into the game, into the character, into 
 the story, the writers of Bioware are just amazing and they created this incredibly epic story 
 and put you on it as the starring character, I don't want to tell you anything else about the story 
 of the game, because is to good to spoil it, so i will tell you about the gameplay.
  
  The gameplay in Mass Effect is really good, it could be a little difficult at the beginning, trying 
 to find the best way to engage your enemy, what will be your strategy to follow and where are you 
 going to position your crew members so they can help you better.
  
  Bioware took out the turn based battles to a free based one, which allows you to take cover and 
 run if you are in a situation surrounded by enemies, but you can as well access the abilities menu 
 and then the game will enter to some sort of pause mode that will allow you to choose the ability 
 and the target you want. When you have mastered this method of fighting, the game starts to get 
 so fun and addictive, because you will start to make your choices bewteen your biotic powers or 
 gun based powers and the very helpfull tech powers.
  
  As exploration, Mass Effect gives you an entire galaxy to explore, you have several sidequests 
 that will take you through different planets inside the clusters available to explore, you will 
 be driving an special vehicle called the Maco, which is very entertaining, sometimes is alittle 
 hard to get to some spots like at the top of some montains but still very fun to do.
  
  The value of this game is really high, because actually you will have to at least play through 
 it three times in order to get most of the achievements, I already got the 1000 points of this 
 game and it was a great experience, the achievements really make you want to try it one more time, 
 not to mention that if you go for most of the sidequests and the main quest it will take you at 
 least 30 to 40 hours to complete the game.
  
  Unfortunately, due to the technical issues with the UE 3, Mass effect has some problems while loading 
 the textures, they pop up after one second or two, but that is actually not an issue that interfires 
 with the gameplay or the experience at all, the framerate is actually good, there might be some 
 framerate problems, maybe one or two during the whole game, so, it is not actually a big issue 
 as well, actually the graphics are really impressive and the sound is perfect as well, the conversations 
 the storyline everything in Mass Effect is so immersive and amazing.
  
  I haven't enjoyed so much a game for so long, Mass Effect is a great action RPG, is a really great 
 oportunity to know the work of bioware if you haven't, is a really great experience and belive 
 me that you won't be dissapointed, this is a game that you should give it a try, you'll find yourself 
 involved with your character and the story, you will take a couple of minutes before you take your 
 desicion, knowing that it will take an effect in the conclusion of your story, and if you have 
 the blood of a true hero or the reckleness of a mercenary.
  
  Mass Effect... hands down, one of the best games available for the XBOX 360 right now. Go and get 
 it!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philman61
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 22, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I must say that I was fairly disappointed in the play of this game. The story seemed quite good 
 at first, the graphics were decent and I was excited about playing this game. But as I ventured 
 into it, I found it to be difficult to navigate around the various menus necessary to play. Changing 
 weapons was a complete hassle. Probably the most annoying aspect of this game was the various trees 
 of conversation that you could pursue during a particular mission. Now I know that some people 
 would find this intriguing and it does change the way some of the scenes play out, but the vehicle 
 delivery system was inadequate in my opinion. It was way to clumsy and cumbersome to make for a 
 smooth running gaming experience. All in all I have to say that I was extremely disappointed in 
 this game. It wasn't a bad game, but the design and playability leave a lot to be desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snax13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of those rare games that really get to you. Well, it got to me. The story is 
 amazing, none like I never had played before. At first, Mass Effect was this gigantic game that 
 had no direction, just you and the universe. After the story unfolds you kind of get a direction 
 on where your going. The conversation system is awesome. Makes the character seem like he really 
 has feelings. The decisions are hard and can change the story like that. The visuals are beautiful 
 and huge. The worlds and places you visit are big and have lots of room to move around. The sound 
 goes right along with the visuals. It is a beautiful game but with every beautiful game comes with 
 it, flaws. Though minor and don't make this game horrible, there is one flaw I can think of. Typical 
 loading flaw, Some textures take a long time to load. Mass Effect is very hard to describe in words. 
 This is worth every penny. Give this game a chance, the end result will be a new respect for video 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boston_College
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  MAss Effect is a Role Playing Game from Bioware. You play as commander sheppard who is basicly 
 a complete bad ass. You travel to many planets and solar systems. The story is fantastic. Eveywhere 
 u go and everything you do effects this very diverse and complex story. 
  
  The charecter Design is tremendous. Bioware designed these charecters down to a science. Every 
 little detail on the face show. Design your charecter carefuly because you will see any mess ups 
 that you made.
  
  The conversations are really amazing. By the end of the game you will feel emotionaly attached 
 to the charecters. If one of them dies you will be on the vege of tears.
  
  All in all Mass Effect is basicly the greatest game of all time but small issues keep if from perfect. 
 Such issues like driving and just some litte glitches here and there. So if you were wondering 
 if you should buy it....... .... .. well BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Floyd500
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Yes thats right the best game on the Xbox 360 (maybe of all time) Mass Effect was worth the wait. 
 What's the most important part about an RPG? The Story and this is where Mass Effect delivers. 
 Mass Effect has one of best stories ever in a video game. EPIC! And part of what makes Mass Effect's 
 story so great is it's Dialogue System. It's simply amazing. And also you got your codex and it 
 provides you with backstory on the Mass Effect Universe, Bioware never took the lazy way of telling 
 the story. Everything has an explanation to it, right down to the medi-gel. The one thing I was 
 concerned about this game was the combat, But it works very well. All and All there's no reason 
 not to buy Mass Effect, unless you just simply don't like to play a game for t's story. This game 
 is truly a masterpiece. If any game has ever deserved a 10 out of 10 it's Mass Effect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Last we saw BioWare on a console, they provided us with the best Star Wars RPG made so far, Knights 
 of the Old Republic. They have returned in a big way, with their own original property, Mass Effect. 
 And they have an amazing property at their disposal. Mass Effect is an exquisitely crafted RPG 
 that delivers a fantastic story and great gameplay.
  
  Mass Effect takes place almost two hundred years into the future, where humanity is spreading out 
 into outer space and colonizing nearby planets and systems. A discovery on Mars of technology that 
 once belonged to a great race last seen 50,000 years ago, allowed humanity to spread out more and 
 venture outside our own solar system. Mass Effect tells the story of Commander Shepard, created 
 and customized by you to be either male or female and you even get to give your version of Shepard 
 a back story of some sort. In a cool move, the back story you choose actually comes into play during 
 the game. At the start of the game, you are tasked with recovering a Prothean beacon. The Prothean's 
 were a great race that mysteriously vanished 50,000 years ago. Upon finding the beacon, a greater 
 threat emerges. A Spectre agent (special agents to the governing body of the galaxy, the Citadel 
 Council) named Saren, goes rogue and an epic story begins that spans the Milky Way galaxy.
  
  At its heart, Mass Effect is not all that different from Knights of the Old Republic. You still 
 engage in conversations and actions that affect the flow of the story, and fight enemies in real 
 time, although the combat in Mass Effect is all real time. And instead of lightsabers and blasters, 
 you have more sophisticated energy guns. Plus you have access to biotics (think physics magic) 
 and tech abilities (also in KotoR) . The basis of combat is a 3rd person shooter, with two pause 
 menus which allow you to change weapons for you or your party members, and the other menu is for 
 casting spells or abilities. Also, just like in KotoR, you sport a 3 member party during combat, 
 in addition and level them up in a similar fashion. It takes awhile for the combat to become second 
 nature, but once it does the combat becomes great. Unlike most RPGs, there are not too many boss 
 fights in Mass Effect. In fact, I can only like of about 3 or 4 fights that felt like boss fights. 
 Still, they were well done. The main quest is not on the long side, but there are plenty of side 
 assignments you can undertake that adds to the game.
  
  When you are not continuing the pursuit of Saren, you can take some time to explore the galaxy. 
 And unlike other games that also involve space travel, you can actually travel around the galaxy 
 in Mass Effect. In all, there are more than a dozen clusters to explore, each with anywhere from 
 2-5 different systems to explore, each with a planet that is explorable. Add that up and you have 
 a massive game universe. And that's not it. All the planets you encounter are true planets, rocky 
 terrestrial worlds that have different atmospheres, surface temps, day/night cycles, etc, or the 
 gas giants with their different atmospheres. Also, the different races you encounter all have their 
 own quirks, and governments, and back stories, etc. The worlds of Mass Effect are extremely well 
 developed. And so it also stands to reason that the story is well developed and well told.
  
  Mass Effect also looks and sounds great. The graphics of all the different planets and environments 
 you visit look incredible. You can visit planets that are somewhat Earth-like, others that are 
 heat or cold hazards, where you can't linger outside for too long, and others that are just different. 
 Oh and also there's a side mission that takes place on the moon. Yes that moon. The character models 
 of all the races, and the armors and weapons, all look great as they usually do in the majority 
 of RPGs. The voice acting is phenomenal, just as it was in KotoR. The music is also very good as 
 it swells during big scenes and quiets down during the down stretches.
  
  As I said earlier, just playing through the main quest will take around 20ish hours to complete, 
 but with all the extra assignments and exploration, you can easily get over 30 hours of game play. 
 Myself, when I completed the game I had over 31 hours played.
  
  About the only complaint I have with Mass Effect is the technical limitations that comes with the 
 game being on the Xbox 360. Now this doesn't mean that the 360 can't handle the game, because it 
 can. It's just that during the game there will be periods where the textures of either characters 
 or the environment will take a few seconds to fill in. Now I was able to overlook this, still it 
 is a little disconcerting that it happens. I've landed on planets and it took a second or two for 
 the textures of the landscape to show up. I've also gone to the screen where I level up my party 
 members and it takes a few seconds to load up their image. This also has happened when I've entered 
 certain areas of the Citadel, the same thing occurs. All in all it doesn't affect the rest of the 
 game at all, it just detracts from how great the rest of the game is, because the rest of the game 
 is great.
  
  In short, Mass Effect is amazing. BioWare put a lot into Mass Effect and it shows. Not only did 
 they create a really good science fiction storyline, but they also created an incredibly well developed 
 universe. Mass Effect may just give Knights of the Old Republic a run as BioWare's best game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahughs007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  The thing I loved about knights of the old republic 1 was that decisions you made with even the 
 smallest NPC's affected you in ways you would never have expected. Where Mass Effect has almost 
 none of that. The impact you feel from doing something either good or bad isn't something you're 
 going to bite your nails over. 
  
  The combat system is ok, the dialogue is of course close to perfection. The graphics were nice, 
 but the inventory system is completely inferior to 90% of RPG \ action games, and money has no 
 real value later in the game. When you receive new items, you have to physically compare them to 
 your current weapon by switching between the two, you can't just pull up the new gun and have it 
 display your old stats to compare. 
  
  I bought this game, and ended up selling it after playing for about 15 hours. I don't miss the 
 game at all. As far as giving it a 10 I believe that is just the initial response to the game, 
 which -although great, is also sadly shallow in certain areas.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollie456
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  Unless you don't like exellent stories, mature decision making, awsome weapons and customization, 
 a HUGE map to exlore, realistic atmosphere and fun gun fights I don't find any reson for you not 
 to buy this game.
  Mass effect is unigue in the way that is sucks you in to the universe of mass effect. The game 
 has created a entirely new universe and allows you to learn about what they have created as they 
 go along. The amount of charectors and side quests is massive and gives you plenty to do in which 
 ever way you want. The atmosphere of Mass Effect is one of the most impressive of all games.
  Graphics have more of a realistic touch rather than using lighting and contrast like gears of war 
 and assassins creed. The planets are very realistic and the people are very realistic. Graphics 
 are very impressive in this game if you excuses the odd graphical glitche here and there but, graphics 
 are a bit over average and nothing that really stands out.
  The action in this game is unfortunatly slower paced. There is much more cinemas and talking than 
 there is action but, the conversation system makes is much more intresting. The gun battles make 
 you use a little bit more tactics and would be more appealing to those who liked RSV than those 
 who like GOW. Although slow paced the action is stll fun and entertaining and i had absolultely 
 no problem with it.
  Controls make sense and are easy with the exception of driving the mako and a sprint button or 
 somthing wou; ld have been more handy.
  Although a exellent game it reminds me too much of a trun based stratedgey game where it takes 
 a while to have action starting and there is alot of crap you have to go throu which becomes frusterating.
 
  But, these flaws are minor and the game is exellent. I really don't see a reason why you would 
 not want to buy this game unless you did not own a xbox 360. I recommend this to anyone, but paticularly 
 those loved KOTOR.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goduffgo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is unique in a new role playing way.
  
  With a gripping storyline it's hard to stop playing but for a role playing game i thought the story 
 was pretty short and when i finished the game you could'nt carry on and finish all the little mission's 
 ect.
  also there a some teq gliches some graphic layers take time to load but it didnt bother me.
  
 
  The end sets up for mass effect 2 nicely i think!
  
  The freedom to explore you galaxy its really great!
  
  Exploring differant planets was a great 
 feature, but would of loved to have landed on one of our planets on our solor system exept the 
 moon!
  
  Combat is pretty solid and thought would be weak but i was wrong, and is quite fun!
  
  it's 
 a real treat to play game like this and i hope number 2 is as great!
  
  Love this game to bits though and everyone should concider buying it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB2B
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  A few weak ago I got my first real RPG game which was Enchanted Arms. I hated it even though I 
 like a good story and RPG's and adventures more than any other game offer that. What I hated was 
 the fact that most of the time you are walking around talking to people (reading text) waiting 
 till the next battle. 
  The turn based aspect of the battle was something which I didn't like. As a shooter player I want 
 some action and turn based just doesn't offer that (enough) . 
  
  The classical Bioshock did offer shooter action with some RPG elements and a good story. I loved 
 this game. I remember playing the great Zelda games. Hours I was exploring the land, fighting enemies 
 and completing quests and dungeons. 
  
  I was waiting for a game which could combine the great story, quests, exploration and action all 
 into one and now it's here in the form of Mass Effect. 
  
  In the future dozens of races from all around the galaxy have formed a sort of United Nations to 
 keep the galaxy save. You are commander Shepard who is going to the human colony Eden Prime. Something 
 happened here and you'll have to find out what. Here you'll meet Ashley who will join you team 
 to hunt down a rogue Spectre. Spectres are some kind of above the law shadow organization which 
 task is to protect the space community. 
  The Rogue Spectre is trying to get his hands on some kind of powerful weapon. If you want to know 
 more just play the game. 
  
  The Graphics are beautifull and the sound effects are nice. Every dialog is in spoken word and 
 the faces look great. The story is great and the characters you meet are interesting. Some will 
 ask you for a favor, others just give you information. Some can be trusted, some can't. As you 
 proceed your character and his team will become more powerful. 
  The battle system isn't turn based, but anytime during a battle you press RB or LB to change weapons 
 or biotics. Biotics can be seen as magic, some will damage enemies, other will disable enemy biotics. 
 
  
  The gameplay is diverse, the one moment you're walking between all kinds of alien races gathering 
 information and a door further other aliens start shooting at you. 
  
  Because BioWare thought of anything the futuristic story feel believable and realistic. Also sometimes 
 you will have to make a decision which can affect things later in the game, like when you have 
 the chance to decide whether a long gone race will ........ ah, just play the game.
  
  Combining great graphics and sound with an interesting storyline and some good real time action 
 and revolutionary combat system make Mass Effect an amazing role playing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamarunit
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  The greatest game I've ever played, its what Halo 3 should have been!
  Lets not get it twisted Halo 3 was good, but it wasn't what it was cracked up to be i mean i still 
 love the chief but damn, there was non-thing new we still couldn't fly the Pelican the graphics 
 look like X Box just a lil spiffy, just a lil spiffy. Mass Effect is a Game with replay value... 
 Just buy the game 
  *****nuff said***** Wait I can't just leave it there the character designs are amazing. The time 
 spent the animation, then the character edit mode was a surprise you can play as yourself in the 
 game, then the biggest feature in the game that really made Mass Effect is that you shape the out 
 come of your story based on how you deal with situation, what you say to people where you go all 
 makes a difference get Mass Effect, and play a real next-gen game
  
  
  
  Brandon L. Banks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danzo337
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, let's see, where do I start. Never thought this game would appeal to me but I found it at 
 a good price today and decided to just buy it. I've only played this game for about 2 hours and 
 I would have to say, it's pretty damn awesome. Looking at the screens and the game in general it 
 does seem like a pretty geeky spaceguy type game but when you play it, it definately doesn't seem 
 like that. The amount of detail involved makes the game enjoyable all the way through (so far atleast 
 but the storyline does seem to be getting pretty deep.) It's a mixture of 3rd person shooter and 
 RPG which I must say, go very well together. The game does require your focus to understand what's 
 going on because they use these abnormal geeky space words. Game design and gameplay keeps you 
 interested and involved. Graphics are definately up to par so the eye candy is another plus. Seems 
 like there are lots of things you can do in the game like most rpg's (e. g. leveling up and upgrading) , 
 the environment has nice detail and seems very large for your space exploration needs. I'm going 
 to have to give it a 9/10 hasn't given me that perk for the 10... but who knows maybe it will be 
 a 10 when I'm done with it :o) We'll see! Suggested for the RPG gamers who want to experience something 
 different and worthwhile away from knights and wizards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daraendel2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is great a great story, great gameplay, talking to people is actually enjoyable. However 
 this game isnt without its problems. For instance almost always when you enter a new area the texture 
 wont load right away but i got over that really fast because i love this game. Also a few side 
 quests feel empty or need more in it like for example the cerberus quests feel like there should 
 of been more not just take out a major base and thats it sure theres the stuff with the rachni 
 but so what. what should of been done was we could of been able to use the shadow broker to give 
 us some other bases so we could cripple them. This only happened to me once but i was playing and 
 i got a disc read error but i dont know if that was the game or my xbox had some issuse but i just 
 restarted and it worked fine. 
  
  The main Story is in all aspects amazing and how at certain points in the game you get to make 
 big decisions I wont say what so I dont spoil it but I will say you can decide whether or not some 
 party members live or die or if you get party members at all. 
  
  The gameplay takes a little while to get used to longer than normal because of the fact there are 
 no tutorials in this game. The Mako is in my eyes great but once again a little frustrating to 
 get used to because of no tutorial. But all in all I highly recommend this game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProvoCado
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  A fantastic sci-fi story, supplemented with great graphics and then some. I've played through the 
 game twice now, and will probably play one or two times more before I lay it away. Second time 
 I tried a femme version of Sheppard, and the game got a bit better straight away. John shepard 
 (default male) is a bit stereotype and predictable... Another thing that prevents this game from 
 getting more than 8.5 from me, is that I'd expected a few more side-quests, more freedom in the 
 universe (land on more planets) , more planets (locations to go to) and less static side-quests. 
 Also those NPC's which you cannot interact with are static (the same every time) . 
  
  As an RPG, it does not match Oblivion. It does not even match Two Worlds - it's just not enough 
 freedom and to many things of the game is static. Then again it is very welcome in my collection 
 simply because there's not many sci-fi RPG's out there and the story is very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Story: You are "Insert First Name Here" Shepard. Save the galaxy, humanity... or not. Your choice.
 
  
  Missions: No mission is ever the same. No repeats here my friend.
  
  Controls: Different, takes a little to get used to but work fine.
  
  Features: In depth, story, 
 gameplay, characters, choices, and lore. So immersive. Plus the diologue scenes are awesome and 
 not boring like so many other RPGs.
  
  A. I.: Can get in your way and stuck at times but usually do their job in combat.
  
  Loading 
 Times: Lots but they don't take as long as people say they do. The quick ones take around 5-10 
 seconds. Long (elevator) ones take 15-30 seconds.
  
  Graphics: Look great. Only fault is the popping due to the Unreal 3 Engine. That could have been 
 polished a little more.
  
  Audio: Voiceovers for all. Usually don't repeat which is nice.
  
  Multiplayer: None.
  
 
  Requirements: 360.
  
  The Good: Story, RPG elements, characters and their development, and just the feeling of being 
 in such a large universe.
  
  The Bad: Loadings can slow the gameplay down...
  
  The Ugly: The textures after loading when the skins don't load...
  
  Replay Ability: High. 
 I've played beaten this game twice (1st time fully all missions, sidequests, etc. 2nd time just 
 did the opposite of the 1st) in about a month. I still have another playthrough in me.
  
  The Bottom Line: If you like Sci Fi movies and/or RPGs, Bioware delivers you a pretty, package 
 with a nice bow of awesomeness attached.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zangan_Zack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Well to start off this review I must say... WOW!
  As a person who isn't particularly into FPS I was completely blown away by this game,
  I'll start 
 off with the character creation i was very satisfied with it but I still wish there could have 
 been alot more options with it also you have the option of choosing your sex. (I really wish you 
 could choose your race I mean who wouldn't want to be a Krogan Battlemaster or a Turian Agent?)
 
  I mean of course I understand the choosing of your race wouldn't coincide with the story,
  Which brings me to the story it was a great story for the game and the ending has set up the next 
 game in the trilogy and I enjoyed going around talking to all the people searching for new sidequests 
 and advancing the story,
  And finally I bring it to Gameplay this is where the game really shines if youv'e played Gears 
 Of War you'll be right at home in battles although the areas you go to battle your foes look alike 
 alot of the time they are all rendered very nicely. (And seriously when your killing folks who 
 notices their environment? Thats what gets you killed)
  
  Anywho I loved the game and I'm already on my 3rd Playthrough so I believe you'll have a good as 
 experience as I did with it to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rotten__eggs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect takes u into a huge massive world where u can travel to many solor sytems (exept you 
 have to do some side q's to get there...) where u run around killing evil geth and developing your 
 charactor which is extensivly broad and fun. cool charactor classes that specialize in differnt 
 things. has pretty amazing graphics but i think the people coulda been a little better. arguably 
 as good or better that halo 3 in graphics. a few glitches do however slow it down but not enogh 
 so its not absolutly awsome. and the vehicle that u explore most planets in side q's is a little 
 lame tho... your charctor involves a 3 man party where u can choose from several charactors a gret 
 game absolutly worth the buy cause u likly wont do everything youll wanna with the rent. alotta 
 wepons to choose from along with i guess (super power things where u can lift n thro people) u 
 get a ship ahah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comfencer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  The game play is a masterpiece and i like how if you treat it like a first person shooter you WILL 
 die. Cover is also a good idea. The sub-missions are a little short though. When my brother was 
 playing it, I told him that I probably wouldn't play it because it looked stupid, from a spectator 
 view. Then I got bored of my other games and decided to try it and I love it now. Being a renegade 
 is funny especially hitting the reporter. The free roaming of the galaxy is good because it would 
 suck if you only got one chance to do the sub-missions because the planet blew up, like in Knights 
 of the Old Republic. Also the auto-assigning of the upgrades is cool because then you don't have 
 to get all confused about where each upgrade goes and your companions wouldn't get that much upgrades 
 either. I like how they used the conversation options on having renegade being the bottom and paragon 
 being the top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake6phw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the latest in a long like of excellent RPGs developed by Bioware, the company that 
 brought us titles such as Jade Empire, and Knights of the Old Republic. Much like the previous 
 works of the studio, Mass Effect features excellent voice acting from some very talented individuals, 
 great visuals and gorgeous cinematics, and many hours of gameplay due to numerous side-quests and 
 a large replay value. However, Mass Effect takes a turn from the norm of RPGs by using a real time 
 shooter combat mechanic rather than a traditional turn based combat system. I actually prefer this 
 frantic, exciting realt time shooter system to the slow and boring turn based styles of old Bioware 
 games, and hope it becomes the norm for all future titles.
  
  Mass Effect begins onboard the Normandy, a prototype space craft built for the Systems Alliance 
 (the galactic name signifying the human government in the galaxy) with your commanding officers 
 discussing the possibility of you (playing the role of Commander Shepard) becoming the first human 
 Spectre (a sort of jedi I guess you could call them. they have unrestricted authority wherever 
 they go and are very powerful fighters) . The story goes on from here to cover a wide range of things 
 from discovering the reason behind the extinction of a past race, tracking down a rogue Spectre, 
 and falling in love. Of course, Mass Effect being a Bioware game it has an excellent story and 
 top-notch voice acting. 
  
  However the problem lies within the gameplay. The combat is great, I couldn't have wished for a 
 better combat system for this game. A turn-based system just doesn't do justice for the emotionally 
 powerful stories Bioware tells. The menus, merchants, and items in the game however, are just dreadfully 
 done. Bioware has never really been a studio that makes the best in game menus, but the KotOR menus 
 were bearable. However, the Mass Effect menu (equipment screen especially) is just a pain in the 
 a** to use and is not even that great to look at. I'm going to be honest. I never once used a merchant 
 in this game because they are just huge headaches to deal with, especially the one on your own 
 ship. Wait a minute, you are telling me I have to go out and buy YOU things so I can BUY things 
 from YOU!? Its just a huge pain to deal with and not even worth it really. Its really aggravating 
 and not even that fun or terribly useful to equip your team with good equipment either. They all 
 die no matter what and are pretty stupid in battle, just standing out in the open and taking hits. 
 I also am having alot of trouble finding the better equipment in the game, considering I just put 
 on whatever I loot and the cities or ports or whatever don't really have a great structure to them 
 like towns in Jade Empire or KotOR games did. 
  
  To be honest, I think Gamespot got the review spot on with Mass Effect. It is truly a great game, 
 but not on par with some of the better ones we've seen this year. It of course has the great story 
 and voice acting we have come to expect from Bioware, but the gameplay mechanics are going to keep 
 you from fully enjoying Mass Effect.
  
  Pros:
  -Great story with tough choices to make
  -3rd person shooter combat seems better suited for this game
  -Awesome graphics
  -Naked ladies
 
  -Party A. I. seems smart at times
  
  Cons:
  -Menu system is flat out terrible
  -Merchant system is aggravating and I can't really find any besides the one on my ship
  -How 
 do I level up mechanics, computer, and etc. I CAN'T OPEN ANY BOXES
  -Can only control Shepard
  -Party A. I. seems dumb at times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDeathParrot
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  I completed the campaign of Mass Effect in about 12 hours, doing all the side-quests and enjoying 
 the fantastic graphics: the Citadel, for example, a massive 50,000 year old space station, reinvents 
 standards of in-game graphics and architecture. The cut-scenes mostly consist of player-controlled 
 conversation, which truly allows you to feel as if you are 'one with the character', which I believe 
 is extremely important in an RPG. The combat is involving and exciting, the biotic and technical 
 abilities adding a great deal throughout. The team AI is not perfect, but gets the job done: they 
 follow you everywhere (unless you don't want them to, of course) and fight when you fight, which 
 are really the most important things. Also, each character in your team adds a unique aspect to 
 your experience, depending upon their abilities and personalities (I can never get tired of one 
 of my team taking the piss out of the other constantly in elevators) . And you yourself, will decide 
 whether you like being the heroic soldier or the renegade thug, and will alter the course of the 
 game entirely in doing so.
  
  All in all... why 8.5 Gamespot? This is at least as fun and involving as BioShock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Angel_14
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  + amazing storyline and voice acting
  + highly cinematic and emotive
  + lots to do (if you actually decide to do every side-quest)
  + great graphics 
  * combat is 
 fun and well executed
  
  Cons
  - Glitchy
  - Vehicle Combat is terrible
  - only being able to play as a human is a little lame
  - quite possibly, ones of the nerdiest 
 games I have ever played
  
  
  Mass Effect is a game that many 360 owners were looking forward too, and for many of reasons. Whether 
 it was branching dialogue trees, the third person shooter style of combat, the sci-fi setting or 
 the promise of a new rpg from the masters at bio ware, practically every 360 owner was creaming 
 there pants over this. Everyone that is except me. I actually didn't plan on playing Mass Effect, 
 my friend asked me if I felt like borrowing it from him, and sense I had nothing else to play i 
 said why not. I will start out by saying, the game is quite possibly the most cinematic game I 
 have seen.
  I have never seen a game before that played so akin to a movie. 
  
  The graphics are absolutley phenomanal and are quite possibly some of the best on any console released 
 so far. With that being said, it isnt without its errors. The game is glitchy... VERY glitchy. I 
 actually had to re-load my file multiple times from my character getting stuck on nothing, my vehicle 
 being flipped upside down and unable to get back up, and countless other flaws. Speaking of vehicles, 
 the vechiluar parts of this game are absolutly disastorus and border on unplayable. If there is 
 a sequel in the works, they better do a hell of alot of work on the vehicles... because those parts 
 actually ruined the game for me.
  
  On the positive side though, the story is epic and will easily engage fans of Star Wars or Star 
 Trek. This wouldn't be if it weren't for the amazing and unique cast of characters at your disposal. 
 My personal favorites were Wrex, the lovable hard-ass and Garrus.
  
  Overall, Mass Effect was a game with lofty expectations, that probably delivered for the most part 
 if this is your thing. It may have its couple minor errors, but its still one of the better (and 
 nerdier) games available for the Xbox 360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elann2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect turned out to be one of those games where you either wished you had bought it or you 
 wish you didnt buy it. ME can be described as a fork on the road, or a double-edged knife. I'm 
 sure you're lost in translation as you're reading this but rest assured, I'll explain. 
  
  Pros. Rich and deep storyline that leaves you sitting back in your seat with a bag of popcorn. 
 Well-written, superb voice acting, and endless dialogue. In these dialogues, you get to participate 
 in what I would call decision making in your responses. You may well have participated in hundreds 
 of dialogue throughout the entire game. This is the great aspect of ME. You are part of the storyline 
 and characters right from the get-go. Mass Effect even comes with a player customization. You may 
 shape and mold the face of your commander or choose the default character, John Shepard. This really 
 makes you feel like you're part of the game. Part of the character customization allows you to 
 choose what type of character you want to be. Remember, this game is an RPG as well as a shooter, 
 yet it doesnt feel like either. It feels more like a long movie. You may choose between several 
 different classes: Vanguard, Adept, Soldier, Sentinel, etc. Unlike other RPG's, there isnt much 
 difference between each class. It's not like World of Warcraft, where classes hone entirely different 
 skills. With that said, you can always go back and play a different class on a new campaign but 
 I dont really recommend. Just be a Vanguard and get the best of both worlds. 
  
  What can I say? After playing Mass Effect, I felt a bit confused. The game isnt really an RPG. 
 Sure, there are level ups, weapon and armor equips along with upgrades as you progress through 
 the game. But it just didnt deliver an RPG experience. And as far as an action shooter, it isnt 
 one either. After more dialogue and storyline, you find yourself launched into a mission. You get 
 sent to do mediocre tasks and if you're lucky, you get to shoot down some monsters and baddies. 
 So I concluded that, to me, this video game is a movie, not really an RPG or shooter. Because, 
 there is just a TON of dialogue and cutscenes, I felt like I was watching the first installment 
 of Lord of the Rings: Fellowship of the Ring. What a bore!
  
  Now, down to the gameplay mechanics. There are so many things that are bad in the game. Choppy 
 framerate. The game couldnt keep a steady framerate to save it's life. Come on, give me at least 
 30 frames per second, consistently! And you would think that the FPS would be the most frustrating 
 negative about the game. Well, you're in luck. The user interface is really frustrating to begin 
 with. In combats, you pause and a UI interface pops up for you to select the ability you want to 
 use during combat. Although this may be a unique and clever idea, it really tears down the combat 
 and puts it into slow motion. It is difficult to select your ability. While toggling to select 
 an ability, it jumps right onto another and I could never land the ability that I want. This is 
 absolutely frustrating. My suggestion would be to use the keypad for selecting instead of the ultra 
 sensitive joystick or toggle stick. I felt like I was fishing for abilities. 
  
  The Mako is difficult to control. For a car that weighed so much seemed like a featherweight in 
 a boxing match. One little bump, sends the mako flying. I fell off the platform and into the abyss 
 once. Hah, real funny.. The Mako takes a lot of damage rather quickly. I had to stop after every 
 enemy attack to repair and recharge. Another problem in the game is controlling your squad. They 
 dont usually do what you command. Command them to go foward and attack, they stay behind and stand. 
 One time, my two squad members got stuck behind the door and I guess they didnt know how to open 
 it. So I had to go back inside, keep the door open and command them to go foward. Luckily they 
 did, and they no longer moved from that spot again. The game has so many bugs and control issues. 
 This takes a lot from what could be one of the best games of 2007. It's just a shame. 
  
  As far as graphics goes, you're looking at a gorgeous video game. Not as great as Gears of War 
 or Assassin's Creed but very close to it. Visually stunning, awesome and unique character models, 
 with no reuse of the same characters. Environments are all original, very detailed filled with 
 dynamic lighting effects and shadows. Impressive in every right. 
  
  If you were a fan of Knights of the Old Republic, you're in for a treat. If you're not, well, you'll 
 still love Mass Effect. It is truly like a long movie with endless dialogue and loads of content 
 to be uncovered. Despite the terrible controls, numerous bugs, and the noticeable choppy frame 
 rate, Mass Effect gets a pass in my book. The guys at Ubisoft did a great job, visually, content 
 wise, and voice acting. There is just so much content! It's unbelievable. For those of you who 
 love a great story, this is it, your one-stop-shop. If you're looking for an RPG or a shooter, 
 this isnt it. Look elsewhere. But you're getting a great game if you do decide to buy. Thanks for 
 reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezzat30
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  The rocky planetary design and Mako combat mechanics can really be a downer when combined together. 
 You can spray machine gun fire or launch shells at your foes, and it works fine, provided you are 
 on the same level as your enemies. However, the Mako's turret, for whatever reason, can't move 
 up or down. The result is that bullets don't necessarily land where your crosshair is, so if you're 
 on higher terrain or your target is too close, those endless clips you're unloading are useless 
 (though you can hit enemies above you without difficulty) . It's sometimes maddening, since in many 
 situations, the enemy base is nestled below you in a crevasse, and you're forced to either get 
 in closer (often a death sentence in an area swarming with tough foes like the robotic Geth colossi) , 
 or get out and try to take on the toughest foes of the game on foot. Be careful if you get out 
 of the Mako in areas like these though, since your adventuring party can slide into a deep valley 
 and get stuck very easily, which forces you to either return to the Normandy (your ship) and return 
 to the planet, or reload a saved game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BBBeerad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Not since Knights of the Old Republic have I been sucked into such an involved universe. Anyone 
 who liked teh KOTOR games will definately like Mass Effect. You actualy care what's going on with 
 your character and your decisions can have minor and major consequenses. The way you talk to characters 
 can be different every time you play. Making a different dynamic in the team you take with you 
 and how you ultimately how the story characters will help or hinder you.
  
  The visuals are beautiful. Space is vast and full of light and color. Only Assasin's Creed has 
 a better overall visual feel as far as I'm concerned. Charater models are well rendered and facial 
 expresions are well done.
  
  The voice acting is done very well. I'm impressed with how well they've matched up voices and mouth 
 movements. Heavenly Sword aparently has better humanoid facial expresions, but I haven't played 
 it to be sure. 
  
  The AI can be difficult or easy, but generally does a decent job with your teammates and enemies. 
 Only occasionally when you send your team to a far off point will they have pathing problems. Combat 
 is well paced and has a different feel depending on what class you pick.
  
  Cons:
  For the most part I didn't have any problems... except for the non-combat interface. The inventory 
 screen (which you spend a lot of time between missions) can be frustrating to deal with since it 
 sends back to the top of the list every time you convert, sell or equip an item. It gets prety 
 tedious to scroll through all that stuff at times. Also there doesn't seem to be any way to customize 
 the sorting through your inventory at all.
  
  The Galaxy map is fine until you decide you want to look up something in your journal. Then you 
 have to back all the way out to read it. Not anything broken, but definately a time waster that 
 could have been shortcutted at some point.
  
  And a minor wish item for myself would have been the ablility to look at planets without having 
 to travel to the system first. Not a game problem, but the first time through I really wanted to 
 read up on the planets before I started exploring them.
  
  Still as far as games go this is definately one of my favs and I'm going to be playing through 
 more than once.
  -The Big Bad Beerad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoG_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is set in the distant future, when after making contact with alien races, humans are 
 struggling for power on a universal scale. Humans have made great progress, and are quickly showing 
 why they deserve to be among the most powerful of species. Of course, humanity needs someone to 
 prove they are worthy, something needs to happen that will really make them important. You, as 
 Commander (your name here) Shepard will be the one to make that happen. You will travel diverse 
 planets on a variety of cool missions, to do this, and it proves to be a great time.
  
  Mass Effect's combat has been one area of the game I have seen often criticized, and after playing 
 the game, I completely disagree. No, it is not a fast paced 3rd person shooter, nor is it your 
 traditional RPG. It blends those to worlds to create something that is a blast to play, and provides 
 lots of strategic choices and fun combat. Don't expect to win playing it as a 3rd person shooter, 
 you need to utilize all of your tools to do well. What makes the combat better more so are the 
 unique battles you'll encounter all the while. There are some fun boss fights and freakish enemies 
 that are sure to test you.
  
  In particular, I loved exploring each new environment. The level design and art direction in this 
 game are brilliant, and each of the areas of the main quest are believable, and all took my breath 
 away. Each one has the ability to fill you with emotion, keep you on your toes, and truly feel 
 you are in the future. Each main area is a work of art. Notice, however, I said each 'main' area. 
 The side quest levels all stick to a mold, and are very similar, with different color schemes and 
 box arrangements for the same building. The side quests turned out to be a little disappointing, 
 though all are still fun to play.
  
  One of the most important parts of the game is the dialogue. The whole way through, you influence 
 how relations and conversations play out with different options. Using the right talent trees, 
 you can even gain the ability to intimidate or charm everyone you encounter. It's really fun to 
 see how each character reacts, and how each conversation will play out.
  
  Mass Effect is a great game, and everyone should grab a copy. Great combat, beautiful environments, 
 all backed by an interesting story... where can you go wrong? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Decapitated
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  I am not going to tell you what rocks about Mass Effect. Instead, I will tell you what is bad about 
 it. There is just to much good to tell you about. If I started typing up one or two good aspects 
 then I would get lost and start typing them all. Like I said they are just so many that in fact, 
 it is just so over-whelming that I wish that I never bought this game because it makes all the 
 other games released so far look suprisingly horrible. Don't believe Gamespot's review
  
  Now it's on with the very little bad things about the game. For starters, there are many times 
 where the textures take a few seconds to pop up. It is fairly common with games using UE 3 though. 
 I saw it happen in GoW. The next problem is Tech classes (defensive classes) are really useless 
 at when you start the game. They are harder to use at the start then say, combat classes and biotic 
 hybrids or an adept. The next problem is that the AI is god awful at times. They shoot at walls 
 and over-heat their weapons for nothing, they sometimes get stuck behind the Mako and decide to 
 stay there for a while, the sometimes wander to far from the areas where you tell them to go to, 
 etc. The final problem is Mass Effect is a bit to short (10-15 hours if you dont do all the side 
 quests) . Or maybe that's just me. I think it is ;) . But, there is lots of re-play ability and they 
 are five difficulties to choose from. Easy, Normal, Veteran, Hardcore and Insanity.
  
  I highley recommend that you get this game if you have a 360. I know it takes some time to get 
 into. I got Assassin's Creed on the same day I got Mass Effect and it kind of over-shadowed it 
 until I got into Mass Effect. Then the tables turned. 
  
  Like I said before, I highley recommend Mass Effect. It is definitely the game of the decade for 
 me! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sora1609
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect is finally here! I've been waiting for its release since it was announced!
  
  
  Gameplay-10/10
  
  Okay, the gameplay is very unique. It combines first person shooter wth 
 an rpg game. A strange combination, but it is still pretty damn awesome!
  The diverse collection of biotic abilities and passive skills make the special powers fun. The 
 wide range of weapons allow a lot of different combinations of armor and weapons. The choice of 
 class is pretty cool, the fact that you can choose a balanced character or a hardcore weapon specialist, 
 just awesome. The gameplay is not just about combat though, the conversation scenes are fun too, allowing 
 you to choose specific dialogue options allow a lot ofchoice.
  
  
  Graphics-10/10
  
  The graphics are great. The artistic designers did a great job! The textures, the........ well, its 
 hardto explain..... ummm...... the graphics are beautiful, thats all i have to say.
  
  
  Sound-Unknown
  
  I know how people rate sound, but I could care less about sound, sooo I have 
 nothing to say in that category.
  
  
  Story-10/10
  
  The story is perfect. The surprises never end.
  
  
  Overall-10/10
  
  Awesome
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThrawnEternal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Perfection? Not quite, but don't let that stop you from feeding your 360 a copy of Mass Effect 
 and letting it much on it for 20, 40, or, if you're like me, approaching 60 hours. I've completed 
 the game 3 times, and I'm not even close to bored with it yet. Why?
  
  Choice: It's the word of the day for Mass Effect. You can customize how your character looks, be 
 good, evil, or neutral, fall in love with someone, and decide multiple character's fates. I can't 
 be more specific than that for fear of spoiling something. How the story unfolds is largely a result 
 of the decisions you make. Are you the altruistic hero? The self-serving pragmatist? Homocidal 
 Maniac? The choices are yours. 
  
  Story: One of the best in gaming history, hands down. You'll want to cheer at the end. Some say 
 the ending is weak, but I felt it was a perfect ending for a game that is just part one of a trilogy. 
 I'll leave you to look elsewhere for a plot outline, but take my word for it, the story is superb. 
 The only letdown is the sidequests. Some are pretty cool and have interesting stories, others feel 
 like forced excuses to get you out to some system to frisk monkeys for data cards (yes that actually 
 is one of the side quests) . So, side quests are hit-and-miss.
  
  Combat: It boils down to if you like FPS games or not, and what kind of combat you want in an RPS. 
 Mass Effect's combat is a perfectly functional 3rd person shooter format, which is intense and 
 a lot of fun, but suffers from some occational framerate slowdowns. However, while it can play 
 like a shooter, you can also pause the action to issue orders to your team. They're usually pretty 
 good, but for some reason they sometimes like to shoot at walls and waste their powers at really 
 stupid times. If you only know turnbased RPG combat and don't play shooters, you better play on 
 easy. For experienced shooter players, this game is a blast, but hardly a stiff challenge. I had 
 little trouble beating the game on Insanity, the hardest possible difficulty.
  
  Explaration: Lame. It's my only major complaint in an otherwise stellar title. The exploration 
 is just weak. Each planet you land on is barren and generally lifeless. It would have been nice 
 to see some rivers, lakes, trees, and wildlife on the non-main-quest planets, but there really 
 isn't any. Just barren mountains. The fact that all planets have the same gravity also seems unlikely. 
 Don't buy this game for exploration. Buy if for a fantastic space-opera sci-fi store with interesting 
 characters and combat.
  
  Achievements: Here's a list that requires replay. You can't get the full 1000 without playing at 
 least 3 times, and that's if you know exactly what you're doing. I'll have them all when I finish 
 my 5th playthrough. It'll take you a while, but they're all reasonable. If the choice options, 
 character interactions, and combat isn't enough to bring you back to this game for another go around, 
 maybe the achievements will do it for you. It's also nice that unlocking some achievements have 
 real in-game consequences. For example, unlocking the achievements related to level milestones 
 grant permanent XP bonuses to any characters you make. Other games should do something like this 
 in the future. In Mass Effect achievements are more than just gamer points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak781
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game I have ever played! It's smart, addictive, and just plain fun.
  The story, like all BioWare games, is great. It draws you into it , and never ceases to surprise 
 you. 
  The gameplay is very fun, it handles just like a normal third-person shooter, you can take cover 
 behind boxes or rocks, or just simply take your enemy head-on. 
  The difficulty setting is just right, it's easy enough for casual gamers, but challenging enough 
 for hardcore gamers.
  The graphics are beautiful, they almost look real. When a character speaks, their lips move to 
 form the words.
  Now all this being said, this game is not for everyone. If you don't like to sit through long sequences 
 of talking, then this is not your game. If you like to jump right into the action as soon as you 
 pick up the controller, then this is not your game.
  Mass Effect is a great game! You can't go wrong with this purchase! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperBlueMonkey
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  I was slightly concerned when reviews of Mass Effect hit the net and shelves with reviewers giving 
 it just above average and with a sense of disappointment. I thought its Bioware, no way would they 
 let us down! And in my opinion they really haven't.
  
  This game drips with immersive gameplay and story with depth to all aspects of character, plot 
 and the gaming world or in this case the gaming universe. It's size is just right, not too long 
 but not too short. The design of the characters is exceptional and the facial animation on the 
 aliens is in fact better than the humans. The overall feel to the machinery and architecture is 
 very futuristic with Bioware taking obvious inspiration from their work on the Star Wars games. 
 It is an RPG that you really are satisfied with by the end and have no problem doing it all again 
 and making opposite choices to that of which you made the last time through.
  
  So where's the disappointment you ask? Well Mass Effect does come with a list of faults. The game 
 suffers noticeable glitches on many occasions. In fact there are too many glitches on too many 
 occasions. However I looked past these minor upsets and carried on only to be faced with the worse 
 UI menu system in recent years for an RPG. It took a while to realise where exactly my upgrades 
 were for my weapons and when finding them, how disorganised they were without the option to organise 
 them! Everything in the UI is practically the same colour so it's hard to decipher (to begin with) 
 what's what? There's no easy way to select and drop an item or in the case of Mass Effect turn 
 it into omni-gel. Even when buying and selling your items, things can be a little confusing and 
 not totally clear first time round.
  
  The last fault is the Mako. The little buggy you scout worlds with. I mean it's the future, technology 
 should be advance and it is - there are spaceships people! So why is the Mako so flipping lame 
 to drive? It doesn't adapt at all to the gravity of the planet you're exploring or the terrain. 
 Boosters can be activated underneath the Mako lifting it up and more than likely landing on its 
 back. Surely boosters at the rear would've been better? It takes so much of your game time exploring 
 in this thing that you get the slight impression that Bioware have done it on purpose to just drag 
 out the lifespan of the game as a whole.
  
  Anyway, problems aside Mass Effect does come in as being a hell of an achievement for just being 
 different to everything else currently coming out. It's a fantastic start to the trilogy which 
 can only get better with previously mentioned problems being fixed. Still if they're not fixed 
 but I get the same satisfied feeling I got from the end of the first game, I'll find it hard to 
 criticise it and the one after. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan1274
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  What can I say. My favorite RPG company and my favorite subjects. Space and Aliens. I have already 
 completed this game twice and am on my third run. I just can't get enough so lets start reviewing.
 
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  Think deep submersive dialog tree's for XP with a G. O. W combat system . Thats right its full on 
 gaming. The combat threw me a curve when i first played. It was so much like 3rd person but not 
 really (once you change the difficulty levels) . The movement is smooth aside from the occasional 
 clipping problem which is anooying but overlookable.
  
  Graphics:
  
  This is what a game should look like, with the ability to remove the film grain and all. A beautiful 
 game even though sometimes it takes a second to load textures its okay. Once loaded you get the 
 full detail and feel liike you are where ever you are. Sweet colors nice glowing panels and nanotech. 
 Next-Gen all the way
  
  Sound:
  
  Sounds like an eerie sci fi movie. I play this is pro logic because of that. It sounds really sweet 
 in prologic. From the launching of ships to the click of your weapons being exteneded. Sheer pleasure. 
 The sound totally puts you in this game
  
  Value:
  
  Like I said its already round three for me with many more to come I am sure. The amount of skills 
 plus customization is key here. You can do something different almost everytime you play. Now if 
 only they release updates for some of these planets i. e. more assignments and side missions
  
  All and All:
  
  This game was nothing that I expected. it exceeded my expectations 10 fold. 
 It made me put assassin's creed down for a later date. I havent even continued my guilty pleasure 
 of COD:4 (much) I sneak it in every now and again cant help killing the noobs
  
  
  This game is a must have for all that do not have it. If you dont have it you are trippin hard, 
 get it toghther go pick this up and lose a few hours.. it will make you feel pretty empowered in 
 a weird spectre like way :) 
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyFrenchman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  I will start with the problems of this game since it is important to get them out the way before 
 i start explaining why it doesn't matter.
  The games tutorial is non-existent apart from how to shoot you have to work out eerything for yourself, 
 I have never had to look in a manual of a game unless i have benn waiting to play but in this case 
 the pages of paper werebeside me through the whole game and even then I had to be told by a friend 
 how to use jet-pack on the mako.
  The constamt texture pop-ups don't make me angry at the game just annoyed since the loading screens 
 are already really long you shouldn't have to wait 10 secs till you get the full effect (or the 
 "mass effect") of the game.
  Anyone reading this before buying the game, save. Whether you think or about to face enemies or 
 not save because you are never safe if you don't, boss battle commence with a cut scene so you 
 would expect a save.... i did, and when i died in the first few seconds i almost cried when i had 
 to do thewhole planet again, even items i had picked up had gone. 
  Yet this is one of the best single playerexperiences i've had on 360 (Assassins creed best game 
 ever) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: estranger
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Most of the users on Gamespot that have reviewed Mass Effect have given good scores. But there 
 are still a number of you who are complaining about "pop up", or "the mako being stupid" or whatnot.
 
  
  Get a grip people.
  
  I have not finished this game yet, nor will I for quite some time. I am only eleven or so hours 
 in, and have already decided that I am going to be playing it at least two more times. This game 
 has the power to captivate on a MASSIVE SCALE, and should be played by all.
  
  Yes, it has pop up. Yes, it has some glitches from time to time, but what game doesen't? I've been 
 playing games since I was six years old- (25 now) , and started with the Sega Mastersystem- (8bit) . 
 I know what games are capable of, and I most certainly know a great game when I come across one. 
 Mass Effect has the ability to make your girlfriend very angry, your friends to hate you, and for 
 you to lose your job. There has only been a few games this year that have made me stay up ALL NIGHT 
 and play 'till six in the morning. Bioshock and Halo 3. Those were good games. And really, Halo 
 3 is more for online fun. Bioshock was something special, and so is Mass Effect.
  
  The voice acting in M. E is extraordinary. The characters are so well fleshed out, and the dialogue 
 so well implemented, that you feel as though you are living and breathing M. E, not merely playing 
 it.
  
  The graphics are the best I've seen in a videogame to date. Period. Gears Of War and Bioshock looked 
 great, but this is truly next gen. Sometimes there is pop in, sometimes the textures take an extra 
 second to load, but never once did it take me out of the experience.
  
  The audio in the game so far has been mind blowing. As I stated above, the voice acting is amazing. 
 But all of the other effects, such as ships flying by, or the game world just "living and breathing" 
 in The Citadel, are testaments to great audio.
  
  I could go on and on. But since I've only played for just over ten hours, I can't give my full 
 review yet. But you can rest assured knowing that if the first chunk of the game is this good, 
 the rest is only going to blow your mind.
  
  This is truly one of the best games I have ever played in my life, and I can't wait for numbers 
 two and three. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popky07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Quite simply, Mass Effect is the game I've been waiting years for. It's highly addictive and immersive 
 with a storyline that outdoes many of Hollywoods attempts on a "modern masterpiece".
  The character customisation is brilliant and the end result is a highly realistic character that 
 you design who you can then mould to have the personality and the skills that you desire (my female 
 Shepard ended up being a red-headed modelesque lesbian soldier with a sharp tongue and a tough 
 attitude) .
  The storyline is immersive and really keeps you involved at all times through the introduction 
 of the "choose what you say" aspect, which we may have seen in games before, but not often as in-depth 
 as in Mass Effect. The game provides amazing twists and turns, and because it is partially moulded 
 by you, you can expect a high replayability factor just to see how what you say effects the outcome 
 of the story itself.
  Okay, so the graphics glitch a little and the loading times can suck (especially in the epic elevator 
 rides) but the graphics here are still the best I've seen in a game to date. At points when my 
 Shepard would be taking down a criminal for illegal doings I could pause the game and actually 
 be shocked by how real it looked. Not to mention the amazing visual tricks they use to develop 
 a sense of distance (not that it's needed) the game is epic and you could take days... weeks... 
 maybe even months trying to get every piece of armour, every weapon, every side-quest and all the 
 skills, but its worth it and you never seem to get bored either.
  Fantastic sound effects and voice acting rounds off this game, placed above a phenomenal musical 
 score that will make you feel like you're playing an interactive blockbuster movie.
  This is the one game that you could buy an Xbox 360 for just to play this game... I'm serious!
 
  Epic, glorious, beautiful, immersive, and utterly addictive. Mass Effect is set to be game of 
 the year in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drunk_on_Apathy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, it's mean statement but I stand by it, considering how much praise games like Call of Duty 
 4 and Halo 3 gets I can't feel anything but disillusioned when I see so much critics label the 
 game as "disappointing". I admit that I was looking for a bit more than this in the beginning, 
 but seriously, stop judging game by your ridiculous expectations! After playing the game extensively 
 I realized that it couldn't really be better than this (without an important delay) . I mean open 
 your eyes people, you can literally see Bioware sweat and blood in this game.
  
  The developers created such and amazing, deep and well-constructed universe that I'm still in awe, 
 it never quite happened before in video game (or atleast on console) . Every single pieces of dialog 
 are amazingly well written, even the most unimportant ones seem like treats and the conversations 
 have such an organic feel to it (a testimony to all the care and detail attention involved) that 
 you feel compelled to get through every single one of them. Not to mention that they're acted by 
 an incredibly talented bunch.
  
  And I'm just scratching the surface, I still have to go through the novel worthy story, the amazing 
 soundtrack (and sound effects) , the graphics, the art style, the cinematic-goodness of the cut 
 scenes, the drama, the humor, the maturity, the well-designed everything (from outfits to ships) 
 and the beautifully crafted sceneries, it's like an old-science fiction dream come true. And the 
 gameplay? Pitch-perfect, like a great third-person shooter with the deepness level of an Rpg. The 
 vehicle parts do have room for improvement though, but it's still a nice diversion from the rest. 
 I also love the fact the game is not too short and not too long (well, it always depend how you 
 play) .
  
  But yeah, the game has it's flaws, for instance; it lacks a certain level of emotional impact the 
 Kotor (s) had, some side quest are simply boring fillers, some uncharted worlds are pretty uninspired, 
 the number of real conversations with your crew an team members are more limited than the previous 
 Bioware games, making you care less about your people or maybe wish you'd knew more about them. 
 You also have a few small problems there and there, but nothing too important to stop Mass Effect 
 from being a damn masterpiece.
  
  2007 was an amazing year, a lot of great games and among the big blockbusters I believe that Mass 
 Effect was the most "underrated" one. Where are you serious gamers? Because this game definitively 
 deserved the game of the year award and not some shooter that delivers only a great multi-player, 
 nothing else and nothing new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miller1119
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  BioWare took a step in the right direction here, they shied away from the ever so popular First-Person 
 Shooter, to the better game type, Third-Person Shooter, and they even added in the RPG element 
 to the entire thing. Now you'd think that a game of this size would be far too big to enjoy if 
 you don't like RPG type games, but that is far from the case, you can take forever to finish the 
 game by doing all the side missions (for all those RPG aficionados) or you can just do the main 
 missions and get it done in a reasonable amount of time. Either way the entire ride is one of the 
 most enjoyable you'll find in a video game ever. If you are a fan of First Person Shooters, this 
 is for you, because it has the elements of it, except a better Point-of-View is utilized. The load 
 time is disguised as elevators, so you generally don't notice them. The game play is flawless, 
 the Mako drives better than any vehicle in Halo could ever drive. So, I can wholeheartedly recommend 
 this game to almost any person ever. But be warned, its hard to put the controller down once you 
 start playing, its THAT good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is definitely a worthy RPG from a developer that has a history of making epic RPG games. 
 But I feel that in the attempt to add a lot of content to the game, they put in too much repetitive 
 game play.
  
  A lot of the side missions that are off world are very repetitive in their feel. I blame this mostly 
 on the land rover that you are cruising around in. Gamespot is definitely right about the land 
 rover in my opinion. You have a major part of the game play tied into this vehicle, but its sometimes 
 jerky to control and it doesn't fire at everything you aim at. I've read where others say you need 
 to hold the left trigger to go into first person mode in order to fire at something below the cannons 
 line of site, but this is no true. Rather than giving us a cut off when aiming to fire, you have 
 to compare your location to the target you are aiming at. It either needs to be even with you or 
 above you. And even though you can aim at enemies that are below you (even in first person mode) 
 you cannot shoot them since they are not in the cannons line of site.
  
  Another problem I had was with the story and I think this is simply because of how good KotoR was 
 with the surprise story line. For me, Bioware set the standard on surprises in video game stories. 
 If you are going to say that you have a great story with twists, then you need to deliver something 
 like they did in KotoR or like 2k Boston did with Bioshock. I did enjoy the story, but there was 
 no big surprise. All of it was pretty predictable simply because of the clues you are given during 
 the game. I do like how some plot items are left open for the sequel. The batarians, journeying 
 into the veil possibly and the Cerberus group are some prime examples.
  
  Now I complained about the repetitive game play, but that is not a knock against all of the back-story 
 on the worlds that you visit or investigate. There is simply a huge amount of information on most 
 every world in every system that you visit. In regards to creating a viable universe for someone 
 to get lost in, Bioware has definitely done this with Mass Effect and I am looking forward to a 
 sequel.
  
  The graphics in the game are gorgeous, but the 360 did have some problems when sometimes jumping 
 from scene to scene. It would usually take a couple of seconds to load all of the image details, 
 so you would get a screen with some rough outline and then the detailed mapping would show up a 
 second or so later. This was not a deal breaker for me and I feel that to make it one would be 
 a silly thing on an RPG which should mostly be story driven in my opinion, rather than graphics 
 driven.
  
  The voice acting is actually very good, but what would have been impressive would have been multiple 
 voice actors for the main character, rather than just once for the male and one for the female. 
 The rest of the cast was actually voiced really well, but I would like to see more variety in the 
 voices for the Salarians and Krogan in the next game. They just sounded a lot alike.
  
  Mass Effect can take you anywhere from 10 hours to 35 hours to complete. This all depends on whether 
 you complete the side missions and also don't rush through the cut scenes and conversation trees. 
 Getting all the achievements took me a long time to do. For me, this is mostly since I had not 
 researched enough how to unlock all of the achievements, especially the Asari Ally achievement 
 which took me 3 attempts with the Asari to finally unlock. So the total playtime, if you cut all 
 corners playing the game to achieve all the achievements is probably around 60 hours. That is if 
 you manage to do it in 3 games. I wish I had researched it more before going for the achievements 
 since I probably could have saved myself 30 hours.
  
  Mass Effect is definitely a game worth playing if you enjoyed the previous work from Bioware. And 
 since I have enjoyed most of the games they have developed, I did enjoy Mass Effect very much.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordangr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Maybe this is why Jeff Gertzmann had to go... along with his score of 9.0 on Bioshock, a game that 
 was essentially flawless for what it was trying to accomplish.
  
  On to Mass Effect...
  1. It is beautiful
  2. It is believable
  3. Its story is amazing
  4. It is Gears of War and 
 Oblivion... combined
  
  consider this:
  Imagine in Gears of War you are fighting a nasty locust horde, you are pinned down, things look 
 grim... BOOM your cohort shoots a nasty spell at the opponents that lifts them in the air harmlessly, 
 allowing you to pop them in the head with a well aimed snipe.
  This is the potential power of Mass Effect's combat system, a well balanced combination of firepower 
 and trickery that allows you to ultimately take down the enemy. While ME's biotics and technical 
 abilities are not as visibly cool as those in Bioshock (no lighting people on fire, freezing them 
 and bashing them to pieces, on sending swarms of bees at them) , they are definitely cooler than 
 Oblivion's spells, and some have some pretty cool effects. 
  In terms of the story, character interaction element (this is an RPG after all) ME really excels. 
 People look great, look animated, sound great, theres even a skip through dialogue button for those 
 rambling people who you really dont care about! The story takes a great twist in the middle, and 
 now going through my second playthrough, its really interesting to see how the different things 
 tie together with careful observation. This story is deeper than Halo's, and considering this is 
 only the first of a trilogy it may well end up being better. (actually considering Halo is prob 
 my favorite story of all time thats not true... I mean the introduction to the flood is one of the 
 most brilliant, unexpected, and startling events in media today, let alone video games)
  
  ok, there are a few problems:
  side quests to planets feel repetitive and get annoying (the Mako 
 just is not that fun to use on barren, unrefined terrain)
  sometimes i just want to fight more people... the combat system is so much fun i often felt unsatisfied 
 at the end of fights... i realize this isnt a shooter blah blah blah but still that did bother me
 
  
  thats it, thats all that bothered me
  this game is great
  buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sancezz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that the only RPGs I had any interest in before this game were Final Fantasy 
 VII - X. Those games had something magical about them - the ability to draw you into a world and 
 not let you go. One of the main reasons I liked those games so much were the battle system - turn 
 based strategy. I shied away from Western RPGs because of the typical "Hack 'n' Slash" style combat 
 and standard charcters. Boy, am I glad I took the plunge into Mass Effect.
  
  I wasn't interested in this game solidly until the universal acclaim it garnered, so I figured 
 I would try it out. The question is; where do I begin? I guess... let's start with the setting. 
 I'll try and keep it brief because there is no way I could possibly cover the background in this 
 review.
  
  When you start the game, your character is already a famous, well known operative within the universe. 
 This completely bucks the standard "random nobody suddenly finds that he is instrumental in the 
 fate of the universe" setting, which is good. However, how your character is well known is up to 
 you; you can choose whether your character was born in space, born on Earth, whether they're a 
 galactic hero, whether they're known for their exceptional ruthlessness, and some options in between. 
 Humanity is new to the galactic community, which has been around for thousands of years before 
 we even developed electricity. Long story short, humans have been fighting for a place on this 
 Citadel Council, the "government" which has power over 80% of all known intelligent races in the 
 galaxy for 26 years. 
  
  When you start the game, you serve as a part of the crew of the Normandy, a prototype vessel on 
 the cutting edge of stealth and propulsion drive technology. You're dispatched to pick up an ancient 
 artifact which could advance galactic technology by a few hundred years. However, something goes 
 wrong; the colony is attacked and the epic story kicks off from there.
  
  As an RPG, you choose a class for your character before the game begins. You have a choice between 
 "pure" classes: a Soldier (Fighter) , an Engineer (focuses on Tech abilities) and an Adept (Magic 
 caster) . As well as these "pure" classes, you can choose between a combination of them; so for 
 example, a "Vanguard" is a combat spellcaster, mixing Soldier with Adept. Naturally, choosing one 
 of these classes means that you lose some abilities, but gain others, so it all comes down to how 
 you like to play your RPGS. This flexibility in setting out your class is nice; and the icing on 
 the cake is that by using abilities, not only do you unlock achievements for them, but once you 
 unlock those achievements, you gain the ability to select a "bonus" talent on replay. So say you 
 got 150 sniper rifle kills; and the next playthrough you want to try a class that doesn't have 
 sniper rifle training, but you know how useful they can be, you can choose to add sniper rifle 
 training to your character. Which is pretty awesome, considering you WILL want to play through 
 again.
  
  These chosen abilities all come into play once you get into a fight. The combat system can best 
 be described as "Gears of War RPG". The action takes place in 3rd person, over the shoulder, just 
 like you'd control your character in a game like Gears. You aim just like any 3rd person shooter, 
 and shoot bad guys just the same. You can even take cover behind objects and pop out to take shots. 
 However, this is where the similarities end. When you want to use an ability, you hold the right 
 bumper, which pauses the game and allows you to look around freely. A wheel appears over the action, 
 with each character's available abilities displayed. Now it's a simple matter of aiming the cursor 
 where you want the ability to be cast, selecting it, and letting go of the right bumper. The ability 
 will now be used by the character. This system works very well; because when the action gets a 
 little too manic (which it will, at times) it offers an easy way to pause the action and assess 
 the situation, and then select the right ability for the job. This is crucial for stopping charging 
 enemies who wish to bludgeon you to death in their tracks; because unlike other RPGs, you can select 
 the "Throw" command (which throws enemies away from the character) and cast it without having to 
 fumble around manicaly and probably dying in the process. The great amount of flexibility here 
 makes the entire system a lot of fun. 
  
  Whilst on the subject of combat, there is something to be said about the physics engine used in 
 the game. You won't notice it when running aorund talking to characters, but the "Throw", "Singularity" 
 (Which creates a gravitational force which draws everything into it and around it) and "Lift" abilities 
 are often funny; which adds to the whole entertainment of the combat. To say that combat can be 
 funny in the right ways is rare indeed, but this game has nailed it.
  
  A lot has been said about the conversation system in the game, and I must say, it did surprise 
 me. Traditional RPGs let you select between fully typed out responses that require you to read 
 before selecting them. Not so in Mass Effect. There is a small wheel during conversations; and 
 placed around this wheel are possible responses, however, rather than the aforementioned fully 
 typed out responses, there are general "thoughts" which are no more than a few words. From these 
 "thoughts" the character fleshes it out into a meaningful conversation whilst conveying the feeling 
 of the thought almost perfectly. Not only this, but answers situated on the right of the wheel 
 advance the conversation towards the end, and answers on the left are used to find out more information. 
 And to make the conversation even easier, positive responses are situated at the top and negative 
 at the bottom, so you almost always know how your character will reply and which thought to choose 
 to acquire a desired outcome. This depth, yet simplicity is brilliant in streamlining conversations 
 and it becomes interesting to see how your character will flesh out a thought. 
  
  Mass Effect was heralded as a game where you will make meaningful, difficult decisions throughout 
 the game. And boy, some of them are really difficult. Though through most of the game, you make 
 trivial choices which you make almost automatically, later on, you are forced to make decisions 
 which blur the line between right and wrong, and you genuinely have to stop and think about how 
 your actions will affect the future. I even found myself thinking things through for several minutes 
 before deciding on an answer a few times. This is a monumental feat, especially seeing as your 
 actions normally end up as nothing more than a different conversation and some Renegade/Paragon 
 (Good/Evil) points. And even though you know that your decision won't change much, that doesn't 
 stop you from caring. This speaks volumes about how the game manages to draw you into the characters 
 and the world, and I cannot praise this aspect enough. Once you start playing, you know you're 
 in a fully realised, interesting world. The game draws you in, it grabs you and will not let go. 
 You will want to keep going to find the next plot point because it's so brilliantly written. 
 
  
  The voice acting in this game plays a large part in this. Every line in the game is spoken, and 
 considering the hundreds of characters you will converse with throughout the game, this is impressive. 
 And not one single line comes across as forced. This is a revelation; if only every game could 
 learn from Mass Effect and take more time with the voice acting, they would benefit immensely. 
 Every character seems believable and has their own motives; which is in stark contrast to the standard 
 cardboard cutout NPCs of some other RPGs.
  
  the character models and graphics have been a showpiece since the game was unvealed, and the game 
 certainly looks beautiful. The character models are particularly impressive. As GameSpot pointed 
 out, Wrex is a prime example of this, and I agree. He looks phenominal. The armour of your characters 
 is so intricately detailed, and so are the faces of the characters. The self-shadowing is impressive; 
 if a little blocky in spots.
  
  So, why take off 0.5 from the score? I hear you ask. Well, there are a few technical issues with 
 this game, which is a shame because I really wanted to give a 10. First of all, the framerate can 
 be an issue. It's usually during conversations and other points where it doesn't matter so much, 
 but it does drag down the immersion of the game. (albeit, not by much) . Secondly, my character 
 inexplicably got stuck on the geometry for no good reason at all several times, which means that 
 a reload is the only way out. That is infuriating, especially when the last save was half an hour 
 ago. And the save system is also incredibly annoying. It acts in checkpoints, but it doesn't always 
 save when you'd expect, so the aformentioned half an hour ago save points become an issue. The 
 only real way around this is to frequently manually save. This isn't ideal, but it's fine once 
 you finally get used to doing it. Another issue i found with the game (being nitpicky now) is the 
 mountains in the planet exploration sections of the game. Whoever designed some of these planets 
 is a sadist. It becomes incredibly annoying after climbing the SAME mountain for 10 minutes only 
 to find that actually, there is no way up it without spending another 10 minutes looking around 
 for another way up. Granted, usually you don't HAVE to climb mountains to complete the missions, 
 but for exploration, it's maddening and actually means that I cannot be bothered to explore that 
 mysterious wreckage sometimes. Which is a shame because exploration and piecing together the history 
 of a planet should be interesting. 
  
  Mass Effect has achieved a new standard for cinematic RPGs and Cinematic games in general. There 
 is not one single game (bar BioShock) that I can name which draws you into its world and reveals 
 a fully realised, wonderful place to be and inspires your curiosity. For the first time ever in 
 an RPG, playing as a spellcaster is amazingly rewarding for me, and that says a lot. I'm now on 
 my 5th playthrough of the game, and it still hasn't lost steam. This longevity is incredible for 
 a game, and I wholeheartedly recommend this game to anyone with a fleeting interest in cinematic 
 stories or RPGs. Even if you're not a typical RPG fan, the combat system may be enough to get you 
 engaged in playing. I've carried this review on for too long, and yet haven't been able to cover 
 everything. The sheer depth and scope of this game is amazing, and you owe it to yourself to experience 
 it.
  
  A glowing 9.5 it is then, for one of the best games released on the x360 during 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoAFie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  Game: Mass Effect
  System: Xbox 360
  Reviewer: RoAFie
  
  Review:
  
  Well let's get things started on a positive note on Mass Effect (sorta) . Mass Effect is a game 
 to love and enjoy. However if Mass Effect takes a turn and decieds to betray your trust and buttrape 
 you by slipping date rape drugs in your sprite don't blamez me. I'll start off with what Mass Effect 
 does right. It's story is amazing. One thing I like about Mass Effect is that it finally gives 
 you the option of truly being neutral as far as the whole good vs evil. A lot of games nowadays 
 try and give choices between good and evil but all you can be is good or evil. Like Bioshock, fable, 
 and KOTOR. Speaking about KOTOR Mass Effect does a great way of improving the dialog system. For 
 one there is voice acting. Yay! For two there is an organized structure to it (top right = good 
 people **** middle right = indecisive prick choices, bottom right = evil sadistic bastard child 
 choices, left is for gathering more information) . And for 3 there is a lot more personalities that 
 you can sympathize with. Each character even the minor ones have a nice story. But for me I don't 
 really give two ****s about characters too much so let's get into the main overall story. The story 
 isn't the most orginal of pieces. The game is based upon preventing the human imprisonment and 
 massacre that was brought on by machines *cough* Terminator *cough*. To be fair this horrible fate 
 is brought about by a character that has been corrupted by a manipulative force and *SPOILER ALERTZORS* 
 ultimately (can) kill himself to save everyone *END SPOILER ALERT*...*cough* star wars *cough*. 
 Well let's start the game off from the beginning. From the start I got to choose my name. Unfortunately 
 this doesn't make too much of a difference in the game because you are only allowed to choose your 
 first name (since I sought out to be a complete **** to everyone I named my dude's first name "Bastard") 
 and the last name is Shepard. The only thing this really thing for is saved screens and characters 
 since most of them always call you by your last name (even your BFF's in the game) . But w/e it 
 was obviously meant to be used as multiple character thing and it's better than people calling 
 you sir all the time. You can be male or a chick. Next comes one of the hardest choices I had to 
 make in the game. Seriously. You have the choice to be a marine that joined the force at 18, a 
 colonist, or an Earth born citizen. Naturally my finger started to linger toward Earthbound when 
 I read what happened. Seriously it's a **** up choice. When you are a colonist your family is ded 
 and when you are Earth born your never had a family and you had to escape gang life. Woah wtf. 
 Well I didn't want to be a spacer b/c that wouldn't be very much like me and I couldn't chose Colonist 
 b/c I'd feel weird like I was wishing my parents death so I choose Earth born. Later on I found 
 out that this gave me Renegade Points (evil points) and choosing a Spacer would net me Paragon 
 (good points) . Now that's all fine and well since I was going to be an evil bastard anyway but 
 to me it doesn't make since. When you are earth born you are escaping a life of crime and evil 
 to try and do some good. When you are a spacer you're just joining cause your parents joined and 
 you want to shoot stuff. WTF? And with the colonist your parents are ded b/c of attackers and you 
 want to get revenge (*cough* Star wars *cough*) . Now I'd think that Earth born would be good, spacer 
 would be neutral, and Colonist would be evil. But like I said **** it. Then you get to chose how 
 you respond to situations (working alone, being a dick, and helping others) . I don't have any smart 
 ass responses here. Then you get to customize your character. One of my complaints is that no matter 
 what guy I make they always look ugly as hell. Normally I'd just choose the default character but 
 I couldn't do it this time. So I ended up with some bald **** with a giant scar down the side of 
 his face. I'd say the customization is a nice addition over all though. The only thing I'd improve 
 on is the back stories and making the random selections better along with the overall customizer. 
 After that you get the classes and there are three base regions you can specialize in which is 
 combat (gun totting) , tech (h4zoring and machine related attacks) , and biotics (the force in starwars 
 basically) . You can also choose a combo of the two for less abilities and more diversity. Let's 
 get things started off. The classes are not balanced. The biotics are definitely the choice to 
 use if you want to really own at the game. For the most part tech is best used for other party 
 members unless if you are going for achievements and with combat most of the time you'll only use 
 one or two weapons. What I'd recommend is starting as a solider and playing through long enough 
 to unlock the assault rifle achievement then create a Adept and have his bonus talent be assault 
 rifle you will own. Every class has their own perk though. With a solider you get all weapons and 
 heavy armor and has the combos you get an extra weapon (sniper for infiltrator and shotty for vanguard) 
 and medium armor. Most of the time the armor doesn't make much of a difference if you use cover 
 however. I'll get more into combat later though so skip ahead a paragraph if you want to see how 
 well they work. A soldier will get you by most of the game if you're an FPS fan and an Adept is 
 the bad ass if you are a bad ass. And a tech guy is for any haxzor or achievement goers. Righto. 
 Into combat. I will say I'm not a big fan of combat in Mass Effect. It seems rather bland to me. 
 It does have some good points. 4 example. In Mass Effect it uses a cover system which is fairly 
 good. There are the rare instances when I press up against a wall and don't see jack. In which 
 I just back up and shoot normally. The game also has a squad based system where you can move your 
 team around. Most of the time ignore the system b/c unlike in tuff games like GoW or Rainbow 6 
 you can usually take more than a couple of shots until you die. The only time I ever really used 
 the squad system is to get the annoying ally AI out of my ****ing way and shooting path. Speaking 
 about AI the AI in this game can be really retarded or really ****ing annoying. It's mostly my 
 own allied AI. Thank god you can't kill them. But I can't count how many time they have walked 
 in front of me or they trap me in a doorway or some other stupid reason. Thx to the squad controls 
 you can get them out of the way but A) It's still annoying and B) Most of the time squad control 
 is overlooked. Another thing is that is good to mention in no point in the game did I ever feel 
 the need to make use of my team partners as far as pure fire power is concerned. Oh sure they did 
 help with biotics but I'm counting straight fire power. Not once did my teammates kill anything 
 that didn't take two or more shots to take down (w/o my uber sniper rifle that kills in one shots) . 
 So most of my fights went down like having Wrex and Garrus spamming the enemy with biotic and tech 
 abilities while I took out foes with my fricking pistol. Plus to make matters worse in Mass Effect 
 the game has no in game tutorial on how to do all of the combat actions. Now I know what you all 
 are thinking RoAFie you lazy bastard get off your ass and read the manual. The problem was when 
 I first played the game I got it from Blockbuster and they stopped putting in the manuals at mine 
 so the only way I figured out crap is hitting buttons. Seriously it took me two missions to figure 
 out that I had powers when I was a solider = (
  
  In some main missions and almost all of the the sidequests you get to pilot a vehicle called the 
 Mako. A lot of people hated driving this thing. I however am not one of those people. However I 
 can see where the critics have some problems. Probably because the thing is annoying as hell to 
 drive and it takes a while to get used to combat in the thing. I loved this thing though b/c it 
 reminded me back in the good old Star Fox days. I thought it fit like the old landmaster quite 
 well and overall I liked driving it. However the enemies you fight in the thing basically stand 
 still and let you own them. That and they don't differ much. The main tank things you fight stay 
 that way the only upgrades they get is increased firepower and health but their main attacks don't 
 change at all. Plus seriously all you have to do to fight them is drive straight into them and 
 blast the crap out of them when they are on the ground. Again there is no tutorial on how to drive 
 the damn thing so it's just a matter of hitting buttons (or looking in the game manual) . Just a 
 minor complaint that isn't really counting against the game but why do we only get one vehicle. 
 Seriously you're in the most expensive spaceship that man has made and you only have one vehicle 
 that you can use. Lame.
  
  Let's talk about missions. Now the main missions themselves are pretty well distinct from each 
 other. You have your straight shoot up missions where there is constant action going on, you have 
 missions where you have to gather information and then kick ass, and you have a find this person 
 mission. For the most part they work pretty well. The information mission isn't nearly as long 
 as the spaceport city in KOTOR 2 or as tedious and it has the proper amount of asskickery. The 
 manhunt can be long but you can look on the net and jump to the planet you need to go to if you 
 don't feel like searching the 4 possible planets. The action bits can vary between evil robot dudes 
 attacking you and zombies attacking you. It's all right. Not the worst not the best. Now when I 
 first got Mass Effect it was right before I went down to my grandparents and I wanted to beat the 
 game before I got there so I just blazed through the main story. Later I was saddened to find out 
 I didn't miss too much as far as side quests go. There are the side quests on the citadel/other 
 main planets which vary from long dialog, to more dialog and finding people , to scavenger hunts 
 for messed up little alien dudes, to occasional combat. The citadel has by far the widest variation 
 in sidequests. Here's a basic summary of almost all the other missions. Your spaceship flies in 
 and drops you in a Mako, you drive around searching the planet's "important" spots, when you find 
 a spot you land get out of your Mako and go into a building and kill all the thugs and either find 
 something or leave. There are a couple you don't even have to go into a building you can just kill 
 a giant tremor. There are other missions where you go around scaning planets for minerals and going 
 on planets harvesting them and other related tasks but these for the most part are long boring 
 and tedious even with a guide. Plus you don't need to do it for any achievement (unless you really 
 want too) .
  
  Anyway by doing the missions and killing crap you get XP. This is used to level up (duh) . When 
 you level up you get to add farther customization to your character. For example if I was a solider 
 and I wanted to specialize in Assault rifles and heavy armor I'd put my points into Armor and Assault 
 Rifles. You then as you earn points unlock more areas of potential such as after a certain point 
 in Assault Rifles you unlock Sniper Rifles. A thing I have to complain about like I always do is 
 there isn't very many powers to use. I mean wtf is your favorite biotic power? The one where you 
 throw a person back in the air and onto the floor leaving them helpless, the one were you freeze 
 them and make them helpless (though they are immune to damage) , the one where you lift them in 
 the air and make them helpless, the one where you lift them in the air but this time they orbit 
 around a little ball and make them helpless, or the one where you throw a barrier around you. Okay 
 so they had one or two sort of different ones. The weapon ones are generic and not too creative 
 (having unlimited ammo, increased accuracy and damage) . The tech ones are for the most part focused 
 on defense disabling attackers weapons and biotics with their abilities. There are ones where you 
 can get machine buddies too. Overall I'd say there isn't enough powers and the ones they do have 
 aren't very creative (*cough* KOTOR *cough*) . Despite my complaints about the powers the game does 
 have a very RPG feel too it with the choices you make with your character's design and stuff. Also 
 throughout your missions you gain money. And with money you can get weapons, armor and armor/biotic/tech/weapons 
 upgrades. Now in the beginning of the game you get very little money and by the middle of the game 
 you'll have all of the best weapons and armor and still have enough to build a raft of gold. By 
 the end of the game the raft becomes a pirate ship... with golden monkeys... and cake. There are 
 4 main weapons you can use. Pistols all classes can use and are accurate. Assault rifles fire fast 
 and are horrible inaccurate (in the beginning of the game) and can only be used by the Solider 
 class until you unlock the Assault rifle expert achievement. Shotguns are beasts at close range 
 or against knocked down foes and are used by Vanguards and Soldiers (and others if you get the 
 achievement) . And finally snipers are used for long distances and hard to handle (in the beginning 
 again) and are used by Infiltrators and Soldiers (and others if you got the achievement) . You can 
 also get armor. Light armor is for full tech and biotic specialty members. Medium for mixes of 
 combat and tech/biotic. Heavy for soldiers. Armor is kind of pointless since most the time you'll 
 be hiding behind cover taking potshots at baddies although it is mandatory for surviving larger 
 more powerful enemy encounters. Plus having more shields never hurts. Upgrades I think are one 
 of the coolest feature in the game. You can customize how your armor acts. For example if you have 
 light armor to make up for the lack of protection you can get an upgrade for extra padding. Also 
 you can customize your weapons for chemical and heat damage along with basic things like doing 
 more damage to machines. Then you can upgrade your biotic and tech abilities with omni tools and 
 amps which basically make your tech and biotics more powerful.
  
  The game is also notorious at least for me with glitches and more bugs than an abandoned picnic. 
 There are glitches where you can't move and you have to turn off your 360 and restart it. Normally 
 this would just be an annoying occurrence that you would just get over with because of an autosave 
 system. Well Mass Effect has an auto-save system that is spastic as all hell. Seriously at times 
 it will save your progress everytime you move into a sort of new area. Then at others it refuses 
 to autosave until you go through a main enemy base, then fight a boss, then after you defeat the 
 boss it decides to autosave... how about f'n saving before I fight the boss EH?!!! So you'll become 
 accustomed to saving every chance you get in order to avoid this.
  
  Graphics: Again I really don't care too much about graphics to the point where I'll hinder a games 
 overall score on it. What I will say though the characters are beautifully made (except for whatever 
 reason when I try and make a character) . The planets have a nice variety of looks. It's not the 
 best game 's graphics but they are pretty damn close. One thing that creeps me out though is one 
 of my squad mates Ashely Williams has this weird thing like I saw on Seinfield. One minute I look 
 at her and she's hawt and the next she's ugly. Seriously it's annoying. I should fly over to that 
 cafe and talk to her there in that corner. Sound: Soundwise the game outdoes itself. Amazing voice 
 acting and music make the game an awesome experience. Plus the music at time can really match the 
 mood of the situation. For example something extremely tragic happened (that cost me an achievement) 
 and in the background reflected that. Guns and action are alright. The combat dialog has a tendency 
 of constantly looping the same stuff but w/e it does it's job.
  
  Achievements: Achievements are based off of for the most part specialization in certain areas (weapons 
 and biotic/tech abilities) , story progress, and good vs evil based achievements. There are also 
 kill based achievements and finding all of the codex entries. Also some of the more annoying achievements 
 are "completing a majority of the game with *insert ally here*". Now when I first read this I thought 
 I had to just keep 2 characters with me the whole game as I blew through the story. But no of course 
 not. You have to do almost all the sidequests with them. In fact more than you have to do with 
 the completionist achievement (beat a majority of the game) . That's bull. One thing I like that 
 Mass Effect added is when you unlock certain achievements you get added bonuses. So if you get 
 a bunch of dough you unlock some of the best weapons in the game for purchase. I think that's awesome 
 and a nice touch.
  
  Playability: Now the question for Mass Effect "is the game worth the money". Most definitely. The 
 game lasted me a good 20 hours the first run and another 10 off of the sidequests that I did my 
 second run. Plus if you are an achievement freak then you'll definitely get your money's worth. 
 The game has a good (even if overused) story along with well played out dialog. If you are looking 
 for combat you'll probably like me be disappointed and the whole RPG building your character up 
 went out midway through the game where I had so much money I could get anything I wanted. FINAL 
 REVIEW:
  
  Story: 9.5: Awesome story with in dept characters and personal stories. However the main story 
 has been done before if you watch any popular movies
  Gameplay: 7.5: Combat is meh and the game seems shipped a bit too early. Most of the glitches can 
 be fixed with a patch but it still is annoying. Also once the game gets going it is really easy 
 to obtain all of the things that should be difficult. Lack of variety in sidequests make me sad. 
 AI is retarded especially allied AI. Not too creative or new with the abilities or skills either. 
 Game could have used another month or two to fix some of these problems. Autosave is t3h b0rked.
 
  Graphics: 10: I'm not one for graphics but the characters and worlds are amazing. Even with Ashely...
 
  Sound: 10: It's seriously breaking my nutz to give a game two 10's but the voice acting and sound 
 is just awesome in this game.
  Replayibility: 9: There's a lot to go back for if you can forgive the games shortcomings. Even 
 if the sidequests are repetitive it's good to get them done at least once so you can get an achievement. 
 Plus the different ways you can play the game lead into multiple ways you can play the game and 
 see new reactions every time.
  Achievements: 8: Not too creative and the description on some can be misleading. Though any game 
 where you get an achievement for banging a chick (or dude if you are a chick but then he'd be banging 
 you... virtually I guess... erm... sure) is a game to own =)
  
  Score: 8.5
  
  Overall:
  
  The Good: Awesome long story. Good play time. Nice dialog system. Awesome graphics and voice 
 acting. A lot of missions and customization to your character. Plus the mako reminds me of star 
 fox and star fox owns XD
  
  The Bad: A crappy autosave system. A bunch of glitches that can ruin some experiences. Combat is 
 meh. Not too creative as a whole with combat abilities. Repetitive side quests. Very easy if you 
 are playing on anything below insanity after the middle of the game.
  
  Other words:
  
  Did I mention star fox FTW? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexxorg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  The only issue i found with this game is the almost constant frame-rate issues. These issues really 
 had no effect on my experience though. The visuals are top-notch, the sounds are great and the 
 story is second to none. Despite what the Game spot reviewer says; you can in fact aim the Mako's 
 cannon up and down (when you use the zoom function) . Maybe his game was broken. And driving it 
 is merely a matter of practice and feel. Even if you never explore any of the uncharted worlds 
 you can still perfect the handling of the mako well before the end of the game just through exploring 
 planets in the main story. I thought the suggestive cut scene at the end of the romance side quest 
 was a little strange. The aforementioned frame rate jitters are ever present here too making for 
 once choppy bit of space love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxfan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is so well put together; props to the creators, developers and everyone who helped create 
 this game; from the graphics to the gameplay, everything is done just right. Oh, and the story 
 is probably one of the best and most intriguing story lines i have played in a game to date; the 
 story alone will have you wanting to come back to play the game more, even after you shut down 
 your console for the day. Aside from the story the side missions can keep you occupied for hours 
 alone: I also think that it is pretty sweet that the side missions are different with each different 
 character traits you choose (i. e: war hero, ruthless, spacer, colonist, etc.) . This game is a must 
 for anyone who has any remote interest in RPG's; and possibly for those of you who have no interest 
 in RPG's. Either way, you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleLev
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  There is an awful lot which can be said of Bioware's latest RPG offering, Mass Effect. For the 
 most part, it is a very ambitious title screaming of artistic inspiration, but it also harbors 
 a huge list of problems and cut-corners. Both in terms of technical performance and design, development 
 seems to have been expedited. while leaving behind countless traces of either a lack of time or 
 effort. A seemingly very ambitious creation appears to have been castrated into nothing better 
 than average by neglecting it's numerous faults.
  
  "Surely, this cannot be! Is this really the Mass Effect game they have been talking about for ages 
 now? Is this really the game so many people are proclaiming to be so close to perfection? I 
 find myself saying that an awful lot while going through the game again, after completing it once 
 already. I suppose I should explain why I am even playing it again if I harbor such feelings. You 
 could say that I am an achievement hunter, since that is one of my main motivations in replaying. 
 Above all else, I really felt it was my obligation to get a better sense of this game, and to find 
 out what it is that everyone is seeing which I am not. So far, my journey has not turned up the 
 mysteries to which I desire to unlock.
  
  I mean, surely someone must have noticed the game is creeping along at a constant frame rate under 
 20 frames a second. Surely, someone must have noticed the constant screen tearing and incredibly 
 delayed texture pop-in. Surely, I am not the only one that felt all the planets and buildings look 
 virtually identical inside and out, and surely I can't be the only one who was left feeling that 
 the universe is extremely small, bland and lifeless.
  
  Apparently, if what I am seeing and hearing about this game is any indication, than I may be the 
 only one to be disappointed at the abundance of poor implementations here. Say it isn't so  someone 
 else out there must not be as quick to forgive these numerous problems either. Left and right I 
 am hearing perfection, and I am now beginning to wonder if I received the wrong game, or perhaps 
 there is a new drug everyone else is on that I haven't heard of. Don't get me wrong, I am not trying 
 to say that this is a really bad game. However, I am left feeling quite concerned and skeptical 
 to the general feeling behind this game, when I cannot look at it without constantly feeling that 
 Bioware cut a tremendous number of corners when designing and building it. I guess one thing is 
 for certain; Mass Effect is a shining example of a game that has escaped impartial scrutiny and 
 alleviated itself to the state of supremeness, thanks to the video game industry's hype-machine.
 
  
  Again, please don't jump to conclusions just yet and think that I am trying to preach about this 
 game being a disaster, because I am not. I don't think this is a bad game, but I do think it is 
 filled with a number of major problems, - both design and technical - and it seems to me as though 
 Mass Effect has escape objective criticism. I can admit that I did get a small sense of satisfaction 
 out of playing this so-called epic tale, but only to an extent. I do not feel that it is a "space 
 opera", or even the grandeur many seem to claim it is. It is a pretty generic science fiction game 
 which does host a few original traits, but also hosts a number of performance related problems 
 and an overall sense of emptiness.
  
  Is the video games industry so scarce of creativity today that we must quickly praise anything 
 that offers a new idea? It seems rather troubling that because a game can do one particular aspect 
 very well, we  as gamers  are so quick to forgive the other glaring faults. Such is the case 
 with Mass Effect  its character models are superb and unmatched by any game to date, yet no one 
 seems bothered by the horrible frame rate and near constant tearing and texture pop-in. Much like 
 with the concept of being able to travel to new words being somewhat of a new notion, it is a bit 
 weird that more gamers don't seem bothered by the fact that less than 20% of the worlds are even 
 accessible to you, and of those that are  they all look nearly identical.
  
  Let us start with the visuals, since these are what seems to move games off the shelves the most 
 today. Mass Effect definitely takes the cake in terms of character models. All of the character 
 models boast a huge number of polygons and look incredibly lifelike. The facial expressions and 
 animations are also excellent and portray the emotions very well. The particle effects also look 
 pretty good, such as snow blowing in a fierce wind, but it should be noted that particle effects 
 are not that common. Without a doubt, the thing people are seeing that will likely have them talking 
 the most are the amazing character models. The facial curves are top of the line and jagged edges 
 are almost nowhere to be seen (on characters that is) . If you were to snap a screen shot of the 
 game, the viewer is sure to love what they see, but seeing the game in fluid motion is a completely 
 different story. The graphics have several major problems, which in my opinion are far to constant 
 and annoying to be forgiven.
  
  Screen tearing is horrible and occurs almost constantly. For those of you who are unfamiliar with 
 this term, it is when the vertical synchronization of the frames are broken and portions of the 
 screen display parts of different frames than other parts of the display, resulting in lines that 
 are broken all over the screen. It happens almost constantly  so much that I found myself wondering 
 how it was possible the developers managed to create so much tearing on a native 360 title. It 
 is more understandable when a game port contains tearing since getting the v-sync right for the 
 particular hardware being used is always an issue. The frame rate also constantly stutters and 
 rarely (if ever) exceeds 20 frames a second  for the most part, it seems to dance around 15 frames 
 per second with occasional increases if there is little on-screen. Since Mass Effect is a native 
 game developed from the beginning for the Xbox 360 console, it's sad just how poor its performance 
 is, since it has had its whole development cycle to get it right. Unfortunately, the game tears 
 and stutters almost all the time, regardless of how much or how little is on-screen.
  
  When present, the textures look excellent and are all high resolution, but textures come with their 
 own problem as well. Texture pop-up is probably worse than both the tearing and frame rate combined. 
 Anytime you enter a new area or approach distant objects, you will think for a while how bland 
 objects look  seconds later the textures will pop in restoring the detail you would expect. It 
 isn't a rare problem either; it happens all the time, in every location, and in some cases the 
 textures can take five to ten seconds to even appear. I've seen texture pop-up occasionally before, 
 such as slightly in Dead Rising, but Mass Effect is probably beyond the scope of anything you have 
 ever seen before. Another gripe I had with the texture work is that in many cases the textures 
 are re-used far too frequently, while occasionally changing nothing more than the color tone. While 
 most of the textures look great, some of them don't look like that which they are supposed to represent. 
 For example, I found it rather puzzling that as far as the eye could see there isn't a single crater 
 on Earth's moon  either that or the craters look nothing like craters.
  
  A weird quirk that many gamers may not even realize is that, while the game by default is very 
 dark and grainy, it doesn't have to be that way. For the first few hours of playing I kept saying 
 to myself, "aren't the graphics and shading really grainy?". It turns out that this is an option 
 you can disable if you go into the game's settings. I suspect it may have been turned on by default 
 to protect the already poor performance of the game, but if this is the case, I can't say I noticed 
 any performance improvement. In my opinion, the graphics do look quite a bit nicer with the grainy 
 effect turned off, but many shadows still have the grainy effect whether you disabled the setting 
 or not.
  
  An even more annoying quirk is that objects and characters get stuck inside of other objects and 
 characters from time to time. It doesn't happen very often, but happened to me at least several 
 times. When it does happen you can't help but sit back and laugh at how cheesy it all looks. To 
 say that Mass Effect is a feast for the eyes is not only a bit impartial, but it is quite a bit 
 unrealistic and only takes into account one single aspect of visuals  the character models. If 
 you are to take an overview at how it all comes together into simply being, then I highly doubt 
 one could reach the same conclusion. Sure, there definitely is a lot to be seen and maybe even 
 drool over, but there is just as much to be desired and just as much to complain over as well. 
 Graphically speaking, just as much is wrong as there is right.
  
  When it comes to the sense of hearing, Mass Effect definitely delivers. I wouldn't say it really 
 comes through on the musical end, because for the most part, the music is just what you'd expect 
 and nothing more. I can't recall being entranced or having any of the music stuck in my head. At 
 the same time, the music didn't drive me to swan dive out my window either. There are a few nice 
 sounding techno beats and the music does generally keep pace with the game, so for that it should 
 be commended. The biggest disappointment in regard to what you are hearing are the obnoxious and 
 repetitive one liners during combat. Sadly, the presence of these one-liners really down-plays 
 the game to feeling cheesier than it already is because there are so few one-liners and they are 
 constantly said. If you haven't cleared all the enemies in an area, the game still believes you 
 have a threat in your vicinity, when you really don't, so you are likely to repeatedly hear "enemy 
 is everywhere" over and over. At first you may just take heed, later on you will begin to ignore 
 it, but several hours in the game, you will become really irritated with the stupid lines spouted 
 by your characters during battle. Mass Effect's aural saving grace is really when characters speak. 
 The voice over work is top-notch. None of the dialog really seems to be overly stressed, so the 
 tone always sounds perfect. Surprisingly, all of the spoken dialog is superb. I can't recall a 
 single character who sounded corny or unbelievable, which is something I couldn't say about too 
 many games.
  
  During discussions you often get the opportunity to choose how John Shepard will respond, which 
 definitely adds a lot of life to the game. Oddly enough, the text you select on-screen sometimes 
 greatly differs to that of which our protagonist will speak. I guess it's not so much of a draw-back 
 since the game will always know how to interpret what you felt and wanted to say, but it is still 
 sometimes annoying to hear a line that sounds quite a bit different than what you had selected. 
 What is more of a kick in the crotch is the fact that much of the interactive dialog has an almost 
 insignificant effect on the actual game. I tried replaying many scenes with different responses 
 and came to realize that what you say is usually highly irrelevant since the other party always 
 seems to react in a particular fashion in order to arrive at the same result. Of course, there 
 are some occasions throughout the game in which you really do have a moral choice that will affect 
 how events play out, but much of the time you are only being humored.
  
  Speaking of choice  there are lots of opportunities for it. Most of the conversations you have 
 with people will allow you to select different things to say, and many quests and side quests put 
 an emphasis on you deciding whether you want renegade points  awarded for being a hard-ass, or 
 paragon points  awarded for being kind or courteous. While your choices do seem to have immediate 
 effects in the conversation, and sometimes even in how the events will unfold directly in front 
 of you; they don't really seem to have a prolonged effect on how people will view you. The disposition 
 level NPCs maintain almost completely disregards your notoriety and reputation, aside from things 
 you may have said directly to them. This leaves the world feeling somewhat stale, since everyone 
 claims to have heard about you, but no one acts any differently towards you based on how you have 
 been treating people. In all fairness, this isn't something that is a requirement in a game, but 
 one of Mass Effect's aims was to create a subversive world in which you felt that you were really 
 a part of it. I can't say that I really got that feeling.
  
  In fact, the more I played, the smaller the universe felt. One of my first impressions when getting 
 into the game was the belief that there were a lot of side quests available. It turns out that 
 there aren't nearly as many as there should have been, and it only felt like there were a ton at 
 first because so many were readily available to you as you start off. In comparison to a game like 
 Oblivion, I don't think Mass Effect had anywhere near 1/10 as many side quests. In fact, I completed 
 the entire main story and the majority of all the side quests within around 20-25 hours. As an 
 admirer of RPGs, I found that to be fairly disappointing, especially because I was lead to believe 
 that the universe was huge and contained so much life and action.
  
  Huge and full of life? Sadly, that couldn't be farther from the truth. I first realized this when 
 I realized how few people there were in the Citadel, the capital of the Milky Way galaxy. I would 
 expect such a place to be booming with life. Nope. The population density when you are out and 
 about is incredibly limited and people are almost nowhere to be seen considering we are talking 
 about such a major landmark of civilizations. The scope of accessibility throughout the Citadel 
 is also quite limited. There are no living quarters to speak of  at least which you can visit. 
 Instead, you can visit a couple consulate offices, a bar, casino, a couple small markets and other 
 random minor places of interest.
  
  Aside from the citadel, the galaxy is is made up of around 15 star clusters  each of which may 
 contain 1-3 visitable worlds. Much of the exploration in the game feels a bit too much like a pen 
 and paper RPG. For example, "visiting" some planets is nothing more than a dialog box that pops 
 up on the screen telling you something like, "you step out on the cold planet and discover some 
 minerals", et cetera. Now to me this pen and paper approach not only feels cheesy, but seems as 
 if development was being rushed.
  
  Instead of actually letting you go about and explore these worlds, many of them are nothing more 
 than bits of text you'd read in a paper-based RPG. All in all, I'd estimate that you can truly 
 explorer no more than 20% of the planets in the galaxy. In fact, aside from the citadel to the 
 left side of the galaxy, all of the star clusters are situated over to the right of the galaxy 
 for some strange reason. Flying from star cluster to star cluster, or even planet to planet is 
 nothing more than selecting its location on a galactic map and then watching a quick cut scene 
 of your spaceship, the Normandy, flying. You do not actually get to control the spaceship at any 
 point, if that is what you were thinking. While each of the star clusters may contain 1-5 solar 
 systems, only a few scarce solar systems contain planets which will allow you to land. Even more 
 disappointing is just how limited your access is on these explorable planets. When you set out 
 to explore a new uncharted land, the routine is always the same. First you see the same quick cut 
 scene showing the Normandy in the sky flying by and dropping off your all terrain vehicle, known 
 as the "Mako". Exploration consists of nothing more than a small square of terrain that you can 
 explorer. Of this small accessible area, you will find that each planet looks virtually identical. 
 Terrain is basically the same, textures are roughly the same, and if it weren't for the color variations 
 you could easily mistake yourself for visiting any given world numerous times when in reality it 
 is your first visit. You rarely will find traces of any civilizations on any of the planets, aside 
 from those few which have a part in the main story. The rest may or may not contain an abandoned 
 structure used by pirates  each structure looking identical no matter what planet you are on. 
 Literally, go anywhere in the galaxy and almost every building has an identical interior design. 
 With the exception of where some boxes and crates are positioned inside the structures, the layouts 
 are identical no matter where you go. What sucks the most about these re-used structure interiors 
 is that there aren't more than a few different ones, so you will visit the same looking buildings 
 over and over again. Even more bewildering, or amusing I guess you could say, is the fact that 
 you will occasionally run into a giant worm-like creature while cruising around in the Mako. Regardless 
 of what planet you are on, evolution apparently always seems to create the same exact looking create 
 light years apart by a total coincidence. Lame.
  
  Speaking about the Mako, I thought I should take a moment to get this off my chest - what in the 
 hell where the programmers thinking when they devised this control and camera scheme? The terrain 
 of the worlds you explore will almost always be rocky and ridden with crevices that make maneuvering 
 a chore. Fortunately, your Mako is an all-terrain vehicle and doesn't have much of a problem climbing 
 really steep cliffs. Unfortunately, for some reason the camera always finds a way to get caught 
 below the Mako, making controlling it quite a tedious task. Combat in the Mako is also quite a 
 hassle since the cannon loves to shoot in areas that the reticule isn't pointing.
  
  Controlling the Mako isn't the only problem with the control scheme. The button mapping doesn't 
 seem to be very well devised. The A button is used far too much and many other buttons are almost 
 never used. Throwing grenades is done with the Back button  you heard right, that small button 
 left of the Start button. This was one of the poorest control choices since it puts an action you'd 
 intend on using fairly frequently in one of the most inaccessible areas. I found myself throwing 
 grenades but only a few times during the entire game because of how difficult it was to access 
 them in the heat of combat. Since you always have two members other than yourself in your squad, 
 you have the ability to control them. Doing so is done with the directional pad, which also seems 
 oddly planned out, considering how you need to keep readjusting your handle over the controller 
 just to do different things. An efficient control scheme should mean that you are capable of doing 
 everything you need to do without having to re-adjust based on what you plan to do. Sadly, that 
 isn't the case here. What's worse is the squad commands feel very unresponsive. Sometimes your 
 squad will completely ignore the commands you give them, while other times they will just wait 
 several minutes before executing them. Pulling up your weapon and special move selection menus 
 will temporarily freeze the game as you sort out what you want to do. You can interpret that as 
 a good thing or a bad thing, since it does make combat easier. However, I was under the impression 
 all of the combat was real-time, which simply isn't the case. The control isn't unmanageable, but 
 there are definitely some causes for concern which should have been addressed.
  
  Ask role playing gamers what the most important aspect of an RPG is, and without a doubt, many 
 of them will respond with, "a good story". Well, thankfully Mass Effect's story isn't half bad. 
 Actually, it's pretty strong for the most part. To summarize, mankind has just entered the era 
 of galactic union with civilizations throughout the Milky Way. Recently discoveries are underway 
 which unveil alien technology, which enable sling shotting through space. Since humans are new 
 to the galactic scene, many other civilizations are a bit skeptical over their position in the 
 galaxy and feel that the galactic council is babying humanity as its pet. Of course, humanity has 
 the opposite viewpoint and feels as if it is being treated unfairly by the galactic council. Much 
 like Star Trek and Star Wars, it's filled a lot of political rhetoric. At least, there is a considerable 
 amount of character development as well. All of the playable characters you will encounter in Mass 
 Effect are not only unique, but have a history surrounding them that you can learn about as you 
 progress in the game. Each of the different "alien" races hosts its own unique physical characteristics 
 and culture which the game does well to establish. While there is definitely a degree of variation 
 between the different races, I was surprised to see so few races present, considering the enormous 
 scale of the galaxy and likelihood of intelligent life. Of course, it could be said that it was 
 better that development focused on clearly defining and creating a few species as to creating loads 
 of mediocre ones.
  
  As an astronomy enthusiast, I was disappointed to see how little research was even put into designing 
 the game. Sure, these aren't worth making a big deal over or belittling the game for, but I couldn't 
 help but notice how scientifically inaccurate certain aspects of the game were. Besides the obvious 
 lack of more of a variety of sophisticated life forms (which one could argue is only theoretical 
 anyway) , I was a bit amused to hear the speakers on my television rumble when the Normandy would 
 be sling shotted towards your destination; the ironic part being sound waves don't travel through 
 the vacuum of space. The way solar systems are constructed also contradicted what we know about 
 planet formation. For example, inner planets tend to be smaller and rocky, while outer planets 
 are usually gas giants. Not so in Mass Effect; everything is just thrown around in any which way. 
 Now of course to the layman this is nothing, but it is my feeling that if you are going to bother 
 to do something to begin with, you might as well research it to make as many people buy it as possible. 
 Sure, these examples are nothing worth making a fuss about, but to me it demonstrates a lack of 
 planning and research, and that is something worth making a fuss about.
  
  While playing Mass Effect, I have to admit that I was a bit disappointed at the number of design 
 issues which seemed to occur consistently the longer I'd play. The first one I noticed was that 
 there is an alarming lack of check points (or auto-save points) , which will no doubt result in 
 you replaying large portions of the game over again. Further, these points always seem positioned 
 at awkward times right before long sessions of dialog, which means each time you continue you will 
 need to either listen to it all over again or smash down on the control until you figure out there 
 is a skip button. Then I realized stores are virtually meaningless  when you begin the game everything 
 is so incredibly expensive it is out of your range, and by the time you can afford anything you 
 have gear that is far better anyhow. Besides the fact that objects can get stuck inside other objects, 
 they can even move inside other objects. Again, this doesn't happen often either, but it happened 
 several times to me. Once, a leader of a pirate group which I was supposed to take down got stuck 
 inside some crates, making him impossible to kill, and therefor the mission impossible to complete. 
 You shouldn't have to load up your saved game to correct problematic behavior of a game, but I 
 did on at least two different occasions. If you are a hard-core experience-seeker trying to get 
 your characters as buff as possible, you will be very disappointed to know that Mass Effect seems 
 to have a fixed number of enemies in the game. In other words, there are a set number of missions 
 and side missions, and enemies will only appear during these, and once they are defeated that is 
 it. There is no way to constantly level up your characters  in fact, if you wish to get the achievement 
 for reaching level 60 you are forced to replay the game since there is not enough experience points 
 to be gained through one play through. Combat is quite rare too; most of the game you spend just 
 selecting irrelevant responses in conversations, hoping (or at least believing) that what you say 
 will yield some sort of specific result based on your decision. Maybe it was just me, but I definitely 
 felt a huge mis-balance between the amount of time you spend in combat, and the amount of time 
 performing other tasks. Oh, and a word of the wise: if you are playing through it, make sure you 
 have separate saves when you are approaching the ending, because once you complete the game, your 
 last auto-save will be right before the leader, leaving you with no opportunity to go back and 
 play anywhere else in the game.
  
  In terms of replay value, I just don't see it. Virtually all of the side missions consist of the 
 same generic routine as well. Make way to the planet in question, land, find a mineral deposit 
 or debris on the side to break the monotony, eventually locate the abandoned structure, defeat 
 the pirates and/or enemies, talk to the person you went on the mission for, lather, rinse and repeat. 
 Once you've done one of the side missions you have pretty much done them all. There are a few which 
 try to break the mold, but the formula is always pretty close to the same. It didn't take very 
 long for me to get a total grip on what was going down, and what you'd have to do each mission, 
 which really left things feeling pretty predictable. After completing the game the first time, 
 it wasn't until a couple weeks later that I even tried it again. When I did, I didn't even manage 
 to get more than 25% through the game before getting bored and moving onto something new. It's 
 not that there isn't enough to do; it just feels like it's too much of the same thing over and 
 over.
  
  Mass Effect really is an anomaly. It oozes with artistic inspiration and a commendable vision, 
 which many games today lack. Sadly, at the same time, much of the aims feel lost in poor implementations 
 and hurt from so many cut corners. It's obvious just how much potential there is here, but I would 
 feel guilty if I reviewed a game based on it's potential and not on what it actually succeeded 
 in doing. I love space, astronomy, aliens, and role playing games, so you would think this would 
 be the perfect game for me. I honestly wish I could say that it was, but no matter how much I try 
 to make myself love this game I can't get over it's numerous glaring problems. In my opinion, excellent 
 character models and a unique story simply can't justify repetitive game-play and the numerous 
 half-assed approaches. If development had used a bit more time, and a lot more patience, Mass Effect 
 could have truly been something mesmerizing, but to say it is there now is not only unjustified, 
 but unfair to all of the other games heavily criticized for the same problems. I've said it before, 
 and I will say it again; Mass Effect truly is a shining example of what the video game hype machine 
 can do to people's impressions of a game.
  
  
  
  Overall Score: 7.3
  
  Gameplay: (7) An admirable approach to mixing elements of RPGs with FPSs - it's too bad that there 
 are so many design and technical problems.
  
  Graphics: (8) Excellent looking high resolution character models. Seeing the game in fluid motion 
 is quite the disappointment - constant tearing and frame rate issues mixed with horrible texture 
 pop-in.
  
  Sound: (8) Amazing voice overs that are delivered with the best possible tones. The annoying one-liners 
 will get to you and the music isn't too memorable.
  
  Lasting appeal: (6) Repetitive gameplay has a new name. Every side mission is virtually identical, 
 structures and worlds look virtually identical and the actual game can be *completely* finished 
 in under 20 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomoward41
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a great science-fiction novel in videogame form. Meaning, it mixes the highest and 
 raw action of the best games. The pixie dust behind that magic is the game's much-heralded dialogue 
 system, which is every bit as good as we'd hoped it would be.
  
  But to first set the stage a bit, you play as Commander Shepard, humanity's most talented soldier, 
 in a time where Earth has just discovered deep-space travel, joined the galactic communit, and 
 is trying to attain a seat on the Council, a United Nations, like collective that governs the known 
 galaxy. You begin by picking Shepard's gender, appearance, and class. The play creator is nowhere 
 near as deep as say, Tiger Woods', but it's perfectly fine. Now let's talk about graphics, its 
 awesome, sometimes you just have to stop and gape at the game's gorgeous panoramas. The story is 
 fairly long, 30 hours or so, it depends, and Mass Effect never takes the lazy way out of a storytelling 
 moment. As far as pure gameplay goes, Mass Effect is one well-polished action/RPG. It is obvious 
 that no game can get every single thing right, and here's what BioWare screwed up: Item management 
 and squad-equipping in between missions is just obnoxiously complex, and capping the game's save 
 slots at 10 maximum is outrageously stupid. Why can't we fill up out 120GB hard drive with saves? 
 Way more frequent auto-saving wouldn't suck, nor would finding a better button for grenades than 
 the freakin 'Back button. And your squad sure likes to shoot walls, but hey- they're no dumber 
 than your mates in any other game. Still, that's what's remarkable about Mass Effect. If you seperated 
 the gameplay from the story, you could crap on the gameplay for a handful of different things. 
 But in this game, story and gameplay are relentlessly intertwined, and the impact of that is so 
 powerful that any irritation you feel is washed clean away.
  
  Personally, it's one of the best games I've ever played. You have to play it, and that's why I'm 
 kinda jealous of you. Even if you memorized all the previews and trailers, you're not ready for 
 how awesome this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjr074
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 2:50 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because I was excited to see a new RPG hit the Xbox 360. This game had a lot 
 of hype but wasn't all it was cracked up to be. Don't get me wrong, it was fun and totally worth 
 playing but it just didn't quite live up to my expectations. The game is a futuristic sci-fi game 
 where the fate of humans and the universe lays in your hands. It has a kind of new system of fighting 
 which mixes a shooter game with an RPG. Between action, you walk around, talk to people, try to 
 figure stuff out, and try to make the storyline progress. The combat system in this game is kind 
 of unique but still has the the feeling of a shooter such as ghost recon. You control your character 
 and pretty much tell the other people in your squad where to go and who to attack. This is fun 
 except I wish the makers would have given a little more control over the characters that you are 
 not playing. It also gets a little old after a while and makes you start wanting to walk around 
 and talk to people instead. The part of the game where you go and talk to people and try to figure 
 stuff out is great. Although it is a total rip-off of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, they 
 seem to have improved upon it. It even seems like the whole Paragon/Renegade thing has been taken 
 exacly from the Light Side/Dark Side aspect of KotOR. Leveling your characters up also feels a 
 lot like KotOR, except that you job class makes more of a difference when leveling up than it does 
 if you have decided to go Paragon/Renegade (Light Side/Dark Side in KotOR) . While you are talking 
 to people you have many choices of what you say and it will affect how they act toward you and 
 what they do for you. Sometimes these changes are small and sometimes it can change the whole aspect 
 of the game. It always leaves you wondering what would have happened if you would have just chosen 
 a different option. This in my opinion was the best part of the game. Besides that, the graphics 
 were good, the voice acting was actually surprisingly good for a video game, and the story was 
 pretty good. Usually I can't stand the acting in games but didn't have that problem for mass effect. 
 I did have some problems with the game though. It seemed pretty short for a game of this type. 
 There were only two or three real cities that you stopped by where you had to talk to people and 
 figure out where to go and I had the game beaten the first time around in less than 13 hrs. The 
 side quests in this game were for the most part pretty terrible as well. All you would do was pretty 
 much find a ship flying around somewhere or land on some planet, go kill some stuff and then be 
 on your way. Most of the maps in the side quests also had the exact same layout. As a big fan of 
 the Final Fantasy series I can say that doing side quests was one of the more fun and time consuming 
 things that I would do. Not so in Mass Effect. I usually just found side quests annoying and avoided 
 them if I could. I can say though that the replay value of this game is a lot higher than other 
 games of the same style. This is in part due to the more action based combat style, but mainly 
 due to the many options that you have along the way. Changing decisions totally changes the game 
 and makes it much different if you decide to play it a second or third time around. Overall I don't 
 think that this game quite lived up to its potention, but it was totally worth getting a playing. 
 All of the flaws (at least the ones that I had problems with) seem like they are correctable if 
 the ever decide to make another one too. Pretty much, if you liked KotOR or some of the action 
 games that are out, you will probably like this game, but still feel like it has something missing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sallyboy233
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  that review was gay Mass Effect deserves at least a 9. Bad Combat? **** that. Combat was engaging 
 to say the least. Fun times sending people through the air. Its crazy how they even had a small 
 jedi cameo. nah just F ***ing witcha. Its an engaging story and never gets boring. Planet hoping 
 is fun. The only thing that pissed me off about the game was the vehicle controls. But it was still 
 fun driving around shooting $*** The big ass worms sucked too. Graphics look great and youll probably 
 are going to want and go through the story again to see what kind of other options you could've 
 gone with... like convincing a girl to comitt suicide. As far as the dialogue goes, its fun figuering 
 out what kinda reactions characters have to what you have to say. Saying a negitive thing might 
 have a positive outcome. Buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tungvincent
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I played 16 hours. Cant stop. 
  
  Gameplay: The battle and action is surprisingly fast pace, very good mix of RPG and action/FPS. 
 But give chance to think and look around since u are pause when choosing super power and still 
 look around.
  
  Story: The adventure is very good, u feel u are really exploring the galaxy and making the shot. 
 The background info is enough to right a 1000 page sci-fi fiction. 
  
  The only short coming is not beautiful girl, so I create one myself (I am a man) and regretfully 
 find that there is a romantic plot w a guy....... digusting..... (it feel so real that I feel disgusting, 
 it really tell something) . 
  
  Voice Acting: Simply great.
  
  Graphic: The face are the best. Motion capture is good. But can the characters not standing straight 
 when idle? It is just too inhuman. The envirnoment is great. The magic effect (sorry, it is super 
 power) is stunning, especially when lifting your enemy to the sky :p. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything that you could want. It has assualt rifles, shotguns, pistols, grenades 
 of all sorts, and sniper rifles. It also has a variety of enemies from just geth troopers, to shock 
 troopers, rocket troopers, and arimatures. You can also bring two squadmates with you, and all 
 have special abilties. The purpose of the game is to stop Saren, a former Spectre, who is trying 
 to avenge the reapers. If he avenges them, then the whole galaxy would be destroyed. He is searching 
 for the Conduit, a special item that will help him take over the galaxy. He has hordes of geth 
 trying to kill you and whatever two people that you carry around with you. People that you can 
 carry have biotic powers like lift, shield, barrier, puch etc. It is just too cool. I didnt like 
 the game at first and was a little hesitant to get it because i had bad enounters with RPGs, but 
 i have beaten this game twice already, and starting my third time. My character is at level 51, 
 and am going for the 60th lvl achievement worth 50 pts. Also if i beat it on hardcore and insanity, 
 i get two other achievements and two gamer pics. It is just a good game, and that anyone that has 
 a 360, likes rpgs, and likes sci-fi then this is a game that you want to get. Make this the next 
 game that you buy for your 360, because it is a game that you would want to add to your collection 
 of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxrider5610
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a great step for Bioware in my opinion. The graphics are amazing in this game great 
 voice overs too. The story in this game is Biowares 2nd best game in my opinion my favorite game 
 from Bioware is Jade empire. This game also has a great create a character system also and a great 
 cast of characters. THeres is alot of missions to do and a ton of planets to explore. Great fighting 
 system to good shooting and so is the driving. Lots of diferent character classes also for your 
 character to choose from the force powers are great also. Cool mini games also like the casino. They 
 should make this game into a movie and deffinetly should make a sequal. Good a. i also all characters 
 have their own personality and i love the good and evil system in this game just like in all Biowares 
 games. I give Biowares Mass Effect a 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mario2295
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect is one of the best games I have ever had the chance to play. It has the best story 
 in a game one that foreshadows events perfectly and is not to confusing to follow. The combat is 
 great even though you might forget about the powers wheel. The leveling system is very deep but 
 not confusing. Most people complain about the mako but its not too bad except that its turret cannot 
 go up or down. The sniper is very hard to aim in the beginning but later it is stronger and much 
 more accurate as long as you level that area up. I personally have only played as a solider which 
 fun, but my friend was a vanguard and said it was much too hard. The graphics are amazing when 
 they load properly (a couple of times objects arn't detailed for awhile) . There are a ton of side 
 quests, so you'll be playing for a long time. People who don't like rpgs can still have with the 
 combat but you would be better off buying Call of Duty 4 if you like that type of genre. Overall 
 this is a must have game to add to your gaming library! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wedge598
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of those games where the graphics story and gameplay are so good you just can't 
 wait to get back to playing it. And while you're playing you can't seem to put it down. You find 
 keep telling yourself you're going to do one more mission before you save and go to bed .... But 
 sleep never comes.
  
  The best way to describe this game is as an action/adventure game. Most of the time you are either 
 talking with characters and absorbing the plot elements or running a mission. The missions are 
 played out as a Third Person Shooter in a similar vein to Gears of War or Rainbow Six where the 
 art of taking cover and leaning out for a shot is often your best course of action. 
  
  However, this is also an RPG. The RPG elements manifest themselves in the equiping or your party 
 members and spending of skill points. Each time you or your party members level up they are granted 
 a few points to spend on the various skills available to that character. The type of skills is 
 determined by which character class the character is. There are 3 main classes and 3 combination 
 classes to choose from. The key to creating a good party is to have characters that provide a good 
 mix of class skills. 
  
  The great part of the game is that if your not interested in worrying about assigning points the 
 game will do that for you. Thereby leaving you with the simple task of equiping your party members 
 with the best equipment and weapons your scavenged around the levels or bought from merchants. 
 
  
  As noted in Gamespots review there are a few minor interface annoyances but they hardly register 
 on my scale and aren't worth mentioning. I was a little disappointed to discover that there really 
 is only 5 or 6 main story quests. Each of those is fairly long and will take several hours to complete 
 but overall it doesn't add up to much playtime. What does occupy a lot of your time is the running 
 around talking with people and reviewing the codex which provides a great backdrop to the universe. 
 You'll also spend a fair amount of time driving around on the planets in your Mako all-terrain 
 vehicle. This eventually gets to be a little repetitive as most of the planets look and feel similar. 
 
  
  The main story and gameplay really hits a home run though and I found the side missions to be a 
 pretty entertaining way to extend the game. Overall I spent almost 37 hours in the game. I took 
 my time and completed most of the side missions. If you rush through the story quests you'll likely 
 be done in half the time or less but you may find some of the later missions pretty challenging. 
 The side quests were a good way to boost your teams levels and collect some nice equipment. In 
 doing that I found most of the missions pretty easy ... including the final battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soopakoopa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  As you may or may not know Mass Effect was made by the creators of KOTOR and Jade Empire, to fabulous 
 RPG games. This time they've brought more to the table with Mass Effect. 
  
  You have your normal Good and Bad meters, and a very in-depth conversation mechanic where you get 
 to test out those Good and Bad options. While the story is short, what a story it is. It keeps 
 you entranced till the very last mission. Then there is the side quests! I've been playing since 
 it came out and I still have yet to complete them all.
  
  Bioware has also stepped up with the character creation adding customizable backstories and a plethora 
 of creativity at your fingertips
  
  Every choice you make can cause a completely different outcome even the order you do missions! 
 For example say you leave a certain rescue mission for last. Well the person in captivity might 
 be little loopy when you finally show up, because you took so long.
  
  The minor technical deficiencies are nothing to fear and hardly noticeable so it shouldn't interfere 
 with gameplay
  
  Overall a great game I highly recommend it as a buy for you Sci-Fi or RPG lovers and at the least 
 a rent for anyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevernight490
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  First off, thanks to Bioware for the awesome game! Mass Effect is possibly the best RPG of the 
 year!
  
  We see the KOTOR experience step out of a Star Wars Universe and into the good old Milky Way. Character 
 customization fails to dissapoint me, and your characters backstory customization is great to and 
 adds a deeper affect. It basically has all the great elements of KOTOR in terms of many locations 
 to explore, faces to meet and choices to make.
  
  But, a huge upgrade that Bioware made to their Sci-Fi RPG was real-time 3rd person shooter combat! 
 It makes the combat even more fun and blends a shooter with an rpg in a good balance.
  
  The story is dramatic, and your choices affect how the game goes. Life and Death decisions are 
 yours to make, wether its from the Evil or Good standpoint! For example, you can choose to kill 
 a criminal or have him arrested. 
  
  Only one flaw brings this game down from a 10 in my books. That drawback is that at somepoints 
 during the game you can get bored really fast, and the game only seems to have a little bit of 
 KOTORs famous "addiction" that makes you want to keep playing and unravel the story.
  
  Rent definently, but only buy if you plan on playing it over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazarusstarr
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game the day it came out, and can't say it was a bad purchase at all. Usually I'll 
 wait until I see player input on a game before I purchase but this time I just figured I needed 
 a new game. 
  
  The positives about this game are pretty straight forward, graphics are decent, storyline is engaging, 
 and the history of the gaming universe is robust. 
  
  The negatives are bit more personal tastes... Love interest mini game is blah, side quests are 
 a tedium, and weapon and armor choices make no sense due to their being clear cut leaders in these 
 areas.
  
  I suppose we should start with the positives here, so I'll get right to them. We've all seen better 
 graphics but mainly on PC games. For a console game these were right up there. They flowed in a 
 way that made you feel like you were in the hero's universe. Sometimes the textures would load 
 a bit slow leaving you with unresolved textures but mostly you just had to stop now and again to 
 enjoy the scenery. This coupled with the storyline made the game what it was. the whole thing unfolding 
 in a very well written screenplay that gave you the impression of a beginning, middle and end logically 
 leading into each other. The story is so engaging that you had a hard time not rushing along rather 
 than thoroughly investigating each area. This of course wouldn't have been possible without the 
 history laid out in the codex. The storyline makes good sense when paired with the science and 
 history behind the story. There are likely several physicists out there shaking their heads but 
 that's ok as most of us just like to game.
  
  The negatives are more about what was negative for me. I found the side quests pretty bland. I 
 thought for such a grand game they could have punched them up a bit and had more depth to them 
 even if it meant a few less of them to play. They do extend the game time you have but at never 
 really grip you. The romance plot was sub-par in many ways as you never have the option of doing 
 more than wooing two individuals and its not an ongoing thing but rather scripted into the story. 
 You get to play the game whether you want to or not basically and after a couple times through 
 the game you don't really like either person you get to choose between. It would have been nicer 
 if there were NPC's you could court also, and if it had been more based on your character's overall 
 attitude and game choices. My biggest gripe though was with the armor and weapons. It quickly becomes 
 clear that only a few manufacturers make good armor or weapons and once your character begins making 
 money there is no reason to return to particular merchants. I think they should have made all the 
 manufacturers more competitive so as to give the player much more choice and the ability to customize 
 your character based on those choices.
  
  All in all I really enjoyed this game and gave it an 8.0. It's not an "Oblivion killer" as seems 
 to be the standard mark everyone looks for these days but then it's not Oblivion at all. In the 
 long run I'd have to say the game left me with a want to have a sequel. That's the true intent 
 of any game developer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game has an enormous learning curve. Let me get that out of the way right now. So if you pick 
 up this game you'll probably have no idea what to do for the first couple hours of the game.
  
  Gameplay: The gamesplay is awesome. You can go through this game like a gears of war shooter, 
 a KoToR RPG, or anything you feel like. The game takes a long time to get used to, but when you 
 get used to it the game is one of the best games of all time!!!
  
  Graphics: The graphics are some of the artistically and technically best graphics of all time. 
 The game has textures load in awkwardly and I nevre had any framerate issues even though I have 
 played through the game twice. Besides the textures popping in randomly the graphics are pure eye 
 candy.
  
  Sound: The voice acting in this game is absolutely stunning. The music is phenomonal. When going 
 through the credits the music is awesome!!! There is nothing else I can say about how good the 
 sound is in this game.
  
  Value: After beating the game you are going to want to keep going through the game over and over 
 again. The game is definitely worth the $60.
  
  Achievements: The achievements for the game are not very creative because all of the achievements 
 are entirely possible to get on accident. Getting all the achievements will require so many play 
 throughs it isn't really funny. But you will want to play through the game multiple times so there 
 is no problem with that.
  
  Story: This is definitely the best story this year. The story has a real epic feel to it as you 
 try to uncover the mysteries of the past to stop the horrible future from happening. You'll definitely 
 feel incredibly satisfied in the end.
  
  Basically I highly reccomend that you get this game because you can't even imagine how good this 
 game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobatlarge77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  it's a fun and additive game for x360.... despite the few glitches... (ex. i'm running up 2 a container 
 that's against the wall... i run 2 the side of the container... now... some how... i'm on top of the 
 container... and i can't get down....) and when you are in the Mako (vehicle that you have to drive 
 on planets) the mako is a little 2 loose when it turn and the battles get repeative... i think when 
 they do mass effect 2 (if they do) they should do two things: 1. whenever you gain experince.... 
 they should have on the side of the screen how much experince you gained from what you did... show 
 you how much you have overall.... then show you how much you need to go to the next level....2. 
 the sex scene was kinda hot in the game... make it even hotter... show a boob... lol.3. you should 
 be able to upgrade your Mako. So, overall this game was a GREAT game... despite the few flaws... buy 
 it now if your a rpg fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adar_g
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  This is my first Bioware game. I have to say that I'm both impressed and disappointed at the same 
 time.
  
  Mass Effect is a futuristic RPG/Third person shooter. It plays similarly to Gears of War with less 
 emphasis on action and more emphasis on the RPG elements. The game can be "paused" at any time 
 to use a great variety of powers from three different branches. Biotics are powers that allow the 
 player to throw, lift and otherwise disrupt the enemies physics causing them to fly around and 
 float helplessly in the air. Tech powers allow the player to disrupt shields, weapons, powers, 
 and even hack the AI of robot enemies (one of my favorites) . The final branch deals with weapon 
 and shield buffing. I was sort of skeptic at first at the way a shooter would play with RPG elements 
 but it all blends together nicely. The action doesn't feel broken up by having to pause the game, 
 and the powers are all very fun to use.
  
  The other really great aspect of Mass Effect is the ability to customize your character right down 
 to what they say in conversation. You're given the opportunity to choose a male or female, various 
 classes, and a full suite of facial features to customize the player with. In conversation you're 
 given the ability to choose different dialogue options and depending on what you choose you'll 
 gain Paragon or Renegade points. These points affect your reputation and skill in charming and 
 intimidating various people in conversation. This can lead to some very interesting situations 
 in the game, especially towards the end.
  
  The problem however lies in some very annoying glitches. There are major problems with texture 
 pop-in. This particular problem is fairly common, and really interferes with what is otherwise 
 a beautiful game. Another major problem is the Mako, the land rover used by your squad . The aiming 
 reticule is pretty wonky and doesn't seem to be an accurate way to aim sometimes. The thing also 
 controls very strangely, and takes some getting used to. My final gripe with this game is the auto-save 
 feature not saving often enough. I often found that the auto-save worked so far between segments 
 that I couldn't rely on it. I suggest that you don't either, otherwise you may end up repeating 
 a lot of things.
  
  In the end the game is a solid purchase, but only if you're willing to forgive the developers. 
 It may not be the developer's fault but rather the publisher's that there are these issues with 
 the game. It seems like a delay on the release date could have solved these problems, but the holiday 
 rush caused them to push it out the door. We may never know for sure, but I feel there's enough 
 value here in the game-play and story to make up for the problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Alan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  Two years on from its release, the Xbox 360 is really beginning to hit its stride. Big titles that 
 were announced in 2005 are finally being released and they don't come much bigger than Mass Effect, 
 Bioware's sci-fi magnum opus. Bioware has previously produced some of the most critically acclaimed 
 games of recent memory, such as Baldur's Gate 2 and Star Wars: KOTOR- even if you don't remember 
 them, it's clear that Mass Effect has a lot of expectation to live up to. Does it boldly go where 
 no game has gone before, or should this predictable pun have been banished to a galaxy far, far 
 away?
  
  You play as Commander Shepard, a space marine notable for not being Master Chief, Samus Aran, Marcus 
 Fenix or one of 200 other space marine characters we've played as over the last few years. The 
 difference here is that Shepard can be whoever you want through Mass Effect's deep character customization. 
 In my first game, I chose a clean-cut, goody two-shoes gent who asked questions first and used 
 violence as a last resort. Second time around, I became a cut-throat harpy with an itchy trigger 
 finger, who sarcastically demolished anyone she encountered. Once you've created your avatar, it's 
 up to you how you interact with the world, but the game gently guides you towards the conclusion 
 of either Paragon (nice) or Renegade (a bit horrible, really) .
  
  Mass Effect's conversations show off one of the game's major innovations. A 'conversation wheel' 
 shows possible paths of dialogue. You can choose one while a character is speaking and Shepard 
 will respond in a seamless transition. Better still, if you get bored of an insulting or aggressive 
 character you can just shoot them in the face mid-sentence. Whatever your decisions, you can't 
 fail to be impressed by the quality of Mass Effect's voice acting, featuring noted actors Keith 
 David and Seth Green. Without spoiling the plot, there are many twists along the way and fans of 
 the genre, or fans of science fiction in general, will not be disappointed.
  
  Combat in Mass Effect is what we've come to expect from games of late- intense, Gears of War style 
 shoot outs involving hiding behind cover and blowing up plenty of synthetic aliens. For the most 
 part it works very well, although the intelligence of your squad mates can sometimes be questionable. 
 Less can be said of exploring uncharted worlds in the Mako, a glorified moon buggy with guns. Steering 
 the Mako is akin to steering a sackful of balloons using a hair dryer, but thankfully your adventures 
 in it are brief.
  
  Mass Effect is not perfect. The graphics are incredible, but the game can't always keep up, leading 
 to stuttering and textures popping in at random. The aforementioned Mako sequences are a notable 
 low point. But to deride the game for a few superficial problems seems harsh when the rest of it 
 is enthralling, innovative and memorable. Make no mistake: Mass Effect delivers on the hype and 
 is yet another essential Xbox 360 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chriswilson12
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  Ok, Mass Effect. Where do we start?
  Gameplay: Solid enough, although there is a definite line between the RPG and shooter style of 
 game play which should never be crossed, this game being a key example. The Mako sequences are 
 downright annoying, and thankfully infrequent during most of the story campaign.
  Graphics: The one thing I cannot fault this game on is the visuals, fantastic, from the Citadel 
 to a mining facility deep in the heart of god knows where, the visuals of this game as excellent.
 
  Mechanics: Faulty to broken. The texture's don't load fast enough, the cover system is just broken.
 
  Replay: High. The ability tree transfer to a new character or a new run through on a higher difficulty 
 makes this games replay value fairly high.
  My one and ONLY real gripe with this game is the shortness of the main story campaign. With few 
 more than 6 worlds to explore in the main story, the game seems fleshed out by the optional sidequests, 
 and while fun and engaging to do, that's not what a top tier game should be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AoiSora603
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  This action role-playing game takes you into a future where humanity has only recently taken to 
 the skies to join a galactic alliance that has been around for thousands of years. Being the newest 
 addition, they have a long way to go to earn the respect and trust of the many other species populating 
 the Alliance, and it is here where our journey begins, with, of course, the fate of the galaxy 
 being placed into the hands of a single human and those who follow him (well... or her) .
  
  In Mass Effect, you can opt to either play as the default character, John Shepard, or you can create 
 your own character from scratch. You have a lot of freedom with how you choose to play the game 
 as well. You can carve a ruthless reputation for yourself, or a strong, good-natured one, or anything 
 in between. You can also customize the actual gameplay. You can choose a character class at the 
 beginning of the game, and this decision determines what skills you can excel at, such as combat, 
 biotics (this game's version of magic) , or tech skills (what better way to toy with a robotic enemy 
 than by hacking it?) . 
  
  The story in this game is incredible. It will suck you in, keep you guessing, and then spit you 
 back out, leaving you wanting more (in a good way) . Good thing this is part of a trilogy, eh? 
 
  
  The interesting mix of 3rd person shooter and RPG is unique and intriguing. It is a mix of the 
 familiar and unfamiliar for just about any gamer, which is bound to keep you from ever getting 
 bored. Not to mention that there are so many decisions to make in the storyline AND in the gameplay 
 that you can keep coming back to this game again and again and never play quite the same game twice. 
 
  
  Technically, this game astounds both visually and aurally. The graphics make great use of the 360's 
 power, producing beautifully detailed worlds and believable characters capable of expressing a 
 vast palette of emotions. The sound of the game is simply superb. Every composition serves to further 
 throw you into the moment, getting your pulse racing or your eyes watering. 
  
  All in all, this game is a very intense ride, and has a wide appeal to a vast array of gamers. 
 If you enjoy action games or RPGs at all, this game comes highly recommended to you. There's enough 
 balance between the gameplay that I don't think it can turn off the fans of either genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hleflore
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  You can rate a game by graphics, sound, and gameplay mechanics but few games are rated by the potential 
 experience that each individual player may or may not have. I love this game. I have played through 
 it more than once. Mass Effect must be played through it yearns to be completed. This not a traditional 
 RPG this game is not a chore to play nor is it tiresome expect for the driving levels. Mass Effect 
 is not perfect it should not be given any score above 8 because the the lack of polish in the execution 
 of the more technical aspects of the game. The frame rate gets choppy, the textures take time to 
 load, the driving levels are tedious. A top tier title has to be better put together and the 2 
 points must be deducted. The story is the real draw very 80s scifi very cool. The cinematic adventure 
 is what the RPG market lacks. There is the RPG level up shooting which sounds weird but works well 
 early on the shooting is very difficult but you get better and better. There are no random battles 
 this is great. The games needs polish the sequel will fix this enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyer800
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  There has'nt been any real games for me to hate over the past few months that i've brought because 
 most it not all have been on the whole good but thank you Mass Effect for destorying my dream of 
 never seeing a bad game again. 
  
  Now i now i get a lot of stick off people for this review but dam it i need to get my point across 
 and just show my feelings towards this game. Mass Effect was the most hyped game of 2007, well 
 that and crysis and Mass Effect was sounding more and more like the god of games. But somewhere 
 down the line someone took the game and all the good idea then flushed it down the toliet.
  
  So how to sum up Mass Effect, well lets begain with the gameplay. Mass Effect has no idea what 
 it is for starters. I'm still trying to find out if the game is a shooter or an RPG. It trys to 
 hard to please both of the genres and ends up making a big mess on the floor. I think theres a 
 fine line between shooters and RPG'S and mass effect proves these lines should'nt cross. 
  
  I could go on with all these faults , So I will the controls are awful. The cover system is 
 broken, the guns handle awful. I won't even start about the vehical controls. your teams AI along 
 with the enemy AI is down right broken as well but u begain to feel happy every time a team mate 
 dies arfter a while because it kind of like there punshment for getting in the way or not doing 
 as there told. 
  
  Also some missions are just there to make you angry. Take this for example you have to get brust 
 in to this night club all gun blazing and find this bloke once u done that u then find out the 
 the person your looking for is going to be killed unless you find her in time. As soon as the timer 
 comes up you have to make your way back out of the club and get to this women. Oh did i Forget 
 to metion that the all the baddies you shot before seem to have got up and are waiting for u as 
 you try to make your way back out of the club.
  
  One thing I can't fault Mass Effect on is its graphics. It is a stunning game with great envroments 
 and it looks amazing the citys seem to even be kind of a live which most games find hard to pull 
 off. Add some great cut screens and this game is amazing to look at. The sound is meh at best, 
 the voice acting is pretty wooden thought i have heard worse. 
  
  So the story, Well its not half bad but it does sound like its a star trek/starwars wanabee. Still 
 compared to other games out on the market at least its got one. The it would help if the main guy 
 or gal was'nt 1000% unlikeable. And the love screens in the game with varous people from the game 
 seemed to be a shamless marketing ploy. It was total amazing that week or 2 before launch it was 
 leaked that there was girl on alien girl action.
  
  Thats really all i have to say, This game could have been a classic game which could have been 
 one of the best on par with great such as zelda but hence my words if your looking for a buggy, 
 broken game then Mass Effect is right up your ally. Have fun while i go play crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acesion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a game that takes itself seriously. It is the 24 (TV series) of Sci-Fi offering a 
 pulse pounding experience which compells you to continue playing until the very end. There is never 
 a dull moment as Mass Effect offers top notch story tellling and gameplay. Even the most spaztic 
 twitchy finger gamer will be able to enjoy the game because not only is the combat fast paced and 
 fluid but the in game conversations will always keep you on you toes because you are expected to 
 react quickly and decisivly. The games main story is a short but sweet 12 hr. s however just like 
 Oblivion the game offers countless hours of side quests and storylines which expands the game length 
 to a healthy 40+ hrs of gameplay (52 for myself) . The game does a great job differenciating itself 
 from the pelethera of Sci-Fi storys giving it a unique feel that does not copy the Star Wars universe. 
 The game is tied up in a satisfying ending which awnsers most of your questions yet keeps a few 
 other looming creating great anticipation for the next install ment in the series. Simply put if 
 you like games and you have a 360 then you should have Mass Effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostSoul1974
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge Role Playing Game fan..... I'm a huge Science Fiction fan..... I'm a huge Science Fiction 
 Role Playing Game fan, so naturally this game is right up my alley!
  
  Seriously, when I initially read previews on this game, I kind of blew it off. Somehow, I ended 
 up buying it the day it was released..... instincts, I'd guess.
  
  Graphically speaking, the game possesses some of the cleanest I've seen to date. I was very impressed 
 with the smooth animation as well.
  
  The biggest selling point for me was the ever-developing storyline.... once I got started on it, 
 I couldn't put it down. The dialogue option was one of the best ideas the developers could have 
 thought of using in regards to character interaction. Each playable character's sub-story added 
 a nice touch as well.
  
  My only beef with the game was the squad commands.... several times I'd try to send the squad into 
 a room ahead & I'd get responses stating could go in or were obstructed, only to turn around see 
 them standing there OR they couldn't step to the side to go around a short piece of wall, LOL!
 
  
  Other than that, I have & would highly recommend this game to fans of Science Fiction and/ or Role 
 Playing Games.
  
  Now, if we can only get KOTOR III? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvengerLE
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I know this is supposed to be the start of a triology, and maybe cuz I rushed through the game 
 and all, but I've played most of Bioware's other RPGs (all in the same way) and this game felt 
 like there weren't as much story to it than the other ones. Rushing through it felt easy and without 
 lots of choices, as opposed to engaging and full of possibilities with the other Bioware games.
 
  
  The graphics are great, better looking than Halo even. But I felt the interface could have been 
 more polished: too much scrolling through inventory items, galaxy map zooming/unzooming not entirely 
 intuitive, etc.
  
  Overall, this game felt less like a game onto itself, and more like a setup to something else (again, 
 I know this is what it actually is, but still, you don't see KOTOR being this monotonous) . 
  
  So, if you want a good RPG game like KOTOR, you will be a bit disappointed. The best thing 
 to do is to wait till the next game in this series comes out and play both one after the other. 
 I think that will give a much fuller experience than this lone game can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ca_boy69
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect has been an idea that's been around since Bioware's successful invention of KOTOR, 
 and has had many a gamer excited about it, but unlike KOTOR the game itself fails to realize its 
 true potential.
  
  There are many things to like about Mass Effect, from the high detailed graphics, user interface, 
 and the first person shooting to the missions and storyline. The graphics and user interface are 
 a huge technological breakthrough for the RPG genre. My favorite was the ability to create the 
 main character to look as near as I could get to myself. That alone helped to immerse me in the 
 game. Oftentimes, a cut scene would make me jump back while thinking, "Geeze that's me!" That was 
 really fun. The user interface was also really nice in the effect that you really picked the tone 
 or the mood of your responses and the actual scentence or action was along the same lines and sometimes 
 surprising.
  
  The first person shooting was also a nice touch. Who doesn't like to mix it up a little in their 
 video games anyway? Mass Effect's first person shooting was well done and gives the player much 
 needed control in an action game, but while doing it during an RPG is even more amazing.
  
  As always Bioware had an interesting story and missions, but here is where my opinion starts to 
 turn sour. First off, you can't interact with your party members while outside of the ship. You 
 can talk to them, but you get the generic, oftentimes non-specific, responses. The personal storylines 
 don't seem to come out when you are out on missions and your supporting cast IS TRULY supporting 
 with minor statements, but nothing earth shattering. In KOTOR, certain characters in the party 
 had an affect on the outcome or what happened on the missions. With ME, only the skills of the 
 party members may affect wether or not you can get into a locked crate. The other thing about the 
 storyline that irked me was that the responses of the crew didn't change unless the main plot had 
 been advanced and if the crew member wasn't a NPC, but instead just dressing for the ship, they 
 almost never changed their responses. To me that's just a lack of putting the time in to make the 
 game entertaining. This is a fatal flaw, because it really made you feel like you were the ONLY 
 character in this story. In KOTOR the NPC's had many lively discussions that were advanced often 
 and they ALL had their own main story, but in ME there is only really one or two stories that are 
 of any relevance. One other quick note, if you finished a mission, it didn't change the little 
 mission reminders on other planets. For example, you finish a mission in another solar system at 
 the beginning of the game and several times much later in the game you are being told of the problem 
 you fixed in that system, which obviously is no longer a problem. In KOTOR, when that problem was 
 fixed and you stumbled across another character in the game, they would acknowledge that you were 
 the guy that fixed it, not tell you about it again.
  
  Along with the lack of character development, there was little to no world development. Many of 
 the solar systems were imaginative, but there would only be one planet to land on and that planet 
 wasn't much different than the others... bleak, very little to no life, no pubs or towns to explore. 
 Each planet you'd land besides a few, you'd get in your land rover and drive to a spot to find 
 a new mineral or metal, then drive to another spot and salvage some fallen satellite, then find 
 some debris or transponder and salvage that, and then go to the one spot that had a building or 
 cave, which was the same on every planet, and fight some bad guys and get more equipment. B-O-R-I-N-G!! 
 I mean at first it was alright, but after the 15th planet it becomes pretty lame. The planets that 
 did have a new environment to explore kept you from really enjoying it by having very few if any 
 side missions that would enhance your abilities or your equipment. Those planets were pretty straight 
 missions that kept you from sticking around and seeing the sights. Also, oftentimes you couldn't 
 go back on your ship and change out your party so once you picked your party you were stuck with 
 them and there was no going back.
  
  Supposedly, this is the first of a trilogy. Hopefully, since they have all of the hard stuff figured 
 out, graphics, engine, and design, they can go on and really make the next two games great ones. 
 I still recommend this game, but if you were hoping for a game as great as KOTOR or Oblivion, you'll 
 be sadly disappointed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Can Bioware do anything wrong? Let me say this right now, there is not one thing they have done 
 that was terrible. Ok now i got that out of me, i am happy to say that this is the best thing they 
 made, and Def. the best RPG for the 360 period. Bioware has one of the greatest storys in gaming, 
 and this game littleraly is like a good book. You cannot put it down. That is how i was. I could 
 not stop until i beat the game. This is a masterpiece in so many ways. The Design, the Gameplay, 
 the visuals all are top notch and show that they really worked there tails off to make a very satisfying 
 game. You can also have many different paths to choose, and it calls to you play this game more 
 then one time. Very few games you honestly want to go back to do things agian. This is one of them. 
 By far my favorite bioware game, and this is only part one of the trilogy. The game is just starting!
 
  
  The Story involes Commander Sheppard, it is based more then 100 years in the future, where humans 
 are getting involved with other life forms for the first time. You pick Male/ Female, you pick 
 what is you background like, and your class.. what you are good at. You start the game working 
 in the Normandy, and checking out Eden Prime. From there everything goes downhill. I don't want 
 to give away too much of the story, so lets say that Hard Choises will be mad, Truths will be shown, 
 Race is a big part of the game, and the game always has you asking questions, and that is a very 
 good thing. You get all sorts of turns and spins, and eventually you will take control of Normandy, 
 what kind of Captian will you be? The game also has a great feature where you pick what you want 
 to say. The thing you pick however is not the words you say, but a summory. You will say things 
 "more Human like" then what is printed on the screen. This Game has everything you need a Blockbuster 
 Game, Action, Love, Drama, and Adventure. 
  
  Mass Effect has a unique combat system. You have Guns, and different tech powers. You also have 
 a crew. I will talk more about the crew in the nect paragraph. If you expect to go in, and shoot 
 everything around you like a mad man, good luck.. you will last about 5 sec. before being blown 
 up. No in Mass Effect you need to be very stratgic about fighting. You need to duck and cover, 
 and wait for the perfect oppertunity to shoot. If your not careful, you will see the Game Over 
 screen a lot. Depending on what class you pick, will depend what guns, and powers you will use. 
 If you are a Vandiguard (i was) you can use 2 different guns, The shotgun, and the Pistole.. also 
 you have a ton of tech/biotic powers, like lift, barriors, regroup, and others. All are in a screen 
 mode. If you want to change weapons, or use your abilitys you have to press the R/L back buttons.. 
 not the trigger ones, above that.. The game pauses during that time so you are not rushed picking 
 your wepond. This both a good thing and a bad thing. The good is that you are not scrampling trying 
 to pick a gun.. The bad is that you will spend a lot of time there, and breaks up some of the action. 
 There are many difficulties in the game.. so if you play on Easy, the enemy ai will be stupid, 
 the harder it gets, the brains they get.. so it depends what you get. the Ai may just be stupid 
 so you can kill him right there.
  
  The Crew part in the game is also very interesting. The crew is important for battles, they also 
 have classes and such. You have to give them better guns, and armor if you hope to win. The other 
 cool part is that you can totally skip parts of the story if you don't have them on your crew. 
 You can have some aliens on your ship, but if you don't want them, you never have them, and the 
 plot can be very different. Also you can have romances with some of your crew, depending on wether 
 you are a guy or a girl. That also can play a part in the story. You can have a bond with your 
 crew, but i think it could have a little more interaction with them, like you can ask what they 
 think, or where we should go. a little more crew interaction on the battle field would be nice. 
 But overall they do a great job giving everyone personallites. My favorite is Garrus!
  
  The Galaxy is huge, and you can expolore it. There are so many different side missions it is not 
 even funny. You can extend the game greatly if you do sidemissions to other planets. It can take 
 you up to 50 hours to beat! but as low was in the teens, if you choose not to. You can see each 
 planet in your map! every planet is a little bit different. They give you so much info on planets 
 its crazy. They spent a good amount of time, writing about what kind of planet it is, how long 
 a day is, what lives on the planet, and how big it is. Some planets are unexplorable.. so you can 
 scan for objects, or do nothing with it.. Some planets are just place holders. witch make it more 
 believeavble. The main place is called the cidel. It is a large main city where you can buy things, 
 and do missions. There is a lot to explore there as well, you may even get lost in the place! The 
 thing i like is how many cool planets there are, you see other creatures who live on them and all 
 are well artisically designed. All have different characteristics, and none of them are too crazy, 
 and unbelieveable.
  
  One thing you will notice in this game is that there is no Dark and Light path. In real life there 
 is no Dark and light path, they are hidden and not 100 percent either way. And that is what i like 
 about it. You don't become evil, or good, but you become human, and no matter what you do there 
 are always people who don't agree. It really shows what kind of person you are, are you the harden 
 smart guy who wants to win, strict, or are you the loveable guy who gets tough when action comes. 
 it all depends on what you want to do, and many games don't offer that at all.
  
  The Only real problem i have with the game is the Mako. The Mako is the huge tank that you need 
 to use to ride around huge planets. The main problem i have with this is the controls. It is uncorpoative. 
 It does not work.. its hard to control, and the guns are sometimes hard to shoot. There is no option 
 to learn how to use it.. no tutorials or anything! sometimes you feel its better off getting out 
 of you car and taking them out by foot. cause its kinda easy to blow up! and that means Game over.. 
 so you most likely will try to skip by enimies rather then killing them. But sometimes it is fun! 
 with its problems it is still fun to make jumps, and climb mt. with it.
  
  The game also features a great cast. Some inculded are.. Seth Green as Joker the Pilot, Keith David 
 as Commander Anderson, Marina Sirtis as Matriarch Benezia, and Kimberly Brooks as Gunnery Chief 
 Ashley Williams . There are also no reading dialogue in this game. Everything is voice acted in 
 a great way. That is what also makes this game great. Everything seems to be acted out well. Nobody 
 is annoying to hear, and everyone you meet, both major and minor have a different personality. 
 That makes the game even more enjoyable.
  
  There is also a RPG element where you level up your stats, and your crew members. After you kill 
 people you get experiance, or after you complete a majot conversation you get experiance points, 
 even picking up items you get some XP.. You use those points to get better lift, more power to 
 your guns, and different types of powers. You also can have upgrades on your wepons, and armor. 
 You Can put different things on your guns to make then stronger, or less prone to over heat. There 
 are no bullets in mass effect, but you do have to be aware of overheating. Where you have to wait 
 for a cooling down process to use them agian. There are also gernades, but they do very little. 
 you can thorow them at people, and you can detonate them, they are very hard to use. They def. 
 could have improved on that aspect.
  
  The graphics are great, yet it is sometimes harder then the system can handle. You will come across 
 things that at first have no textures.. It takes a few more seconds to get everything the way it 
 should look. But when it does, the game looks beautiful! lots of different textures, and facial 
 expressions are top notch. Sometimes you experiance some frame rate jumps, this may bother people, 
 but for me, its so minor you cna easily overlook any kind of graphical glitch. it does not really 
 make a huge difference in the game, unless you are a freak about that sorts of stuff.
  
  
  Overall if you are looking for a new type of game, look no further, Mass Effect is a unique 
 game everyone should try out, It has almost everyone thing you want in a single player game. You 
 can play this game over and over to experiance something different each time. There are so many 
 different places to explore, and anything you find wrong with this game, is a little scratch on 
 the universe of a game. You can hardly notice the bad things, cause your surronded by so many good 
 things. Agian a must buy for the 360, and this is only part one... The game leaves you wanting 
 more.. and i am saying that in good way, because that is the point of a trilogy, to want to play 
 the next part.
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: Great duck and cover system, lots of exploring, Mako needs work in future games..
  
 Graphics: Minor tech. problems don't really take away the beautifuly designed game
  Sound: One of the best Original Music in games today, some are very epic, and everything fits nicly
 
  Value: Destorys everything eles as far as value, 60 bucks can give you hours and hours of gameplay, 
 plus you never know what you could get from Xbox Live!
  Overall: Top 5 360 games ever, and maybe will go down is one of the top Original Series in Gaming!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: falcorious
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  CONS: Character versatility and galaxy exploration limited, Citadel station side missions involve 
 far too much running back and forth. Limited rewards on killing important enemies, no really special 
 discoveries possible outside the main storyline.
  
  Overall, this is a great game, well worth playing. It is certainly one of the best ever for the 
 360, but I am hoping that we'll see better RPG efforts soon. It is a dazzling feast for the eyes 
 in almost every respect, but one can't help but feel like something is missing through most of 
 the game -- and that is the spirit of adventure and exploration that a true RPG offers.
  
  This game must stand on its own merits, so comparisons to Oblivion or the KOTOR series are not 
 useful in my opinion. However, since many RPG'ers have awaited this thing with tongues hanging, 
 it's worth saying something important to those that have yet to explore the Mass Effect universe 
 -- assuming there are any of you who have yet to do so. Folks, this is not an RPG. It is a tactical 
 shooter with RPG elements. Many other reviewers have noted this, some comparing it to Ghost Recon, 
 others to Rainbow Six, but both are very reasonable comparisons.
  
  It's true that you can modify your character stats and beef certain talents while ignoring others, 
 but you really aren't going to have any fun playing this game as a Tech. I'm not entirely sure 
 what the point was of even including anything other than the Biotic (think magic-user) or Soldier 
 class. You can't really feel in control of your team unless you have skills sufficient to bet the 
 sole survivor in a firefight -- and you won't have them if you try to play as Mr. Goodwrench or 
 some wimpy Sentinel hybrid.
  
  Simply put, you need to play a straight Soldier or Biotic to manage the thing at all on Hardcore 
 level (you can't get there until you beat it on Normal) . Now, don't get me wrong, I had lots of 
 fun with the space squad combat, but even if you take it on that level you're going to have some 
 real problems with some of the structure of the game.
  
  First of all, despite all the upgrades you'll find for the weapons and grenades, you are unlikely 
 to notice a huge amount of difference when you use them. Grenades seem grossly underpowered, particularly 
 after you beef them up with upgrades. Shotguns are devastating at close range, just as we'd expect, 
 but Assault rifles don't seem much better than good pistols. Sniper rifles are effective, but they're 
 pretty useless because there aren't that many opportunities to snipe the enemy, and they always 
 seem to be able to spot you and return fire no matter how far away you are from them -- something 
 that will really annoy you if you want to play that type of character, which is when you'll realize 
 that there isn't much point in putting in lots of points into that skill and you'll probably start 
 over with a different build.
  
  You have a wonderful armored vehicle to drive around on the many planets you'll explore, and it 
 is essentially indestructible unless it is hit by small arms fire, at which point it will begin 
 to lose shields and eventually take damage. That's right. You can plummet from the top of a mountain 
 to the valley floor (probably some 15,000 feet in scale terms) , but the worst I've ever managed 
 to do to the thing is hurt one of the tires. It's fun at first, but there are no achievements for 
 high jumps or anything like that, and there seems to be no real difference in environmental effects 
 (with the exception of slipping) from planet to planet -- but they all look really great, that's 
 for sure. Probably the single most worthless feature are the "jump jets" on the Mako, which will 
 launch you a pathetic five feet or so vertically and are supposedly for helping you negotiate terrain. 
 Given that you can basically climb vertical rock faces with the thing (you can, if you're patient) , 
 there isn't any use at all for them. I don't really know why they're there, though I suspect somebody 
 had a different idea at one point of what planet travel would be like and may have had gravity 
 models in mind.
  
  Battles are a mixed bag. Some are pretty challenging, with the AI attempting to rush or flank you 
 with heavy duty characters, requiring you to think fast and use cover and the team well. Others 
 are just mad rushes in groups. Still more are people hanging out in positions waiting for you to 
 kill them. Side quest bosses are really not that big a deal, and as I've said, you don't get a 
 lot for killing them. You will definitely get tired of the button press combinations to open chests 
 containing the 50th version of some ammunition upgrade (each a little bit upgraded in rank, depending 
 on your level) .
  
  That's what I mean by the lack of a spirit of discovery in this game. When you really spend your 
 time searching a planet, it would be nice to find something once in a while that's really out of 
 the ordinary, like a special weapon or armor, or even a rare upgrade of some kind. But there just 
 isn't anything like that lying around. I won't spoil anything for you, but even one of the weirder 
 discoveries you'll make which will require that you have completed a task elsewhere in order to 
 unlock will leave you feeling like Ralphie in "A Christmas Story" -- '... a crummy commercial?" 
 In other words, you're going to wonder why you bothered, and that shouldn't happen in a game that 
 has so many other good things going for it overall.
  
  You'll eventually reach a point where you will be able to purchase special weapons, and at that 
 moment, you have reached the apex. Unfortunately, that moment comes pretty quickly in the game, 
 and once it does, there isn't much fun in finding anything, since you can either buy what you need 
 or you'll already have more than you can ever use. It's true that it will take you a while to get 
 the money together to buy the weapons, but you don't really need them in the first place -- you 
 could get through the whole game with fairly middling weapons if you wanted to (at least on Normal) .
 
  
  There's also a problem with the team model. You can always have two of your entourage with you 
 at one time. Some missions will push you toward using certain members, others will require them. 
 However, you'll quickly find a mix that works well for you and you'll want to stay with it -- somebody 
 to do whatever you can't, like opening stuff up. Otherwise, you're going to be taking an assault 
 team in all the time, clearing out places, and then coming back with tech people to open the stuff. 
 The problem with that strategy is that some of those journeys are long and tedious walks, and you'll 
 get tired of it to the point that you'll just start dragging the techs along -- lo and behold, 
 you'll still get the job done. In other words, your team selection will end up coming down to practical 
 issues rather than purely strategic decisions.
  
  Speaking of running around, after you've created a few characters you may wonder whether or not 
 you're willing to go through another couple of hours doing that on the Citadel in order to get 
 somebody ready to go into space and deal with the main quest -- or explore at all. There's just 
 way too much unproductive time spent in that vein, and very little combat. Since the game is essentially 
 a squad based shooter, most of that time feels like a different game stuck on to the one you're 
 supposed to be playing. The possibilities were there to link the other colonies you'll contact 
 with the Citadel in terms of plots and subplots, but they just didn't come through for obvious 
 practical reasons (size of the game) , but that whole section of the game becomes boring very quickly. 
 If you're willing to invest loads of points in Charm or Intimidate, however, you will open up alternate 
 plot lines, so if you're really bored you might try creating a super-chatty character to see whether 
 or not you can sniff out a few things you've missed.
  
  No spoilers, but the end game is a little disappointing. You don't see the results of your activities, 
 and you can't continue with the character after you've defeated the final boss. You can reload 
 him or her (before the final battle) and battle it out again -- why you'd want to do that I don't 
 know. So, you can't take that character into the next level of the game, for example, or even just 
 continue exploring. So if you have unfinished exploration to do -- get it done before the end.
 
  
  All of this aside, play this game. It was a great experience and loads of fun. Most of the issues 
 I've noticed here become more noticeable once you've tried a few different character approaches.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crocodile3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  I loved Knights of the old republic and couldn't wait for this. After the initial wow of the cinematic 
 graphics, I couldn't help but be a little disappointed. I will get to the point, following the 
 story is a rich and rewarding experience. Completing the side quests and exploring the galaxy is 
 repetitive and the interiors are either one of three of the same design. All the spaceships you 
 board are the same and there are two types of base for you to inflitrate. This is just a bit lazy 
 and detracts from the overall experience.
  
  The Gamescore points are a nightmare, you will have to complete this as each character class completing 
 75% of the game each time to unlock the majority of the points. 
  
  It is a good game, but with no multiplayer, weak variety of areas outside of the main quest and 
 frustrating gamescore points. It wasn't the game I was expecting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  If you have played KOTOR or Jade empire, and were fans of the game, this is a must get game. Its 
 a little more of a sci-fi feel than KOTOR. The in-game menu was well done. the coolest part was 
 the menu giving information about different species, planets and orginizations. The over all menu 
 use is pretty easy to pick up. The battle system was well done with decent use of the camera. the 
 main letdowns were the fact that you ony control one character instead of being able to cycle through 
 different characters. So when your character dies, that it, you have to start over from wherever 
 your last save point or auto save was. The other let down was some graphical issues, for example, 
 when your vehicle is dropped out of the ship, the texture of the terrain will take a second to 
 kick in. but thats easly over looked. All in all it is a great game to have for RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dixie38
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is an absolute must have for every 360 owner! From the time you put the disk in and create 
 your character you are fully immersed in amazing gaming universe. There are so many different charcters, 
 planets, so much dialogue and depth that make you feel like you are actually there. You will not 
 be able to play this game for any less than a few hours at a time. The replayability potential 
 in this game is almost endless. You will more than likely complete one playthrough and then start 
 another character or even start another campaign with the same character and keep all your stats 
 and weapons. Why not do both? Overall this game is an extremely solid title for the 360 and on 
 par with any popular RPG in the past. The only possible complaint for this title would be, what 
 is taking so long for the extra content to get here? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  Great, no Fantastic, no, The very best cast of characters to appear in a game ever. this is not 
 just a role playing game, this game simply overwhelms your senses, great sound, perfect voice work 
 from every speaking character in the game, oh wait every character speaks, lol, no text here!!! 
 some great graphics, the best for a rpg to date. good action based tactical combat. great animations, 
 great game world, level design, character design, art design, the fiction of the game, it's all 
 perfect.
  THE BAD
  lack of polish in many areas especially the technical, textures popin twice as much as in halo3, 
 difference here is that when everything is in, the game looks phenomenal. some boring, no not boring, 
 just not as fun levels, mainly when you don't have a skill level to do something on a planet your 
 exploring, that is annoying.
  
  THE RANT (skip if you don't dig this blog style rant of uncensored stream of thought)
  The greatest 
 thing about this title is how hard it is to tell people how good mass effect is. yes the game isn't 
 perfect but all the problems with it are rather superficial in comparison to what this title offers. 
 so first of the title has the greatest voice work of the year, not only no voice actor less than 
 great but every actor brings a vibrant character to their in game avatars. this is further amplified 
 by the fantastic dialog system in the game, no text all speech, ok everquest 2 promised us that, 
 but this game is so much more. you usually have atleast two choices for a response and sometimes 
 up 6 or more. the great thing about this is that dialogue is also more than dialog it actually 
 effects game outcomes, say the wrong thing a squad mate is dead or you end up blowing off someone 
 elses head. this whole feature makes every line of dialog so precious. characters really pop, for 
 example you run a human vessel with the most advanced human alliance tech on board so when you 
 bring aliens on everyone starts to ask questions. that is until your friends prove themselves. 
 each squad mate has a fantastic back story and so much character they could each host their own 
 game. similar to another game out this fall (whitcher) themes of racism (speciesism) and the moral 
 Grey area are the bread and butter that makes up the drama in this title, the great thing about 
 this game is your perspective in the universe, humanity is young aliens don't know if they can 
 trust you, are you greedy or just strong willed what are human motives? how do you prove your self 
 to the aliens that see you as a ambassador for your kind rather than a soldier for the alliance? 
 the story is just so rich and involving so many of the side missions are fantastic, and you really 
 feel compelled to explore every aspect of the game. the game features romance but that is possibly 
 the most predicable part of the game, very holly wood. so the gunplay, well it's very weak at first 
 but by the end it's a blast, some aspects of combat don't feel well balanced, teammates actually 
 feature the most functional squad AI i've seen in a RPG, that says something, on a easier difficulty 
 they hold up very well, on the normal difficulty i couldn't get the hang of the game, i would get 
 hung up small skirmishes, so i turned the difficulty down since the game has a strong combat system 
 but it's too much of a mix of stats and skill for me to manage. that being said on the normal difficulty 
 this game is very hard, good luck. With so many innovations and so much polish it's funny this 
 game would make it out of the gate in the condition it did, it's like they didn't optimize it, 
 later levels experience slow down regularly, and the graphics engine thrives on popins. of the 
 single player games to hit this fall crysis, mass effect, the whitcher, orange box, call of duty 
 4, and bioshock, ok darkness too, mass effect ties with bioshock and darkness for caliber story 
 telling experiences, it weighs in at around 40 hours, i did all the non gathering side missions 
 in the game, and i still finished in under fifty hours, that is a very short rpg for me, but i 
 really recommend this one it's so unique, no gamer should miss it, this title flaws aside is worth 
 the price of admition.
  
  THE BREAKDOWN
  GRAPHICS
  this game has sever texture instability, but when it isn't poping textures in and out it looks 
 fantastic, the design of the game is fantastic, the art assets are too good to be true, the animations 
 are physics and particle effects gunplay and biotics are all beautifully represented. if not for 
 the graphical instability it would have gotten a ten.
  8
  GAMEPLAY
  the role playing is very scalable, the action can be very deep, the gun play can be very satisfying, 
 the weak side is that enemy AI does often blitze you in a very annoying fashion that breaks up 
 the compelling gunplay, with more play testing and some better AI, they could really achieve something 
 with the action portion of this game. though several aspects of the gameplay are fantastic, this 
 one comes up a few fries short of a happy meal thanks to some wonky Enemy AI oh and lame zombies.
 
  8
  SOUND
  perfect audio, only problem is that sometimes the ambient base is a little overwhelming or annoying, 
 it actually made me feel sick after a four hour play session. that aside the synthetic music is 
 beautiful, like the sound of the female voice actors. everyone from joker to wrex stirs you when 
 they speak, every voice sounds so real.
  10
  VALUE
  lets see at between 40-50 hours of play time one play through that is about $1.25 an hour or something, 
 not a bad price for admission. not to mention the replay factor.
  9
  TILT
  this game isn't perfect but when i finished it i felt so fulfilled, it's atleast a benchmark no 
 other rpg will getaway with bad voice work or campy story lines ever again.
  10
  FINAL SCORE
  this game is a must own for the person looking for a single player experience, knowing 
 this is part of a trilogy i wonder will it stay a xbox exclusive what will happen with the sequels 
 now that EA owns bioware? i don't know what i do know is if you fancy your self a gamer, at least 
 rent this one if you won't outright buy it.
  9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HBKSuperfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the few great games that will change the way games are made. From its amazing 
 dialogue interactions to its above average fighting this game takes the cake. When you play this 
 game you really will have your cake and eat it too. The only complaint is the driving. It is the 
 most ungodly mess i have ever seen. Then you have to fight someth ing while in it. The fighting 
 is generally good and everything else is perfect. If you even like Gears of War you will like this 
 game. If you are like me and don't like Star Trek or RPG games you will still love this game. It 
 is just soo good and will last you at least fifteen hours. You will really like this game it will 
 mystify you or at least keep you coming back for more. The most important thing to remember is 
 that even a shooter fan can and will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedmental
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect:
  
  Pros: Amazingly fun gameplay; graphics engine is just phenomenal; Exp-per-kill is a great way to 
 level up; lots of planets to explore; a big amount of dialog; start a new game with same weapons 
 and player level; you will probably play this game more than once.
  
  Cons: Not all the planets in this game are explorable; story is mildly confusing in some parts; 
 leveling up is way to easy; speech-choosing is never what you think the main character is going 
 to say; tedious interface.
  
  Achievements: Some are achieved by playing throughout the game, like kills for example, but the 
 rest are achieved by playing the game in a special way. For example, you must play through a harder 
 difficulty, play through with each ally most*, or play through while getting more damage from your 
 shields than your health.
  
  I really recommend this game to RPG / Sci-Fi / TPS players. If you like any of those three, you 
 will certainly enjoy this game.
  
  *More information in the achievements list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthzew
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  (For those who don't know, I use a different review format than Gamespot used both now or in the 
 past. Read on though, this system is, I believe, more efficient and is definitely more precise)
 
  
  Bioware games have never failed to achieve epic proportions. They make one game that you simply 
 cannot be topped by the next and then they do just that. It's just part of their mystique. Mass 
 Effect feels the same way... to a degree. The game has incredible scope, but it feels set back 
 technically at some points. 
  
  Bioware has also been known to have incredible story. Mass Effect is no exception. The universe 
 of Mass Effect is up there with Star Wars in terms of how galvanizing it really is. The actual 
 in-game story doesn't disappoint either and it features one of the best villains in any game. 
 
  
  As to how the story actually feels, well, it's Jack Bauer (from 24) in space. No, it doesn't have 
 that clock going off or anything, but the way the story plays out and how you interact with it 
 are very 24. How so? Well, in 24 one of the themes is "how far are you willing to go to get the 
 job done?". Add to that, it flows a bit like 24.
  
  The story scores a 10/10. (Story represents 15% of the final score)
  
  Visually, Mass Effect 
 looks great. Especially for its size. The facial animations look amazingly lifelike, almost in 
 a scary way. Even the aliens present enough emotion to be believable. The graphics are sleek and 
 truly fitting for a sci-fi world like Mass Effect. 
  
  Only problem here happens to lie in texture pop-in. You'll start an area and it could be completely 
 textureless. It doesn't bother you too much, but sometimes you need to see something close-up... 
 but it doesn't have any texture and it looks hideous. 
  
  Some have said that the art is unoriginal. I don't differ but it's not a problem once you realize 
 what they were trying to accomplish with Mass Effect. They wanted it to feel like old 1980's sci-fi 
 and that's exactly how it feels, so it's not a problem. 
  
  For that, your final graphics score is: 8/10. ( graphics represent 15% of the total score)
  
 
  Playing out the story is fun, especially when talking to lifelike characters. You choose what 
 to say and they interact like you'd expect they would if they were human. 
  
  The combat is a weaker point of the game. It plays like Gears of War, but not quite. It's not as 
 good. It's got an RPG feel to it, like it should. Enemies have the usual ridiculous health and 
 you and your squad have powers they can use (like magic or force powers) . It's actually a good 
 balance, but it does feel... "off" sometimes. The AI doesn't feel right and you have a 75% chance 
 or running into to a bug that hampers your enjoyment.
  
  For some reason, Mass Effect is very easy. I played Gears of War pretty carelessly and rarely got 
 away with it, but Mass Effect (which should be harder) I played far more carelessly and breezed 
 through it. Though, there are some parts that are hard to the point of angered frustration. This 
 happens to be the driving parts. T
  
  The Mako (your car) would be a great investment for the military. Why? The blamed thing could climb 
 Everest! It's the most improbable vehicle since Big Rigs. Manning the gun is annoying as well. 
 You had better hope you're fighting on even terrain, otherwise it gets frustrating with the camera 
 and you can't shoot too far downwards. 
  
  Also, let's add in the Thresher Maws. These are huge snakes that shoot some kind of juice that 
 hurts the Mako. You have to be in constant motion to fight one because it might pop up directly 
 underneath you in which case... you die.
  
  With all of these flaws... you really won't care. The rest of the game is that great. 
  
  The 
 Gameplay score here is 8.5/10. (Gameplay represents 20% of the total score) 
  And the difficulty score is 6/10 (Difficulty represents 5% of the total score)
  
  Sound is 
 a high point of Mass Effect. Specifically, the voice acting is incredible. It compliments the great 
 facial animations well. If you listen closely, some of the actors from past Bioware games have 
 made it into Mass Effect. For instance, both Carth and Bastila from KOTOR are here. 
  
  The music is awesome. It's a mixture of old 1980's sci-fi with a deep orchestral soundtrack. It 
 fits well and it's stuff that you'll have never heard anything like. Wow. 
  
  The sound effects themselves can be a little repetitive. For instance, the guns of the same type 
 all sound the same unless you change your ammo type. 
  
  The final sound score is a 9.3/10 (sound represents 15% of the final score)
  
  The presentation 
 quality is high. The menus are beautiful, but somtimes a bit confusing. Also, the loading screens 
 aren't at all interesting.
  
  The Presentation Quality score is 8/10 (Presentation Quality represents 5% of the final score)
 
  
  The game lasts you a good twenty-five hours on average. Add to that, you'll want to replay it to 
 see what it's like being an all good guy or an all bad guy depending on what you were before. Also, 
 there are six character classes to choose from. There's a ton to do. 
  
  The Lasting Appeal score is a 10/10 (Lasting appeal represents 5% of the final score)
  
  Mass 
 Effect promises downloadable content in the future. So, you we know we're getting some new stuff 
 to make the game bigger. On another note, the special edition is worth the extra ten dollars. You 
 get some good stuff!
  
  The Value score is a 10/10 (Value represents 5% of the total score)
  
  Multiplayer is a 10% 
 of the score, but there is no multiplayer and therefore it will not count against the game. 
  
  My tilt: Mass Effect is incredible. Despite it's technical flaws... it's got me debating as 
 to whether Star Wars is a better science fiction medium. Yeah, that good. 
  
  The Tilt score is 10/10 (Tilt represents 10% of the final score)
  
  Your final score is exactly 
 90% or a 9.0 in Gamespot terms. 
  
  (The calculation method of this score can be found by clicking my profile)
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warwompit
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played a good RPG in a while, and I was a little wary at first with a space RPG, but 
 I was pleasantly surprised with Mass Effect. It has an original and compelling storyline and the 
 multiple dialogs features and Paragon/Renegade feature make the game re-playable several time before 
 you can truly say you've seen all the game has to offer. Traditionally I have only latched on to 
 fantasy RPGs, with the exception of Star Wars: KOTR, (but the aura of anything Star Wars ensures 
 that it takes more effort to ruin a Star Wars RPG than to make it decent) , I digress... PROS: First 
 of all, the game is nice and big! Lots of side-quests and sub-plots ensure that you won't be able 
 to sit down and finish the thing in a day. Second, the variety of NPCs in your little band allow 
 you to really customize the group to your particular tastes; it's quite easy to translate a fantasy 
 based RPG to Mass Effect (warriors, thiefs and mages become soldiers, techs and biotics) . If your 
 a "raging bull" type player you can field a firearm-heavy group. If you prefer to use, shall we 
 say, alternative means of fighting you can do that and still enjoy the game (NOTE: As it seems 
 to be with all RPG's however, the warrior-heavy group has a much easier time AND considering that 
 the death of your character ends the game, the warrior/soldier character always has an advantage) . 
 Another advantage is the storyline. Unlike Star Wars, Bioware had to create everything from scratch 
 and make it original, interesting and engaging without relying to heavy on previous games and movies 
 for inspiration. The freedom to move is another strong advantage. The game is ANYTHING but linear. 
 You can (as I did) do almost every single sub-quest before actually tackling the main plot, and 
 the game is programmed to adjust difficulty to compensate for your current level. No matter what 
 order you do the quests, you won't end up fighting lvl 2 enemies when you are lvl 50. I was also 
 impressed by the attempt at, shall we say game diversity. In one game you have 1st person combat, 
 Twisted Metal-like vehicle combat, dialog driven missions, and even a puzzle game or two thrown 
 in; however, too many cooks can sometimes spoil the broth OR when you try to do everything you 
 end up being Jack of all trades and King of none. Which segues nicely into.... CONS: The game gets 
 a little repetitive. Go to a system, scan/survey all planets, land, drive around looking for resources, 
 do some fighting, go to next system, rinse and repeat. I understand the need for "seek" quests 
 that stretch-out over the duration of the game, but completing those quests gets really boring, 
 really quick. It soon becomes an item on the galactic "to do" list instead of a drawn-out quest. 
 Another aspect of the game that gets repetative involves the cookie-cutter sub-plot maps. Now, 
 I understand that as standard labs, colony buildings, etc. the maps for the sub-quests will, out 
 of storyline and authenticity necessity, be the same, but this is a game set two centuries in the 
 future in space. You're telling me that in 200 years humanity still hasn't escaped the Levittown 
 and pre-fab housing? The AI programming and squad control of your squad are another area where 
 the game comes up a bit short. You can issue general commands, but when I tell my squad to move 
 to cover I intended them to stand BEHIND it! The whole point of cover is to put it BETWEEN yourself 
 and the enemy (sigh) . Additionally, you can only issue movement commands to you squad collectively, 
 rather than being able to give orders to each individually (it shouldn't get too complicated, their 
 are only two of them) . The vehicle sections of the game are my last area of griping. If you and 
 your squad can be upgraded and equipped with better weapons, why not the vehicle too. Weapons and 
 upgrades for you and your party are a dime a dozen (acquiring money is only a problem in the initial 
 part of the game, by the end, I had so much money from selling equipment that I could have bought 
 my own planet) . By introducing upgrades for the vehicle (and of course, more powerful creatures 
 to test those upgrades) the vehicle levels would have widened the gap between an engaging sub-game 
 and simply touring the countryside in search of minerals. GLITCHES: The cut-scenes have a few minor 
 issues, they include whatever NPCs you put in your squad, but in their default equipment. I played 
 an entire level with Ashley in dark red armor, then saw her magically change into that oh so feminine 
 white and pink suit she wore at the beginning of the game. Come on guys, it wouldn't be that hard 
 to fix. It's not a big thing, but it's there. Another glitch (sort of) comes from the games non-linear 
 gameplay. I love the non-linear approach, but if I just came from killing MR. X on planet Y, you 
 need to take out the dialog in all succeeding mission where I act like I've never met him. RATING: 
 Where do I begin? I think everybody messed up here. M for mature? I don't think so. "hell," "damn," 
 b*tch (used once, and the only word censored by Gamespot in the original draft of this review, 
 might I add) and "bastard" (also only once) do not constitute a major "language" problem. Take 
 out the two uses of B-words (which would not hurt the dialog at all) and the language is no harsher 
 than one can hear out in public (or from police and politicians) . Blood? I see more blood when 
 I floss than in this game. As for the sexual themes and "nudity," take out a single two-second 
 section of one cut-scene and voila, no more issue there (I didn't think it really worked for the 
 game anyway) . The only deserved waring is for violence, and anyone who isn't blind should be able 
 to figure that our from the cover. So in the end the developers added unnecessary content and the 
 ESRB overreacted to what was legitimately their. With the exception of the "sex-scene" which shows 
 little more flesh that a walk on any typical college campus in the summer, nothing in this game 
 warrants an M rating, unless of course, Microsoft and BioWare WANTED the M rating on it to boost 
 sales by promising a futuristic Grand Theft Auto. In summary, I cannot criticize the game too much 
 for what it isn't and should focus more on what it is. Mass Effect is an original, engaging RPG 
 that is sure to keep gamers busy and entertained for a long time. Its PROs far outweigh the cons, 
 and the glitches, though annoying, don't detract from the overall experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radx800pro
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  The addictive RPG style character upgrading system along with the immersive story and a very fluid 
 combat system (after you get used to it) makes this my favorite game that's come out in 2007. At 
 the very beginning of the game you have the opportunity to pick a class for your character. The 
 first time through I would recommend the default Soldier. You an always start new games and try 
 different classes which will allow you to use weapons or powers or a combo of both. Another high 
 point is the games length. If you go to complete everything in the game then you'll be getting 
 plus 30 hours. There's not very many games this long and good out there!
  
  Gameplay feels very non linear, even though it really is but you can set out to do the main mission 
 tasks or assignments you will collect throughout the game. The Galaxy you explore as Commander 
 of your own ship is vast and thoroughly enjoyable. You really feel like your in control of the 
 game instead of following a script. The weapons and armor upgrades are limitless it seems. There 
 are so many combinations and weapon addons to fight a particular enemy. After upgrading the sniper 
 rifle a ways, it is a very satisfying way to kill in the game and collect full XP points while 
 out side your vehicle. I wouldn't recommend leaving the Vehicle until you've powered up your armor 
 and shields a ways. 
  
  The Story is another A+ in the game. 
  
  The sound overall is very Immersive. Both the music and weapons/powers effects.
  
  If you have 
 a 360 and haven't tried this game then your in for a good 20-30+ hour treat.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kujosp
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  Terrific game! Lets get to the reasons it's so good!
  Pro's
  +Almost overwhelming in size and scope, wonderful graphics
  +I've never played a game with a 
 better story line.
  +Addictive
  +Lots n lots to do. 
  +Revolutionized speech interaction
  +You set the tone and course of the entire game.
  
  I 
 have some things that drive me nuts
  Con's
  -I hate, absolutely hate getting into fights with the cumbersome vehicle you're given.
  -Something 
 is lacking with the loot gathering and store selling and purchasing. I wish it was laid out better 
 and it was easier to organize while buying and selling.
  -I hate that vehicle, have I mentioned that yet?
  -The worst thing in the game are the glitches. 
 Getting caught on nothing, or falling between something and having to restart is prevalent throughout 
 the game.
  Overall it is the best RPG to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  YAYS
  - stunning graphics and good sound
  - great voice acting
  - fun, real time battle system
  - intense story with many twists and turns
  - dialog options 
 and choices that affect gameplay
  
  NAYS
  - planetary exploration is mundane
  - some menu issues
  - tutorials are mostly non existent
  
  Mass Effect took some time in 
 coming, but the hype it created was well worth it. It is without a doubt one of the best and most 
 immersing RPGs ever created, with an engaging and fun battle system and solid story.
  
  As with many RPGs, you're out to save the world from an evil dude set on destroying it - only here 
 you are on a wild goose chase across the entire galaxy, and you're not a teenager. Instead, you're 
 an adult soldier named Shepard. You begin the game by choosing one of the male or female presets 
 for the main character (or making your own) as well as a background and class. These are important 
 decisions to make: being male or female makes some dialogues and encounters different; the background 
 that you choose will make people treat you differently; and ultimately the class you choose will 
 determine how you will be playing the game.
  
  Regardless of your gender and background, the class that you select will have the most significant 
 impact on gameplay because it dictates how you play it. There are six classes in total, with a 
 Soldier, Adept (magician) and Engineer as the major three classes with the other three as a combination 
 of these. Each class has its own positive and negative attributes but there is always one to suit 
 your style. If you choose a hybrid class though, don't expect to be able to use the best abilities 
 of the two mother classes.
  
  Your journey begins simple enough - you are required to investigate a small planet which serves 
 as a training ground for combat as well as kicking off the story. However, there isn't a solid 
 tutorial on how to battle - the "tool-tip" that shows stays there barely enough for you to read 
 it and it disappears forever. You will not be able to access a tutorial menu, which leaves you 
 to explore the mechanics yourself. You can reset the tutorial, but it resets the tutorial for everything 
 else as well. Having a tutorial menu would have been great.
  
  However, the mechanics are not difficult to master, thanks to the real time and fun battle system. 
 It plays like a third person shooter, similar to Gears of War. You aim at the enemies and pull 
 the trigger. You have four types of weapons to choose from, although the effectiveness of each 
 weapon depends on your class. A Soldier can use all weapons but an Adept can only specialize in 
 pistols.
  
  However, you don't spend the game just gunning down enemies. Just like in KOTOR, you have abilities 
 - biotics in Mass Effect - which means that in most fights you'd be pausing to bring up the command 
 menu and issuing the biotics. Biotics are not directly offensive; they are either defensive or 
 can be used to manipulate the environment, like destroying enemy guns or disabling shields, or 
 throwing enemies around. The biotics are fun to use, and an Adept obviously wields the best biotics 
 that put the enemies into complete chaos and flying about. Using biotics is like shooting enemies 
 - you select a biotic, aim at an enemy and the game unpauses to show you the effect and the fight 
 continues.
  
  Unfortunately though you cannot stack your powers. In other words, you can choose power A, then 
 power B then power C and continue the fight and watch the powers go off. You have to do it one 
 by one, which means you need to pause the firefight more often than you'd like to. Thankfully though 
 it isn't a major annoyance and most likely you'd be pausing anyway to survey the situation.
  
  Out of fighting, you'd be doing a lot of conversations, all of which are meaningful and give 
 insight on the dramatic story - which is one of the best yet. There are so many twists and turns 
 - especially in the last quarter of the game - it is staggering. The choices you make in the conversations 
 affects many things, directly or indirectly. Some of the later choices are quite difficult to make 
 and have enormous impacts on the course of the rest of the gameplay, as well as any sub plots involved. 
 The choices you make - and the actions you do - also add "good points" and "dark points" to you 
 character. Interestingly though, gaining a dark point (renegade) does not deduce the good points. 
 And this adds complexity to your character, meaning you can be generally good or generally bad 
 but with good or bad qualities and decisions.
  
  In fact, the game tries its best to make your character to explore these shades of gray, because 
 it is sometimes best to handle a situation or make a point in a conversation through either options. 
 Also, your characters are equivalently complex - none of them is completely evil or completely 
 angelic and they all have their opinions on matters and scenarios. Add the factor that different 
 species are involved - and there is a sample of most in your party - your choices often have to 
 favor one over the other. This is most evident later in the game, but this might be an effect of 
 decisions made in the early sections of the game as well.
  
  Needless to say, no two play-throughs of Mass Effect will be the same.
  
  While all of this 
 is huge and exciting and allows you to immerse yourself totally in the game, there are aspects 
 in Mass Effect that slightly hinder the game experience. First, exploring other planets is a bit 
 mundane. All the planets you land on - except the ones with the main story involved - have little 
 interaction. You land with your rover - a sort of versatile tank - and explore a completely barren 
 and rocky landscape. There are usually a facility or two to sabotage, a mineral or artifact to 
 uncover, and that is about it. The controls of the rover are easy but the rocky terrain and the 
 floaty nature of the rover make the great distances you have to traverse often frustrating. You 
 also encounter an giant worm enemy sometimes, but it is easy to kill if you stand still from a 
 distance and simply hover when it spits acid on you. I only encountered two of these although other 
 reviewers have encountered more.
  
  The other issue that needs some tweaking is the equipment menu. While it is fine as it is, some 
 menus do not have a back button, and other menus scroll back automatically to the top item when 
 you deconstruct an item further down the list. There is also no fast scroll or "next page", which 
 means if you have a long list of items (which you will) then navigating through the menus can (and 
 will) become cumbersome.
  
  Other than those two, other glitches are minor, like drops in frame rate or the rare occurrence 
 of the AI locking the characters inside some geometry or rendering your allies completely unresponsive. 
 The latter only rarely happens but it might require you to load a saved game.
  
  These issues aside, the graphics are unparalleled. The character models and textures are superb 
 and so is the architecture of the stations you land on. The scale is incredible and well detailed 
 and believable - there is no other game to date with this amount of realism. The voice acting is 
 top notch and not one conversation is over-acted or monotoned.
  
  Overall, Mass Effect is certainly an A-Class game with some minor problems, but they are definitely 
 negligible given the overall excellent experience you'd get in return. If you're into RPGs and 
 if you especially have the KOTOR gene then definitely this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nosnitsttam
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  Most of what i want to say is actually well represented by the gamespot review. I had a few less 
 problems than the editor did, however, and am way more forgiving of some of the smaller flaws in 
 light of how excellent the rest of the game is. 
  
  For example, i didn't really encounter too many thresher maws, and when i did i think i had one 
 respawn beneath me ONCE. and all it did was knock me back and cause a lot of damage. I never got 
 killed instantly nor did i get stuck in the creatures geometry. Also, i didn't have any issues 
 with the AI except for one situation late in the game when one of my squad mates decided to stay 
 put a few hundred feet behind and i had to run back and get them to start moving again. So really 
 i only experienced these "glitches" once each and that was it in my 25+ hour play through. 
  
  Like the editor, I didn't care for the mako all that much but it still had some fun parts. 
 A few things could have made those segments a lot better:
  
  1) More checkpoints. I don't like driving for 10 minutes only to clumsily fall off a cliff, or just 
 get shot to death a few minutes after leaving the mako, and then have to start from the last checkpoint, 
 which happens to be before the driving sequence started (noveria and that dig site where you find 
 liara are especially annoying)
  
  2) Better aiming. How advanced can the mako be when it's cannon can't move up or down. 
  
  3) Customization. 
 Really, if the mako had the same slew of tweaking options available to it's crew, it would be a 
 lot more fun to drive it around the planets.
  
  Aside from the mako, if the game itself received a few tweaks it would be even greater than it 
 is now.
  
  1) More planets.
  
  2) Planets with civilizations on them. not just lifeless rocks full of annoying, uneven terrain. 
 How about some roads? cities? foliage?
  
  3) more variety to the interior levels.
  
  4) yes the menus could be more intuitive but they hardly bothered me.
  
  5) space combat. you 
 mean to tell me i'm flying around alien space and no one is going to bother me? please, i would 
 love some dog fighting or getting boarded by aliens and having to fight them off.
  
  
  Aside from those handful of things, i really really really enjoyed my time with this game. The 
 story, characters, dialog (the best dialog system i have ever seen in a game PERIOD) and amazing 
 graphics really make this game more deserving of at least a 9 (not the 8.5 given from GS) I'm still 
 playing it even after i beat it to get the rest of the achievements and to see all the different 
 turns in the story. I've even stumbled on some new side quests. This is the most fun i've had with 
 my 360 since i downloaded puzzle quest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  First the bad.
  
  The inventory system is horrible, the sidequests seem tedious and unrelated to the primary story, 
 and there are numerous loading screens to be found. TONS of them!
  
  WIth that out of the way, this is easily Bioware's best game since KOTOR, and if it weren't for 
 the drawbacks I mentioned shortly before, might arguably be better.
  
  No one doubts Bioware's ability to tell a good story, and Mass Effect is a great one. Every world 
 introduces a new element to the story, and all of it is handled well, adding to the interwoven 
 plot without feeling thrown in out of nowhere for the sake of patching up a plothole. The vision 
 for this story was enormous, bigger than the 100's of world that exist in the game, and the execution 
 of the story makes sure that the potential is well lived up to.
  
  Much to it's credit, the improved graphics over their former games help make this story stronger. 
 The game is so cinematic during the cutscenes, it makes you forget you're palying a game. It feels 
 more like watching a movie, but movies seldom look this good, or tell stories this well.
  
  This is not to say it's like a Final Fantasy game, where the cinematics obviously overshadow the 
 standard combat. The combat system, while not terribly difficult, does give a sense of urgency 
 and intensity that makes you feel like you're a small recon strike force, going into places other 
 people can't. Which, incidentally, is exactly what your team is, so it succeeds in selling the 
 importance of your missions, and your character's roles in the story.
  
  As per usual, there's a love interest (multiple, actually) , which seems to be a bioware standard 
 in RPG's. Unfortunately, for people that play the game wanting a good one of these (and I'm one 
 of those people) , this is where the story telling is not up to Bioware's typical level of excellence. 
 As a male player, neither woman seem terribly compelling as a love interest, and while revealing 
 facts from these characters develop while persuing the love interes, there is never a sense that 
 these characters are making a genuine connection, and sometimes, it hard to see why they like eachother. 
 There's no sense of clandestined, star crossed love here. At best, it's just two people who find 
 eachother intriguing, and hook up in fear that theie lives are about to end. Which, some might 
 argue, is more realistic, but I don't play space opera sci-fi RPG's for realism. I have real life 
 for lackluster, kinda sorta, and under these circumstances 'why not' relationships.
  
  Romance aside, the characters are wonderfully interesting, both independantly, and in the context 
 of the main story. Bioware has always shined in this respect, and Mass Effect does not srop the 
 ball. Every character, by games end, is well fleshed out, and beyond that, very likable. I can't 
 even make that claim of KOTOR, as a couple of the characters plain annoyed me. All the characters 
 in this game are loaded with integrity, and are very easy to like, and relate to.
  
  I covered the bad, while tiresome at times, does little to affect the main story (outside of loading 
 screens) , so they're not worth going into in detail.
  
  The universe of Mass Effect is large, and the story is absolutely wonderful. It's worth renting 
 a 360 for the weekend, and telling your family and friends you'll see them again on Monday. Bioware 
 fans have waited for a game that would prove that Bioware was bigger than KOTOR, and Mass Effect, 
 while not better, certainly exceeds it on some levels, and creates an equally unique universe just 
 as compelling and worth your time right now, as it was a long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: conquerer34
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  november 20, 2007. mass effect broke personal records. in my mind mass effect is one of the best 
 RPGs in gaming history, my option. the graphics are just outstanding, bioware made up there own 
 alien species and they look like nasa themselves actually took pictures. the good and evil paths 
 offer great diversity to how you play the game and the ending . the weapons are good and get better 
 as you climb up the levels, changin what kind of rounds your guns shoot on the fly depending on 
 the situation is a great thing to have, and adding special upgrades to the weapons, like less recoil, 
 or more accurcy (ignore my spelling) . the combat is outstanding with it fast combat in combination 
 with biotic and tech power, having 1 team-mate pick up and throw a person while a hail of bullets 
 come his way. a stunning combination. the combat feels more real, to me standing in a room with 
 100 enemies doesnt happen that often in the real world, 3 on like 10 is more resonible odds and 
 isnt exaclty that easy, if you and your team mates can do it, so can your foes. the game is really 
 hard, espically at the beginning, where those 10 people will mow you down in seconds. as i was 
 saying being easy isnt this games strongpoint, but its hard to the point it fits perfectly. i enjoy 
 that when you earn an achievement you get a bonus in damage, experience, and such. so as you earn 
 achievments your character becomes more and more of a tank on the battlefeild. this is such a great 
 game that i would even recomend it to even the worst RPG fan in the world, it shines in every aspect 
 of gameply and looks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyhole_romance
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is hands down one of the best RPG's I have ever played. The battle system works like 
 a real time 3rd person shooter, but this is seamlessly integrated into the familiar Bioware game 
 structure that was present in KOTOR and Jade Empire. The game universe is astoundingly huge, there 
 are dozens of solar systems to explore, each with several planets to investigate. It's just a shame 
 that you can't explore more of them, most just provide a basic description of what it is like and 
 deny access to land on the planet and roam about in your six wheel ATV. The character designs are 
 incredibly detailed, and I love that when you change your armor or weapons it actually shows on 
 the character model. The game itself is huge if you take the time to explore everything and do 
 all the secondary missions. My singular complaint with the game is that the interior maps used 
 in the secondary objectives, such as the underground mines, the colonist bases etc. are all the 
 same, and become repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charlord94
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a vast game filled with side quests and story-driven content. Not only is the game 
 engaging, but it's also fun. The combat system effectively combines those of a RPG and a FPS with 
 equal emphasis on each. The dialogue system is much more interactive and fluid than those in other 
 RPGs that is really changes the feel of the game to a sci-fi adventure. My only disappointments 
 with this game is that although it is highly addictive the main plot doesn't last for long. Fortunately, 
 there are huge amounts of side quests for those who want extra content. The other thing that stops 
 this game from getting a ten is the lack of an informational tutorial. A window will pop up telling 
 you how to do something once you look at it in the pause menu and once you close it there doesn't 
 seem to be any way to access the help again. Despite these issues, the combat and dialogue systems 
 are enough to create a sci-fi RPG that is addictive and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegoldenpoo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  let me start by saying this game was a huge thing to pull off, an expansive RPG with a great combat 
 system, stunning visuals, amazing deapth and story plus flawless voice acting makes one hell of 
 a package. 
  The games NPC chat options give you control of even the most minor detail of the story and respoces 
 by characters are both convincing and staggeringly numerous. 
  The combat is best when you use all the bionic and tech powers in your arsenal because playing 
 like a regualr shooter will get you quickly shredded. the game is also best played on the hugher 
 difficulty setings which gives the best all round experience because the lower settings can make 
 things a bit to easy.
  The graphics are none to shabby either, the main worlds in the story look the best with the side 
 planets taking a backseat.
  
  But there are a few things wrong with this game that detract from this colosal effort, there are 
 texture pop-ins quite fequently which can sometimes be annoying but the framerate issues are far 
 exagurated, ive only ever experenced slight dips in framerate very rarely. 
  the unexplored worlds can be very teadious and baren but some can be quite rewarding and the mako 
 can get stuck in the geometry, its gun also has some control and targeting issues plus the threasure 
 maws can be a headace. this issues would ruin some games but mass effect has so much else going 
 for it that these inperfections are worth bearing to enjoy this amazing game
  
  i must have, you canplay it over and over 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: 
  Outstanding story and setting; amazing graphics and sound; lots of character customization.
  
 
  THE BAD: 
  Frame-rate and performance issues; no tutorial; hit or miss AI; clunky inventory system; combat 
 and skills are too simple; more action and less RPG.
  
  Mass Effect has been hyped for years as being one of the 360's most wanted RPGs. From the same 
 company that made KOTOR and Jade Empire, a lot was expected of this game. For the most part, it 
 lives up to these expectations, but it's not without it's flaws.
  
  Mass Effect takes place several hundred years in our future. After discovering alien ruins on Mars, 
 technology advanced drastically, allowing for faster-than-light travel. This let humans join alien 
 races in the galaxy, and quickly gain membership on the Citadel, the political capital of the galaxy.
 
  
  You play the role of Commander Shepard, a human special forces operative out to solve the mysterious 
 return of the Geth. The Geth are a race of highly intelligent machines that haven't been seen in 
 300 years. Now they're back, and out to cleanse the galaxy of organic life.
  
  GAMEPLAY  8
  From the start, you're given nearly full control of your character's development. 
 Although you must be a human character, this is easily over-looked as the story focuses on the 
 human species and their role in the galaxy. You can customize your characters looks, class, and 
 background. One very nice touch is the background info, which will actually be commented on by 
 other characters.
  
  Once you choose these options, you're tossed into the game with very little in the way of an introduction 
 or tutorial. If you have no clue what a Spectre is, you'll need to consult your Codex for more 
 information. Once your first mission begins, the occasional pop-up window will appear to tell you 
 about various options and abilities in combat. But for the most part you will need to discover 
 your skills and abilities on your own. This can lead to some frustrating moments early in the game.
 
  
  Speaking of the combat, ME does a different take on combat from some of their past RPG's. While 
 the combat is fun, the focus is more on 3rd person action similar to Gears of War than RPG number 
 crunching like Knights of the Old Republic. Biotic powers are the equivalent of spells in ME, but 
 you'll need to play around with them to discover how they're best used.
  
  Like most RPG's the skills vary from the very useful, to skills you'll just dump extra points into 
 at level up. Most of the tech skills are useless, and biotic skills are little more than utility 
 spells. In fact, there are only a couple biotic skills that deal direct damage. Most of the damage 
 you do will come from your guns.
  
  This means that certain classes, like the biotic or tech classes are going to rely heavily on your 
 AI teammates for damage. This is less than effective because the poor AI means that your team will 
 likely be firing at enemies that are behind cover, and thus making you waste your skills. Therefore 
 you'll likely want to have a character that has some soldier skills for gun damage.
  
  Also of note is the clunky inventory system. You can only carry 150 items, but you aren't given 
 any kind of screen that can actually tell how close to that limit you are. It does give you some 
 nice side-by-side comparisons of equipped items versus inventory items, but equipping upgrades 
 on your weapons and armor is a pain. You need to go into the upgrade menu to actually see what 
 upgrades you have. Then if you decide not to upgrade an item, you must scroll back to the top of 
 the list and select none, or the previous item. It's just a pain when they could have easily mapped 
 a cancel to the B button.
  
  The combat controls are also a little odd. You use the X button to draw your weapon, and the B 
 button to put it away. While you're in combat the X button has no use, so it's basically wasted 
 the both actions could have been mapped to the game button. The shoulder buttons are mapped to 
 your weapon and skills. Press it for a quick cast or weapon change. Hold it to open a radial menu, 
 which pauses the game. This lets you choose what skills and weapons to use for all party members. 
 The directional pad allows you to issue movement commands to your party, but this is done for both 
 party members. Therefore, if you tell your tougher character to flank an enemy, the weaker one 
 will go with too. This means that you'll be doing most of the legwork in combat. Again putting 
 emphasis on the soldier class.
  
  GRAPHICS  9
  Visually, the graphics are among the best on the 360. ME is a game that really shows what the 360 
 is capable of. The human characters look very realistic, and varied. Their facial and body expressions 
 are outstanding, and do a lot to move away from the "talking head" problem of past RPG's. The aliens 
 however aren't as varied, and some species look completely identical from one to the next. The 
 texture resolution is very high across all characters.
  
  The environments also look outstanding, and very detailed. Although linear in design, the game 
 does a nice job of masking this by adding very detailed backgrounds. You'll frequently notice things 
 like moving ships and smoke in the distance.
  
  The downside to the visuals is the performance issues. Although the graphics are great, you'll 
 frequently encounter texture pop-ins, and frame rate drops. These problems aren't show stopping, 
 but they do get annoying. But perhaps the biggest performance issue is the loading. Even when you're 
 in a level, the game will still occasionally pause in mid-frame for a few seconds while a loading 
 message is overlaid.
  
  SOUND  9
  The sound on the other hand is nearly perfect. The game is fully voiced, and the actors sound great. 
 I couldn't help but get excited waiting for the next dialog screen. The in-game reference guide, 
 called the Codex, is also voiced for the main topics. The sound effects are also well done.
  
  The music is nicely done, and helps pull you into the epic feel of the game. The only problem 
 is that there apparently isn't any combat music. The music, although it does a good job of setting 
 the mood, it's particularly memorable.
  
  VALUE  9
  The main story of ME will take the average player about 15 hours to complete. That's a little short 
 for an RPG, but there are a ton of side quests to occupy your time. ME also encourages multiple 
 play-through. Once you complete the game, you can take your character and use them in a new game. 
 Complete with all their items, credits, and skills.
  
  You also wont be able to unlock all the achievements in one play. In fact, there are several achievements 
 specifically for beating the game multiple times. There are also skill, weapon, and party member 
 related achievements that are impossible to get with just one character.
  
  Mass Effect is sure to please fans of the RPG genre. Although it has graphic performance issues, 
 and the combat isn't as good as it could have been, these issues don't hold back the game much. 
 Mass Effect is trying to simplify the genre to open new players to RPG's. While it isn't as number 
 crunching heavy as other RPG's, it's still a little too complex for the average gamer. 
  
  Therefore, some elements are bound to not please long-time Bioware fans. But these problems are 
 easily over looked. The grand scale of the setting, and epic story are some of the best Bioware 
 has ever done. Mass Effect is an easy contender for RPG of the Year, if not Game of the Year. Here's 
 hoping that the next Mass Effect will be even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trelantana
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is definitely one of the best games this year. Truthfully, if you can see it through 
 to the end, it really deserves a nine out of ten, but until then, it stays at a steady 7.
  
  To start off, the combat system is very ambitious. A cross between RPG and Third-Person Shooter 
 doesn't sound like something that would mix well, but Mass Effect makes them seem like Peanut Butter 
 and Jelly. Each character has 4 weapons: A pistol, a shotgun, an assault rifle, and a sniper rifle. 
 In addition, each character also has an assortment of skills, such as "Throw" or "Lift" that act 
 just like their "Star Wars" force counterparts. The weapons part of the system works great, but 
 sadly, there is not enough room for customization for my, or many RPG fanatics, liking. In addition, 
 there are only a handful of special abilities, and most seem rather lackluster. Sure, it's nice 
 to be able to throw your opponent back several feet, but I would much rather implode his brain, 
 or perhaps turn him into a walking time bomb. All in all, though, the combat is a satisfying experience, 
 albeit few of the battles have an "epic" feel to them.
  
  The game's first REAL caveat is your squad-mate's AI. Their AI is horrible, and sometimes impedes 
 you during battle. incapacitated for the remainder of the battle. Oftentimes, when a large enemy, 
 such as a Geth Prime, was rushing towards us and attacking at close range, they continued to try 
 to snipe enemies from all the way across the map. They continued to do this after I told them to 
 concentrate on the Geth Prime, although the reason behind this boggles my mind. Several times during 
 the game I found it easier to send my squad-mates to their doom, leaving them incapacitated for 
 the remainder of the battle.
  
  Another of the game's downfalls is it's difficulty level, or rather, the consistency of it's difficulty 
 level. The battles often jump from super-easy to nigh-impossible, and then back to super-easy for 
 no reason. This would turn off most players, and caused me to stop playing the game for a good 
 2 days. (And a good two days that was!)
  
  Another horrible, yet almost unmentionable con to this game is it's elevators. Yes, I understand 
 that they are disguised loading screens, but the first time I stepped into one of the offending 
 elevators, I actually came to the conclusion that the game had crashed/glitched and was stuck. 
 Not because the screen froze, but because the elevator ride was at least one minute long. Yes, 
 you heard me right, one minute. Yes, this is only a superficial problem, but it could have been 
 remedied easily. How, you ask? By placing a small loading bar across the bottom of the screen during 
 elevator rides to show the loading progress. But I digress, for now I am just ranting.
  
  The game's coup de grce is it's story. This is where the game really shines. First of all, all 
 the game's main characters have a complete back story, and are fully fleshed out. I actually found 
 it fun to ask them about their past, and their hopes and dreams, and other such things, and also 
 was surprised to be worried about angering or upsetting some of them with my questions. The main 
 story is even better than the back stories. It is well written, very engrossing, and has numerous 
 plot twists that most people don't see coming. And I didn't notice any of the common  
 events. 
  
  In conclusion, Mass Effect is a great game that should be owned and not rented. It deserves a 9 
 out of 10 for it's engrossing story and well designed characters, but I have to give it a 7 out 
 of 10, simply because most people that play the game will not beat it, and without the story the 
 game falls short on BioWare's promises of the game's innovation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnfrusciantex
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I could not even begin to fit this game into one word that described it, so like the comcast commercials, 
 I used a phrase: Unbelievably awesome intense immense almighty invigorating superb game play enriched 
 with heavenly acting combined with a dramatic exciting immersed fun interesting story. I cannot 
 tell you how this game has affected me, and in only 3 hrs and 45 mins. of game play! 
  
  Pros: STORY AMAZING! ACTING IS THE BEST IVE HEARD EVER! I (as you know) didn't like many RPG games 
 except KOTOR I and II. This game gave me a new perspective on RPG's, and the genre. The game had 
 a fufilling combat (for me at least) . The sound, the emotions generated by the characters and music 
 really made me feel proud, and in the game. When I became a specter, I felt a new emotion that 
 I never felt inside a game or movie, I felt pride 
  virtual pride, I blocked out the problems with my life, and fell in LOVE with the game. Plus I 
 haven't even seen a single glitch, or bug, or offset motion by the enviroment, or characters. Plus 
 there really aren't any loading screens in the game, you either see a view of the thriving citadel, 
 a city, or you talk with your companions in the elevator! 
  
  Cons: Cons should not even be mentioned with this game!
  
  Overall: I would like to extend 
 an invitation to the greatest game EVER created, better than any halo, better than any KOTOR or 
 any game! This game is priceless. I also hear the replay value is amazing, because my friend played 
 it 5 times, with different classes each time, and he still hasn't done every side quest in the 
 game. I was impressed, and I will enjoy playing this for hours. BUY IT! I actually did! I ask you, 
 no I will tell you it is worth it, worth all your  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wendyxo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  From the start of the game the story kicks in and i got hook. It start off slow until you get the 
 hang of it, but after the first two mission's you cant put this game down. my blood was pumping 
 the whole game the story is that good. the game play is great to. the controls for your team is 
 very easy to get use to. i all so never got a game with some much interface with your team. the 
 storys each one tells you is just mind blowing. They even put in a little love story line like 
 they all way do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cross28
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect surppased that of Jade Eimpire, and Knights Of The Old Republic. It did have some flaws, 
 a few little gliches here and there. But all and all this was just a unbelieveable game, Bioware 
 really put alot of heart in to Mass Effect. The story Alone, should get ppl to play. It had so 
 many twist and turn's that it kept you on your toes, and intreasted all the way to the end. The 
 choices you had to make, some of them were not easy to do, I felt so bad when I made a choice that 
 mite get one of my crew killed, but god what a ride that was. You can't not talk bout this game 
 and not mention the beautiful and jaw dropping graphics on this game, every character, and every 
 new planet you visited was a new Beautiful place to see. The characters them selves were all so 
 well done, each and every peice of their clothing to their facial movements were all well done. 
 The controls were alil stiff, but well mapped, and well done. They could of fine tuned them alil, 
 but they got the job done. After finishing the first in this seires, I truly can't wait to see 
 were the next one will take me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huskerman34
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  When i rented mass effect i was blown away. I had played knights of the republic for the xbox so 
 i was use to the game play. I was in awe of the graphics and gameplay. The character detail and 
 the story line was awesome. the only knock on the game is the vehicle physics, Ai , and the levels 
 were repetitiive. Since Bioware is now own by EA , I dont see a sequel coming out which would be 
 very heart renching. 
  
  Man if the people of fasa would of used the same kind of technique with Shadowrun it would of been 
 a whole lot better. If anybody remembers the days of the original shadowrun with nes and genisis 
 they could relate to what im saying. Playing mass effect reminds me of playing shadowrun of old. 
 Its a must own for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jorlen
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  This is my first Bioware RPG, at least since they started making them for consoles. I knew their 
 track record with KOTOR and Jade Empire, I heard they were great but never played them. I decided 
 to start with Mass effect, and wow, I am impressed.
  
  I'm not going to delve in crazy detail as other reviewers have done it already (check out IGN's 
 review) .
  
  What I will tell you however, is that if you love RPGs and you enjoy sci-fi elements (a la star 
 trek / star wars) then you will absolutely LOVE the Mass Effect universe that Bioware has created. 
 It's nothing short of breathtaking.
  
  The amount of detail and depth in this game makes me wish that this sort of RPG was more common 
 on the XBOX 360. In Mass Effect, you have a living breathing universe filled with unique and quirky 
 alien races and you'll interact with them all, discovering all the backstory, politics and history. 
 The amount of time and imagination that went in Mass Effect's races and universe is startling and 
 I don't think it's ever been done before.
  
  Game-wise you have your different elements, such as interacting with characters (on your ship, 
 or the Citadel or on land) but you also have your other elements that come into play. Combat is 
 done a lot like Gears of War, and you will explore some (but not all) planets using the Mako, a 
 sort of land rover vehicle mounted with a machine gun and zooming-in cannon. You'll also be able 
 to explore the milky way with the amazing galaxy map system in the game. It gives you a non-linear 
 feel allowing you to visit planets and explore them or do side quests, instead of sticking to the 
 main plot. It's an awesome system and reminds me of the good old Star Control games back in the 
 day.
  
  However, what really shines in Mass effect is the interaction between you and all the interesting 
 characters in the game. The models and voice acting are absolutely superb. I don't think I've seen 
 this much facial detail in any models ever. Also, the different dialog options in conversations 
 are really cool, giving you choices that can effect certain situations / quests. It really feels 
 like you're in control and not just following some set dialog of which you have no choice over.
 
  
  The RPG elements are done well - you and your team mates will level up and get new skills and gear. 
 There are 6 classes, some include hybrids, but the main added elements (other than the pure solider) 
 are biotics and electronics (adept / engineer) . With biotics you can create rifts, throw enemies 
 back or even throw things at them. Engineer-based skills let you decrypt containers and stuff for 
 more loot and also affect enemies in different ways (make their guns explore, etc) .
  
  
  All in all, the many elements of Mass Effect come together as one to make an amazing gaming experience, 
 like none I've ever had before. A few dings keep it from being a perfect 10, unfortuantely. There 
 are some technical issues (popping in textures and some frame rate issues) as well as some annoyances 
 with the way the game handles equipment / loot management, but once you get used to the system, 
 it becomes a minor issue.
  
  Basically, if you like RPGs and you enjoy a good solid sci-fi world, then you absolutely MUST play 
 this game. Hell, even those who don't like sci-fi just have to play this game. It's one of the 
 best titles I've tried on xbox 360 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antimat0r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  I dont have many RPG's. not that i dont like that, just that with all the sub missions, i dont 
 have enough free time. But for mass effect, ill make an exception.
  
  Mass effect have a very interesting story which draws you in as well as awesome graphics, and playing 
 it through for a second time have learnt so much more. Because the game is one large sandbox with 
 countless planets to travel to, and you can speak to most AI you can easily take a different route 
 each time.... or even miss out parts and still complete the game. You can choice what dialog to 
 say in almost every situation which is alot more fun then it sounds, 'some reporter annoying you..... 
 then punch her, or give a nice informative interview'.
  
  The stat building for your character is clever, as it keeps you interesting in the 'grinding' parts 
 of the game and the biotic in-combat 'pausing' works really well to help cope with several or more 
 foes at a time.
  
  A must get game for RPG fans........ scrap that, A must get game for gamers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isual
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  but i bought mine used. ^_-. If your an RPG fan, and done with Oblivion on 360 then this game would 
 be best to supplement your taste for RPGs. As in most western RPGs, you don't follow a story rather 
 you create your own. Its not as 'sandboxed' like in oblivion, but more of a mix of following a 
 story and choosing choices in conversations that determine you character/s path.
  
  From a technical standpoint the game looks great, facial expressions are good yet during some combat 
 scenes when the fighting gets tough there may be some 'lag'. another thing that may turn some off 
 is the loading, while Bioware was intricate enough to 'mask' the loading by using elevators some 
 gamers, such as I, may be turned off because you had to 'wait' a couple of seconds. (10 to 15?) 
 to be brought to the next area. (oblivion vets may not care at all because of the constant use 
 of fast travel ahaha.)
  
  sidequest wise theres A LOT to do. yet they're all repetitive unless you want to do the achievements 
 which require them. look at the hints and cheats of mass effect here for more info. (achievement 
 points, HUZZAH!)
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  First the bad.
  
  The inventory system is horrible, the sidequests seem tedious and unrelated to the primary story, 
 and there are numerous loading screens to be found. TONS of them!
  
  WIth that out of the way, this is easily Bioware's best game since KOTOR, and if it weren't for 
 the drawbacks I mentioned shortly before, might arguably be better.
  
  No one doubts Bioware's ability to tell a good story, and Mass Effect is a great one. Every world 
 introduces a new element to the story, and all of it is handled well, adding to the interwoven 
 plot without feeling thrown in out of nowhere for the sake of patching up a plothole. The vision 
 for this story was enormous, bigger than the 100's of world that exist in the game, and the execution 
 of the story makes sure that the potential is well lived up to.
  
  Much to it's credit, the improved graphics over their former games help make this story stronger. 
 The game is so cinematic during the cutscenes, it makes you forget you're palying a game. It feels 
 more like watching a movie, but movies seldom look this good, or tell stories this well.
  
  This is not to say it's like a Final Fantasy game, where the cinematics obviously overshadow the 
 standard combat. The combat system, while not terribly difficult, does give a sense of urgency 
 and intensity that makes you feel like you're a small recon strike force, going into places other 
 people can't. Which, incidentally, is exactly what your team is, so it succeeds in selling the 
 importance of your missions, and your character's roles in the story.
  
  As per usual, there's a love interest (multiple, actually) , which seems to be a bioware standard 
 in RPG's. Unfortunately, for people that play the game wanting a good one of these (and I'm one 
 of those people) , this is where the story telling is not up to Bioware's typical level of excellence. 
 As a male player, neither woman seem terribly compelling as a love interest, and while revealing 
 facts from these characters develop while persuing the love interes, there is never a sense that 
 these characters are making a genuine connection, and sometimes, it hard to see why they like eachother. 
 There's no sense of clandestined, star crossed love here. At best, it's just two people who find 
 eachother intriguing, and hook up in fear that their lives are about to end. Which, some might 
 argue, is more realistic, but I don't play space opera sci-fi RPG's for realism. I have real life 
 for lackluster, kinda sorta, and under these circumstances 'why not' relationships.
  
  Romance aside, the characters are wonderfully interesting, both independantly, and in the context 
 of the main story. Bioware has always shined in this respect, and Mass Effect does not drop the 
 ball. Every character, by games end, is well fleshed out, and beyond that, very likable. I can't 
 even make that claim of KOTOR, as a couple of the characters plain annoyed me. All the characters 
 in this game are loaded with integrity, and are very easy to like, and relate to.
  
  I covered the bad, while tiresome at times, does little to affect the main story (outside of loading 
 screens) , so they're not worth going into in detail.
  
  The universe of Mass Effect is large, and the story is absolutely wonderful. It's worth renting 
 a 360 for the weekend, and telling your family and friends you'll see them again on Monday. Bioware 
 fans have waited for a game that would prove that Bioware was bigger than KOTOR, and Mass Effect, 
 while not better, certainly exceeds it on some levels, and creates an equally unique universe just 
 as compelling and worth your time right now, as it was a long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axxe428
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of those rare games that innovates in so many different ways that it redefines 
 the way that games like it are made. The dialogue tree system, massive amount of recorded voice 
 acting, realistic characters and epic story are the core components that make Mass Effect such 
 a great gaming experience.
  You take on the role of Commander Shepard, a special forces marine whose heroic exploits have made 
 him (or her) a prominent figure in the human Systems Alliance military. And by taking on the role, 
 I mean that everything about Commander Shepard is yours to change, from the character's sex and 
 appearance to background and profession choices. I spent hours playing with the multitude of appearance 
 options, making my Commander Shepard everything from a Terminator look-a-like to a pale goth chick. 
 This has got to be the deepest character creation system to date in terms of appearance.
  There are three main classes, soldier, engineer and adept, and three hybrid classes to choose from. 
 The soldier is a straight up combatant, the engineer specializes in tech skills, such as overloading 
 the weapons and shields of enemies, and the adept uses biotic powers to manipulate reality, lifting, 
 throwing, freezing or warping enemies with psychic energy.
  As Commander Shepard, you are thrown into the forefront of a galaxy spanning conflict against a 
 rogue Spectre named Saren. Spectres are exceptionally trained and experienced soldiers, shadow 
 operatives who answer only to the Citadel Council, the ruling body of Citadel Space, which spans 
 most of the Milky Way. Saren has gone rogue, and has an army of Geth, a machine race, at his disposal.
 
  Throughout the 20+ hour adventure (not including an estimated extra 15-20 hours in sidequests) , 
 you will gain allies (and possible romantic interests) as you attempt to track down Saren and stop 
 him from unleashing an ancient destructive force on the galaxy. It is an epic adventure, spanning 
 a galaxy fleshed out with so much background detail, it almost rivals Star Wars with the sheer 
 amount of information given in the Codex entries and planetary information. 
  There are several key moments in the game that you will have to make. Those decisions will affect 
 how the game ends and whether you choose to play as a paragon (a nice guy) or a renegade (a bad 
 ass) will affect the ending, as well as which of your partymembers will potentially be dead.
  The combat in Mass Effect is a mixed bag, and probably the weakest element of the game. You play 
 in a third person perspective and engage your enemies along with two partymembers, who you can 
 command by issuing orders with the D-pad. There is a cover mechanic in Mass Effect, similar to 
 Gears of War, but it is not implemented as well as Gears, leading to several instances when you 
 order your team mates to take cover, only to have them stand next to cover and continue firing 
 in the open. You always have four weapons to choose from, as do your companions: an assault rifle, 
 which does decent damage, but tends to be inaccurate and overheats often, a shotgun, which does 
 heavy damage at close range, but also has overheating problems, a sniper rifle for precision firing, 
 and a pistol, which surprisingly is your best choice for an all around weapon, as it has good damage 
 and accuracy, and rarely overheats. These weapons can be augmented with mods that you find throughout 
 the game, which affect the weapon's damage, give bonuses to damage certain enemy types, penetrate 
 shields easier, and give the weapon more accuracy or heat efficiency.
  Using weapons and powers in combat is easy, thanks to the skill and weapon wheels pulled up by 
 the left and right shoulder buttons on the controller. When you pull up the skill or weapon wheel, 
 the action pauses and you can either change weapons or select which skills you and your partymembers 
 will use. When you use skills, they begin a cooldown timer, so use them wisely, as several major 
 battles in the later stages of the game are very tough if you fail to use your party's talents 
 efficiently. You can change your partymember AI when the game starts or in the options menu to 
 allow them to use skills automatically, only in defensive situations or not at all. I highly recommend 
 that you set the party AI to not use skills at all, as you will find that your partymembers use 
 their skills poorly at best and waste their powers if left to their own devices. Speaking of AI, 
 the enemy intelligence in Mass Effect ranges from plain dumb to frustratingly good. Most basic 
 Geth and human opponents will charge right at you or stand and fire without bothering to use cover. 
 These opponents are overcome easily, however the specialized Geth units and the few boss fights 
 that you have to deal with can cause you to pull your hair out. Just have patience and use your 
 party's skills wisely and you will prevail. 
  Mass Effect has great visuals, but BioWare apparently has not yet perfected their rendering skills, 
 because like in KotOR the rendered layers on the character models pop in during gameplay. Not a 
 game killer, but it definetly distracts from the gameplay. In addition to the rendering problem, 
 the game tends to freeze for a second or two when new areas are loading, and the frame rate tends 
 to dip in combat as well. Once again, not a game killer, but it could have been avoided by giving 
 players an option to save area information onto their hard drive, much like a PC game, in order 
 to lessen or eliminate area loads while exploring. The shining achievement in the visuals department 
 are the digital actors that you interact with during the game. The different humans and aliens 
 you encounter all appear believably lifelike, and their facial epressions as they converse with 
 you make them seem real.
  The sound in Mass Effect is great, and the voice acting top notch. BioWare lined up some Hollywood 
 talent for the voice work, with Keith David, Seth Green, Lance Hendrikson and Marina Sirtis giving 
 excellent performances. The weapons and explosions in the game sound good, and the ambient sounds 
 of the areas you explore immerse you in the world, whether you're visiting the night club Flux 
 in the Citadel, or fighting Geth on Ferros. 
  The music of Mass Effect is a mix of orchestal themes and dark, synth-heavy background music reminiscent 
 of 80's sci-fi movies such as The Terminator and The Thing. It seems like those two musicl styles 
 would not mesh well together, but they both effectively convey the mood of the game when present.
 
  Replay value is high, as you'll want to start up a new character and try different things once 
 the end credits finish rolling. There is also a new game + mode, which lets you start the game 
 again with a character you finished the game with, allowing you to max out your skills and gather 
 more cash in order to get the best gear in the game. Depending on how you play the game, no two 
 playthroughs will be the same, as each character in the game has multiple dialogue options based 
 on the choices you make.
  In conclusion, whether you are an RPG fan, a science fiction fan, or just a video game fan, Mass 
 Effect has something for you. It will not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgbell
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  
  I have come across a great error in Mass Effect. After thoroughly enjoying Jade Empire, I was hoping 
 for great things and pre-ordered the special edition of the game.
  
  Mass Effect is a great achievement in many ways however when I discovered it was impossible to 
 play as a male character and romance a male character, but it is possible to play as a female character 
 and romance a female character (the character may be an asexual alien but has all the archetypal 
 features of an attractive female human) , I felt most upset and let down by BioWare, a company that 
 I had previously held in high regard.
  
  I believe the omission must have been a deliberate decision as BioWare could have actually written 
 and programmed less with just one male and one female love interest, with (male) Kadian's romance 
 plot only being used by the female lead. By giving 10 gamer points for the completion of a romance 
 sub-plot they make it clear that this element of the story should be experienced but without the 
 inclusion of a male/male romance.
  
  What confused me further over the decision to not allow a male/male relationship to develop was 
 that the Jade Empire release didn't make this omission; in its romance sub-plot it was possible 
 to have a male/male relationship. I understand that Mass Effect is a more mainstream release than 
 Jade Empire and that the target market of Mass Effect is not predominantly young homosexual men, 
 but by not including the male/male romance plot effectively says that it is wrong for mainstream 
 consumption; an archaic attitude to adopt for such a contemporary company.
  
  When you consider the success of The Sims in the mainstream and the representation of male/male 
 female/male and female/female relationships in the game you can understand my confusion over BioWare's 
 choice not to be fully representative.
  
  What I felt was the hardest to stomach was that throughout the game the lead character is challenged 
 over her/his decision to have a diverse selection of contemporaries and co-workers, clearly promoting 
 diversity on one hand but then effectively ignoring homosexual men exist.
  
  I have written to massinfo@bioware. com asking for a response to inform me why the omission was 
 thought necessary if only to restore some of my faith in a company which did make games I considered 
 art. I would encourage everyone else to do so too.
  
  S G Bell
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thankspete
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I just don't have the time or inclination for this sort of thing! I'm talking about investing time 
 and energy on a game that is not given 100% by it's developers. The competion out there is just 
 too stiff and BioWare needs to not do things in a seemingly half-cocked fashion! The bar has been 
 set by other developers. Anyone wishing to get into this business, or to continue in this business 
 MUST meet or exceed that bar.
  
  From a graphical standpoint, the game is good but not on par with... say... Gears! From a gameplay 
 standpoint Mass is great for a 1998 game. But, this is 2008 people! Getting stuck in an elevator 
 or in a room or in some rocky crevase is just not going to cut peoples! It's just NOT GOING TO 
 CUT IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darren_ankney
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is way up there on the immersive-o-meter :) As RPGs go - this one is among the best. 
 The only reason not to give it a 10 is that some of the worlds that you can land on don't feel 
 quite complete somehow, and it lacks a certain intuitiveness to using the interface. This doesn't 
 take much away from the game play, however, they are some very minor annoyances at best.
  
  You really feel involved with the politics of the galaxy almost from the very beginning, in a way 
 much more meaningful than previous attempts at this. I can't quite put my finger on it, I guess 
 they just did a really nice job of simulating some political discussions etc...
  
  Wandering around doing side quests is fun as well, perhaps more so than in other RPGs as each of 
 them seem somehow relevant to the overall world and not just plopped in there for no good reason.
 
  
  I haven't gotten terribly far into the game, but have played it enough to know that it delivers 
 on the hype! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saren_X_Box360
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect should definetly be in the Top Ten ever Rpgs. The mixture of Adventure and Combat makes 
 the game almost impossible not to play. It starts of quite slow after you finish on the first planet 
 because there is lots of movie bits but you can skip them by pressing X. There is lots of side 
 missions. There is also lots of weapons and armour you find through traveling to different planets 
 and through decrypting crates and weapon lockers. You can choose between different classes. The 
 different classes are:
  
  Soldier
  The soldier is a tough warrior, able to deal with a range of combat situations. They get the best 
 range of weapons and can wear Heavy Armour.
  
  Adept
  The Adept is the ultimate biotic, able to affect the physical world with the power of the mind. They 
 can use biotics to manipulate objects in the environment and nearby enemy targets. I am currently 
 and Adept
  
  VanGuard
  The Vanguard is a powerful combatant, able to combine the effective power of the Adept and the 
 Soldier. The mixture of Fire Power and Biotics helps to destroy anything and anyone in your path.
 
  
  Sentinel
  The Sentinel is the most flexible class, able to combine Tech and Biotics to to manipulate the 
 environment, disable and attack enemies or defend the party.
  
  Engineer 
  The engineer is a Tech specialist , able to quickly and easily manipulate the environment with 
 specific skills.
  
  Infiltrator
  The infiltrator is a tech savvy warrior, able to win battles by quickly disabling and killing their 
 enemies. I was an Infiltrator when i first played it.
  
  Have fun killing
  
  Saren_X_Box360
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thaid
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I enjoyed this game, but it was not all I hoped for. The story 
 was great. Moving. Deep. The dialog was superb. The music was moving. The game play was good once 
 you realized you weren't playing Gears of War even though Bioware stole the perspective as well 
 as the rowdy run. The issues I had with this game revolve around the lack of unique content, and 
 the graphical glitches. 
  Let this be said, if all of Mass Effects' content where as varied and detailed as the Citadel or 
 Illos, I would have been truly happy, but whether the issue was a technical limitation or time 
 constraint, Bioware chose to rubber stamp a ton of the same assets everywhere and just slap a different 
 name on it or add a slight modifier in order to pass it off as something new. This reminds me of 
 the Clark Kent vs. Superman distinction: Hey that can't be Clark. He's not wearing glasses! I'm 
 sure Bioware will fix this via downloadable content in the future, but if the content isn't truly 
 unique, they'll have to hock their wares on someone else cause I'm not buying any of it. The other 
 gripe I had regarding this game is the constant updating of the onscreen graphics. It seemed like 
 whenever you moved to a new area or during some of the cinematic cut scenes, you'd see the polygons 
 first, and then each individual layer would paint onto the screen prior to playing the next segment 
 of the game, (minor irritant, but noticeable) . Overall an interesting and engaging experience, 
 that is hampered by repeated assets, and sporadic glitches in the graphics.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conker36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  This will be a short review.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are great in this game, extreme detail in faces, characters, and enviroments, 
 etc....
  
  Gameplay: Fun after you get used to it, the fighting is so different from Knights of the old republic 
 and Jade empire, it took me awhile to get fully used to the fighting and using powers, though fights 
 don't last very long, even in boss battles which kinda dissapoints me, but its still fun nonetheless.
 
  Outside of combat the gameplay is still great with plenty things to do, with many side quest , 
 plenty of main quests to do and enough planets to explore.
  
  Sound: Good soundtrack, great voice acting, good battle noises, and just good overall.
  
  Story: Great 
 and original story with great characters. One of the best video game plots for awhile.
  
  Problems: the problems with Mass effect are few but irritating to say the least, like loading issues 
 where you'll be walking around and it freezes up and says loading at the bottom of the screen, 
 and some minor texturing issues, and sometimes poor framerate. These few things kept it from a 
 perfect score.
  
  Bioware has delivered yet again with another masterpiece!
  Buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlywhispers
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  I'm going to make this a short review.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful enviroments, beautiful charachter models. Every thing is just beautiful. 10/10
 
  
  Sound: Great voice acting. Top notch, the best I have heard in a game. Sound effects are amazingly 
 good too. The music is epic and captures the mood perfectly. 10/10
  
  Gameplay: Such a great game. The rpg elements and the dialog choices pull you into this game as 
 deep as anyother game ever brought you. The combat is ok. Its fun, but the shooting isnt like your 
 average shooter that you would expect it to be. Its still fun. This game is still amazing. 10/10
 
  
  Now this game has so many technical problems, that its not even funny. I got disc read error PLENTY 
 of times on this game. The frame rate drops faster then a hoe getting her first customer on a slow 
 day. The game freezes alot too. This took away the experiance for me, but the game is still great. 
 So The overall score for me is 9.8. But this system wont let me do a 9.8. lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opalescent
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:06 am PT
Review:  In it's golden years, BioWare released the likes of Baldur's Gate II, recognized, even today in 
 the day of space age graphics, as one of the best RPGs ever released. It, alongside its brothers 
 Fallout and Planescape: Torment, was considered one of the premier RPGs not only of its day, but 
 of all time. That was quite a feather in BioWare's cap. Does Mass Effect live up to the lofty bar 
 that Baldur's Gate II set? Not quite. Is it still worth looking at? Absolutely.
  
  The combat seems heavily borrowed from first person shooters, which is perhaps as it should have 
 been. While it's certainly functional, it can be somewhat frustrating. For instance, when Commander 
 Shephard "dies", the game ends. This is a step backwards from KOTOR, where when Revan dies, the 
 other members can continue fighting (and at the end of the combat, everyone is revived) . 
  
  Another gripe I have is the fact that there are what seems to be several steps backward in 
 terms of how the role playing seems to be carried out. Personally, while it's amusing how you can 
 choose various different ways to respond to various NPCs, and see different kinds of reactions, 
 it seems to come at the price of your teammates.
  
  In Baldur's Gate II, there were two things: banters, and interjections, that really added personality 
 to each of your teammates. Occasionally, by random, two members of your party will speak to each 
 other. Through these conversations, which are sometimes hilariously funny, sometimes painfully 
 sad, sometimes very revealing, you learn a lot about the character of the people you travel with.
 
  
  Other times, when you're speaking to an NPC, a party mate might interject with a comment. These 
 interjections, too, reveal a character's ... well ... character. For some reason, BioWare toned 
 both of these down. I could count the number of interjections I've seen on one hand. As for banters, 
 they only occur during long elevator rides, and only occasionally.
  
  Some might claim that interrupting gameplay for two team mates to talk to each other is disruptive 
 to gameplay. If this were an FPS, I'd agree. But this isn't a first person shooter: although it 
 has guns and can occasionally be played from a first person perspective, it's first and foremost 
 an RPG. And as an RPG, such "interruptions" are not only not interruptions at all, but sometimes 
 necessary to advance the character of the team mates.
  
  In Baldur's Gate, having a party with the delicate elf Aerie and the brutish dwarf Korgan results 
 eventually in a dual to the death between the two. You just couldn't have them both in the same 
 party, because they WILL be at each other's throats. In life, as it should be in RPGs, such situations 
 should be the case. Not for every character, of course, that'd be silly, but I was sad to see that 
 you could put a Krogan with a Turian, and besides some acidic comments in an elevator, they're 
 happy to work together throughout the whole game.
  
  Ironically, I also feel that there just isn't enough dialog. I find that ironic because BioWare 
 was careful to make sure everyone knew just how much of it was in Mass Effect (a lot, apparently) . 
 Yet despite that, I didn't get enough of a "feel" of my compatriots to really get close to them. 
 For an example of a game that really got me close to characters, I would say FF7, or Baldur's Gate 
 II, or especially Planescape: Torment. 
  
  Here in Mass Effect, i primarly see characters as vessels to hold talents, and not really as people 
 I felt particularly deeply about. And before you say, "but you didn't play long enough with them", 
 I played with Garrus (the Turian) from the moment I got him all the way to the end of the game. 
 Twice. I still didn't really feel for the character beyond as a useful talent-holder.
  
  I guess what disappoints me most about Mass Effect was that it was produced by a company that has 
 produced better RPGs in the past. In my opinion, in terms of being an RPG (and ignoring other factors 
 like graphics) , KOTOR, Baldur's Gate II, and even Jade Empire were better. They were deeper, and 
 the characters more in-depth. It just really seemed like BioWare was trying to appeal so much to 
 the FPS crowd, they were leaving some of the RPG crowd in the dust.
  
  Some people might say I'm being too hard on Mass Effect, but I feel that RPGs should be held to 
 a higher standard than other game types. An FPS doesn't need a particularly strong storyline. Even 
 if its story is absolute garbage, if it has cool and unique weapons, good collision detection, 
 fun maps, good multiplayer, and good gameplay, then it doesn't matter as much. 
  
  But for an RPG, story is everything, and half of any story are the characters. If an RPG is a play, 
 then the characters are the actors on the stage. And here, in Mass Effect, I feel it's like watching 
 a play where great actors are hamstrung by lack of lines to say. It's a bit sad when NPCs BESIDES 
 your team mates get more screen time than your team mates themselves, when it should be the other 
 way around.
  
  Now that I've finished bashing the things I don't like about the game, here's what I like about 
 it:
  
  The game's truly epic. You feel like you're in a huge universe, and the fate of that universe is 
 on your shoulders.
  
  The humans are not the top dogs of the universe. I love that. I hate games and movies (*ahem!* 
 Star Wars *ahem!*) that just assume for some reason that humans are dominant. Here, we're the underdogs, 
 trying hard to play galactic politics to get some leverage; any leverage.
  
  The bad guy is truly awesomely evil. I love Saren as a villain, and I thought he was on par with 
 Malak as a good foil to your character.
  
  The graphics (despite annoying popping) are top-notch. The only gripe here is that apparently everything 
 in the future is scrubbed with Spik & Span, because everything's so shiny.
  
  When you DO get to talk to your team mates (not anywhere, as was the case with KOTOR and Baldur's 
 Gate II, but only on the Normandy, and only after major events) , the voicing is spot on, and the 
 dialog engrossing and believable.
  
  My final conclusion is that Mass Effect is a solid RPG. If you're into epic galactic romps this 
 is the game for you. But while it's a great RPG, it's a far cry from BioWare's truly great creations. 
 I'm still waiting for BioWare to make the equivalent of Baldur's Gate III, a game that truly caters 
 to RPG fans and just RPG fans, that takes storytelling as its primary mission rather than an incidental 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johndoelling
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  I looked forward to this game for sooooo long that i was worried i would be dissapointed... but 
 thank god i was not! This game is great... fun to play.. good story line.. decent graphics.... good 
 soundtrack... HOWEVER on to the bad :) while playing the game with the bionics (special powers 
 u can obtain) it seems like a cheap knock off of star wars! all the bionic powers are damn near 
 the same and they just dont dazzle u or awe u in any way whatsoever... they are boring... it almost 
 seems they wanted to give u force powers in the game! there is probably 20 planets u can visit 
 that are aside from the main quests but the area is the size of someones backyard at their house.. not 
 very exciting at all... all the areas that u can go to on these planets ARE IDENTICAL!!! all the 
 buildings are the same most of the people u fight are the same and all the treasure u find in the 
 game is EXACTLY the same!! the inventory system does suck! the money system and things u can buy 
 also suck!! its like they made a 6 hour game and added 12 hours of fluff to pad it so it can seem 
 like a decent length game.. its unfortunate that they did it cause the fluff of the game is enourmous!! 
 seems like the developers were in a rush to put a product out and make some money.. hopefully they 
 wont short change us again on part 2.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dangerdrifter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  This game has an amazing story beginning, middle, end, and lead-in. I've seen alot of games try 
 and fail and try again, but in the end still fail When I see a game that just sound fun I usually 
 play it and I'm not impressed well this game to say the nothing short of perked my ears. when I 
 first stared to play it of course I experimented with all my choices to start off with and each 
 choice impressed me the soldiers skills are nice, the engineers skills are more useful then the 
 soldiers Because your fighting robots, the adepts skills make it the hardest character to use because 
 it gets no weapon training but for the training in the skills it gets and the skills themselves 
 are extremely fun to use for the most part. If you are looking for a more long term use go with 
 the tech cause it gets increases in the medi skills you need through out the game, but If you prefer 
 the more playful role then go with the Biotec, and if you are the kindda person into Kamkazi runs 
 the soldier is your bread and butter the only class I did not like was the sentinel Class It needs 
 work. Anyway, the story has alot of tricks and turns and really no dead ends which I like. The 
 shooter-R. P. G. style was a good combo it worked out better than I imagined it would. I like the 
 fact that your character is able to be both friend and foe through its attitude. The weapons, armor 
 and mods are very effective if not over killing which is a plus for me. The Graphics and game play 
 are by all means award winning the flow of the game is smooth, but highly unpredictable in most 
 of the game it may not be over all a long game but it is well worth your time and ability this 
 game is by no means a Childs game I would say if you are a teen or young adult you may need to 
 ask your parents because it does get graphic. The action could have been more real looking but 
 it was a game meant to be played over and over. I'm on my second play through and you know what 
 it won't be the last. This game has a feel to it that makes you want to ask what if this really 
 did happen what would I do? And what would I stand for? Could something like a reaper exist today 
 and we don't know it? Could we be living a trap waiting to spring? Chances are that we may never 
 know. Back to the subject, anyway, if you are looking for a game that is a rollercoaster ride, 
 that makes you think, that makes it feel almost real this game is calling you. This game is a game 
 I would ask everyone in the world to try at least once and if you don't like it then well you have 
 no taste in games and needed to sell your system now. It is by far the best thing in my opinion 
 to hit the systems in along time Microsoft and Bioware I like to say very good job and can't wait 
 to play the next one. Phoenix 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfxarts
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely loved this game. The replayability is extremely high because of dialog and different 
 outcomes. The combat was hard to get used to, but once you've had some practice at it it becomes 
 quite intruiging. I highly reccomend turning up the camera speed. Otherwise you won't be able to 
 aim fast enough. There were only a few mapping bugs that got my character stuck for a minute or 
 so, and every once in a while you'll meet a turret that your character simply doesn't have enough 
 armor to take a single shot from, but these things can be avoided. I had no problem at all with 
 the jeep/rover missions. The voice acting was absolutely amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike3oOo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Bioware has been one of the most praised companies ever since they released Knights of the Old 
 Republic. But I have been a fan of theirs longer, I'm huge fan of the MDK series, especially part 
 2 on the Dreamcast. Well now they finally released there next game which is a epic sci fi RPG called 
 Mass Effect. Does it live up to the companies standards? Read on to find out.
  
  Mass Effect's graphics look absolutely stunning. From the vast, atmospheric worlds, fantastic art 
 direction, and incredible character models. Everything looks top notch. However there are some 
 annoyances to the graphics that hold it back from perfection. The first and foremost being the 
 games stuttering frame rate at times, and the odd load times. Not to mention often throughout the 
 game, it will take a few seconds for the games textures to load on surfaces (though this is common 
 with the Unreal 3 engine) . 
  
  Overall despite its few nags its still one of the most atmospheric games, and the games many worlds 
 truly comes to life with vast environment that you will want to search and devour every last bit 
 into. The Gameplay is very similar to Biowares previous work. You will instantly feel at home if 
 you have played Kotor, or Jade Empire. As the layout for the game is very similar. You will travel 
 upon the Galaxy as Commander Shepard. You and your fleet with embark on an adventure to save the 
 galaxy. The story is truly fantastic, with amazing dialog, great characters, and just a stellar 
 presentation throughout the entire game.
  
  The dialog is easily the games strongest point, as you will really begin to form a certain amount 
 of care for these characters, and when you get to a situation later in the game where your stuck 
 having to choose between certain characters on who to rescue and who will die, you really get a 
 sense of sadness after you make the tough decision. Its moments like this that really make you 
 stop and think just how remarkable this game truly is.
  
  The games scope is just so fantastic, and the fact that it pulls you into this world, and has you 
 making tough decisions throughout the game makes it seem even more special to the player. But to 
 accompany the games fantastic story elements, and great graphics, are some fantastic RPG elements 
 and shooting that all combine to make for one fantastic experience. The RPG elements blend in perfect 
 with the action, with tons of customizations to weapon upgrades, armor upgrades, and of course 
 leveling up your characters and leveling up your stats as well throughout the game.
  
  The game at its core is a shooter, and the shooting in the game works surprisingly pretty decent. 
 If you choose to play as a Soldier you will have access to Pistols, Assault Rifles, Sniper Rifles, 
 and Shotguns. But you can also play as a Vanguard and other classes which focus more on powers. 
 No matter which you choose your bound to find a fantastic and fun experience throughout the game. The 
 core mechanics of the game work decently enough, but some of it feels a tad sluggish. 
  
  The sniping is pretty much useless unless you level up the sniper all the way, and the overheating 
 of the weapons does get old. Also the cover mechanics are pretty piss poor, but work never the 
 less. And my biggest grip has to do with the decision to use the back button to throw grenades, 
 this seems really out of place, and as if Bioware ran out of buttons to use and just through that 
 in there.
  
  But nevertheless Mass Effects story is one of the most involving stories ever in a game, and you 
 will likely form a bond like no other game that has come before it. And even with the games few 
 flaws, you will still likely have one of the best experiences of the year with Mass Effect. It 
 truly is one universe that just demands to be played, and you will likely want to revisit this 
 game time after time again. Highly Recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekRubin
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Bioware, known best probably for developing the remarkable Star Wars Knights of The Old Republic 
 on the original Xbox, has taken a lot of the fantastic qualities of Kotor, and added a very unique 
 combat system to the mix in their new title Mass Effect. This makes it feel new and exciting; but 
 at the same time allows us Bioware fans to feel nostalgia experiencing again all of the things 
 that made us love their older games.
  
  The new combat system, much more action oriented than previous Bioware games, combines tight third 
 person shooter action, with the more tactical (and familiar feeling) biotic system. The shooter 
 action is pretty standard fare, but is extremely entertaining nonetheless. One has, according to 
 their class, a selection of guns they can use. A more tech/biotic oriented class may only be able 
 to use a pistol while a soldier can use them all etc etc.
  
  They has unlimited ammo (thank god) but have plenty of restrictions to keep it from becoming a 
 UT Style fragfest. Your weapons can overheat quite easily, and most of the combat is long distance, 
 requiring a more tactical aim and shoot play-style.
  
  All of your guns are upgradeable as is your armor. It's a pretty rewarding system, allowing you 
 to add dot (damage over time) upgrades to your bullets, or make your bullets more damaging towards 
 organic enemies. It's quite deep, and you will find yourself spending a surprising amount of time 
 in the menu going through your armor and weapons getting everything to shape.
  
  The Biotic system is great as well. There are dot biotics such as warp, and also biotics that cause 
 the target to get thrown backwards or into the air temporarily stunning them. This is just the 
 icing of the cake, there's a lot of variety and fun to be had with them.
  
  The story is fantastic, as we have come to expect from Bioware. The amazing dialogue system we 
 remember from Kotor and Jade Empire is back new and improved. Just as before your actions influence 
 the story a great deal, and you can play through the game many times with different results, even 
 playing through the game as a regenade twice can be an entirely new experience due to the amount 
 of choices you make in the game.
  
  
  The game is not without it's problems, and some of these mar the game quite a bit.
  
  First 
 off the vehiclular aspect of the game isn't terrible, but it's quite literally a drag. It takes 
 a great deal of time getting used to it's counter intuitive controls, you will find yourself flipping 
 around and crashing into walls even on your second or third playthrough. Also the combat system 
 on the vehicles is frustrating as well. You have to be on the same level as the enemy. There has 
 been plenty of instances in the game in which I have been blindly firing at an enemy in clear view 
 moving up and down the incline I was on trying to find the "sweet spot".
  
  Also some has liked the paragon regenade system, but I think it could have been done better. It 
 seems like it was different in that it wasn't a black and white system, but when it comes down 
 to it, paragon is good, regenade is bad. I really wanted to play a good Che Guevara esque good 
 regenade, but I found all the regenade choices tended to be xenophobic and anti alien, and I found 
 myself barely earning any regenade points on my "good" character.
  
  Also the unexplored worlds system is a great idea, but it's extremely recycled, and requires too 
 much driving around towards markers. It could have been really great exploring cool looking planets 
 and such. Also every base on every planet is the same as well.
  
  Anyway, it's definetly worthy picking up, and the flaws of the game are made up for easily. I know 
 I spent a lot of time detailing them, but that's only to outweigh all of the people giving the 
 game an (imo undeserved) perfect ten.
  
  It's a plot based game, and fellow bioware fans (you know who you are) this is of course a no brainer. 
 If you dug kotor, get in the car and pick this up right away. If you aren't into pltos much and 
 prefer a Halo esque frag fest you will be dissapointed. The game required thought and patience, 
 but rewards all of these things.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Croix-Man
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Ok let me start off by saying that I enjoyed this game, and since so many people have reviewed 
 highly of it I wont really talk about the pros. But I will talk about a con or two in the game.
 
  
  First I personally feel that the side quests get somewhat repetitive after awhile. Due to the fact 
 you just get let loose with your vehicle and shoot. Sure they have some differences here and there 
 but to me they sooner than later just got blah and I just wanted to work on the final mission.
 
  
  Secondly it doesn't have the awe that Oblivion has when you walk in a settlement. Sure Mass Effect 
 does shock and awe at moments and even got the hair on my arms to stick up... but walking through 
 a town in Oblivion and interacting with everyone was just felt more into the game. In Mass Effect 
 not everyone can interact (yes they do have one liners, but I don't count that) .
  
  Thirdly... what am I supposed to do with all my money? Its easy to make 2,000,000 in your fast 
 run of the game and no matter how many guns, armor, and upgrades you get your always filthy rich. 
 Sure I know there is no point to a house in this game... but the creators could have done some 
 massive buying things or investments. I don't know.
  
  These are just three complaints I have... but the complaints are defintly outweighed by the pros. 
 If you like role playing games pick this game up. I did find it more enjoyable than Oblivion with 
 its great story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazuyasongoku
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 1:15 am PT
Review:  Well this is without a doubt one of the best RPG's to be ever made. However during development 
 some of the features that fans were looking forward to were cut, such as amour damage, Mako customizations 
 and Uncharted world Exploration depth.
  
  While Driving the Mako ( the all-terrain vehicle) is fun at first it quickly become a grind. As 
 for the Uncharted worlds, at first play through you go everywhere, but playing a second time you 
 quickly skip most of them because it become a chore.
  
  Over all though this game is simply amazing. No other game will offer you the choices you'll have 
 to make here. Save the inhabitants of a remote outpost or kill them all for the greater good of 
 the sorrounding systems?
  
  Help you crew on personal errends or piss-on them all get them to leave your ship. As the main 
 plot unfolds you'll find yourself never wanting to put this down and ruching back from work or 
 school to continue your adventure.
  
  Leveling up your character is very indepth and you can spend hours just modding your amour and 
 weapons for each individual battle. The choice is yours, a must for every gamer whether an RPG 
 fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizer
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Bioware is known for its ability to hook gamers who love to do things their way in role-playing 
 a story. It's the little things, really, from the vast amounts of conversational options, to the 
 ability to permanently impact the world simply through a series of quick personal actions that 
 you don't even realized added up until later that make Bioware RPG games so involving. Everything 
 you do, say, or act on, eventually molds your character, affect your character's team mates, NPCs 
 and organizations, and ultimately the epic result on the world at the end of the story... that's 
 the bases of Bioware's ever evolving RPG formula and that's why I couldn't play through any of 
 their games only one time through, including Mass Effect... and to me, in the end, that's what marks 
 a game worth every penny.
  
  STORY LINE:
  
  In the end this is what Mass Effect's focus is and what will hook you and keep you playing it through 
 over and over and over. For those of you who have play other Bioware RPGs such as "Jade Empire" 
 and the famous "Star Wars: Knights of the old Republic" series, you already probably have an inkling 
 as to the kind of experience I'm referring to. For those of you who haven't played those games, 
 I'll try my best to explain it. As with previous installments of Bioware games, the style of game 
 play and how you experience the story is almost completely dependent on you, the player. You see 
 most other videogame RPGs simply run you through a set story with some ability to mold your character's 
 fighting style. What Bioware does to change that trend is to almost flip it completely around. 
 During the course of the game you will find yourself thinking deeply on what to do next, because 
 everything you do will mold the story and your character's personality, rather than just your standard 
 combat stats. Each time you play can be a completely different experience depending on what you 
 feel like responding to. It's a formula Bioware has been successfully experimenting for years and 
 they've definitely taken it up a notch in Mass Effect.
  
  You start the story as a character you can craft. Everything from gender and facial features and 
 job specialization is there, but a new feature I've never really seen explored before was the fact 
 that you could hack out a basic past from two seemingly simple choices with three possible responses 
 each: Pick out a basic childhood origin and military "claim to fame". These choices at first seem 
 like trivial nonsense, but in Mass Effect they actually affect how NPCs respond to you and can 
 even affect some of the game's hidden side missions. After you make your character the game take 
 place with you as an Alliance military soldier who happen to be getting ready for some sort of 
 secretive mission. From here you can walk around and chat with NPC to get a feel for is lengthy 
 in depth back-story. Eventually you superior will have briefing on your current mission, to pick 
 up an ancient alien beacon for study. It turns out that the mission is a little more than what 
 you where ready for, however, when you discover that the dig site was brutally attacked by Geth, 
 a race a synthetic beings that no one had heard from in many years. To top it all of a mysterious 
 agent called Saren seems to allied himself with them for an unknown purpose. Soon after you survive 
 this mission the true hunt begins when you are assigned to investigate the disturbing implications 
 behind the attack.
  
  I could go into more detail, but I won't simply because it might spoil the experience and the fact 
 that because the story will always very and tweak itself depending on how you proceed after your 
 hit the ground running to the story's intro. It's not too much to go on if you have played, I know, 
 but like I said before navigating clueless through the story on you own is more than half the fun 
 in this case.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  This type of game play was a new unique mix that I've never seen in an RPG before... in that it's 
 like a shooter... but not. You select your weapons and armor, customize them and then proceed to 
 run around shooting as if your where play a standard 3rd person shooter much like "Gears of War" 
 except in this game, you can use powers and moves you can acquired through a skill point system 
 much like any other RPG. It's an admittedly odd mix that takes a bit getting used to but after 
 that first couple of missions and things get a bit more challenging you can have a blast with it.
 
  
  The only thing that ever really frustrate me, however was when you got to drive around in the tank 
 like land rover that you use to get round the landscapes of the various. It could have been more 
 fun if the mechanic were hammered out a little more before the game's release, but with the game 
 the way it is using the land rover will probably the most annoying thing you'll find in the game 
 as it's slow, bounces around the landscape unpredictably, fights with the camera, and can sometimes 
 get caught in graphics while painfully struggling over brutal mountain sides. Lucky for everyone, 
 however, is possible to get used it and every other aspect in Mass Effect will make the annoyance 
 seem even less than trivial.
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  This was a very hot/cold issue for me. The animation and sheer detail of Mass Effect's characters 
 and world are nothing less then jaw dropping... when everything is loaded and working right. Most 
 of the time, everything runs smoothly, but for whatever reason, mostly likely due to the fact that 
 everything must be in real time when scenes are clipped together in rapid succession the biggest 
 issue I've experienced is that the textures with always take and awkward couple of seconds to load 
 onto the models. There, is no real lag and the over all performance definitely makes up for this 
 but it is something that you will definitely notice at times. 
  
  SOUND:
  
  Mass Effect definitely gets a 10 here. Unique, motivational music paired with possibly the best 
 voice acting I've ever heard in ANY game. This kind of extreme talent, armed with the knowledge 
 that it was played out on one of Bioware's incredibly diverse conversation system makes one realize 
 just how much effort Bioware placed into making the story come to life.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iiplayboy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a fantastic game and one of my favorite RPGs I have ever played and I've been playing 
 RPGS for close to 10 years. The role-playing aspects are just amazing In fact, this is one of the 
 rare games where it seemed as if I was truly playing a role and where I felt the impact of my decisions. 
 This game has soo much to offer its truly amazing I mean the guys were right into saying that your 
 actions do act as Jack Bauer in space. Along with that Mass Effect is one of if not the most artistically 
 and technically beautiful game of all time, hadn't the engine have minor graphic mechanics you 
 could make the comparsion between Mass Effect and CRYSIS. As much as I'd like to look past the 
 bugs and the decent AI, it makes a significant impact of why this game is not a 10. Some of the 
 issues are simply unacceptable for a game of such high caliber, which had been under devlopment 
 for a long time. However as long as you are coming for the role-playing experience, it should be 
 easy enough to look past the problems with the combat system. Mass Effect is full of memorable 
 characters and experiences. It's the best RPG available so far on 360. Whether your a fan of Shooters, 
 or RPGS, Mass Effect is a game that must be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaronPwent
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a sci-fi action rpg that follows in the foot steps of KOTOR. It may not live up 
 to all the expectations. Yet, once you start looking at Mass Effect as a unique stand alone game 
 and stop looking at it as the next-gen KOTOR, the game grows on you.
  
  -Graphics: 9
  Graphically, Mass Effect is a pleasure to say the least. The characters are simply amazingly rendered, 
 from your main character, Shepard, to your allies and enemies alike. Partical effects that accompany 
 weapons fire and special moves are perfectly fitting and really help capture the sci-fi setting. 
 The cut scenes are simply stunning. The grand finale is truly a memorable experience.
  
  In general, the environments are nothing short of beautiful. Landing on a new planet and looking 
 up at the stars is impressive. However, after awhile, the vast barren planets begin to look the 
 same. They simply become another giant rock textured in a different colored pattern.
  
  -Sound: 10
  The sound in Mass Effect is both subtle and vividly compelling. What really makes 
 the sound in Mass Effect stand apart is the amount of voice acting that is in the game. Every conversation, 
 every line of dialogue is done through voice acting. This really brings out a lot more emotion 
 and puts a great deal of heart and soul behind the game's story. Some of the idle banter between 
 party members while riding on an elevator is particularly telling of how much detail went into 
 the game.
  
  In general the sound of Mass Effect exceeds expectations. The music played during the credits really 
 sums up the experience. Its not often that I'm compelled to sit through the end credits, but sitting 
 and listening to that grand finale play was extremely satisfying.
  
  -Story: 7
  Mass Effect has a rather generic main story the likes of typical sci-fi fantasy schlock. Hero turned 
 villian seeks to bring back ancient evil and threatens the entire world/galaxy and of course its 
 your job to stop him. Its a plot that has been done practically to death. However, this generic 
 plot is easily overlooked thanks largly to the characters of Mass Effect. Commander Shepard and 
 his/her allies are compelling, and the manner in which the plot unfolds is captivating enough. 
 Essentially, as Shepard, you can be the good cop or the bad cop. Its not so much good vs evil here. 
 The methods used in completing the story events are either by the book or by any means needed. 
 There are several very surprising and deeply satisfying moments in the game.
  
  However, while I found the main story line events fun and interesting. The side quests of Mass 
 Effect feel deeply hollow. The vast majority are one shot events with no follow up, no continuation, 
 and no real impact on anything. There are even several collection quests that feel completely pointless 
 and seem to be there only to give the player a reason to scan the numerous planets that for whatever 
 reason can not be landed on.
  
  -Replay Value: 9
  With 6 classes, female vs male, and paragon vs renegade, there is plenty of replay value to be 
 found in Mass Effect. Additionally, there is a new game+ feature that allows you to replay using 
 your old character and instead of being capped at level 50 you can then progress to level 60. There 
 are also increased levels of difficulty to up the challenge if you desire.
  
  -Gameplay: 7
  In general, the gameplay of Mass Effect is satisfying and enjoyable. The character 
 advancement and development is nothing particularly revolutionary, but it works. The 3 main classes 
 each feels diverse and grants a very unique style of combat. The soldier is pretty straight forward, 
 using all kinds of weapons and armor to maximum effect. The engineer works to remove the technologic 
 advantage using special abilities to remove an opponent's energy shield or disarming them by overheating 
 their weapons. The engineer also has the added advantage of being able to open locked containers 
 and doors which is extremely handy. Last but not least, the adept uses biotic powers to manipulate 
 the enemies themselves rather then their technology. Using abilities such as throw, lift, stasis, 
 and singularity, the adept has a great deal of control. The 3 hybrid classes are rather self explanitory 
 as they are combo classes of any 2 of the main 3 classes.
  
  The combat as Shepard and crew is intense and gripping. Using weapons and specials is a breeze 
 and easy to pick up for anyone that has played a third person shooter. While there is a cover system, 
 it can be a little twitchy and in general isn't even that helpful. Its easier to simply be behind 
 cover then actually in cover. As with many rpgs, your ally AI can be dumb as a brick in some instances 
 such as running out in the open and getting sniped to death. There is a squad command system linked 
 to the D-pad. However, its use is below minimal. I've played through the game 3 times now and could 
 not tell you what command is linked to which d-pad direction.
  
  As with many games in the rpg genre, money and vendors in Mass Effect are nearly useless. You will 
 receive so much random loot from killing enemies and opening containers, there is little reason 
 to ever buy anything. You can easily make your way through the game on random loot alone.
  
  Galactic travel is initially vastly impressive. Done through by selecting a location on the 
 galatic map, travel is easy. The map zooms between multiple levels from the entire universe to 
 a star cluster to a single star system. The universe is expansive, however herein lies one of Mass 
 Effect's biggest faults. The universe is vastly hollow and empty. At most, you can land on a single 
 planet per star system. This leaves countless planets as unexplorable. Even the planets you can 
 land on feel like vast barren wastes containing mountainous terrain and a single structure. Its 
 disappointing to say the least.
  
  Even worse then having an empty universe with empty planets is the method in which you explore 
 the planets. You use a 6 wheeled land rover called the Mako. If ever there was a worse idea and 
 even worse implementation, it is the Mako. To say that planatary exploration in the Mako is frustrating 
 and boring does not even begin to explain how ghastly it is to utilize this vehicle. Imagine trying 
 to cross over Mount Everast using a dune buggy and you will get a small picture of what the gameplay 
 is like. I have managed to actually roll the Mako over and get is stuck on its back. I've also 
 managed to get stuck in a ditch from which the Mako could not escape. As much as I enjoy Mass Effect, 
 I hate the Mako with a passion. Mass Effect is one of only 2 games I have fallen asleep playing. 
 Fallen asleep not from exhaustion after a 24+ hour gaming marathon, but fallen asleep out of boredom 
 in the middle of the day. Planatary exploration in the Mako is simply mind numbingly boring and 
 really is in no way interesting or the least bit fun.
  
  It wouldn't be so bad if it wasn't for the fact that you use the Mako so often in completing side 
 quests. The Mako is used sparingly on the main story line and is used effectively therein. Yet, 
 the Mako nearly makes you want to skip side quests all together. The Mako actually makes me thankful 
 that you could not land on more planets. Perhaps someone out there enjoys the Mako, but for me, 
 the Mako is an extreme detraction from an otherwise enjoyable game.
  
  -Overall: 
  Mass Effect is a satifying experience that will last around 10-20 hours per play through depending 
 on how much of a completionist you are. The ending leaves room for additional DLC as well as open 
 for an inevitable sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goku189
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an excellent sci-fi epic rpg. This game's storyline will draw you in and you'll 
 want to keep playing till you finally get to the ending. The last 3 hours of the game have you 
 at the edge of your seat and wanting for more. 
  
  The game is excellent but it has it's few problems such as:
  1) Texture "pop" in
  2) The Uncharted 
 Wolrds are all the same size and don't have much to do in them.
  3) The bases on the UWs are all the same.
  4) The Mako gets boring after a couple of planets.
 
  
  Yet the game excels at:
  1) Storyline (One of the best sci-fi video game storyline that has you guessing the whole way.)
 
  2) Soundtrack (awesome mix of 80's sci-fi movies)
  3) Combat (The awesome combination of guns and biotics makes the combat innovative.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khankster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  I've palyed this for almost four hours and couldn't help submitting a review of what I've seen 
 so far. It's an excellent game, and worth every penny. I am NOT typically a fan of RPG games, though 
 I buy them from time to time to check them out. Oblivion, for example, is a top-notch game, but 
 not my style. However, Mass Effect manages to keep my attention, probabaly due to the fact that 
 it's more than just a typical medieval RPG story, it's also an action game and a FPS. Granted, 
 the FPS part isn't a Halo3 killer by any stretch, but it's a great part of such a multifaceted 
 game. I'm totally into sci-fi shooters and don't care much for the wartime FPS's, and ME has some 
 really spectacular themes. Although I can't say there's much direct relation to the Star Wars movies, 
 it certainly FEELS a lot like a Star Wars movie to me, much moreso than past actual Star Wars games. 
 For me the storyline gets a little slow, mostly because I'm not the type who has a lot of patience 
 for endless corridore running - that feeling that you're runnign around endlessly searching for 
 God knows what, to the point where you get bored and fall asleep. There is some of that for me, 
 but regardless, I still think it's a much more captivating experience than many RPG's or Action 
 games.
  
  The sound effects are great, the music is great, the voice acting is great, the graphics are great, 
 the storyline is great, the control is great. There really isn't much I don't like about this game. 
 If anything, the frame rate could be a little better, though I don't find any actual problems with 
 it, it just seems a tad sluggish sometimes. Not sure if that's just me. Also, I wish there was 
 an awesome online multiplayer.
  
  Overall, it's immersive and possibly even somewhat innovative due to the fact that it's a RPG/Action/FPS 
 wrapped into one. Again, this has a GREAT storyline. Could become a classic, since it can appeal 
 to different types of players.
  
  I'm not so impressed with the book for this game, but it's likely I haven't given it enough chance 
 yet.
  
  This game is definately on the list of must-have for the Xbox360 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pi_24112
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm sitting here thinking whether I should give this game 9.0 or a straight 9.5.
  Mass Effect is an amazing game with a galaxy as realised as the likes of Star Wars and Star Trek, 
 even better in my eyes. This is classic sci-fi you've all known and loved raised to another level. 
 The broad emotional range and the fantastic story has made Mass Effect destined to become an instant 
 classic, and it is surely going to be talked about for years to come.
  
  What really sets this game apart from other RPG's is the fact that the actual gameplay is not as 
 restricted. For example, in KOTOR the gameplay was almost automatic, where you chose what attack 
 to do and when. This is still a problem in new RPG's, The Witcher is a perfect example. They could 
 have made a combat system similiar to the likes of Devil May cry or God of War.
  But instead you're only allowed to click the mouse button every once in a while. That's not very 
 entertaining. Not to mention the completely emotionless faces and voice-acting, as well as the 
 original Half-Life style of lip-sync. It's not very immersive. Mass Effect on the other hand goes 
 way beyond what all RPG's could only dream about ever achieving.
  Its perfect blend of cover-shoot style gameplay, leveling up, gathering items, harvesting, exploring 
 planets, doing side-quests and following the main storyline is unprecedented. It revolutionises 
 what RPG's should be.
  
  I'm assuming you've already heard about Mass Effect since you're on this website, so I'm not going 
 to waste your time going through the story. Because you can just go to the official site and read 
 that.
  You start off right away in your ship with your crew ready to set out on an epic adventure, and 
 you're given a conversation-wheel. The conversation wheel is genius. Instead of having to choose 
 answer 1, 2, 3 etc. where you read the entire line, you're given only a reaction of what you're 
 going to say. Because in real life you're not going to sit quietly thinking what you're about to 
 say, you just say what you think naturally. This comes out perfectly executed, the "good" and the 
 "bad" choices stays in one place the entire time. So you don't really have to look for the "bad" 
 answer if you're going to be cruel to someone. The alignment system isn't one where you can either 
 be "good" or "bad", you can either be Paragon or Renegade.
  It affects your reputation and the outcome of the ending of the game. But it goes beyond that.
 
  
  Early in the game you're going to become a Spectre, the right hand of the Council, and your job 
 is to keep the peace in the galaxy. As a Spectre, nothing is more important than the safety of 
 the universe, so you have to get the job done. And how you do it is entirely up to you.
  
  The gameplay is really good and satisfying but there are however some flaws. The AI can be laughably 
 bad at times, don't be surprised if your allies or your enemies shoots right into a wall. Both 
 your teammates and enemies can have trouble deciding where to stand, so they can sometimes wander 
 back and forth. The boss battles can also be an issue, the game doesn't let you save because (without 
 spoiling too much) you're going up this elevator, and you can't save in elevators or battle. However 
 you can save before going onto it. And the boss is brutally hard, that leaves you going through 
 the same conversation over and over again which is very frustrating.
  
  The main storyline doesn't last that long. I clocked at 15 hours my first playthrough leaving almost 
 every sidequest behind. But if you're going to enjoy Mass Effect to the fullest you're probably 
 going to have to double that number. Becuase there is an immense amount of sidequests and things 
 to do and see, and there's alot of replayability. I'm a little disappointed and thrilled at the 
 same time as I got to unfold the plot faster than I expected. But don't expect the playtime KOTOR 
 had where you could easily spend 30-40 hours on the main storyline alone. This however is not that 
 big of a concern, because never since, well, KOTOR have I been so willing to complete a game a 
 second, third, fourth and maybe even a fifth time. The different classes also leaves you wanting 
 to play it through again just because you want to try another class, which there are several of. 
 Now that I think about it, Infiltrator wasn't such a good idea for a first playthrough, because 
 the game doesn't give you any tutorial so you're left off wondering what the hell to do. Soldier 
 would be the best bet to get to know the game. I do however blame myself for rushing through the 
 game for such a small amount of time, for an RPG. I have only myself to blame...
  
  The best thing about this game though is its characters, voice-acting and how the story is told. 
 You're mostly part of everything that's going on, only the rest for cutscenes to show. The characters 
 personality and top-notch
  voice-acting actually made me care about them. And you're going to face plenty of difficult moral 
 choices.
  
  The voice-acting of your character as a male Commander Shepard, (voiced by Mark Meer) does sound 
 a little over the top very often. But his voice-acting can also shine often too. It goes a little 
 up and down. I personally like the female voice better, she sounds more natural in a way. Maybe 
 Mark can shape up in the sequel. There are several famous voice actors in the game, which the most 
 notable are Seth Green, the guy that voices The Arbiter in the Halo games and the guy from Alien. 
 Haha, I forgot their names. There is voice-acting everywhere and they're all top-notch, never before 
 has any game had this quantity of quality performances.
  
  I almost forgot to mention one of the most important things in the gameplay, the combat-wheel. 
 Much like the conversation-wheel, you can choose what power to do and at what target you'd like 
 to execute them,
  you can also select the weapons of both you and your teammates.
  This means you can control your teammates attacks, much like a tactical shooter.
  
  The game 
 looks absolutely stunning, seemingly at the expense of framerate, the game engine can't seem to 
 keep up, as it boggles down frequently. But you'll learn to forgive that almost immediately, because 
 the framerate has only boggled down in heavy firefights, and in some areas of vast and detailed 
 environments. Besides, it's not that bad that it makes it a game-killer. However, there are some 
 annoying visual glitches, there can be clippings, textures constantly loading right before your 
 eyes, shadowing sometimes looks a bit weird. The last two levels are pure art. I can't tell you
 
  enough how good it looks. In my eyes, it's easily better looking than Gears of War.
  
  I'm still thinking about my score. Does it deserve a perfect 9.0? Is Mass Effect perfect? No. But 
 a 9.0 should only show how good the game is compared to other games and not how perfect the game 
 is. No game is completely flawless, so yes, I'm going to give this game a 9.0. If you enjoyed KOTOR, 
 no, any RPG, you owe it to yourself to play Mass Effect. If you've been unsure whether or not to 
 buy the game then ask yourself this: Did you like or were/are you slightly interested in Star Wars 
 or Star Trek or any kind of sci-fi? If the answer is yes, then by all means, play Mass Effect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect is the best rpg of the year in my opinion. Mass effect was made by the famed Bioware. 
 Creators behind the great knights of the old republic 1 and 2. Mass effect starts you off with 
 a character named shepard. You are doing a mission in joint with an alien to find out whats going 
 on in this planet. The game starts off with humanity being not very liked by the aliens but quickly 
 turns into an epic rpg on a epic mission to stop saren.
  
  
  The good
  
 
  
  The combat will at first seem a little goofy and tough but, As you play it sort of grows on you. 
 You start to really like it. Its a lot like Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 1-2. In that you take 
 cover and pop out fire then run to the next cover and stuff like that. You are given a few abilitys 
 to use during combat like for example overkill which makes your attacks much stronger. The combat 
 for the biotics is a lot like using force powers in kotor. Like kotor it pretty much pleases both 
 gun shooters and force power users.
  
  The music/sound. The music is pretty well done it has some epic tunes at parts and it tends to 
 blend in pretty well to the game. The sound is very nice on most things but I do feel it could 
 of been a little bit better for the gun noises. Otherwise it is pretty nice.
  
  The MAKO is a neat addition its sorta like a mars rover you could say or your landing craft. You 
 shoot down to the surface in it and then you can shoot and explore planets with it. Its your transportation 
 method on the ground.
  
  The graphics are very nice also. I really liked how they did some nice lighting effects like the 
 geths lights on like where an organic beings eyes would be.
  
  The characters all look really nice and the body movements during conversation all look really 
 nice to.
  
  The conversation part of the game is really well done also. There are a lot of options and choices 
 to make along the quests of the game that really shape how your game ends. Who dies who lives what 
 happens. A lot like kotor but theres more options I think then kotor had. And the last like 3 hours 
 of the game are just plain amazing. 
  
  
  The Bad
  
 
  
  One big thing is the exploration is nowhere near as good as bioware made it out to be. They claimed 
 there would be massive amounts of explorable planets but thats not really true. The planets all 
 seem the same when exploring just different skins to which is fairly dissapointing. Theres not 
 much to really find either which sucks.
  
  The game can't keep a steady framerate very well either.
  
  While the story is good it just 
 seemed a little rushed through and I wish it was a little better done. Just feels bioware could 
 of done better on the story.
  
  Credits are not very useful either. Theres not a hole lot to really spend them on besides a spectre 
 gear.
  
  The side quests seem a little lame also. Seems like a dissapointment coming from Bioware. They 
 normally do a better job on side quests.
  
  Going with the bad planet exploration thing I just wish there was more city's also. And the ability 
 to land on earth would of been neat. And not just barren boring planets with nothing on them.
 
  
  
  Through Mass Effects fault I think its still a great start for a trilogy. I just hope the sequal 
 fixes some of these bad faults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsiegle
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  This game has everything an immersing game needs. It also has popping textures and jerky frame 
 rates that yank the player right back into reality. I received this game along with my 360 Elite 
 for Christmas, 2007 and was very excited about it. Now that I have played it I feel a bit let down. 
 I can't understand how the stuttering and popping are ignored or glossed over in the reviews. I 
 WANT to love Mass Effect, but I think it will be traded in for something else. The graphics problems 
 make this otherwise attractive and possibly addicting game a pass for me. Bio Shock here I come! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbrice
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  i struggled to find the right score for this game. i gave it a ten after having played some few 
 hours, but after finishing it 25 hours later, i must amend my perfect score.
  
  on the one hand, the dialogue system and story telling is as perfect as any game that has allowed 
 player control over plot. the freedom you are given and the cinematic style of play is awesome! 
 no question.
  
  on the other hand, this game falters terribly around the edges. here's a tip: DON'T INVESTIGATE 
 EVERY PLANET UNLESS YOU PLAN TO BE BORED. and i say this as a rpg 100 percenter! but it must be 
 said: i don't have the patience now i had when i was 16. driving the 'mako' on barren planets is 
 fun the first 7 times. THAT'S IT. then it sucks. this is not to say that space faring is a waste 
 of time. the soundtrack and presentation while viewing the galaxy map is still chillingly cool. 
 there's was simply a mistake to make a bunch of useless planets instead of a few usefull ones.
 
  
  as for the combat, it's a 2-edged sword for sure. we the player (and i'm hoping bioware, too) wanted 
 'gears of war' style, cover-to-cover action. some times this is the case, but predominantly, the 
 enemy a. i. and general battle mechanics break down. to play the game correctly, you must protect 
 against ridiculous enemies that charge you and shoot at you in a meth induced frenzy from 1 foot 
 away. these guys screw you hard. otherwise, you really can cover fire about 15% of the time and 
 need to move and fire the rest. what saves my memory of the fighting were a majority of the major 
 plot encounters. especially at the end of the game, you fight hordes of enemies in the midst of 
 mass action and it's a blast. but, don't go to the barren sideworlds expecting to have much fun. 
 it's often a frustrating grind.
  
  this review has gotten long, so i'll break it down for you homies. the main plot of this game is 
 stupendous. the alien cultures and fabricated far future are intensely absorbing. the characters 
 are all movie quality in depth and don't talk like the idiots from 'gears of war'. but the fighting 
 is also a far cry from 'gears of war' and nowhere near as tight. and i must add, as a hardcore 
 rpg-er, the inventory and character skills are LIGHTWEIGHT. don't come to the party thinking you're 
 playing KOTOR. 
  
  all that said, if you like rpg's or space or blade runner or bioware's style of storytelling, this 
 game will get your motor running and drive you to the finish line w/a smile on your face. truly, 
 it's a flawed game that does so much good that the bad is annoying - otherwise the game would be 
 perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaSod
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  I had been looking forward to Mass Effect ever since I bought my Xbox 360. Bioware was the reason 
 I bought a Xbox rather than a Playstation. As the release date grew closer, I followed the hype 
 more and more, believing all I read. And when I finally popped the disk into my console, I was 
 certain I had finally found a perfect 10.
  Mass Effect opens with a great exposition; you are thrust into a fully developed universe, interacting 
 with complex characters. The graphics are the best to date. The first mission is exciting and gives 
 you a taste of what you can do in combat. Then you journey to the capital of the Milky Way, the 
 Citadel. The first 4 or 5 hours of the game are easily the best. The action is interspersed with 
 meaningful mini-quests, and the characters you meet are all new and believable.
  After continuing the main quest, you are promoted and sent into open space. There are hundreds 
 of planets to visit. But now the game has shifted back into 1st gear. Whenever you are visiting 
 a planet that is not involved with the main quest, the interactions and quests are limp and lifeless. 
 And blatantly recycled. There is fun to be had here, mainly through combat and gathering XP, money 
 and equipment. But pretty soon the missions get boring, the Mako driving becomes more annoying 
 than the payoff is worth, and you have more than enough money to buy whatever equipment you want.
 
  Another weak point is your interaction with your companions. This is usually the strong point 
 of a Bioware title, and it is still stronger than any other 360 game to date. But compared to previous 
 titles (especially Baldur's gate 1 and 2) your companions are paper thin. I found the romance sub-plot 
 to be forced and not believable. Wrex and Tali were the best developed and most interesting characters, 
 but there still seemed too little to them, and definitely too little to do with them that was different 
 from the other characters.
  When you return to the main quest, everything is exciting and fulfilling again. The plot is great, 
 the trademark twist is worthy, and the bad guy is better acted and developed than your own Shepard. 
 The action never stops during the last few hours of the game- they could easily make a blockbuster 
 movie with this plot.
  Don't get me wrong, I loved this game. It is one of the best on the 360 to date. But it definitely 
 feels as if Bioware is spurning their established fan base for a title that fits in with the generic 
 Xbox 360 beautiful graphics shooter stereotype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iqen
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  A fast paced and action filled shooting makes a fantastic gameplay. A few glitches here and there 
 may appear once in a long while but it is sure not to distrupt your enjoyment playing thegame. 
 A variety of fighters to choose from and a huge display of facial features makes every character 
 created unique. The leveling up is also extremely fun, choosing and assigining your desired attributes 
 and powers every time you level up. Squad members are also a brilliant addition to the game. One 
 can choose 2 othe rmembers for your squad anytime, and a story and new dialouge builds up for every 
 different members chosen. By finishing many of the wide range of side quests, one can possibly 
 complete the game in no less then 40 fun hours. Mass Effect is a stunning game, possibly one of 
 the best so far for the year 2007. RPG and non RPG fans alike are sure to adore Mass Effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santo4600
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  To start off, I put the game on the hardest difficulty the first time through, If you do this it 
 will be so much fun and challenging. ( In a good way, not a gay pointless/no point to try way lol)
 
  
  That being said, this game is what all future, semi linear RPG's should look up to. I see people 
 comparing this to Oblivion, but, while Oblivion is an Epic game, it's an entirely different RPG 
 at its foundation. Mass Effect focuses on the point to try to put you into an interactive movie. 
 Where Oblivion focuses on the point to let you have complete and total freedom. (Mass Effect still 
 has awesome and insane freedom, just not to the point where u can jump off a roof, punch someone 
 to death, and steal their cloths..) it's not that kind of rpg. Mass Effect goes full cinematic, 
 you feel like the game is one HUGE interactive movie, that you get to pick what to say, do, dont 
 do, people to save, don't save, kill. A LOT of the conversations have about 5 ways they can pan 
 out. And watching the peoples faces is like watching a real life conversation. You actually get 
 attached to your character. If you say things you would say in real life it actually feels like 
 its you in the game.
  
  Speaking of which, the character customization in the beginning of the game is so insane, if you 
 work at it long enough, you could, probably, get Shepard to look like you. Thats how in depth it 
 is.
  
  
  
  This is one of those game where you wish it didn't end. One of those universes you feel like you 
 could actually live in, it's a living breathing Sci-Fi Universe, and it's incredible... once you 
 step in, you won't want to leave. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbat22
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  i just bought mass effect and its just plain amazing everything is crazy INSANO in that game from 
 shootin monkeys on a backwater to shotgunnin zombies while robots and rachni charge at you. who 
 doent like that kind of stuff? the story in mass effect i thought was spot on my friend in the 
 conversations skipped most of them but i was so captivated i listened to them alll and all the 
 options and extra data that was available. even though i thought it was a little on the short side 
 (proably from nonstop playing for like a full two days) and plenty o texture popping but who cares 
 you can get semi used to it, plus it will all be fixed in the next one which will be even MORE 
 CRAZIER and even MORE INSANO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strawberry9
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  With a slow start to the game, once you play it for a good hour or two, the game gets addicting. 
 I remember once I first got the game I was a little dissapointed, the game was very slow, but there 
 is just so much that you can do as you progress through the story, and this game's game play gets 
 better and better as you go through the story. Each decision effects the story.
  
  You can choose the way you want to play, the way you want to fight, the type of person you want 
 to be, how you solve a problem, how you complete a mission (this isn't just choosing your path, 
 its method as well, ie reasoning and fighting)
  
  This game is like a movie that you interact with, but don't worry, the cut scenes are interactive, 
 and each thing your character says is controlled by you.
  
  Its worth the buy, and you get more then your money's worth with the long story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halopwns
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome dont get me rong but some of the downers to it is the vehicles. It is hard 
 to control, and another thing i absoulutly hate is that YOU CAN NOT JUMP! Other than that the game 
 is awsome good story line chase the bad guy around the galxay . Kill bad guys, be a hero go were 
 every you want on the galaxy map . This game is awsome so buy it play it beet it its worth the 
 money. (In my opinion) . Also it has good graphics. It also alows you to crate ur on caracter by costimising 
 his face choosing what wepenry you want to be good at and even choosing of how you grew up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChestyMcGee
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  It's half-past the future and humanity has discovered a way to travel space quickly and efficiently. 
 It's the dawn of a new golden age for humans; with new planets to mine and explore fuel problems 
 have been solved and colonies on other planets have relieved pressure on the ever growing population 
 of Earth.
  
  As with all science-fiction, however, there are aliens to deal with. The aliens you'll find here, 
 strangely, are mostly friendly but to them, humans are a new and young race that ask far too many 
 questions and expect far too much power in the galactic government. This is where our hero, Sheppard, 
 steps in. The Galactic Council has finally realized the potential of humans and is deciding on 
 whether to make Sheppard the first ever human "Spectre"  an elite fighting unit at the right-hand 
 of the council. Things quickly get out of hand, however, and you're soon in a fight for the survival 
 of all life as we know ittypical.
  
  How Sheppard looks however, is up to you and this is one of the best points about Mass Effect and 
 indeed other Western RPGs; you can even be a lady if you so wish! Sadly though, it can be very 
 difficult to make a character that looks remotely human, let alone like yourself (in fact, 90% 
 of my creations end up looking like they're from the Far East) . As well as your looks, you can 
 also decide on what type, or 'class', of character you wish to be and, although it's not nearly 
 as detailed as the class creation in Oblivion, works fairly well. The only down point about this 
 is that almost all of the classes are fairly useless and needlessly difficult to work with unless 
 you're a fan of "stop-start" gameplay, as a result the best class to pick is the basic soldier 
 as he's proficient in every weapon type (you can always leave the specialist occupations to the 
 chums you're sure to meet later on in the game anyway) . 
  
  But Mass Effect goes even further; not only can you decide on how your character looks and how 
 he behaves in battle you also decide how he behaves in social situations, whether that be to act 
 rude and obnoxious or caring and polite. This is all done through the simple, yet effective conversation 
 system where in any conversation you get the choice of what to say in reply to your friendor foe. 
 As I've mentioned, it is very simple, you never really need to actually read what your response 
 will be as the game follows a slightly dull trend: nice reply at the top of the list, neutral in 
 the middle and rude at the bottom. Also, an irritating aspect of the system is that Sheppard very 
 rarely says what is written in the dialogue choices, for example, where once the bottom choice 
 was "I don't think we should tell the council", when he actually says it the line comes out like 
 this: "the council can kiss my ass!", therefore raising a few eyebrows from democrats in the room. 
 On the whole though, the conversation system works very well and, although it doesn't ever effect 
 the storyline until the very end of the game, it makes you feel deeply involved with this classic 
 sci-fi universe.
  Although the game is based almost entirely on conversation, you'd think the voice acting and script 
 would be excellentwell I'm afraid it's not. At times it can be fairly convincing (and there is 
 one speech that, combined with the musical score, is fairly epic and hair raising) but at others 
 it delves into almost Ace Combat levels of absolute corniness. Another low point is that if you 
 were to pick all the friendly options in conversation, you'd soon find yourself hating the main 
 character as he eventually becomes a little too nice and irritating, almost like someone who is 
 scared to voice his own opinion. 
  
  Graphically, Mass Effect is brilliant but not overly pretentious like so many games of late. The 
 graphical style is simple and effective and goes back to basic  just plain fantastic textures. 
 No over the top bump-mapping, no excessive use of bloom effects, just good textures and, at times, 
 decent lighting and shadows. If you can play this game on 1080p, I recommend it all the more as, 
 from what little I've seen, the detail is astounding  the pores on a character's skin have never 
 looked so good! Also, the graphically style heavily reminds me of a animated film such as Final 
 Fantasy VII: Advent Children, though I think this owes partly to the very Hollywood-style direction 
 and to the fact that every loading screen is in fact a little cutscene of your ship flying through 
 space or your exploration vehicle landing on a desolate planet and, although they get old, they're 
 still better than watching a blank screen.
  
  The combat can really let down Mass Effect sadly. It does have a good cover system and the shooting 
 and aiming controls are solid but the terrible AI really lets down the team. Mass Effect's idea 
 of making enemies harder is simply making them run at younot really my idea of a highly trained 
 soldier but okay. At other times, the AI simply hides or while a huge fire fight is raging in one 
 room, the goons in the room next door haven't heard a thing and almost seem surprised when you 
 walk in moments later, also, your team mates are very prone to getting themselves killed very quickly. 
 Something that does make the combat more interesting is that you can order your team around  they 
 follow simple orders like find some cover or go over there so it's hardly Brothers in Arms or Rainbow 
 Six, but it adds a different angle on a mostly simple shooter. 
  Another interesting addition to the combat is the ability to not only pick up new guns and weapons 
 but customise them with different upgrades and ammo types. Sadly, you won't see the upgrades on 
 the weapons (although you can see the different ammo types' effects on enemies) they can really 
 alter the way in which you fight; for example, someone who is great with the shotgun might pick 
 an upgrade for their armour that helps them close with the enemy faster or give them a better melee 
 attack, where-as someone who prefers stealth might upgrade their sniper rifle with toxic ammo that 
 continues to damage the enemy slowly after the first shot. This is hardly a ground-breaking game 
 mechanic, I know, but it really helps strengthen the character and class creation system.
  
  One final issue that hinders the game getting anything better than an 8 (and also nearly drop 
 it down to a 7) is that there is a terrible Gears of War-like loading bug that, when the loading 
 screen has finished, you still play for anything from one to ten seconds of game without any textures 
 or bump-mapping. 
  
  To conclude, Mass Effect is a decent RPG that, with some great new features, will interest even 
 the most hardcore Oblivion player and keep you coming back for more time and time again, it might 
 not appeal to those looking for a solid action adventure or shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  After getting my 3rd replacement Xbox 360 back from the repair facility in Texas this was the first 
 game I was dying to play. It had a lot to keep you busy and it just felt like I was playing a movie 
 at times. So many people to talk to, missions to do, worlds to explore. I could go on and on. I 
 had a lot of fun during this game and was a little sad when I ended it after playing almost 40 
 hours. The actual fighting didn't didn't bother me like some but I would like to see a couple things 
 in the next Mass Effect 2. Drop the codecs you find and look at, nothing in there and a waste of 
 time on your part, also could we get some upgrades for the Mako. Everything else you can trick 
 out and so on but not your vehicle. Other than that, fantastic game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFF_Fatman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a beautiful game. When I first played it, My jaw shattered in awe at its beautiful 
 graphics, honed to perfection compared to the trailers of 2k6 and 7. The gameplay is excellent, 
 the combat is rich and fulfilling and the storyline deep and immersive. Conversations, as promised, 
 as fluid and easy, although some of it feels like your just reading lines of excessive text, and 
 you might be tempted to skip parts that seem irrelevant. 
  
  Now, heres the few problems I have with it. While Mass Effect is a large RPG, it is easily completable 
 within a number of hours, possibly just over 20 hours. That might seem like a lot, but for an RPG 
 its about half what a normal RPG would take, due to the fact Mass Effect relies heavily upon side-quests 
 to take up the players time. 
  
  While expansive and large, the planets in the game are vastly empty, some can be 'surveyed' for 
 minerals and important resources that are quest related, but aside from that, only one planet in 
 every star system is landable upon. It makes you feel like the galaxy is, well, empty. 
  
  And the most annoying flaw in the game was the loss of the combat systems shown in the x06 Mass 
 Effect trailer, whereby you can modify weaponry in live gameplay, as well as take control of your 
 individual squad members for effective manipulation in combat. Now the inventory must be accessed 
 in the start menu and only simple commands can be relayed to your companions in combat. While there 
 might have been obvious reasons for the loss of such systems, it makes the game have the same inventory 
 workings and combat tactics as others, instead of the unique features shown in previous trailers. 
 I feel these are a major loss to Mass Effect, losing two innovative features never used before. 
 
  
  And finally, glitches. The game possesses many glitches, nothing crippling in any way but some 
 irritating ones here and there, one time my character got stuck in a rock, another time my AI companion 
 got stuck in a floor, another time my rover got blown up as a thresher maw appeared under it etc. 
 While these are small and not highly noticeable, they are still extremely irritating, although 
 hopefully xbox live updates will fix such errors. 
  
  That said and done, Mass Effect is truly a beautiful, brilliant, in -depth game, with no major 
 flaws, but a considerable number of minor ones, as well as the loss of some innovation along the 
 way. Although this game is the first of a trilogy, so hopefully such elements may reappear in Mass 
 Effect 2 and 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theafiguy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Now when I first heard the news about Mass Effect I thought it was just going to become another 
 over-hyped game that would sell a crap-load but not be worth much. I thought the idea of the game 
 was simply to save worlds, I was very wrong.
  
  The premise to ME is that you are a commander in the Marines and end up becoming a Spectre (kind 
 of like a super cop with diplomatic immunity) , your job is to save the galaxy from an ex-Spectre 
 named Saren. The way you accomplish your job is by gathering clues from side-quests and random 
 missions that will help guide you to your later goals. The first thing that I noticed off the bat 
 about ME is that is beautiful, I went as far to tell one of my friends that during certain parts 
 of the game its prettier than Halo 3. The environments in the game are very, very diverse; although 
 some of the planets are fairly bland (because they aren't areas for a main objective) .
  
  Although the game is in all technicality an RPG, the combat is a third-person shooter. The combat 
 is solid and fairly easy to accomplish; you change weapons by using the left bumper and use abilities 
 by pressing the right. There is an aim assist in the game and depending on the level of difficulty 
 you'll have more assistance. The only thing that really sucks about the combat is that you only 
 have 4 weapons to choose from. You have a pistol (which is actually useful in the game!) , an assault 
 rifle, a shotgun, and a sniper rifle. They each have their own unique traits and help in certain 
 situations. The pistol is quite strong and accurate, which breaks the stigma of weak pistols in 
 shooting games. The assault rifle for once is actually really innaccurate but at closer to medium 
 range it can dish out a good plenty of damage. The shotgun is almost useless to me but certain 
 people enjoy it, and for what it does it does well. The sniper is extremely hard to use simply 
 because there is no single way to still the sights.
  
  Your guns never run out of ammo which makes the combat a little less intense, they do overheat 
 though. When a gun overheats it takes somewhere between 4-5 seconds to be useful again, which can 
 mean death. It's very easy to steer clear of the overheating but it just happens sometimes. Another 
 new thing to me is the way that you heal people in the game; you use a form of medicinal goo called 
 medi-gel. You acquire it by buying it or getting it from fallen enemies. When an ally is low on 
 health you simply walk up to him and press Y and volla! If an ally is knocked out then you simply 
 wait and he eventually comes back to life, which is also kind of cheesy.
  
  The leveling up in the game is fairly simple, just shoot and kill. The EXP is given to every party 
 member, even those not in the shore party with you. Leveling up means that you gain health and 
 that new abilities are unlocked. You are also supposed to gain what are called Talent Points but 
 that has yet to happen to me. To gain EXP in a certain weapon you simply need to use it, although 
 for some reason other guns will gain EXP at times. Equipping your crew is simply as well, you pick 
 up items, go to your equipment menu and scroll through the different equipment options. You can 
 equip new weapons at any time and new weapons are always compared to the one that you currently 
 have on you. The same goes for armor and upgrades. Upgrades are a little confusing but once you 
 understand it it becomes quite easy. You can upgrade the ammo that you have in the gun or the gun 
 itself or other components; you can also upgrade your armor and grenades.
  
  When not in battle the game is mostly talking and figuring out where to go next, which is a very 
 simple task. The only major problem with this is that the action oriented missions are far and 
 few between. You'll spend most of your time leveling up and earning credits (the monetary unit 
 in the galaxy) ; while this is nice if you are an RPG fan, this is tedious if you are not. Meeting 
 and talking to new people gives you EXP and credits sometimes; other times it rewards you with 
 items and side-quests that can help you earn credits.
  
  The main missions are mostly quite fun but a lot of times you'll be stuck for a while because the 
 hallway you had to go through is hidden by fire or because you can't see where to go next. Half 
 the time the missions don't even seem to have any real purpose to the story, but it ends up having 
 relevence to the story. 
  
  The cut-scenes are well done with the fact that you can control what your main character says during 
 the game. You are given 2-6 options most of the time and can effect whether you are good or bad 
 or even the actions that you undertake at the end of a conversation. The only thing is that the 
 dialogue is a little ridiculous at times and your options don't always come out the way they seem 
 they will.
  
  One of the most interesting things about ME is the character creation, it's much like Saints Row 
 where it seems the list of things to do goes on forever. The only thing that would have been nice 
 to have a little more control over the hair and facial hair features of your character. The NPC's 
 in the game are interesting as well, there are several different species and races of aliens throughout 
 the galaxy, all with their own background and story. This can make the amount of information to 
 undertake confusing and tedious at times though. Overall, the characters in the game are well done, 
 especially your crew.
  
  The game isn't perfect though. During the game I have noticed several glitches such as my character 
 getting stuck or the graphics not completely loading. The most annoying that I have encountered 
 (only once) is when a sub-menu won't go away, thus making it impossible to play the game. There 
 are other small glitches in the game and I have also found myself missing some scenes and even 
 a boss fight was randomly skipped, but I will chalk that up to the fingerprint on the disk. Also 
 the combat does get a little stale after a while, seeing as there isn't really much to it. The 
 major thing that sucks about Mass Effect is that you know absolutely nothing about it when the 
 game throws you into the first mission. There was no tutorial and no easy way to figure out the 
 controls and how they relate to the game. The fact that the engaging missions can be far between 
 is also another thing that would probably make several people want to stop playing the game to 
 find something new to do. There isn't a whole lot in the game that keeps it REALLY refreshing. 
 
  
  All in all, Mass Effect is definatelly an amazing and unique game that takes new ideas and puts 
 them to good use. Despite the small shortcomings of the game it is probably one of the best RPG's 
 I've ever played. I would recommend any 360 owner to go out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sick29
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is in essence a good RPG and a decent over all game. The story line, skills system, 
 equipment system, and extras are all well done. But the game mechanics are a bit off. Combat is 
 a bit off, and the vehicle sequences are atrocious. Long and inconvenient load times hamper game 
 play as well.
  
  Graphics 7/10
  The graphics are nice looking, but nothing in comparison with Assassin's Creed. Some of the characters 
 look a bit off as well. Like sometimes the face seems to be a bit off from the rest of their head, 
 and looks almost mask like. They also move about quite awkwardly. One more thing that might kill 
 the experience of the game a bit is that graphics load in layers when going into a dialogue scene, 
 so you will see the characters face literaly build while they are talking.
  
  Sound 10/10
  Voice acting in Mass Effect is nothing short of spectacular, especially Seth Green 
 who plays a minor role as your ship's driver. This really adds to the games best feature, which 
 is it's story line. The music and sound effects as well are dead on.
  
  Story 10/10
  This is Mass Effect's best feature, and really the reason why you should play this game. Basically 
 you start off as a commander in the Alliance's military. You soon join an elite group, know as 
 the Specter, who serve to protect the galaxy. One of the agencies best operatives has gone rouge 
 and is working with the Geth (a robotic race who was created by another race as slaves they rebeled 
 and basically sent their master's packing) to destroy the universe. Background information on basically 
 everything is provided to you with the use of the codex, which draws you more into the world. You 
 also run into various terminals and such with transmissions from people and places under distress 
 which lead you off on extra story lines. 
  Another awesome thing about Mass Effect is that you can chose what your character say in cut scenes 
 and such. Though most choices bring you to the same point, it is still nice to have your character 
 act the way you want. What you choose can sometimes alter things though, such as getting paid more 
 in missions, or becoming romantically involved with certain individuals. You can also change up 
 you missions a bit, like you can choose to be a good samaritan and help a person, completely ignore 
 them, or go behind their back and make a deal with their enemy. Another thing is that the background 
 you choose for your character in the beginning is alluded to during the game.
  Some of your skills effect options in dialogues too. You can put point into charm and intimidation 
 which will open up extra dialogue options that come in quite handy.
  There is also a good - evil system. Points are put into there respective value based on your actions 
 and choices of dialogue.
  
  Gameplay 5/10
  Like I said at the beginning there is something off about the combat. It seems a little too lose. 
 The fact that sniping is next too impossible and incredibly not worth it also adds to the fact. 
 It is good that they added motion in while you try and aim your sniper, but it darts all over uncontrollably 
 and there is no way to steady it. Also a shot from your AR does about the same amount of damage 
 as a shot from you sniper so its not worth even trying. Shotguns are also pretty worthless. 
  Anything having to do with the games vehicle, the Mako is simply annoying. Movement is horribly 
 off and the vehicle flies all over the place. Its also possible to drive straight up a wall. The 
 mounted turret is incredibly hard to aim and your usually better off trying to run the baddies 
 over, if you can. One thing that really hurts it as well is healing it takes forever and you have 
 to stand still while doing it. This leads to alot of deaths. Overall you better off just trying 
 to run away from combat in the Mako.
  What was done right about gameplay is the skills and equipment systems. You get two skill points 
 every time you level and can choose to apply them to a whole bunch of different categories based 
 on your the specific characters class. Points into each category add effects like increased weapons 
 damage and accuracy, more power to your skills, and the skills themself. Equipment is customizable 
 with upgrades and such. As usual equipment can be bought or found, but finding equipment is don 
 a bit differently than most RPGs. Instead of just finding random treasure chests, you actually 
 have to pick locks on safes, lockers, and crates. It adds a bit of realism, and makes you feel 
 as if you are kindof stealing other peoples things. One bad thing about bother the skill and equipment 
 systems however is that the UI menu system is horrible.
  
  Replayability 9/10
  The combat system is a hindrance here, but all the side quests as well as the different options 
 that can effect the outcome of the game make it very replayable. The fact that there are multiple 
 endings definitely helps as well.
  
  Recommendation
  If you like a good story or are a RPG fan this game is a must, other wise its a toss up. Shooter 
 fans be wary, the combat system will piss you off.
  
  
  Recommendation to the Creators
  Work on the combat and vehicle systems. This games has the potential to turn into an amazing series.
 
  
  Overall 8/10
  One last thing to mention is about the load times. Most are set to occur when you ride in elevators, 
 in this way the experience doesn't feel broken or anything. But the elevator rides are long and 
 boring, and a few times I stepped of the elevator took two steps and was hit with another loading 
 screen. It annoys the heck out of you. That said, there are alot of good things, and alot of bad 
 things. Regardless the story makes the game worth while, and there is alot of potential for sequels. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redhairboy491
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Small glitches really held Mass Effect back. So much about the story was great, but there were 
 plenty of technical issues. That said, even the glitches couldnt hold back ME's overall awesomeness. 
 
  Starting things off positively, the characters are simply the sh%t. From their stories to their 
 graphic design to their voice acting, they have it all. The back round stories also offer a nice 
 touch, letting you decide whether your the gallant hero or the gun touting psyco path who blows 
 up anything that gets in his way. Saren is, perhaps, one of the greatest villains of video game 
 history, with a story that really makes you question your own ideas (or your shepards anyway.) 
 Environments are gorgeous.... and here in begins the problem. The mako.
  The mako is the most frustrating aspect of the game. The target reticle for your turret is blue 
 and does not change to red when encountering enemies. Not a huge problem, unless you add in the 
 fact that your going 85 on a freaking mountain thats got more bumps and lumps than your average 
 bus driver's ass (not to mention that nearly every planet seems to be covered in them) . Another 
 annoying aspect is, the gun aims down. Sounds innocent enough right? Except when you add in the 
 fact that when you aim down, the bullets go no where near you aimed, leaving you vulnerable to 
 anyone who gets close enough, unless you run over them (crunch) in which case, you got another 
 bump to go over. Tip: Stay on even surfaces. Saved me more than once.
  That was the major problem. The only others are more minor glitches that will probably only frustrate 
 you on your second play through. These include the numerous elevators (not exactly long in length 
 but just annoying in quantity) the frame rates a tad slow (i dont have to explain do i?) and the 
 environments need a second or two to get all the details on them, such as the mountains missing 
 rocks or the occasional boulder.
  As you can see, there is a reason i put the head liner. The game was rushed. If these technical 
 glitches were fixed, mainly the mako, it had a good shot of being the game of the year. As it is, 
 its just another pretty good game.
  Overall: It's a good game, and if your a fan of good rpg's, then you should definatly pick it up. 
 Most of the the screw ups will only bug you if you play it a second time. Im putting "just right" 
 for difficulty because, do to the settings, it can be either extremely hard or extremely easy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airidis
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  dont get me wrong i luv this game its got good action and fun characters. but story i think was 
 a little predictable it was good just i could guess everything before it actually happened so i 
 guess that made story kind of bad for me but its a good story!! i dont want to sound like i'm saying 
 it sucks k. action is fun the powers are interesting also guns are fun to use. there is one problem 
 with this game is i dont think its replayablity is as good as lets say oblivion because alot of 
 to side quests i did were kind of the same go find random droid on random unimportant planet then 
 return droid and get reward. also the map (planets) are sometimes dull its mostly boulder, plain, 
 mountain, more boulders and random pirates sitting around at there ship
  
  BUT all the bad things are basically outweighed by the good things. although i just dont think 
 this game is very replayable thts probaly why i havent gone and bought it, i rented for about 2 
 weeks (membership card thing i can keep games as long as i want as long as i pay for X dollars 
 each month) anyways this is a good game i recomened u rent first see if u really like it then go 
 out and buy because its a must get :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echuu9393
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  I love rpg's like oblivion. But I never found a futuristic rpg that i really enjoyed. Phantasy 
 star universe bored me nearly to death, but this is the best in this type of genre. It's another 
 bioware game and of course that means a great storyline, but its not the fact in this game for 
 everyone makes a big fuss about it, but the storyline is crap. Character creating is an ok aspect 
 to the game, but character acting is amazing for you can tell which guys are cool and others which 
 downright bastards. 
  The game starts out as u commander shepard of the great aliance navy. It seems there is a beacon 
 that is supposively having prothean technology that helped galactic civilization be created, but 
 a rogue spectre (an elite soldier that goes on military missions that an army can't do.) , the best 
 and most gifted one Saren has allied himself with the geth and the soveriegn (won't explain either 
 cause it's a bit of a spoiler.) to help with the destruction of all mankind. The story takes about 
 12hrs but if ur doing all the side quests than it takes like 20 hours. One problem that when doing 
 the main quest u forget about how important killing saren is but what you want to do. There is 
 a significance of going to the planets it says to go to but u get to cought up in fighting and 
 saving people which takes away intensity as well as gives not as much as lost but some more intensity 
 (even though diolog makes the story completety captivating but doesn't effect how important it 
 is to kill saren as it is at the end and at the beginning. Oh i forgot when u beat the game u can 
 just start it again with the same character at his same level which is cool.
  
  The second problem is the annoying combat of the mako. The mako is an armored vehicle that can 
 let u travel on planets and go across mountains and areas u cant on foot or in a ship. The problem 
 with it is that you will get frustrated because u get trapped in certain areas were u can't escape 
 from. Its too unstable because when your shooting u cant down which makes killing enemies that 
 are next to u annoying cause running them over will just make them fly away. On foot combat is 
 just pure crap and countless annoyinses. The game isnt that confusing and there isnt like thousands 
 of weapons to choose from but just pick a shotgun an assualt rifle a sniper and a pistol with the 
 most damage and just add 2-3 upgrades and ur good. In hardcore and insane it gets very freakin 
 frustrating though cause upgrades are very important and u have to change for every different enemy 
 u attack like changing bullet types with anti personel or anti piercing. Thankfully ur gun never 
 runs out of ammo but does overheat and gets sabotoged at times. Biotic powers are fun and hilarious 
 and really give u a cutting edge in battle. 
  
  Overall graphics are ok and characters are really better detailed than the terrain but in the middle 
 of the game at times it gets wierd because detail of characters and the environment doesn't come 
 in until a few seconds into a conversation makes ur eyes blurr a little but i hardly count that 
 in.
  
  The difficulty is very easy on ur first playthrough on like casual, but hardcore is a good difficulty 
 and insane makes u have to play it like its a tactical shooter. Ur characters actually have their 
 own minds and wont just die on u by being idiots, depending on who you have. U can use squad commands 
 to send them to cover to a certain position on u or on to attack an enemy. U can choose what weapon 
 your allies have and what uprgrades and armor for them. Really i dont think of this game as an 
 rpg like oblivion but more as a action rpg game that has weapon upgrades and leveling up.
  
  Overall mass effect is an ok game with equal bad sides than good ones.
  graphics:8.0
  story:8.5
 
  gameplay:7.5
  diffulculty:8.5
  overall:8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mao6542
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  I received this game right before Christmas and did not put it down until now. I put just over 
 50 hours into it and loved every minute. The countless features and overall tactics are very entertaining 
 and addicting. Whether your talking about the storyline or just the gameplay itself, this games 
 a real winner. Everything from the dialog options, to the many different paths and worlds you can 
 explore on your own, this is one to invest time in for sure. Mass Effect offers a mix of actual 
 combat, along with a nice plot to go with mini games, and alot of vehicle driving as well. With 
 a plethora of weapons, armor, and accessories, this new world brings all new surprises. The monetary 
 system is always key, and plays a large role in this adventure. I would highly recommend this to 
 anyone who is even remotely interested in RPG or shooters at all because this game is too good 
 to pass up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fer212007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  well one of my most anticipated games of 2007 is one of the best games in history not a lot of 
 games can take the history of a game like mass effect did
  here is my review
  
  1-graphics=amazing impressive characters models gorgeus enviroments
  practicalli it looks like 
 a final fantasy cut ecene
  
  2-sound=the best voice acting in history gorgeus sound effect really make a great story shine even 
 more
  
  3-ai=the ai is great almost in all the game is okay but some times you will see your team member 
 shoting into a #$%^&* wall. but yust sometimes
  
  4-gameplay=great shooting but what really revolutionary is the form of the conversation
  
  
 5-fun=is too fun to stop playing and one of the best games in history
  
  THE PROS=gorgeus graphics-gorgeus sound and voice acting-impresive conversations make the story 
 shines.
  
  THE CONS=SHOOTING IS FUN BUT SIMPLE-AI CAN BE SPOTTY
  
  MY SCORE IS=9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  In a nut shell. Mass Effect is gorgeous. Amazing. Awesome. Great visuals, great storyline that 
 you can control, and characters that you actually care about. You play in awe and then wonder why 
 you wasted so much time on COD or Halo 3. Mass Effect makes Halo 3 look like that kid that gets 
 beat up at school for his mom dressing him funny. They could have done more in the character weapon 
 and armor customization, very reminiscent of Phantasy Star' system. Just take the weapons and armor 
 and keeping adding higher numbers at the end of their names and call it an upgraded weapon. Lazy, 
 but excusable. I've played through three times, planning on at least three more times. It gets 
 funner each time. Best game ever. Glad to be able to support games like these that make you use 
 your brain and make video gaming an actual adventure. Even my wife said it was like watching a 
 movie and she hates video games. You'll love it. And Gamespot is a bunch of pompous ass/es for 
 giving this 8.5. It deserves better. I guess the game was too smart for the reviewers. Anyways, 
 I hope you get to read this before the pompous ass/es delete my review because they hate my incessant 
 criticism. I love censorship in America. Gamespot, such hypocrites. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterOfSprites
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  The game is absolutely wonderful. It has every thing, a good shooting system, an armor system, 
 one of the best plots I have ever seen, beautiful graphics design, and so many interesting and 
 new alien species. Mass Effect keeps you going from start to finish.
  First, I think one of the things that stood out the most about this game had to have been the Ship; 
 the plot throws the best ship in the fleet your way, which seems normal until you see the size 
 of this thing. Your crew is gigantic with many interesting people to talk to. You will also feel 
 compelled to stay on this beautiful ship to learn more about it and the people in it. 
  Along with this, all of the aliens have such interesting backgrounds too them, they all have wars 
 to learn about, and they all have a way of thinking or fighting that is far different from the 
 human perspective. The game play is pretty solid and you will only see a few glitches here and 
 there and really won't be as much of a concern as some people make it out to be. 
  The powers are very innovative and will come in great handy as long as you remember to use them. 
 I love the leveling system it seems like there is always something to level and you always get 
 several points often to put in, very extremely fun. This game will keep you going for hours. 
 
  The only problems I saw with the game was a strange static that had several tiny black dots, my 
 360 doesn't do that with the rest of my games, but still it didn't really take away from the game 
 once I got used to it. I also wish I could talk to my troops more on the battle field and have 
 conversations with them, can't complain too much though with how large the universe is, but it 
 would have still added to the experience. If you are into the idea of a RPFPS then Mass Effect 
 is something you want to check out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slasherton
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect is one of the better games I played this year. The combat system are great and the voice 
 acting is probably the best I head this year. Even though some conservation may be lengthy, its 
 not a pain to hear through simply because it sounds like real people talking to you. The graphics 
 is one of the best and each city is filled to the brim with details. However, it still an annoying 
 game. Vehicle combat could have been improved. They should include upgrades that enable the Mako 
 to withstand more damage or detect thrasher maws. Navigating through weapons and powers is a hassle 
 due to the high sensitivity of the analog stick. 150 item cap limit ia another annoying thing. 
 You soon realise you have many pretty pointless weapons and upgrades that you either sell them 
 or convert them to omni gel. That how I got my 1 million credits. This makes shopping pretty pointless 
 since most of the powerful weapons are out there. The side missions starts to wear down after a 
 while because environments on most planets are bland and lifeless. Even buildings and mine looks 
 the same on almost every planet. There could be more variety to the weapon as it just the same 
 few names with higher grades. Overall, mass effect is a great game with solid voice acting. However, 
 if they just improved all the annoying problems and add more variety to it, it can reach its true 
 potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan6692
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This games is fun to play. Its action and porn all in one. Something all men love. But once you 
 get past all that it kind of sucks. They games is shot if you play just the story line. Sort of 
 like Oblivion. If you just play the story line you'll get through the games fast. The games is 
 fun and all. Making you chose good or bad. Making the game fun for a second go. This games make 
 you wonder. "Was that the right chose?" Always keeping you on your toes. Not the world best games 
 ever but can't say it sucks bad. Although it is alot like Oblivion. Making it seem as if they stole 
 some stuff but Mass Effect makes it so that everything you do and say has an effect on the world 
 you play in. I have to say it was fun to play, but was only fun to play once around. Doing all 
 those puzzles again would not be fun. Good for a rent unless you want all the achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda_fan2005
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I just beat this game last night and at first I was a little dissapointed on how short the main 
 story was and also how the sidequests are more of a chore, but there is a lot of emotion and the 
 gameplay is very in depth that for what the game lacks on such a minor scale the great overpowers 
 the abysmal. The interaction is just awesome the lip syncing is spot on and the voice acting is 
 simply excellent and another great aspect of the game was how the choices when creating your character 
 have an affect on the game itself and it creates a back story for you so as to make the world of 
 mass effect seem even more alive. The intergalactic travel is in one way awesome but also kinda 
 of a burden since that's a lot of loading time for a destination, and by that I mean if you have 
 to go from one cluster to another then find the right system for one planet to complete one sidequest 
 it gets a little tiresome but not to say it drags the game down completely but I found myself getting 
 annoyed with the mako, which as a lot people already know is the weakest point of the game. The 
 bouncy and odd controls with too much rocky terrain and the monotonous battles really kil the exploration 
 portion. But I don't wish to sound so negative cause I loved this game in fact I've already started 
 a new character but one last thing the romance subplot, I wish was much longer and more graphical; 
 such as more emotion and more of the sex scene but I am a guy so of course I would wish for more 
 nudity haha... but seriously with how expensive game titles are these days this is one of the few 
 I would buy brand new the high price of $59.99. But one last positive thing, which I know I have 
 lacked there but those are the few minor negatives, but our hero Commander Shepard and our nemesis 
 Saren our two of the most badass characters ever in gaming history ranking up there with Solid 
 Snake and Master Chief... Great gaming to all players Peace out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimonHukilau
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  Bioware has made its mark on the world of action role-playing games. With titles like Star Wars: 
 Knights of the Old Republic and Jade Empire, the expectation of quality is high. Mass Effect does 
 not depart from this laudable tradition of excellence.
  
  In truth, Mass Effect can be a little overwhelming in the first few hours of the campaign. The 
 epic sci-fi story is so big and there are so many quests, you may wonder where to begin. Soon enough, 
 though, you'll find your groove and be enamored with the wonderfully deep universe Bioware has 
 created. Each planet has its own personality, and there are dozens of them to investigate and explore. 
 The sheer amount of characters in the cast will never leave you wanting for people to talk to. 
 There are also endless opportunities to upgrade weapons and character abilities, which will satisfy 
 the role-players out there.
  
  On the technical side, the graphics are as good as they've ever been on the 360. Character animation 
 is sharp, and the shadows are beautifully rendered. Each planet, although the ground is often the 
 same, has its own unique skyline, ranging from an airless heaven with binary stars orbiting above, 
 to dense organic worlds with rain falling in the distance.
  
  The game is nearly perfect in every way. The only real drawback to the game, and this is only a 
 minor flaw, is the driving levels. Exploring desolate planets requires driving around in a bouncy 
 all-terrain tank. The physics of driving in low-gravity worlds can be a little tedious, but this 
 in now way diminishes the overall appeal of the game.
  
  Mass Effect, unlike most games, has the ability to be everything to everyone. There are enough 
 choices and variety in gameplay options to keep everyone with a 360 happy. Advice: buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rawlu
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  As much as i enjoyed bioshock & halo3 (way to short) , ME beats them both IMO. Bioshock was awsum 
 dont get me wrong & its score of 9.0 is well deserved, loved it. BUT, ME blew H3 away IMO B4 i even 
 touched down on the first planet LOL! & it gets a 9.5? & ME a 8.5?! = NOT!. if ME got half the 
 HYPE maybe that halo does it would have recived a perfect 10 !. Bioshock & ME both BLOW halo3 away 
 IMO as much as i do like halo.  (ofcorse they'll 
 argue all the multiplayer BS included on H3, well get rid of it  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GabuEx
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  This review will start off with the big stuff. Mass Effect is the greatest game of 2007, GameSpot 
 nitpicking be damned. There are few games in existence that excel in absolutely everything they 
 do, where everything they touch turns to gold. Mass Effect is one of those games. Beyond a few 
 insignificant quibbles that are hardly even worth mentioning - let alone drop the game to a 9.5 
 because of them - there is no fault to be found in Mass Effect. It is a pinnacle of gaming. The 
 essence of what a game should be. A paragon of greatness to which all games ought to aspire. The 
 only reason one might dislike this game is if one hates RPGs in general, and even then it might 
 even win over shooter fans if they can bear the dialog.
  
  The RPG genre has been around for a long time, arguably ever since the days of Dragon Warrior, 
 perhaps even before that. But never before has a game so truly exemplified the title of the genre 
 - role-playing games. In many of them - indeed, in most of them - one is role-playing only to the 
 extent of following a predefined path from a start to a conclusion, watching characters do their 
 thing.
  
  Not so in Mass Effect. Not once does your character in Mass Effect do a single thing without your 
 say-so. In Mass Effect, you are not merely watching Commander Shepard; you ARE Commander Shepard. 
 Whenever you are interacting with a character, you and you alone are responsible for the path the 
 conversation takes. If you choose to make yourself a charming, genial individual, that is your 
 choice. If you choose to be a heartless, selfish soldier, that is your prerogative. If you wish 
 to help someone with a problem, you can go right ahead and do so; if not, the game will accept 
 that. The extent to which Mass Effect exemplifies and provides true role-playing is astounding 
 and revolutionary, so much so that the reviewer now hopes all RPGs in the future follow its lead.
 
  
  But however good the role-playing is, it would mean little if the story that underlies your character's 
 situation was not good. But it is - it is more than good, in fact, it is great. The plot blends 
 a perfect level of suspense and intrigue to make a downright interesting game that you can't wait 
 to play more of. It advances not too fast, so that the game is lengthy and satisfying, but not 
 too slow, so that the game does not become boring and tedious. It includes enough interesting and 
 varying goals and tasks to ensure that no one plot destination feels like another.
  
  But the entire game need not be following the plot. The game might be over soon enough if one simply 
 sticks to the plot, but the sheer number of side quests is absolutely phenomenal, and many of them 
 feel meaningful, filling in bits and pieces of the backstory behind what you've seen in the game. 
 This is, however, the place where I have my first minor quibble - many of these take place in installations 
 on planets, and there are essentially only three or four interiors that are simply repeated over 
 and over with different furnishings. It works well enough, but it does have a tendency to get a 
 little monotonous if you're doing multiple side quests at a time. Still, it's no big deal - as 
 said, it works.
  
  Still, what's a great story without great characters? And what fine characters they have. Many 
 games have only one or two well-developed characters, but not Mass Effect. Every character, right 
 down to bit part characters like a grieving Indian father who wants her daughter's body returned 
 for a proper burial, seem utterly lifelike and believable. This believability is increased tenfold 
 by the absolutely stellar voice acting present in the game, as well.
  
  And the gameplay? You needn't even ask at this point, as you ought to be able to guess: fantastic, 
 as usual. The actual combat system is fairly run-of-the-mill - you run around and shoot your enemies. 
 But the way in which it's employed makes one feel that it doesn't need to be any more complicated 
 than that. Those looking for complications can turn to the weapon and level system in the game, 
 which add many layers of incredible customizability.
  
  Right at the start, you can choose the general guidelines of how you want your character to be, 
 but insane amounts of refinements can be done along the way. After each level up, you receive a 
 certain number of skill points that can be allocated however you like. Want your character to be 
 a machine with a gun? So be it. Want your character to be able to hack and rewire complex systems? 
 You can do that too.
  
  Beyond leveling up, each weapon has either one or two slots in which a weapon upgrade can be applied, 
 and can also accept an ammo upgrade, as well. These provide everything from heat suppression to 
 improved accuracy to increased damage, enabling people to tailor their guns exactly how they'd 
 like them to be. The time associated with properly maintaining your arsenal might be a turn-off 
 to some, but it only made the reviewer love the game even more.
  
  The audio in the game was top-notch as well. It accomplished this not by being overpowering and 
 epic, but by being delightfully and incredibly subtle. There were a few points where the music 
 became more intense, but even then it was much more subdued and tasteful than it could have been.
 
  
  This review could go on and on beaming and gushing about how incredible this game is, but there's 
 little point, as all of the main bases have been covered. If you own an Xbox 360, you need this 
 game. Forget Halo 3, Mass Effect is the definitive reason to own that console. It is one of the 
 greatest games ever created, and is the center jewel in Bioware's already impressive crown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flobertymeow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  The game is an absolute must for lovers of Just cause with a kinda sandbox feel but a gripping 
 storyline to keep a focus if wondering around beautifully modeled planets becomes a little tedious. 
 The basic storyline is that one of the supreme rules of all the galaxies has become corrupt and 
 is planning to kill all life. This is the basic storyline but there are loads of interesting and 
 long side missions, some that can help with the main quest. The dialog it great and diverse but 
 you can skip it with the x button if you are repeating the same conversation. As for combat, I 
 actually thought it was really intuitive. The basic rules are to hide behind a container of wall, 
 practice your aim then come out from your cover and shoot. You can also cleverly pause the combat 
 and choose a biotic weapon which allows you to boost your shields or throw people across the room 
 though I find i Just use shield boost. Using these power ups is not necessary in combat but can 
 help. Lastly, the graphics are stunning with beautiful scenery, even if it can take a while for 
 the texture maps to stop loading (seconds) . The only bad thing I can think of is when your character 
 becomes stuck with a glitch which can be annoying if you haven't saved recently but this happens 
 very infrequently. Overall a great game with an excellent storyline and dynamics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vpaixao
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect takes the  formula that we've seen in previous 
 BioWare games, to a new level. In games like KOTOR, you could only access the planets that had 
 something to do with the storyline. but in Mass Effect you can travel to dozens of galaxies, completing 
 side quests along the way and exploring some of the planets of each galaxy. Although it seems limited 
 that you can only explore 1 planet in the galaxy, when you have side quests that make you find 
 turian emblemas, or prothean artifacts that make you fly around different clusters and nebulas, 
 and in the systems within the nebulas, you realize that the Milky Way is quite a big place.
  The storyline itself is the best part of the game. Unlike other games like KOTOR or Jade Empire, 
 you don't choose the whole sentence you say. You can choose from a variety of short sentences, 
 that take much less time to read, and that in when your character says them, it's basically what 
 you chose, just a bit longer. Sounds a bit confusing but, it's actually quite simpler, and the 
 dialogues run much smoother. The characters are very well designed, very accurate. The way the 
 characters move their lips as they speak is very believable. A small detail in the character's 
 face that is unique about this game is the fact that they move their eyebrows and arms as they 
 speak. If Sheperd is mad at someone, he might grab the person by the shirt, push that person against 
 the wall, while always keeping a mean face. 
  The action of the game itself is different from other BioWare space operas. The combats are not 
 by turns, like KOTOR; the action is like a 3rd person shooter and to aim you're in the 2nd person (the 
 view is over the shoulder) .
  You still pause the game to choose abilities like Biotics (Mass Effect's "Force" or "Chi") or Tech ( 
 overload enemy weapons, enemy shields and so on...) which cuts the excitement a little bit from 
 the battles.
  Mass Effect is a great game, but it also has its problems. It cannot keep a steady frame-rate to 
 save its life, which really hurts the action. Sometimes, you get "stuck" in an object. Only happened 
 twice to me, but these are problems that should've been fixed in the editing process.
  Then we have the "black sheep" of Mass Effect, the Mako. It's not "that" bad, but in a fantastic 
 game like this, it just seems more out of place then a zebra at Wal-Mart. The controls are far 
 from instinctive, and to shoot an enemy you have to be at the same level as it. Oh and a hint for 
 shooting turrets. Aim to the left of the turret. :) 
  Mass Effect is a great RPG that might even please the "shooter" fans. I would give it a ten, but 
 I'm saving it for Mass Effect II, which will hopefully solve the problems that kept Mass Effect 
 from being the game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lIIiya
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is plain fun straight to the end even though it may seem alittle short. There are 
 always side quests, grinding and other stuff to do in the game which makes it really worthwhile.
 
  
  You play as Commander Shepard, which you can either pick to be the original Commander Shepard picked 
 and designed by Bioware or you may customize your commander shepard with face scars, gender, hair 
 styles, hair/eye/lip colors etc. The story begins with you as Commander Shepard, aboard the Normandy 
 which can travel universe to universe from the speed of light as you first mission is to head off 
 to Eden Prime to discover an artifact...
  
  Combat system may very well be high tech, futuristic, but still a sci-fi third person shooter feel, 
 its not the best combat system there is but its really good, you can take cover, run, crouch when 
 covered, aim and switch weapons and give squad commands (you control a group of three squad members, 
 can be changed later on) and you may recruit and switch different squad members when in Normandy, 
 alien, human etc.
  
  Classes, there are many types of classes to choose from, Vanguard to Soldier to Sentinel etc.
 
  
  Weapons, as you rank there are a huge amount of arsenal weapons to choose from which makes it interesting 
 the higher the level you are, but on your first playthrough there is a lvl cap limit, when you 
 beat the game atleast once, you will be rewarded with advanced features such as lvl and money cap 
 raised, etc.
  
  This game is made by Bioware and is using the Unreal Engine 3 for game design as most of you may 
 know.
  
  Exploration, there are many exploration and side quests to do in the game such as landing on uncharted 
 planets to explore and excavate mines for minerals and gold and on the way you can explore to collect 
 medals and other miscellaneous items which will lead to getting a achievement.
  
  Achievements, from top to bottom there are many stuff to do in this game, from registering 75 pistol/sniper/shotgun 
 kills to completing all side quests to earning more than 1,000,000 credits (cash) etc.
  
  Overall it is a fun game and should not be missed even though you havent played any sci-fi games 
 in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buttface1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Lets start off by saying this is definantly the best game I've played on the 360 so far. Not to 
 say it doesn't have it's flaws (Very little of for an RPG infact) but it's definantly worth looking 
 into.
  If you're like me and can read through a book, watch a movie, or play a game and actually get inside 
 somewhat and attatched to the characters, ect. This is definantly a game you should check out.
 
  You'll make hard decisions along the way, the side quests are actually.. fun.. not dragged out 
 to bore the living crap out of you.
  The characters all have history and are unique charming characters.
  Brings something a bit different 
 to the table with action RPG, (Though the cover system is alittle broken) , with futuristic ranged 
 combat and the powers you get are like the force on steroids. Really good looking and fun to use 
 (Definantly Throw and Lift)
  I do wish they would have done more with the vehicles, besides an APC. Throw a Warthog in there 
 or something! Get your whole team involved, something like that. 
  The story is tasty, either you go the Paragon way (The good way) or the renegade way. 
  Only 
 four weapons but lots of variaty with what you could do with them.
  Even characters that aren't in your party you can come to enjoy conversing with and what not. 
 
  Like I said before, story is tasty, worthy of any great RPG. I personally didn't like Bioware's 
 previous titles on the Xbox (KOTOR and number 2, just didn't appeal to me.) And even though you 
 might sit here and think with the whole futuristic thing they might be two similiar titles... WRONG. 
 Though they did take alot of good gameplay from the KOTOR series and put it in this, just made 
 it better. 
  It's a pretty hard game to learn (No real tutorial) so I recrommend you get a bit into the game, 
 learn it, then restart.
  Just, if you're into RPG (Or even FPS perhapes) this is definantly a game you need to get.
  
 
  One other thing... kind of short... even with all the side quests and exploration. Game would 
 have made 10 easy if they continued the story with even more plot twists and what not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xPaStorTroyx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  First off I played the game and I am enjoying it! I may Rant from time to time due to the cavemen 
 reviews posted on not just this game but good games so bare with me.
  I This is for the 4.5 and the 7.5 reviews have you even played the game its just like the people 
 who gave call of duty 4 a 7.5 and thats like one of ( I SAID ONE OF) the best damn FPS I have played 
 in a long time.. but yea majority of the planets you land on are not all cities because if you 
 listen in the game it says most of them are uninhabitable planets or uncharted planets hell read 
 the planets info before you decide to land if you can land most planets are unfortunally too close 
 to the sun or too far away or their gravity is too high or low and really it would be impossible 
 for you to. You go their to look for resourses and yes most of the side quest do fit in the story, 
 and they help push you to go explore other planets.... their is no way you can rent this and go 
 do all the stuff that this game has to offer you unless you A. dont have a job and B. never sleep 
 and if that s the case you either dont have a girlfriend or you have a stack of games that you 
 suck at... funny thing is I dont even like RPGS lol and this one I like alot. To the peson who said 
 it sucks because you only get 4 guns what more do you want .. when you're geting upgrades like incinenary 
 rounds sp? lol and cyro round.. etc.. posion rounds thats like 3 diffrent guns their and you can 
 put it on any weapon, hell call of duty only lets you carry 2 weapons at a time your main and your 
 pistol and you can carry 4 and still complain lol WOW. Also I heard some crap about the skins but 
 I frankly can care less CD4 has about 4 skins blue tiger being one digital etc.. lemme see halo 
 no skins and 2 weapons at a time.... Hands down basically if you suck at the game or games period 
 dont write a low review to say the game is butt at least have the b@lls to say you suck at it and 
 say it kicked you @ss all over the place. This game nor does call of duty 4 suck so majority wins. 
 And Yes the have more then 1 major city with side quest im your such a moron that you dont wanna 
 find the other ones when the theme of the game is exploring. 
  Gamespot could have given this a 9.5 seeing how they gave assassians creed a 9.0 and I love that 
 game but lol it is bug city and hella repetitive at least this mixes it up a bit more then a barley 
 interactive lab and a room to sleep in but ... not bashen because I still enjoy it a lot anyway 
 for both they should make a sequal and build off of what they have game because its a good start.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jblaze56
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Long Game (Kinda) about 30 hours if u do all the side quests ( which are really fun.) , wat 
 makes it long is the side quests but the main story is a really good one too cause u get to make 
 a choice between Renagde and Paragon (evil-Renagde or good-Paragon) . You can also choose wat u 
 want to say that will decide wat your future is. There is a lot of systems to explore and when 
 u get on one of the systems there are planets to explore. Now u can explore the planet and get 
 side quests. So its a really really really big game and they all look great while they are at it. 
 There are also many classes with all different skills and specialities to choose from and with 
 that class comes its weapon choice as well. The solider has all the weapon to its disposal, and 
 so forth.
  
  Cons: Sometimes the map loads up really wierd. Like its goes from really looking real and everything 
 and then u load at the beginning and then everything goes back to computer made things with all 
 the undeatailed stuff. But its only for a short time. Also Mass Effect did a really horriable job 
 on the auto-saves. I mean come on, on the planet full of snow you run into like half way thorugh 
 and then u die and you just go back to almost the beginning its very frustrating. So you need to 
 save alot manually. But in battles you cant save and then you die and you go all the way back. 
 Well everything else is perfect or close to perfect.
  
  To Me this is the best game out there for the 360 and its tottaly worth every penny and breath 
 you use on it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sullie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  First let me say that I am not one that goes for RPGs, this is actually the first one I ever bought. 
 With that though, I must say that this game is amazing. After reading some of the reviews I had 
 my reservations and wasn't that eager to take the plunge and get the game. In this case though 
 I am so glad I was wrong, this game is truly amazing. Don't let what Gamespot whined about put 
 you off. Yes the menu system could be polished, but it doesn't detract from the fun. The same thing 
 goes for load time on textures, yes it happens but it lasts maybe a second and doesn't happen that 
 much. I also have to challenge something I've heard that you can't just run and gun in this game. 
 Well while you probably should make good use of cover, you really can get loaded up with nice armor 
 and weapons and just cut loose. What I think really makes this game great is the story, it is fantastic 
 and told with some of the best voice acting I've heard. You would also be doing yourself a huge 
 disservice to simply blast through the story mode without doing any side missions or talking to 
 random characters. My gut reaction is to give this game a 10, but it does have its couple (and 
 I do mean just a few) rough edges, none of which should be a reason not to buy this game. I imagine 
 this is going to be one of the most worth while series in quite a while and is very refreshing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirkMcGuirk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  To put it simply, and I say this with no ego, Mass Effect is quite possibly one of the greatest 
 games I have played. Everything from the story, gameplay, dialogue and characters flow together 
 perfectly, even though the game is marred by some minor technical nuisances. The combat, although 
 it may stray from what a classic RPG fan might prefer, still manages to be very fun and engaging. 
 Bioware has crafted a masterpiece here and if you were to buy one RPG for the 360, this would be 
 it.
  
  The one true aspect of Mass Effect that stands out is it's story. The game's narrative starts off 
 somewhat simple, your self-created Commander Shepard has become a candidate for the Specters, which 
 is somewhat of a galactic police force, with the agents being unbound by codes of conduct. As the 
 story progresses, it escalates into a genius blend of story-telling; a Specter named Saren has 
 gone rogue and has allied himself with a sentient race of machines known as the Geth. From there 
 on out you begin a galaxy-wide hunt for Saren, with twists and turns popping out at you every mission. 
 I was on the edge of my seat every minute of the game, and the climax is simply awe-inspiring, 
 depending on your ending of course. The main storyline, if played straight through, will probably 
 take you roughly 15 hours, but with all RPG's, the bulk of your time is spent doing side quests 
 if you prefer to do so. If you complete a good deal of side quests, at least enough to merit the 
 Completionist achievement as in my case, you'll find yourself clocking in at around 30 hours a 
 playthrough, and if that isn't enough, the game has a very high replay value if you want to go 
 through a second or even third time if you wanted to explore your darker or lighter side, specialize 
 in a different class, or even try a different relationship with one of the crew members of Shepard's 
 ship, The Normandy.
  
  The combat is a little different than what you'd expect from your traditional RPG, with it's blend 
 of a third person shooter and tactical RPG elements, but it should please both the shooter and 
 role-playing crowd. Combat and how you play it depends mostly on your class. The soldier based 
 class will most likely have you play the game as more of a tactics based shooter, while the engineer 
 and biotic classes tend to be reminiscent of Bioware's previous Xbox entry, Knights of the Old 
 Republic. For a good deal of the time you spend fighting, you'll be navigating a radial menu for 
 your special abilities, which is a fairly simple system pulled up by pressing either the left or 
 right button. While on foot, the combat shines, but the vehicle combat isn't something to be desired. 
 While navigating hostile environments or if you have the need to get somewhere fast, your land 
 rover, The Mako is what you'll be using. Unfortunately, The Mako isn't exactly fine tuned for combat 
 apparently, considering your turret can't move up or down, which makes for some frustrating moments 
 if you're on uneven terrain.
  
  One of Bioware's greatest merits for Mass Effect, or any of their previous games, is that they 
 have a knack for making believable and culturally rich characters, and this is no exception. Your 
 crew on the Normandy, each being of their own race, give you both insight into both their people's 
 and personal past, and with all the backstory involved, you actually begin to believe you are a 
 part of this universe (even though technically it's our universe in the future) . Even though the 
 main characters are all very interesting, a staple of a good RPG in my opinion has always been 
 the depth of supporting or stock characters. All of the side quest characters are just as believable 
 as the main cast, which is really a mark on how much care Bioware puts into their games. All of 
 the races featured in the game have their own history and culture, and can also provide a bit of 
 humor in their own quirky ways, such as the Volus race calling humans The Earth-Clan, or a flamingo 
 looking race known as the Hanar always referring to themselves in the third person and their archaic 
 means of speaking.
  
  Another achievement Bioware has managed to accomplish is the voice acting and dialogue in the game. 
 The sheer amount of dialogue in this game is mind boggling and the quality of the acting is near 
 perfect. Their is never a wooden delivery in the acting and all of the actors manage to fit their 
 respective characters very well. The facial movements to go along with the acting is realistic, 
 although I encountered a few animation hiccups once in awhile.
  
  Now for the downside... even though for the most part the game is flawless, their are a few nuisances 
 here and there, but none truly game-breaking. The aforementioned vehicle combat is clunky and annoying 
 but like all the problems in this game, is forgivable due to the overall quality. The game may 
 have beautiful visuals, but they are considerably hindered by some texture popping, especially 
 in cutscenes. I also found myself being stuck in the terrain of worlds requiring use of the Mako 
 if I got out of the vehicle to pick up some ruins or survey a mineral, which is a bit of a pain, 
 but the game autosaves every time you land on a planet, so repeating only 2 or 3 minutes wasn't 
 so bad.
  
  In the end, Mass Effect is pretty much a must have game for the Xbox 360, especially if you're 
 a sucker for one hell of a story and great gameplay mechanics and it has already become an instant 
 classic in my mind. Bioware has set a new standard for how a game can be on a high philosophical 
 and intellectual level with a lot of depth, yet be fun and accessible to the mainstream. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: instantdeath999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  For fans of the KOTOR games, the instant they spot "bioware" on the case, the game is an instants 
 sale. But does Mass Effect live up to the colossal reputation bioware have made for themselves? 
 While the reacion may be mixed, in my humble opinion, it does, and only leaves me wondering what 
 they can do next time. 
  
  In the KOTOR games, Bioware already had the universe set-up. That is not the case here; Bioware 
 have created their own universe. However, they have done an amazing job. You will definitely want 
 to read either the novel or the "Essentials" book, as they give a lot of the backstory that will 
 make conversations even more enjoyable. Sure, it is a bit cliche, but it is a sci-fi. From the 
 ancient Protheans, the Mass Relays used for transportation, and the different alien races, it's 
 all familiar while being new at the same time. 
  
  You play the role of Commander Shephard, a character you create. The character customization is 
 not the best I have ever seen, but it gets the job done. What I found cool was the ability to choose 
 the history of your character, to your childhood to your military career. What's even cooler is 
 that the people you talk to will be familiar with your history and react to you in different ways. 
 
  
  Like in all Bioware games, you have a crew, all of which have different abilities, and although 
 you may only bring two on missions, you can talk to them all and get to know them in between missions 
 on your ship. There are a few very interesting characters, and a few of them even have quests. 
 None of the quests are that fun, nor do they help your relationship with the character much, though 
 they are there. The antagonists of this story consist of a Saren, a rogue "spectre" (basically 
 an elite officer that does not have to follow the law) , and another that you will have to discover 
 for yourself. Again, slightly cliche, but the character has enough personality to be able to be 
 distinguishable.
  
  Now that the overview of the plot is out of the way, I can move on to the actual game mechanics. 
 A large part of the game is in conversation, and luckily, it is set up well. While sometimes it 
 can be hard to distinguish what kind of tone your character is going to use, for the most part, 
 you get a very good idea, and it is translated very well. All of the characters sound believable, 
 although the male Shephard can sound a little bland at times, the good far outweighs the bad in 
 terms of his voice acting. Many other characters, such as Captain Anderson and Joker will be recognizable. 
 
  
  The combat, unlike most RPG's, is quite fast paced. It's mostly cover-based, with 5 weapons (although 
 you will only be able to use one or two effectively, depending on your class) . The only pauses 
 are when you choose to change weapons or tonics. The friendly AI can be a bit dull, though they 
 can take care of themselves for the most part. The combat, while a bit sluggish at times, is ultimately 
 fun. Unfortunetly, navigating the menu's is not so fun. It is very disorganized and cluttered, 
 and can be annoying to navigate.
  
  Like many RPG's, there will be quite a bit of exploring, if you choose to do so. Thd areas affiliated 
 with the main quest all look great. That being said, the side quest areas,. along with the side 
 quests themselves, are quite bland. And the sidequests themselves don't do much to help, as they 
 are all the same concept. Go to a set location, kill whatever is there, and find what you need 
 to find. Along with that, the means of getting to that location, a vehicle known as Mako, is not 
 very fun to drive either. The handling is very, very poor, and at times can be very frustrating 
 to drive. 
  
  The production values in this game are great, particularly the visuals. From the details in the 
 characters faces, the the tonics, to the backgrounds, they all look great. There are a few framerate 
 drops, but not enough to ruin the experience.
  
  I cannot reccomend Mass Effect enough. From a good story, to fun combat, to a dialogue system that 
 seems real, and a 20-30 hour campain that you will likely want to play multiple times, this is 
 one to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WayaOhni
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I am not an RPG fan. The last RPG that sucked me in enough to make me want to complete it was Final 
 Fantasy VII. And I've had little to no interest since.
  That said, I challenge you to sit down with Mass Effect, give yourself a time limit, and stick 
 to it. You can't. It has everything, a good story, an interesting and compelling universe, and 
 just the right amount of action without blurring too much into shooter territory.
  Characters for the most part are well developed. You'll hate the villains, you'll care about your 
 party members, and you'll genuinely be torn over some of the decisions you face, such as which 
 party member dies, how to get out of a shootout with your Krogan squadmate, etc.
  
  I haven't played the Paragon path yet, but the Renegade path is FUN. Trust me, it's very satisfying 
 to shove a gun in a wanna-be's face.
  
  Only thing this game is missing-an achievement for the James T. Kirk award. Maybe in the sequel?
 
  
  If you haven't played this game yet-Get it. NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrangeCrown
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a game that has been on gamers' radars for a while now. It was heralded as a new 
 step towards creating dynamic stories in video games, not to mention sport impressive graphics 
 and gameplay. It is a Bioware RPG afterall. Does the game meet these expectations? For the most 
 part, the answer would be yes.
  
  Gameplay wise, Mass Effect feels like a cross between Gears of War and Resident Evil 4 with RPG 
 elements mixed in. You journey through the universe in a squad of three (you play as Commander 
 Shepard while the other two members are entirely up to you) . Each character brings different abilities 
 to the party, as well as strengths and weaknesses. For example, one soldier may excel in combat 
 prowess, yet falters badly in Biotic skills (the equivilant of Magic) , so creating a balanced team 
 if of the utmost importance. You can pretty much customize these squad members as you see fit, 
 though there are restrictive boundaries: Each character has a certain Class that grants them certain 
 specializations, but which areas they master is up to you. In combat, you can issue simple commands 
 to your squad, and for the most part the AI fares pretty well, though there are hiccups every now 
 and then (such as party members getting oddly stuck on walls and unable to move) . With a tap of 
 a button you can bring up the Biotic/Technique Wheel, and can make use of your unique attacks. 
 For the most part, it works pretty well.
  
  The game also does not fail in the graphics department. While not the most visually stunning, they 
 are nonetheless impressive, though I personally felt the characters' faces could have used a bit 
 more emotion when in conversation. The voice acting is top notch, yet the facial animations aren't 
 always on par. A very common occurence, however, is texture delay: several seconds will pass before 
 the textures on objects finally appear. It's not too much of a problem, but it is noticeable. The 
 soundtrack if full of both great and forgettable pieces. Those that stand out are the battle themes.
 
  
  The Storyline is where the game truly shines. The characters are very interesting and believeable, 
 and by the time the adventure is over you'll have grown attached to them and will care about what 
 happens to them. While the story itself isn't anything new perse, there are plenty of twists to 
 keep you interested as well as an outstanding cast of characters to hold your attention. The last 
 few hours of the game are some of the best I've seen as a gamer. You can play Shepard as either 
 a hero or a renegade, though in all honesty the choices you make won't have a large inpact on gameplay. 
 Scenes will play out differenty and there are multiple endings, but that's about it. Still, it 
 can be fun to play as a hero and then suddenly turn into a complete jerk.
  
  Unfortunately many of the sidequest are extremely repetive: You'll travel across different star 
 systems and pretty much do the same exact thing on each planet that can be visited. You land, search 
 for fallen soldiers or abandoned space pods, then infiltrate a facility (all of which are the same) 
 and kill someone before having to return to the Normandy to repeat it all again on a different 
 planet. Also most of the planets are void of life; they feel incredibly empty, save for the Thresher 
 Maw enemies which are annoying more than anything else. The AI also numerous dumb slips, which 
 really shouldn't be a problem in this day and age of gaming. Also, many of the search and fetch 
 quests become redundant early on.
  
  However, none of these flaws are game breakers. Mass Effect may not have met all of its expectations, 
 but it is a great and memorable game nonetheless, and there are few choice moments where you'll 
 seriously contemplate, and maybe even regret your decisions made in the game due to their emotional 
 impact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PotHeel
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  To put it straight, I love this game. Bioware have captured my heart with their storylines since 
 the first Baldur's Gate. I've grown up with their games, to me the Bioware logo is an assurance 
 of quality. 
  This game carries on this rule in fine style. Every element of the archetypal Bioware RPG is represented 
 within. The brilliant storyline, a cast of characters that are genuine fun to interact with and 
 a plethora of side-stories that reveal a world of depth.
  Don't get me wrong though, the game is by no means perfect. Mass Effect also carries the curse 
 of all Bioware games ie, a shoddy autosave system and occasional glitchy framerates, but hey, tough 
 cheese.
  Mass Effect evokes genuine emotion, and has by far the best soundtrack that I've heard from a game. 
 It provides an almost cerebral experience. In Mass Effect, Bioware have reached a pillar in the 
 evolution of the interactive storyline, the main character has voiced dialogue and throughout you 
 are provided with the feeling that your character has a genuine impact on the landscape that they 
 inhabit.
  In short, this may not be the most balanced of reviews, but I beseech you, if you own an Xbox 360, 
 buy this game. Give it a home. I did, and the last week just flew by... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FantasyNuTT
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  First off, it's by the veteran studio Bioware, the genius's behind the KOTOR series for the original 
 xbox. When this first came out, i expected alot, but this blew me away. Here's why, the graphics 
 are amazing, easily at the ranks of COD4, and Halo3. The controls are quite simple, though i miss 
 jumping. but jumping never was in Kotor either. Customization options are wide open, and satisfying. 
 Absolutely amazing voice work. The story line is very well thought out, and reply choices fit the 
 scenes well. I was very satisfied with what turned out. though it seems to be a 3rd person shooter, 
 its really a tactical shooter. along the lines of Rainbow Six: Vegas. i had a great time playing 
 the game. I think its a worthy addition to my xbox collection.
  The only downsides i can say is, when you're under heavy fire, and there's no cover around, sometimes 
 its frustrating trying to find a spot without dying. 
  Transitioning into biotic powers can sometimes be encumbersome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zentrenius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  After Bioware's previous sci-fi endeavor with Star Wars, churning out the classic Knights of the 
 Old Republic, I was expecting a great experience in Mass Effect. My expectations were completely 
 shattered and I am left to say the following: Bioware is the best developer of role-playing games 
 (which is a title previously held by Bethesda) , Mass Effect is by and far Game of the Year material, 
 and it is the best experience on the Xbox 360 to date. I've played most of the other blockbusters 
 of the year (Halo 3, BioShock, Assassin's Creed, Call of Duty 4) , and while they are magnificent 
 in their own right, they don't match Mass Effect.
  First I'll give the reasons why this game did not receive a perfect 10 in my book. The texture 
 flipping, while not as nightmarish as the Halo 2 flips, do sort of hamper what is otherwise an 
 incomprehensibly immersive experience. Second, while your teammates are generally helpful in combat, 
 there are times when they are unhelpful, and more rarely, plainly stupid. Third, the very beginning 
 of the game is a little slow, but this is a minor complaint because even it is still great and 
 the game takes off very quickly from there. Now that these problems (to be honest, they're more 
 minor annoyances rather than "problems") are out of the way, it's time to get on to everything 
 that the game does so very right.
  The audio in the game is truly something to behold. The voice-acting is generally spot-on and it's 
 nice to hear Seth Green and Keith David donate their talents to the game. The sounds you hear in 
 combat are also done remarkably well and everything sounds crisp and believable. Whether it's the 
 weapons being deployed and fired or the enemies sounding off or the wonderful sound of something 
 getting its ass demolished, it all works. Then there's the soundtrack which ranges from good to 
 simply incredible. The music always enhances the mood, especially during certain cinematics. 
 
  The gameplay is great at worst and phenominal at best, mixing element from Gears of War and Knights 
 of the Old Republic, resulting in a polished gameplay system that is as fresh and innovative as 
 it should be while remaining familiar enough to get a good grasp of it early on. Nearly every battle 
 is enjoyable at least and very few times will it ever be frustrating. The methods by which you 
 can dispatch your enemies are enjoyable and large enough in variety to hold your interest long 
 after you've completed the game, but not too large so as to be overwhelming. This system emphasizes 
 strategy over run-and-gun tactics and results in a very rewarding experience that feels just perfect 
 for this game.
  Aside from the previously mentioned texture flipping, the graphics and art direction are fantastic. 
 The many planets of the Mass Effect universe are all interesting and unique, consisting of immersive 
 environments with noticeably different architecture, never too dull to rouse feelings of boredom 
 but never too out there to be unbelievable. Each world oozes with meticulous detail and speaks 
 of their people's cultures as much as any data does. The people themselves are animated remarkably 
 well, especially in terms of facial structure and animation, which exhibit emotions in a way previously 
 unseen in any game. The various weapons, devices, and vehicles are all designed with great care, 
 none seeming out of place and all being there for a reason.
  The writing in general is outstanding, from the dialogue to the various loads of background information 
 behind every planet, species, technology, etc. Nearly every conversation is interesting and worth 
 listening to, and practically every bit of history for every planet is detailed and believable. 
 (Please note that when I use the word "believable", I'm talking about some of this stuff seeming 
 genually possible. For example, a planet of space clowns driving intergalactic scooters that run 
 on sunshine and farts is not exactly believable. Well, to exaggerate less, say it is believable 
 implies that it is scientifically sound to an great extent, with surprisingly detailed explanations 
 behind technology that doesn't exist, explanations that aren't really farfetched.) Added on to 
 that, the main story of the game is deep and truly gripping, leaving the player with a desire for 
 more as the game goes on. 
  Mass Effect is not perfect, but it is extremely close. It presents a living, breathing galaxy filled 
 with detail and wonder and it puts you right in the middle of it, experiencing among the best it 
 has to offer. It is a testament to what games should be, and I can't wait for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dico_basic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Having played Bioware RPG's in the past I was expecting Massive things from this production which 
 seemed to take forever from conceptual idea to finished product. After playing through the complete 
 game and doing almost all the sidequests I can't help but feel this game should have spent a while 
 longer on the producers table. 
  
  While it delivers on many of the things it promised, the epic story, great character development 
 and intuitive combat it doesn't quite deliver on the greatest promise and most important aspect 
 of all, the truly massive world with many many planets to explore. Allow me to explain; While there 
 are around ten systems and usually two or three star systems within those surrounded by a habitable 
 planet in most cases, every planet you land on barr the main 4 or so is almost identical, the same 
 cave layout and same building facility with some loose plot as to why they're there and the reason 
 they must be eliminated. You follow the same process (mark on map, drive to debris, pick up atrifact, 
 mark on map, drive to enemy base, eliminate) an alarming amount of times.
  My other gripe is the interface which personally I think was a bit complicated and especially in 
 the weapons menu not brilliantly thought out.
  
  Comparisons to the Knights of the Old Republic series cannot be avoided, this after all does seem 
 rather like the same game without the license and guns instead of lightsabers. In my opinion the 
 knights games, rather the first one was far more fun, the locations characters and missions were 
 more entertaining but where in the Knights games failed in my book was creating an ending of true 
 epic proportions, one where you actually believed you were the last hope... Epic is where Mass effect 
 pulls through:
  
  The soundtrack is phenominal right up to the end credits, it starts off simplistic, and gradually 
 builds. Throughout the game the fantastic sound creates tension, great melodies and as for the 
 voice acting, simply terrific. 
  The graphics are pretty top notch too, though my brother refferred to the faces as 'clay'. He has 
 a point, in certain lights they do look a bit like Wallace and Grommit although every muscle is 
 mapped perfectly.
  While I don't rate the side missions all too much the main bulk of the story is great if not a 
 little short. I have no doubt that if you concentrated on the main story you could beat the game 
 in little over 12 hours. The last few hours are certainly the best, as revelations are made and 
 you do genuinely feel you are the last hope. 
  
  It may seem I don't like this game, I do, its just not quite as good as I was hoping. I definately 
 reccommend it, it just won't demand that second playthrough the same as some of my favourite RPG's 
 did.
  Mass Effect delivers an immersive world that is well worth diving into if you're usually a fan 
 of the genre. If you're not i'd probably look elsewhere as this may not be the best placement of 
 your money.
  
  If you read the review please leave either positive or negative feedback,
  cheers,
  Chris 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trashface
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  I held off reviewing this game until I finished the campaign and a dozen or so side quests even 
 though I was pretty much hooked after taking over the Normandy. This game has 3 gigantic pros. 
 These are its story, immersion, and graphics. On the surface, the story may just seem Halo-esque, 
 but it's much deeper. Yes, all of known organic civilization is in danger of extinction, but what 
 seperates it is it's depth and detail. Even with its most mainstream title to date, Bioware proves 
 that it's still Bioware by giving us all the lore we could ever want . As far as the graphics, 
 they top Gears Of War as the best graphics. The immersion is caused by both of these elements and 
 also by the innovative dialogue system and climatic cinematic sequences. The new dialogue system 
 doesn't seem to be perfected, though, because I suspect many choices lead to the same lines. I 
 haven't tested it, though, because I'm lazy. Anyway, the dialogue system allows you to watch the 
 characters converse instead of having text indexes like Oblivion and such. It's more realistic 
 and immersing. The game does have some negatives. There are some stalls in framerate, but it's 
 seldom, if ever, in combat. It also stalls some in changing between the control screens. Also, 
 many of the planets have the same barren landscapes with different texture colors and different 
 mountain terrains. This strikes me as lazy as does the fact that many side missions are very similar. 
 The game also seems light on the RPG aspect and I don't care for enemy scaling. These minor flaws 
 are not very strong compared to the game's intense story. I hope the high sales of this game spark 
 a trend among 360 developers to start making deeper games instead of pushing out 1st person shooter 
 one after the other. I'm ready for this type of change. Good job, Bioware, even though there could 
 be improvements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: random58
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  when you first look at the visuals at this game, its wow, the storyline keeps you playing too but 
 it lacks some speed at the start of the game which might put normal gamers off. there is many items 
 to aquire enough so that half way through the game you can afford anything twice over. the worlds 
 that you go to and explore is the biggest let down just for the sheer lack of creativety, you instantly 
 can see that the same mountain ranges and overall feel is the same throughout and will give you 
 a feel of repetativeness if you dont stick to the storyline, one thing to watch out for is the 
 mild sex scene with one of your squadies lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxrulze
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  Story: 10
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 10
  Tilt: 9
  Value: 10
  
  Let's just get this out of the way now: Mass Effect lives up to the countless clich names it has 
 received since its release. Whether it is "Massively Awesome," or "Massively Effective," it is 
 an experience that everyone should have. If it could be mandatory for a game to be mandatory -- 
 Mass Effect should be it. That's a lot to say about a game, and though it may seem that it is a 
 flawless piece of work, it's not  but it's damn close. For the most part though, Mass Effect brings 
 some serious content to plow through, and more "HOLY #@!%" moments than you can shake an inaccessible 
 Quarian at.
  
  Role-Playing games have been around for a long time. In their lifespan, they have taken on multiple 
 forms of gameplay. In many a persons mind, JRPG's are the traditional form of role-playing; or, 
 at least they will argue that it is the best designed for story telling. WRPG's though, have been 
 taking a hold, and Mass Effect is now at the head of the charge. When BioWare first announced that 
 the game would be a shooter/rpg hybrid, a lot of people were a bit beyond skeptical. Fortunately, 
 skepticism has been replaced with "wow this actually works. really, really well." 
  
  When you pick up the controller and begin to play, it suddenly dawns on you that this actually 
 plays like Halo in the 3rd person perspective. The actions have been incredibly well mapped to 
 the 360 controllers, and it takes less than ten minutes to have the controls mastered. The game 
 has a very tactical approach to its shooter component, and those who think you'll do a whole lot 
 of Rambo-esque runs into hoards of Geth are going to find that it does a whole lot of nothing. 
 For this reason, we have been so graciously given a cover system. It's pretty easy to get yourself 
 up against an object: just move to the object, and you will automatically stick up against it. 
 A few games have attempted the automatic cover technique and have failed miserably, but here you 
 get an awesome system. They've basically nailed the amount of movement needed to press up against, 
 and remove yourself from cover, and this is definitely good since not finding said cover can more 
 or less land you on a stairway to heaven (or hell for all you renegades) pretty quickly. Of course, 
 you do have two teammates with you at almost any given time, and so to ensure they don't get blown 
 away in the crossfire, you have a basic command function to keep them kicking. It's much like any 
 other squad-based game where you aim at the cover you want them to move to and press up on the 
 D-pad. This too works remarkably well, and even without telling them to take cover they do a good 
 job of finding it themselves. The one thing people are going to have some possible troubles with 
 control-wise is the Maeko. The Maeko is the all terrain vehicle that you use to get around the 
 many worlds you will visit during your time in the game. The controls are awkward and touchy, but 
 driving it well will come with time. You won't ever master it, but it becomes manageable. Driving 
 the thing will be the furthest thing from your mind however, when you watch yourself driving up 
 basically vertical mountains, and sticking to the slopes like you've got earth-grabbing magnets 
 keeping your butt on solid ground.
  
  Of course, you don't only have your shotguns, sniper rifles, pistols, and machine guns to aid you 
 in your battle against the hordes of enemies to be found; Biotics and Tech skills are also at your 
 disposal. Biotics are kind of a high tech version of magic. You can use them to throw, pick up 
 and push, paralyze etc, enemies. Tech skills enable you to disarm your enemies through over heating 
 their weapons, control enemy machines, and open up higher end locked containers among other handy 
 things. Not everyone can use these skills  soldiers are stuck with blowing away enemies the old 
 fashioned way. Some people can use tech, some biotics, it all depends on their class. With all 
 of these skills at under your belt, using them at the appropriate times is essential. As a default, 
 all computer-controlled allies will only use these skills when told to. You can, however, change 
 this so that they will use defensive abilities only, or use all the abilities at their discretion. 
 The only skill that they will not use unless told to is Stasis, which renders the opponent motionless, 
 but you can't damage them. The latter setting is generally a good way to go since the computer 
 uses their abilities very efficiently and leaves you with lots of time to worry about keeping your 
 own player in order. You can also change the combat difficulty to easy, normal, hardcore, and insane. 
 The last two have to be unlocked by beating the game at the previously highest setting. The higher 
 the setting, the more your opponents will be scaled to match your level, and the more buffed the 
 bosses will become.
  
  BioWare has a reputation for not having the most efficient of menu systems, and Mass Effect does 
 unfortunately suffer from some flaws. In general, the system works fine, but you cannot back out 
 from the weapons/armor upgrades menu by simply pressing B. Instead, you are forced to choose an 
 upgrade to be applied, or choose to apply nothing at the top of the list. The only other gripe 
 is that with the plethora of items you inevitably pick up, lists can become cumbersome. Neither 
 of these two small issues really much annoys you, and after you've navigated the menus for a bit, 
 you get a handle of how they work and they work great.
  
  A lot of people when looking at games, want to know if there is a decent level of customization 
 involved. Mass Effect does in fact have quite a nice amount of customization to play around with. 
 When you first create your Commander Shepard, you can choose whether they are male of female, and 
 then you can mess with their faces a bit to make it look as much like you, or as much as what you 
 figure you look like for esthetic glory. You also get to choose their background story such as 
 where they were from, what they've accomplished in their lifetime, and their general personality. 
 This is also important since it changes some dialogue that you have during the game, which is pretty 
 cool. From there, the weapons and armor are all able to hold component add-ons that bolster them 
 with special abilities. There is quite a large selection of components to choose from, and they 
 all have different power levels that you'll find as you progress through the game. Want to have 
 your enemies dissolve into a green substance that looks like it came out of a Ghost Busters movie? 
 Yah, you can do that. Want to turn that shotgun into a mobile tank shell launcher? No problem. 
 Even the grenades can have their wardrobe enhanced with an array of deadly accessories.
  
  The most important part of any RPG is without a doubt, its story. If lacking a solid story, the 
 game would become more of a watered down  Luckily, BioWare has 
 mastered this all-important aspect. There was a lot to live up to after they released Star Wars: 
 Knights of the Old Republic, and so many thought that it wouldn't be up to par. Well not only did 
 they write in the most detailed gaming universe (quite literally) , they brought story telling to 
 a whole new level. Even though at its roots it's a "stop the bad guy to save the universe" sci-fi 
 build, the detail and plot twist are where the substance is (how many other games can you say let 
 you have girl on alien girl action?) . There is more detail in this universe than any other game 
 to precede it. When you zoom in to scan a planet for example, and find a short novel written about 
 it's unique traits, followed by technical jargon that geeks everywhere will have giggling fits 
 over, you realize that this is one meticulously designed game. Of course, the most obvious aspect 
 everyone still gawks at is the conversations.
  
  Take everything that you've ever wanted to have for a conversation mechanic, and toss it together. 
 What you'll get it Mass Effect's biggest pull factor: it's discussions with hundreds of NPCs. The 
 first time you witness a conversation in Mass Effect, your jaw drops, your brain tries to comprehend 
 what it's seeing, and you may even have a small heart attack out of sheer joy. Once again, BioWare 
 has given us the opportunity to be an angel, demon, or anything in between with the Paragon/Renegade 
 system. It's the same deal as the light and dark side choices as found in KOTOR, but with more 
 chances to find a gray area instead of just going with one of either extremes. Of course, the conversations 
 are made so fantastic by the graphics and sound that comprise them.
  
  Graphically, Mass Effect excels in every department. It truly is a beautiful game to look at. Unfortunately, 
 unless you shut your eyes for about ten seconds every time something loads, you may not be looking 
 at the most eye pleasing of sights. Many of BioWare's games have this graphical pop in issue, and 
 Mass Effect is no different. However, if you can look beyond this small issue, you will be in awe 
 at the detail to be had in everything from the character models to the landscapes and buildings. 
 Not all Character models look as good as the next one though. Humanoid characters are generally 
 pretty good, but some of them suffer a bit. Such is the case with Captain Anderson. The poor man's 
 ears have a nasty habit of catching light in the most unpleasing of ways, making them look like 
 they were melted with a car's lighter. Alien races however, are basically all amazing. From the 
 Asari to the Turians, they all are beautifully put together, and look fantastic. None of them look 
 better than one particular bad @!# named Urdnot Wrex. Wrex, as he is referred to as, is the most 
 detailed character model in any game to date. Every wrinkle and line is perfectly modeled and casts 
 the most realistic shadows out of any other model in the game. You will more than likely find yourself 
 showing off the game's graphics to your friends by having a chat with him.
  
  Artistically speaking, Mass Effect does some things very well, and some not so well. What it does 
 well is to be found in the character design, and clothing. The alien races are all very unique, 
 and the attire you find them in is as unique as they are. Personality is reflected in how they 
 appear which is something that isn't easy to portray. What it doesn't do well is that in its architecture; 
 it very much looks like a Halo clone. The other thing is, all of the worlds that do not deal directly 
 with the plot are barren. They all have a slightly different land structure, but there is no foliage 
 and rarely any animals. This is ok for those planets where neither are possible to host, but for 
 very much Earth-like worlds, it would have been nice to see some more of them both.
  
  One of the first things you are going to notice when you start up the game, is its music. Mass 
 Effect has an extraordinary musical score that does nothing but compliment the story and universe 
 in every way. Dynamic and never too repetitive, the music will put you at ease at one moment, tug 
 at your heartstrings at another, then throw everything out the window and get you geared for battle 
 the next. Even though the score is about as good as it gets, the voice acting is where the real 
 party is. The short answer to how good it really is would be to say that there is not one bad piece 
 of dialogue to be found in the game. The voices match the character and their individual personality 
 perfectly. With there being countless hours of voice-overs to be heard throughout the game, it 
 truly is a great accomplishment for BioWare to have such a perfected display of voiced audio glory. 
 Weapons all sound deadly, and the sound effects in general are spot on and without flaw.
  
  With such an enormous universe to play around with, Mass Effect will keep you occupied for hundreds 
 of hours without boring you with repetitiveness. If you do decide to skip over the side quests 
 in their entirety (which is a travesty and kick in the proverbial family jewels for BioWare) you 
 can plow through the game in 8-12 hours. However, if you are actually going to play the game the 
 way it should be then you will be blessed with a game length of anywhere between 25-50 hours for 
 one play through. Since you have the Paragon and Renegade sides to explore along with multiple 
 endings, you've got a lot to chew on before you've seen it all  and you'll want to see it all. 
 With downloadable content bound to be released, Mass Effect has a lot of bang for its buck, and 
 even without the extra content, is well worth its weight in gold (providing it was weighed down 
 with a bus full of Japanese tourists) .
  
  Mass Effect is a truly special game. It's not often you get to immerse yourself in an entire universe 
 built from the ground up with more detail than you can imagine. Top it all off with a great story 
 told through the greatest conversation mechanic and voice acting to be found in any game to date, 
 and you have a game that should be experienced at least once, if not many times.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beniah
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  As a fan of Bioware and of Role Playing Games in general, I have been looking forward to Mass Effect 
 for some time. I felt that Jade Empire did an excellent job at real time combat and it really towed 
 the line at not making decisions so black and white, and I was hopeful that ME would be just as 
 good, if not better.
  
  Well, after finishing the game today, and starting over immediately afterward, I can say that this 
 is one of the best RPGs I've every played. Aside from the gameplay, the atmosphere and cohesive 
 presentation really suck you in, and in ways that few games really pull off.
  
  Quite a few RPGs aren't really Role Playing per se, but rather interactive stories with a finite 
 number of choices that get you from point a to point b. Mass Effect is one of the few RPGs i've 
 played where you can really carve out a role in the story that you want to, and you can really 
 be consistent with the personality you want to portray.
  
  To speak more to the atmoshpere, or universe (this is a sci-fi game after all) of Mass Effect, 
 every time you encounter a cool piece of technology or important piece of information (say, your 
 ship's weapons systems for example) , rather than being subjected to 10 minutes of techno babble 
 you get a note that your codex has been updated. A great deal of the codex is illustrated and has 
 audio, and if you take time to learn about the foundation that the game is built on, you really 
 get a sense of the scope of the world that Bioware has created. It really is as deep and engrossing 
 as the Star Wars or Star Trek universe, only in video game format.
  
  The gameplay is a dream. Levelling up is fun, and you are rewarded quickly for sticking with a 
 focused approach in building up your character. The gear you get throughout the game is impressive 
 to look at, and new features pop up often enough to keep you checking your loot pile often. The 
 squad feature is great, and I found myself actually picking characters to put in my squad not based 
 on their abilities, but based on the story interactions I had with them because I like them- maybe 
 I'm weird, but not many games have that effect on me.
  
  One of my favorite parts of the game, and the feature that has been most crapped upon by other 
 reviewers, is the combat. I can't think of single RPG that has better combat. I kept thinking of 
 Gears of War as I charged into battle- though it is definately GOW light. Not quite as intense, 
 but still incredibly fun. Also, when you begin to engage your squad mates and use your special 
 abilities (as you will have to in order to play the harder difficulties) combat becomes even more 
 interesting and fun.
  
  The graphics and score of the game are equally as impressive, and work well to futher accentuate 
 that story and universe that Bioware tries to draw you into.
  
  All in all, I can see why this game isn't a 10, but my personal biases put it over the 9.5 mark, 
 and any reviewer who gives it less than a 9 is not to be trusted - and should immediately be demoted 
 to janitor at their place of employment.
  
  I mention my personal biases to highlight that I enjoy video games as art, and not just as entertainment 
 (which is why I played Killer 7 and Shenmue so much) , and while ME continues down that path of 
 blending film and video games, it also does something different, it makes you think. I found myself 
 in more than one situation putting the controller down to ponder my response to a question or situation- 
 I've never had that happen in a video game - ever. Also, it paints an excellent story about the 
 future of humanity - an optimistic one, too, which is kind of rare in video games these days.
 
  
  So, I'm excited about the sequel, but really pleased to have experienced this incredible tale. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect.... The ever hyped new RPG from Bioware. After playing this game I am thoroughly convinced 
 that Mass Effect is the Jack in Microsofts royal flush. Although not the best, Mass Effect is a 
 high octane thrill ride from the time you are introduced to the universe until your final clash 
 with saren. The game's high point lies in its story.... mentioning anything would ruin the game 
 so I'll let you find out that part. Presentation is another of its high points with top notch graphics 
 and cinematics. The RPG aspect is just okay in honesty and it manages to be more of a shooter than 
 anything, but all in all this game is awesome, even in a stellar holiday season with all the assassins 
 creeds and halos runnning around. There is much that could be improved upon with a sequel... whic 
 will sell another jillion copies anyway 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypt_mx
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  At first i was a bit afraid this game might be bad. I mean the whole, stopping the fight and planning 
 out stratigies isnt really my style. So i assumed my run and gun tactics would make me crap at 
 this game. I also thought that you would be playing the game as a set character with no option 
 to customize. I was wrong in both cases. Mass Effect-2, Crypt-0
  
  It didnt take long untill i found the shocking similarities to KOTOR (Star Wars: Knights Of The 
 Old Republic) . Which is freaking sweet seeing as i loved, played and beat both KOTOR and KOTOR 
 2. Anyways the game just might be one of my favorite games, and is most defianatly up there with 
 my most played.
  
  Story- The story takes you playing across the Galaxy as Commander Shepard. You get to choose where 
 he comes from and what kind of personality he has, so if hes a noble leader or a common jerk is 
 all your choice. You sent on a simple mission to pick up an alien relic, as you leave a transmission 
 comes in showing a team on the planet being slaughterd. So you go down to check it out. From there 
 youll find a fantastic story that i wont spoil for you. 10/10
  
  Graphics- Hello Shepard, wait....... WTF why am i talking to my TV? Ok maybe im exagerating, but 
 the visual graphics are stunning and simply awesome to look at. Your characters mouth moves in 
 sync with everyword and his facial expression will lead you to believe your actually part of this 
 other world. All other-worldly technology is cool and interesting to look at. Although sometimes 
 the small annoying glitch will come up now and them. gunning down aliens with a shotgun, or using 
 your powers to throw them to the floor, will never be the same. 9.5/10
  
  Sound- The music is simply great, if your running through a city or gunning down aliens on strange 
 planets, the music always matches the mood. Each footstep, and gunshot will sound just as you thought 
 they should. Voice acting is the greatest ive ever seen in a game, and create believable characters. 
 10/10
  
  Gameplay- If you took a 3rd person shooter, mixed it in with an RPG and added a touch of a strategy 
 game, you would have this. You run and gun, not turn based..... too bad you wont last too long doing 
 that. Sometimes you will have to stop combat with LB or RB depending on what your changing (weapons 
 or skills) . This isnt as bad as it might sound though. Setting up your characters to work as a 
 team is awesome, when you let go of the button and watch your plan come to life youll be amazed 
 by how awesome you feel doing it. Its and RPG so you level up gaining points to spend on various 
 skills. The game is just exciting and awesome to play.
  10/10
  
  Need a nice rpg, thats action packed, long, and has a good story? Well you found it my friend. Not 
 only is this the best RPG on Xbox 360 to date, but its probably the best RPG across all consoles 
 forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamester36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  CONS
  TOO SHORT
  -you are intensely into the game and then it ends ... it needs to be way longer. Both main story 
 line and side missions
  -also you need to be able to have better control over your party, yah you -had control but most 
 of the time they didn't really listen...
  -More stuff to do on each of the planets
  -Also more side quests that will impact the main quest...
  -Lastly... i love the mako, but it 
 can sometimes be hard to control ( maybe different vechicals you can use each with different abilities
 
  
  PRO'S
  -Everything was almost perfect... Graphics were amazing i had someone --come in and they thought 
 i was watching a movie. 
  -Also the way you influenced the game amazed me... The new speech decision was incredible and everything 
 you say and decide really effects -the end and the overall game
  -The story line was incredible and addicting... i couldn't stop playing cause i wanted to see what 
 happens next..
  -It was a whole new world... and i'm ready to see more games like this... It actually reminds me 
 of Knights of the Old Republic
  -But this game is a REVOLUTIONARY TO RPG S and hopefully they can expand off this... for all future 
 rpg games
  -MUST HAVE GAME
  
  SKEPTICAL IDEAS
  -co-op (someone else can control another group member... allows more bizare story line decisions 
 if 2 people are making them
  -Switch into different group members on single player to allow better timing on skills and better 
 aim (shooting wise)
  -Make a two story line way.... Good and Evil...... sort of knights of the old republic... that way 
 it ends up being 2 different story line-allows players to go through and play the game twice=longer
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruffryd172
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Basically its like this. I have hated RPG's since i started playing games. This Is the first one 
 I Have ever completed, probably the first GAME ill ever finish two possibly three times. Another 
 first this is the ONLY game that the story is what made me finish, and when I was finished I wanted 
 to Keep going until Mass Effect 2 comes out, I hope so anyway. 
  The dialogue system is amazing. I could be wrong with my lack in RPG experience, but if I could 
 Interact Like this in every RPG I would be a fanatic. And I love the fact that if I have to my 
 character can pull his gun out and have any conversation go his way, fight or no fight. 
  Another thing about this rpg that is like no other is for 1, it has guns and biotics, ive always 
 hated the term magic. 2, Its more plyable to the current and possibly future world with electronics, 
 decryption and friggin guns. And 3 Its not like any other rpg I have tried. I can do any side mission 
 at any level, 2 or 30, and I have a chance a chance to come out alive. I wish every rpg had a shooter 
 rolled into it instead of swords and bows. And Its not any shooter its a good shooter that has 
 what a lot of shooters lack, COVER! Yes I am a shooter fan, take Gears Of War for instance, Mass 
 Effect isn't a graphical monster, but you have every option in battle as you would have in gears, 
 even more. Some instances You can scare some of the oposition off. 
  Honestly I can't say enough about this game, Yes It has some annoyances, but overall its the most 
 interesting and playable game I have ever Played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GEN_GLOBAL17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect has to be the best RPG I have ever played. I was kinda scared spending 60 buxs for 
 this game but I took the chance and it was worth ever penny. When I first started I was not impressed 
 at all. I did not know any of the controls. ( my fault for not looking in the manual.) after I 
 got control of the controls It started to get much better. The cover on the wall are hard to get 
 used to with the stick, but once you get the hang of it it's fine. the story line is great, and 
 gets better as you uncover secrets. It also took me 11 hours to beat the game, just doing the main 
 quest on easy. there are many sub quests for replay. The choice's you can make are also very neat. 
 ( kill someone, or seting them free.) Mass Effect really is the only RPG that I Liked to play and 
 is well worth the money and the time you can put into the great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topcheesechucky
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I was a bit sceptical over mass effect, untill i played it. Within the first hour or so i was hooked. 
 Graffically its very good, come to what you would expect from a 360 game. The story is addictive, 
 its alot more then you come to think, you have to play the game to truely believe its great. I 
 thought the dialogue was the best part - being able to be a smart ass is fun sometimes if you play 
 your cards rite you can even get into a romance subplot. There is a dark side and light side twist, 
 you can ethier be a Paragon or a Renegade. After Edin Prime and a few investigations, roughly an 
 hour or so you become a specter - the council's first and last line army. You go planet to planet, 
 solar system to solar system in serch of clues for saren. All though hes gone for a big chuck of 
 the game, its still fun roaming the galaxy. It all takes place light years away from earth, in 
 the milky way. Thats what makes the game so intriging, is the real galaxy, our civilation just 
 entering the rest of the universe, and only 26 years of being outside out our real home.
  
  The only flaw i can imagine is the small 2/3 second glitches where character models or textures 
 are bad. like the grafixs switch to xbox 1 for a second, that kind of glitch.
  
  Overall this game exeeded my expectations and caught me off gaurd, i didnt know it would be so 
 good! And im hoping there will be a sequel, it leaves you hinting at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AParkedCar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  If you have a 360 and like sci-fi, non-shallow shooters, rpgs, Knights of the Old Republic 1 or 
 2, exploration, customization, or fun, then this is the game for you! Sure, sometimes the frame 
 rate slows down. It doesn't do so enough to drive you mad. And yes, the game was too hard for me 
 to have a lot of fun on the default difficulty setting, but tone it down and you can play the game 
 almost Halo style! On top of having 4 customizable guns (pistol, shotgun, assault rifle, and sniper 
 rifle) , you can also get special powers to complement your attacks. Mass effect offers tons of 
 potential exploration that's actually worth it (unlike Oblivion) , an awesome story, and pretty 
 fun game play. The shooting parts aren't perfect, nor is the cover system, but for the most movie-like 
 experience go Mass Effect all the way! (and beware of the sex scene. While not the most revealing, 
 it is still inappropriate and should have been committed from the game IMO) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potterpipi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of the best 360 games out there. BioWare is at its finest. Check out this review 
 so you it gets you convinced to just play the game.
  
  Gameplay: Great. You create your own character, and choose your paths, leading to multiple-endings. 
 On the shooter aspect, it really delivers, for some reason I always compare it to Gears of War, 
 and think that this game, beats it hard. The game is around 12 hours long if you only do the storyline, 
 and about 22-24 hours long if you do every side-quest. On the battle aspect, you can choose biotics, 
 4 types of guns, grenades, and melee; as tactical, you can tell your squad members when to attack, 
 when to take cover, and when to follow you. On the RPG aspect, you can customize your characters 
 as you want, what guns, what upgrades, his/her armor, as well as level them up as you want; You 
 can develop their abilities to your liking. As said before, you choose paths, and what you want 
 to say, on accordance to this, you can travel to whichever planet you want, and accomplish the 
 mission/assignment given. As you explore uncharted worlds, you drive in a vehicle called Mako. 
 The Mako is very nice in terms of power, but the controls don't satisfy all gamers, me myself hated 
 backing up, it sucks, but it can be forgiven for everything else the game gives you. As an Action-Adventure 
 RPG, Mass Effect runs fluidly, delivering great content, and satisfaction.
  
  Visuals: Simply great. Everything is greatly detailed. If you don't like how it looks depending 
 on your TV, you can adjust if you want Motion Blur, and Film Grain, I took out the Film grain since 
 it looks bad on big HD-TVs. Every background, every effect, every motion, is greatly detailed in 
 the game, delivering a great graphical experience. I remember, sometimes when my family was passing 
 by the tv and so the game, they said "Wow, is that a movie?" It just testifies how great this game 
 looks. Even the trip bars are greatly detailed :P
  
  Sound: Superb voice acting, music, and sound effects. Every voice fits the character very well, 
 the music goes along with the gameplay great, and the sound effects are just amazing. 
  
  Controls: Great, everything is perfect and doesn't disrupt your gameplay. The only con is when 
 you back-up with the Mako (vehicle) it's not so good, but it doesn't bother every player.
  
  Overral: Mass Effect truly leaves a great effect on you as you play it. When I cleared it I 
 just wanted more, it involves you so much, you'll care for the fate of each character. It's great 
 looking, it has great sound, and it's calling you. What are you waiting for? Go save the galaxy 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbrogs001
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Summary: Mass Effect is probably one of the best games out there. It has elements which appeal 
 to multiple game genres, which makes it hard to classify. It takes the best parts of a number of 
 games, and successfully combines them into a brilliant and enjoyable game. There are a few minor 
 glitches, but the game is so engrossing, you won't even notice them after awhile. Another thing 
 I loved about this game, is that it wasn't over-hyped. Which I think eventually lead to part of 
 it's success. Over-hyped games tend to turn into let-downs like a well-known game that will remain 
 nameless... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smurf38
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is the bee's knees, an RPG with a editable character AND GUN!!!!!!! With huge beasts 
 on ur team, no real way you can lose, a few bars (great!!) . the game play is awsum, the quests 
 arent like usual "go to the planet jippi" (i dono =P) "and kill this one dude, dont kill anyone else", 
 thats the usual RPG quest description, in ME "kill this dude in the wards, left hall" lala meens 
 no more 5 hour treks for a lil quest
  
  Gfx.... one word, Aaaamaassin!
  
  the only reason i didnt give this game 10/10 is that the loading (yes its short) but its in the 
 middle of ur screen, usually nowadays, the loading screens bring up wicked picz, nice tips, and 
 in some cases a training arena (assassinss creeed)
  
  In all the awsum gameplay, wicked gfx, easy quests, and coool talents make this one of the best 
 RPGs ive played....
  
  and the cool thing is that if u say something, it might, and mostly will change the whole game 
 play!!!11!
  btw, nice gamer points :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samurai_Budgie
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Since being announced Mass Effect has gained (excuse the term) mass media attention helped by BioWare's 
 stunning track record for RPG's on Microsoft's original Xbox along with promise that the adventure 
 would span not just the single worlds we are used to but entire galaxies waiting for you to restore 
 peace.
  
  The first part of a promised trilogy sets you as Commander Shepard who is fully customisable both 
 male and female Shepard's are available both with a wide set of customisation options heck, you 
 can even change the back story for your character which however limited (3 options) is still impressive 
 considering the impact it will have on other characters in the game.
  
  The story gets off to a great start. You and your team have been sent to one of Earths new colonies 
 in search of ancient technology although as always with RPG's nowadays things go disastrously wrong 
 the events leading to a hunt across the galaxy for an enemy bent on releasing a catastrophe.
  
  I would love to go into more detail but I would hate to ruin the experience but the story is 
 great. Unfortunately however it is short-lived the main storyline (side-quests aside) will take 
 10 hours, 12 tops which considering this is predominantly an RPG is slightly disappointing.
  
  The side-quests are much bigger than most you would expect also sending you to a variety of 
 planets. Most of these assignments are minor trivialities compared with the main story but are 
 still entertaining however small in scope.
  
  The game promises a huge galaxy to explore and it delivers. The large areas you visit are wonderful 
 to explore however the huge areas are limited. Most of the planets not used for the main story 
 and instead are only used for side quests and are just fairly generic 'jungle planet', 'volcano 
 planet' and are not terribly interesting.
  
  The role-playing elements work fantastically, the game is incredibly cinematic experience with 
 every single line of dialogue spoken aloud with truly amazing sound quality. The voice actors aren't 
 cheap either they all do a brilliant job really immersing you in the world. Calling the games sound 
 quality amazing would be an understatement. Every piece of music also suits each area and looking 
 back at the game I can't think of one track that sounded silly or out of place.
  
  If you come to Mass Effect expecting a shooter, you are playing the game wrong. The shooting elements 
 work well it is third person based similar to how Gears of War worked but the similarity stops 
 there. You can shoot a gun at enemies that's it. As far as I can tell there is no extra damage 
 taken into account for headshots or wherever else you shoot. The whole shooting system is fairly 
 generic but it's by no means bad. It works well considering the game is meant to be played as an 
 RPG and not a shooter.
  
  Mass Effect looks great although you won't be blown away if you've played other high profile games 
 recently but it looks great and has that sci-fi feel that will keep that kind of audience happy. 
 Often the game will play before the textures have fully loaded so characters will look kind of 
 bland for a few seconds it's annoying but doesn't really hurt the game but it is a shame as it 
 takes you out of what is otherwise an engrossing game.
  
  Overall Mass Effect is a quality game that will be remembered for many years to come a few technical 
 issues here and there coupled with the main storyline's short length upset what is otherwise an 
 amazing game. It is easily the best RPG currently available for the Xbox 360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -BassO-
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  
  It took me a while to get around to this game. The generic name and pretty non-descript cover just 
 didn't catch my eye. Right now, I couldn't have wished for a better game to play during the holiday 
 season.
  
  A lot has been said about the glitches in this game. Actually, so much has been said about this 
 in the Gamespot review, I expected a buggy game. Mass Effect is everything but. There are a few 
 poor design choices (seriously, what's with the vehicle control scheme) but the game just has a 
 vast amount of content. And I mean /vast/. Some minor details slipped past quality control, honestly 
 hardly worth noting.
  
  I'm still not really decided if Mass Effect is an interactive story or an action game. The action 
 is pretty well-done, though a tad easy on normal level. Your team and your combat-options are diverse 
 and there are ample strategies to tackle every situation. Special effects feel satisfying and your 
 screen practically explodes with flash and color when the opposition hits hard. I played linear 
 action games before that only offered this level of gameplay and they were pretty decent.
  
  What makes Mass Effect stand out is the fact that the story just draws you in and is, in fact, 
 not all that linear. You get sucked into a story where every time you think you got it figured 
 out, the scope just gets grander and wilder and keeps picking up momentum until the grand finale. 
 You taking notes, Bungee?
  
  A key element to all this is the incredible job Bioware did on the characters populating this story. 
 They are insanely well-done in every detail: voice-acting is movie-grade without fail, characters 
 are well-designed and well-rounded and, most of all, they have an astonishing body-language. Characters 
 don't just walk up and deliver a line: they emote like I have never seen before.
  
  I'm a grumpy old fart where games are concerned. It takes more than a few polished next-gen graphics 
 to get me to sit up and notice. Mass Effect was a wonderful ride that has raised the bar for gaming. 
 I just hope the extra content is just as good. In the meanwhile, I think I'll start over again, 
 just to check if I didn't miss anything.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowkitty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  mass effect is one of the best games on the 360 to date and furthermore one of the best rpg's of 
 all time. first of all the core gameplay is very solid especially the whole thing where to can 
 play like 3rd person shooter or a traditional rpg. and the story is very deep and immersive not 
 to mention the awsomeness of the pick your own dialouge feature. also the graphics are top notch 
 making the experience even more realistic than it alreday is. really the only bad part of the game 
 is that occasinally there are some small frame rate jitters but thats a total nitpick. overall 
 there really arent enough good things to be said about this game. But if i had one more small complaint 
 is that there isnt xbox live squad play i mean that would make this a 10 but still it is one of 
 the best rpg's to hit the 360 or any other system in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamesonV
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  In what might be called the spiritual successor to Knights of the Old Republic, BioWare gives us 
 Mass Effect. Utilizing the Unreal Engine 3 and other current generation technology, we are offered 
 an overall slick presentation, despite a few technical problems. Mass Effect simply proves to be 
 an accomplishment in many regards.
  
  Players take the role of Commander Shepard, a soldier of Earth. During the opening sequences of 
 the game, we learn that a special operative known as a Spectre has been tasked with overseeing 
 one of Shepard's assignments. A planet known as Eden Prime has been over run by synthetic aggressors 
 known as the Geth and Shepard's performance is up for review. At the close of the mission, we learn 
 that an ancient evil is returning to the galaxy and that it may very well mean doom for all organic 
 life.
  
  Joining Shepard on the mission is a cast of characters including alien scientists, security personnel 
 and other military personalities. The player may talk to each of the party members in various places 
 at the "base of operations," which in this case would be the Human Systems Alliance warship known 
 as the Normandy. During key points in the game, each of these characters' back stories can be delved 
 into. Through this, the player not only gains experience points, but also adds information to the 
 game's encyclopedia known as the Codex. A wealth of information pertaining to the game world can 
 be found there in both audio and text format.
  
  Character customization has been brought to a slightly more diverse level than in previous role-playing 
 games as the option for back story and "psychological profile" are made available. Whichever of 
 these the player chooses will have an effect on most of the dialog throughout the game with characters 
 referencing "that one battle" Shepard partook in or "how ruthless" he may have been. Appearance 
 customization is included as well, with options from face size to complexion, iris color and scars 
 available. Players may also choose between playing as a male or female Shepard.
  
  Much of the combat in the game centers around cover tactics. Quite often, standing out in the open 
 will end up in a dead Shepard and accompanying squad. Cover may be taken by walking up to an object 
 and having the character back up against it. The player may then take shots when deemed necessary 
 and hopefully avoid damage. Aside from projectile weapons, various powers are made available as 
 well. These could be likened to Force powers or magic, with abilities such as Lift and Throw added 
 to the mix. Not all classes have access to these abilities, however, so it's likely to have a somewhat 
 different experience on each playthrough. And being that there are multiple classes to choose from, 
 a choice in gender and dialog options, the idea of playing through the game more than once can 
 be very appealing.
  
  Mass Effect is one of the best looking games available for any current system. The texture work 
 is very well done and there is a ton of it spread throughout each of the areas in the game. That's 
 why it's both disappointing and understandable that the game suffers from texture pop-ins and some 
 slight frame rate issues. These issues become particularly noticeable as the player progresses, 
 but it never really bogs down the experience. In addition, we're given some great looking character 
 models which are lent an unprecedented expressiveness. These are surely some of the most lifelike 
 video game creations yet.
  
  On the sound front, we are presented extremely solid voice acting, sound effects and an excellent 
 score by Jack Wall (Myst IV, Jade Empire) and Sam Hulick. The voice acting adds to the aforementioned 
 expressiveness of the characters, while the music compliments the overall futurist presentation 
 of the game. Casey Hudson, the lead designer of Mass Effect, made it clear that much of the inspiration 
 for the game was taken from 80s sci-fi flicks. And, indeed, the music seems reminiscent of something 
 from Blade Runner while maintaining its originality and adding to the definition of Mass Effect's 
 atmosphere.
  
  Like a science fiction classic, Mass Effect has made its way into the pantheon as one of the best 
 of its genre. Visually stunning, extremely well-acted and fun to play, it's one of those rare experiences 
 that makes multiple playthroughs seem guaranteed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowdemon0085
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Biowares latest installment, Mass Effect, is simply a great game. While it suffers from technical 
 problems, the over all feel of the game is just superb! The story and combat system are both very 
 well done. There is amazing voice acting that drives the dialogue system! However, there are frame 
 rate issues as well as texture pop-ins. While this shouldn't be a big problem it does happen a 
 lot, and may or may not turn you away from Mass Effect.
  
  Now, let me start off with the overall game. Mass Effect will take you about a good twenty hour 
 play through or less IF you just run into the main plot and just want to forget about the side 
 quest and the exploration. With all the side quest and exploration of other planets, it will take 
 you about a 30-40 hour play through. It is short for a role-playing game, but none the less the 
 story is solid and very entertaining. Throughout the game you are faced with very difficult moral 
 decisions. Some bigger then others. But each decision you make, will make you wonder What if I 
 did that differently? That is the beauty of Mass Effect, after making one decision you will think 
 of how things could have been different. 
  
  There is tons of replay value in Mass Effect. You have six different classes to choose from, each 
 play differently. There are three basic classes, Solider, Adapt, and Engineer. The remaining three 
 classes are hybrids of these three classes. You can also customize you character to look the way 
 you want him or her to look. You can also play as good or bad. While there is no conquering the 
 Galaxy, you are out to save it. The way you do save the galaxy can vary depending on your decisions. 
 The decisions you make throughout the game adds to paragon, Good Cop, or Renegade, Bad Cop. Which 
 again will have you wondering, What if I did that differently? 
  
  The combat system takes some getting use to. First off, you are in third-person view and you only 
 control the character you made, though you are in a squad of three. When you are in combat you 
 have the decision to have your squad mates perform certain abilities but you never actually take 
 direct control of the character. You can give them orders with the directional pad, but you probably 
 never do this. Again you can have them perform certain abilities, but once more you will probably 
 never do this. In all, you will most likely put the 'let them do what ever they want' option in. 
 So then all you have to do is worry about your character and what he or she does.
  
  Now, there are two negative things that stand out in the game play. One: The inventory system. 
 It is rather poorly done. Basically after you get all the weapons, armor, and upgrades you want 
 there is no use for any of the items, except for making omni-gel. Even the money serves no purpose 
 after you get all the weapons, armor, and upgrades you want. You won't be spending any of it, unless 
 you just want to buy weapons and other things to make omni-gel. 
  
  The second thing that stands out is the exploration. While this is very fun, it also gets very 
 repetitive. There is usually always one planet out of a system you can land on, but after the first 
 few planets you will also notice a trend. Pretty much all the planets look alike, with only different 
 weather conditions. There is always a handful of things to discover and one 'dungeon' that is filled 
 with bad guys. After a handful of planet landings and exploration, you will probably get bored 
 with it. It is simply go to point A find something then go on to point B kill something and then 
 head back to base. 
  
  The biggest thing with Mass Effect is the dialogue system. It is simply amazing. The voice acting 
 is very well done. You pick options from a dialogue tree and your character will say a line then 
 the person you are talking to will say a few things. You also see the expressions on the characters 
 face and the sudden changes they express. The detailed given is simply superb and some of the best 
 detailed facial expressions in a game.
  
  The last thing on Mass Effect is the technical issues. There are frame rate drops that usually 
 occur during load times or before entering a battle. This can damper the game for you, IF you are 
 big on frame rate drops. Another technical issue is texture pop-ins. This usually happens during 
 cut scenes and when loading the game. This also isn't that much of a problem. It doesn't take away 
 from the scene and actually have you laughing depending on what textures pop-in.
  
  Over all, Mass Effect is a fine addition to any X Box owners' library. It is a solid role-play 
 game from Bioware and will keep you entertained for a long time. You will replay it several times 
 over, simply to take different routes in the story or to just play as another class that you have 
 yet to play as!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattserria117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Paragon:  Story..
  Renegade: Slight Bugs .. Long Time Until The Second Mass Effect! Saving System.
  
  Mass effects 
 story is immersive and on par with star wars! When i completed it i just wanted to start over again.. 
 Time taken to complete the game on normal (Difficulty on 1st play through) is about 15-20 Hours 
 while the side quest will extend this amazing journey to about 30-40 hours ! i belive on harder 
 difficultys it would take a larger time to complete and i would advise Saving Frequently as the 
 save system is not the best.
  
  The 'Immersivty' of this game is outstanding.. 
  
  One of my favourite Characters , Wrex the krogan bounty hunter. Comes to a point in the game were 
 he is torn between Helping his Race or His Loyalty to you.. you have a choice whether to save him 
 (By Persudeing him) or to shoot him.. As i couldnt persuade him (My points were to low) I chose 
 Just Calm Down Option from the user freindly 'SpinWheel' menu and suddenly he fell to the floor 
 at the sound of a gun shot and behind him stood ashley williams, pistol drawn.. At this Avent i 
 shouted at my screen screaming Nooooooo!.. i felt a part of me had dyed .. The Story telling is 
 amazing.
  
  The Side Quest and exploration are immense. . My Favourite sidequest are ones you come across with 
 out even knowing thay were there. and example was when i found a 'derilect' Space ship in space. 
 I boarded the caft with my select team of Alenko and Garrus. As i wandered through this maze of 
 crates, gas canisters i walked by exploded.. i retreted to the corridor then a flash of something 
 raced behind a crate i Contiued through the ship and then.... I wont Spoil anything what exicted 
 me about this game as it will be left to you to find..
  
  Some slight bugs rip you away from the story.. An example of the 'bugs' i have experinced was when 
 i exited a mine and the frame rate dropped to about. Well lets say it was a slide show XD this 
 fixed in about 5 seconds
  
  The RPG Elements are extremly good. at first i was over welmed by the menus but about a hour in 
 you have the hang off it.. Items And Charaters are in numbers from Fist the human club runner who 
 has sided himself with the main bad guy to the Hanar (Jellyfish Aliens) Shopowners who is into 
 smuggling..
  
  i would recomend mass effect to any star wars/Shooter/Rpg fan in fact i would recomend this to 
 everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingmoonraiser
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Remove your notions of the formulaic, first-person shooter. This is a deep exciting game that is 
 the equivolent of being in a really good movie. I noticed that many reviews say this game is replayable. 
 I cannot imagine sitting through all of the dialogue more than once. Anyway, bottom line. This 
 game will not dissappoint.
  
  Mass Effect casts the player as one Commander Shepard, a member of the Alliance Millitary. The 
 human race is something of a redheaded stepchild in the galactic community, as they've yet to fully 
 prove themselves to the other races that make up the universe's governing body. Called simple the 
 Council, this group keeps its collective finger on the pulse of the galaxy, responding and reacting 
 to any emergencies that pop up. The Council uses a shadowy group of agents known as Spectres to 
 take care of any particularly dirty jobs. As we all know, however, absolute power corrupts absolutely, 
 and one of the agents goes rogue. Commander Shepard soon becomes the galaxy's only hope against 
 an ancient threat. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: msdd9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an INCREDIBLE game that combines the cover system and fun of a tactical shooter 
 with the depth, customization, and replayability of an RPG like OBLIVION and you'll get this game.
 
  
  Mass Effect has easily the evolved story and universe that I've ever seen in an rpg or any other 
 game. It really brings new meaning to the term "space soap opera" and you'll love every minute 
 of it. From the epic main story to the extra little side stories they are all great.
  
  The gameplay is fun and keeps the action flowing. You'll spend a lot of time talking to people 
 which you would think to be boring, but Mass Effect makes socializing one of the best part of the 
 game. You wont be skipping through the dialogue in this game that's for sure.
  
  The combat is in the essence of a tactical shooter like Gears, but at the same time has a lot of 
 awesome biotic (magic) powers like you would expect in an action rpg. 
  
  In conclusion Mass Effect has great gameplay, a great story, and is a MUST OWN for the 360.
  
 
  Go buy it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DasFlesh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  To start off with, if you liked KOTOR, you will really like this game.
  
  To go more into details though, here are a few pros and cons.
  
  Pros-
  -The game's world 
 is truly well thought out and its amazing how much thought went into to make these characters and 
 how they got there all work together. It is a truly believable space world
  - This might be a con but as a fps player for years, the introduction of a new combat system reminiscent 
 of gears of war with the cover system is a nice change and it makes combat quite fun.
  - The storyline is great and your actions seem to fit in with responses and their affect on others
 
  - The quests feel just like KOTOR which is why i go back to my opening statement.. this along 
 with leveling and interaction feel pretty much the same.
  - The options with different weapons and techniques makes this game playable at least twice, three 
 times if you're okay with some repetitiveness.
  
  
  Cons- 
  -The game seems to be empty sometimes. What this means is that you will be on a world, especially 
 the survey worlds, and it will just feel like you are driving around wasting time with nothing 
 to do. Yes there are things to find and they aren't habitable for a reason, but it still feels 
 dull at points. 
  -The combat can be really easy and its over the second you start shooting. You could turn up the 
 difficulty but it just feels like you move through everything a little too fast.
  
  there are other things here and there but overall this game is a great buy and I certainly recommend 
 it to any KOTOR fan or anyone who likes a good story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NA3D
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy this game a lot. I wish I could call it a masterpiece, best game of the year, or 
 best RPG by BioWare. It is definitely a game worth buying though with no question about it.
  
  At points in the game, choosing different dialogue options doesn't give you a different response. 
 Given, I understand that would be a ton of voice acting, it would be more than worth it to raise 
 my rating a full point. When I choose a different option, I want to hear a different dialogue. 
 I want the story to change a little, it would up replayability an amazing amount.
  
  Flat out, I thought that was the way it was, I wish that was the way it was, and truthfully, that 
 is how it should have been. Even if it would have upped the cost of the game, it would have upped 
 the value of the game as well.
  
  
  The other thing that lowered the score was the combat system/menu system. It isn't as straight 
 forward as KOTOR. It is a totally different game, but they just added a little something extra 
 that made the whole system seem a little bit to complex. I only lowered my rating for that by 0.5 
 though. I think that it works once you get used to it, but it could have been better.
  
  Part of the other 0.5 that is missing from the score is because there us an overabundance of information. 
 At least half of the information is read to you, but the rest of it is still too long to be worth 
 reading to the majority of players. It is just too much too soon. Though later in the game the 
 amount of information coming at you tapers off, overloading the player that much that early lowers 
 the score a little.
  
  The rest of that last 0.5 taken off is because of that beginning part. It is hard to get into a 
 game with that much information thrown at you. Though you can catch up by either replaying the 
 first part of the game, taking more time to understand everything, or continue on and figure everything 
 out later. It would be better to ease people into the amount of information they are getting.
 
  
  A lot of this could have been taken care of if there was some sort of tutorial the game would have 
 to go through much of this. It would have given them more time to get the information to the player 
 as well. This could have really saved the game a full point by doing this.
  
  For the health bar, I forget about it and don't even notice it at times. So if I am overly aggressive, 
 I will die pretty fast even on the easiest setting. So I wish that was a little more noticeable 
 as well.
  ---------------
  
  Gameplay: Though I wanted more change in the dialogue by choosing different options, this game 
 has great gameplay. A little wordy at times, but once you get into the story you no longer notice 
 it.
  
  Graphics: Amazing graphics and animation. It didn't go far past, but at least met my expectations.
 
  
  Sound: Absolutely amazing. These guys really hit sound spot on. I have to give them much credit 
 for this.
  
  Value: It matches up with it's price, it is definitely not a bargain bin game, but it isn't a game 
 I would go out and buy for big bucks on e-bay if I had to.
  
  Difficulty: You can adjust this with the game settings much yourself, but it is between easy and 
 medium for the most part. It really comes down to what you want out of the game for how difficult 
 it is. If you want to look under every rock, it can be hard to do so at times, but if you don't 
 care about that and just want to play, it is pretty easy.
  
  Learning Curve: 30 minutes - 1 hour, depending on past game experience. It really comes down to 
 the amount of information they give you at the start, and the combat system not being ideal, but 
 it works.
  
  
  ---------
  
  Final comments: For the dialogue, it kind of stinks that the button your press to skip information 
 is also a button to select how you want to respond. If they would make it so that it was two different 
 options, it would really help out for if you have played the game before, but don't want to listen 
 to everything that is said, and still want to hear some of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that come along that after playing it, you think, man this could have 
 been an amazing game, but if. Mass Effect is BioWare stock and trade action role playing game. 
 Very similar to KOTOR, if you played that then you can most likely dive right into this game. 
 
  The problem is, this is one of them but ifs, if the documentation was better I could have enjoyed 
 this game much better. There are so many things you can do and so many weapons that you can upgrade 
 and mod, but there is little in the way of explaining this. So you are stuck pretty much going 
 into the game and start looking around. The weapon upgrades, are enormous, you can change the weapons, 
 the armor the shells that you fire. There are tons to modify. 
  The problem again is, that there is little in the way to explain that to you, and you get so many 
 upgrades, and mods that it gets pretty much out of control real quickly. The other thing is that 
 you have to do something with the old mods and upgrades, and you can exchange that for Omni-gel. 
 You can use Omni-gel for med upgrades, and experience points. The menus in this game are pretty 
 convoluted so it takes a lot of time to do things like upgrading your team weapons or exchanging 
 your mods for Omni-gel. This could have been much better implemented I spent, what seemed like 
 hours changing and exchanging mods for my team. 
  The graphics and the sounds in the game are all first rate, and the voice-overs maybe some of the 
 best I have seen in any game. But that comes again to one of them, what ifs, in this game. Mass 
 Effect comes with some of the worst frame rates I have seen in any 360 game since the first Madden 
 came out it. I mean it's really bad. When you run around the Citadel, it's nearly impossible not 
 to have frames drop out. I'm really disappointed in that, because it's really bad. I understand 
 if BioWare wanted to push the graphics to the max, but they knew all the specs of the 360 and they 
 should also understand its limits.
  The one thing BioWare does well, really well is the story telling, and they don't disappoint. The 
 story is very gripping and exciting. You really want to know what's going happen next. The characters 
 are all pretty well done, and there is a nice love triangle, BioWare love doing that in their games, 
 this is fairly shallow but fun to see it through. 
  The one thing that I really hated about this game, and I REALLY HATED IT, is the Mako Infantry 
 Fighting Vehicle. Maybe I was just spoiled after using all those amazing vehicles in Halo 3, I 
 don't know but the Mako is an obsolete, weak powered, fire only straight ahead, bouncy, piece of 
 junk! I mean the thing aiming isn't as modern as a WWII battle tank, and the WWII tanks could at 
 least fire up and down and this suppose to be 2183. That's right folks; the Mako can only fire 
 side to side. You can aim up or down, but it only fire forward, leaving you an easy target for 
 anything that was high up. What in the world was BioWare thinking? I can say without hesitation 
 that the Mako is the Sci-Fi games weakest fighting vehicle. In most games, the vehicles are the 
 most fun thing to play, not here; I couldn't wait to get out of it. Ok, I have that off my chest.
 
  The game over all is a lot of fun to play, but the real problem seems to be that the game came 
 out too soon, and there are technical and gaming issues, that should have been fixed in this game 
 before releasing. Like for instants my computer team mates consistently got stuck in the terrain. 
 It happened to me at least 10 teams in the game. I'm walking along thinking my teams with me, just 
 to turn around and realized that one or both of my team mates are 2 or 3 levels back stuck and 
 can't move forward until I go back and call them back to me from a closer distance. BioWare have 
 made a ton of these games, and should know better by now. This game could have been a much better 
 rated, and a lot more fun if BioWare would have put a little more loving in this game. Just too 
 many, but ifs, in this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coyote32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. The fighting is fun, but some of the squad tactics are glitchy, but if your smart 
 you know how to deal with that. The story is an interesting concept. The battles you play in are 
 amazeing. The Normandy looks awesome and the graphics in this game looks awesome. Is this the same 
 engine used from Gears of War? It seems similar IMO. I like all the subplots I have done and this 
 game is definitely worth the buy. The only thing I dislike is that theres not a lot of places to 
 go, BioWare made it sound like it will be huge, well its not that huge. Yet its still awesome to 
 play. I want expansions and DLC for this game. Like, Earth! I want to go to Earth, make Earth like 
 the Citadel is! Huge and alot to do. Just give me this game and Ill be at it for the whole day. 
 I try to brake myself away but sometimes I cant with the plot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GabrialTehall
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is Exactly how a story should be told, very interesting, action packed and a deep plot, 
 not to mention the customization of the characters. I love the way the story can evolve, most of 
 the time I was shocked at what was happening, and the fact that this series, still has two more 
 part is amazing, but what will really be cool is if you can go down the same plot you chose in 
 the first game, The combat is very fun, and to tell you the truth, I did not find much tech problems 
 with it other then the frame rate dropping a little, and it happened so rarely it did not matter, 
 Or I just did not notice. There will be flaws in game, thats a given, you cant expect perfection 
 out of a machine or its software, overall the game did not leave me satisfied....... no, no, It 
 left me wanting Mass Effect 2, and 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fauxjangles
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  It's certainly been awhile since I've enjoyed a game as much as Mass Effect. After you select your 
 character, be it John Shepard or your own custom Shepard, you'll immediately be in the middle of 
 a fantastic sci-fi epic. You don't even end your first mission without being hit with story twists. 
 After you gain the ability to fly wherever, it really opens up. You can explore nearby systems 
 and read about their individual planets, survey certain planets, and even land on some. The Mako 
 is a fun, if sometimes frustrating, vehicle that you'll employ on these landings. It has a turret 
 and a powerful cannon. The main story isn't as long as I'd have liked, but if you do all the side 
 quests the game will probably last 20 or so hours. Things aside, Mass Effect is a fantastic game 
 for sci-fi fans and gamers alike. Looking forward to ME2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  
  The graphics are really good and look real. But if your too close to the tv screen it looks a little 
 sketchy. The frame rate is off a lot but you barely notice it and its not really a problem. The 
 game will go into random loadings but if your into RPG's you should be patient enough to wait 5 
 seconds. Also sometimes the game will freeze for a quick second to load. SO that right away is 
 going to take 2 points off its nothing big.
  The health system is really good and very realistic but in big parts you will have to stay back 
 a lot and can never rush things. Thats the good thing that i like about it but since it is a little 
 hard the check points could have worked a little better by adding more between them or letting 
 you save during outside missions. That loses another point for me cause its annoying at times so 
 its now a 9.7. 
  Then another problem i ran into is the map is un-useful not giving good enough directions to wear 
 your going so that could have been easily done. ( another point taken away)
  The dialog scenes and everything work perfectly and the story line is what makes it stand out strong. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timma1083
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is clearly a top notch game for the Xbox 360. The moment you watch it in action and 
 then actually pick up the controller yourself to play it you know your in for a good ride. This 
 is one of the best stories in a game to date, but at the cost of a few bugs and glitches.
  
  The story in Mass Effect is easily the best part of the entire game. You play as Commander 
 Shepard of the Alliance Military. You go on a mission to recover an ancient beacon from a lost 
 civilization. The mission is also a test to get you into an elite organization called the Spectres. 
 If you can't tell where this is going, the mission goes to hell and the beacon is destroyed. You 
 main enemy in this game is the Geth, a non-organic race lead by a rogue spectre named Saren. The 
 rest of the story is about why Saren went rogue and what he's sending his Geth after and you get 
 to track him all over the galaxy. It really is a work of art. The story is jaw-dropping to say 
 the least.
  
  To start off, Mass Effect is gorgeous. The environments are nice to look at, characters and textures 
 are also very nice. Its not really ground breaking graphics though. I'd say its just above average 
 games now-a-days. They did do a nice job with how the characters faces react to emotion, which 
 really helps make the world seem alive.
  
  The music in Mass Effect is good. It really is nice to listen too, but if only I could actually 
 remember it. The music isn't something your going to remember after you play the game. Not many 
 games have that touch though, so it doesn't really surprise me. The voice-acting is top-notch however. 
 All the voice-overs are great. Its kinda nice to listen to two citizens talking while your walking 
 over a bridge.
  
  Now for the gameplay. For the most part, its really good. You have an option of 4 weapons: Sniper, 
 Assault Rifle, Shotgun, and Pistol; all of which you carry at the same time. You can gain some 
 cool biotic powers like raising your enemies into the air or creating a black hole that sucks everything 
 around it in, but its hard to use them constantly seeing as you have to wait after you use them, 
 so you'll mostly be relying on your weapons. The way you interact with other characters is also 
 pretty cool, and these conversations result in whether you are on the Paragon Side (Light Side) 
 or Renegade Side (Dark Side) . The problem is, there isn't much diversity to it, you do the same 
 thing to enemies as you keep going. Its fun, don't get me wrong, but I kinda wish they hadn't limited 
 how much you can use your biotics, it may have helped add some more punch into the combat. 
  
  However, there are a lot of little things that brings down Mass Effect. One problem is the 
 story doesn't really get good until closer to the end of the game, and one level in my opinion 
 is really pointless. Its just there to get rid of one important enemy, which probably still could've 
 been done much better. Another problem is with the Macko. Its the only vehicle you can control 
 in the game, and it controls poorly. Its hard to gun down enemies close up. Another problem with 
 the Macko is you can't always aim where your pointer is. You can't move the cannon up and down, 
 only side to side, which can be very frustrating. The final thing that bugs me is there are a lot 
 of bugs and glitches. Textures often come in as your watching a cut scene, sometimes the game randomly 
 freezes and has to load again, and overall it just slows down at some points with lots of action. 
 One thing that really disappoints me is traveling to non-story planets. Your limited to what you 
 can actually go to. Most of them you can't go to, its like they're there for show. And the ones 
 you can to there's really nothing to do, and your really limited as to what you can actually explore 
 of it.
  
  Overall, Mass Effect pushes the 360 to its limits, and is really worth looking into. But once you 
 hear the story once, there's not much to really make you want to go back besides some achievements 
 and being able to use your old character with a new career. Its worth playing at least once though, 
 just for that story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I was at first a little skeptical about this game from a few game sites rating it below 8 or below 
 80. Then i relized we all have are different opinions and so on, so here is mine.
  
  Right away when you start the game you will have the oppertunity too create your own Male/Female 
 character with a backround. From there on you create the apperance which is a stunning moment in 
 the game (I spent 20 minutes just doing that part)
  
  Then comes your class (Dont worry, if you dont know what to be, fittle around creating many careers 
 till you find that one which fits you)
  
  From here on its just an amazing RPG Thrill ride!!! With lots of action and diaolgue. Dont let 
 this turn you off for it really suks you in. Just remember that your actions have an outcome what 
 happens later on, Wether its just talking to someone or doing missions. Thats what makes this game 
 an RPG thrill ride!!!.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics - Truly Stunning with a load of detail, Everything in this game looks litterly lifelike 
 and outstanding!. This comes with a price however... Some situations the game will freeze or pause 
 for a few seconds becouse of the detail... But this doesint happen often just be aware when it 
 does. (Save often for if this freeze does happen)
  
  Gameplay - AI - Gameplay is very solid and well done and so is the AI... Sadly not much can be 
 said for your squad mates... So be ready to pay attention to their Health status and make sure 
 they are behind cover or they will just run everywhere... This doesint happen alot but be prepared. 
 Other then that it is alot of fun to be in firefights! Or just interacting with many things.
  
  ( (As far as your Mako getting stuck in the terrain, I dont know how it happens to them becouse 
 it never happen to me yet. If i am stuck i push the A button to blast me in the air, simple) )
 
  
  Sound - Voice acting is nothing but spectacular. You can tell they spent alot of time on Voice 
 Acting and the music (which is probably the 2nd best thing about Mass Effect) Even the effects 
 on the weapons and such are well done aswel.
  
  Dont know what else to say other then this is the best RPG to get (other then the witcher)
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: a55assin
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Visuals: Beautiful... everything is simply beautiful. And not just the polygon count or the lightening... it's 
 everything. It's art in my eyes... wherever you look you see outstanding environments, character 
 models, and weather. It's not all dark and gloomy like Gears of War and it's not all bright and 
 hally like Halo... it's in between and looking good. I play the game a couple times over... and I 
 still can't believe how the armors and the Ship look.
  
  Story: Even though this game feels more like a Halo/GoW/RB6... it still has an amazing story line... and 
 it's told in the most interesting ways. I'm not about to spoil anything... so I'll just say that 
 the story goes much deeper than it look like.. it just keeps evoliving throught the game. Now... one 
 of the most interesting things in this game is HOW the story is told. You get to choose what you 
 say and do... you won't be wanting to break the controller at what your character says... like in 
 so many other games. You feel like your in the game... but it's really more like a movie... it tries 
 very hard to look like an old sci-fo flick, and succeeds. 
  
  Gameplay: Unbelievable... the best part of the game... it doesn't matter what your killing, it's 
 still fun. It's not an FPS like some people think it is. Therefore... you don't go running to the 
 enemies faces and blowing their faces off with shutguns... even though that wouldn't be impossible 
 when facing single opponents. This game is mostly tactical. Using cover is a must... and sometimes 
 the cover doesn't stay there long enough. The use of biotics (a sort of magic really) makes the 
 game a lot more interesting. Nothing is as it seems in fights. You may have killed 5 enemies... and 
 it's you, your teamates and another 2 opponents. You would think it'd be an easy win... but sometimes 
 they do some seriously unpredictable stuff. Like stunn you, kill one of your teamates and throw 
 2 granades... gg.
  
  The vehicle combat is so-so... it's fun... but it's not the main focus of the game. Of course... some 
 people will say the Mako is overpowered... but that's why you have 5 difficulty levels...3 at first. 
 When playing on hardcore... the game really shows what it's capable of. It gets a lot more tactical 
 and you'd be wanting to solve problems the most practical ways. Like sniping, hacking enemy AIs, 
 or some other interesting things. 
  
  Don't get to fly your ship... but I guess that's ok, Bioware would have too much work on their hands. 
 
  
  Characters: a semi-cetegory really: It seems like each character in the game is it's own AI, they 
 all differ somehow... the ones that you can talk to at least. And with the ability to choose your 
 own answers... some conversations could be very interesting. Oh... and btw, did I mention Lesbian 
 sex? Twice in the game... IF you choose to be a lesbian of course... yeah.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jathyr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I haven't read the other player reviews but gamespot's review doesn't do the game justice. 
  
  It's amazingly emersive. The story is top notch, the side quests are very well done, and the 
 gameplay is amazingly new and fun. The fighting system is squad based fighting. It's not run and 
 gun and you can't enjoy the depth in the combat system without slowing down a bit. You can run 
 a bit more at higher levels and plow through some mobs but for the most part it's a smart system. 
 
  
  Having played KOTOR and Jade Empire, I think this is even better with newer mechanics and better 
 voice acting. Instead of repeating exactly what worked before they really improved on the old game 
 style. I think it's amazing!
  
  Other than a few annoying things with the menus screens, this game is a 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tking1293
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Games like Mass Effect don't come around often. When they do though, they break ground never covered 
 by any game before it. Where should I start? First, the character customization is very in-depth, 
 giving no reason as to why any two characters should look exaclty alike. The worlds you explore 
 are very detailed, and the people you meet along the way are very diverse, as the game has many 
 different alien species in it. The combat is solid, offering different weapons and abilities for 
 each class available to choose from. The party you select to follow you around acts smart, as well 
 as the AI of other characters. The Good-and-Evil concept is mapped out well, with lots of different 
 dialog choices for the player to select from. Along with a deep story, Mass Effect is one of the 
 best games released this year and is a must-buy for all Xbox 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metal_gear269
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  The best way, in my opinion, to describe this game, is Oblivion in space x 10. Like it's medieval 
 predecessor, this game is massive enough that it's easy to get quite overwhelmed with all the possibilities. 
 Do you head to the mining planet to rescue the scientist woman? Do you head to a different planet 
 to check on a missing research team? Do you help the fortune-teller/prostitute clear her name? 
 The possibilities are insane. Like Oblivion, you can get caught up just doing sidequests.
  
  Anyhoo, lets get down to specifics:
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. There are a few glitches here 
 and there, but the only reason you notice them is because everything else is so well done. The 
 character modeling is simply stunning. Characters will show the slightest expression changes, like 
 a raised eyebrow or widened eyes. It really adds to the immersion.
  
  Sound: The voice acting is top notch, sound affects are great, and the background music is wonderful. 
 This is one of those games that has a soundtrack that just draws you in deeper and deeper. It fits 
 the mood of any given situation perfectly.
  
  Controls: Honestly, the controls are a bit of a low point. The shooting controls are passable, 
 but the Mako jeep is absolutely frustrating to use. It slides around, gets stuck on obstacles; 
 now I finally know what drunk driving feels like.
  
  Entertainment: This game seriously sucks you in. Maybe you planned on only playing for an hour, 
 you get on a roll with the missions, and next thing you know, 4 hours have gone by.
  
  Replay Value: Almost endless. The different character creation choices, moral paths, and ability 
 choices make for a game of almost infinite replay value. One playthrough you could choose to be 
 a good male soldier, the next you could be an evil female technician, while on the next you could 
 be an evil male sniper, and so on and so forth.
  
  Final thoughts: Definitely a classic. This is one game you'll be playing for years to come. Do 
 yourself a favor and buy it. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: See_Brandon_358
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of my favourite RPG's. I think comparing it Knights of the old Republic, it's 
 a bit better with gameplay, but Kotor ran a lot smoother. What Bioware Advertised to the public 
 when it was announced to be Mass Effect Gradually downgraded until the final product. I think they 
 can do a lot better with the sequel because if you've beaten Mass Effect you know there's a sequel. 
 the gameplay is quite intense at first but after two playthroughs I was ready to trade it in. The 
 Sound is good, the Artistic detail was good when it wasn't repairing itself while you enter a new 
 environment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluedragon99
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect may look like another save the universe RPG by the masters of storytelling, Bioware. 
 But after you've unwrapped the plastic you begin the extraordinary adventure that you have been 
 awaiting for years. The connections between you adn your party members are weak at first, but in 
 the ending hours of play you can't tear yourself away the controller and the story.
  
  The graphics are a delightful change from the current spectrum. The Vpice acting is like nothing 
 you've ever seen before in the likes of RPG's. The conversation system is wonderful, and fluent. 
 The menus flow rather easily, but you have to remember that you roate the analog stick not push 
 it in the direction of your choice. I have no cons to present, because Mass Effect is the epiphany 
 of RPG's and TPS's. You can either play it like a TPs or an RPG, or hell, both at the same time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucius_Scipio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is not without its flaws, but it's strengths overwhelmingly outweigh its minor issues. 
 The game is one of the best RPG games of the past five years. To make this review simple, I will 
 describe the negatives and positives of this game.
  
  Negatives
  
  1. Loading Screens can be slow at times, thereby causing minor delays.
  
  2. NPC party pathfinding 
 can be pretty frustrating at times. I noticed that pathfinding problems have been largely been 
 with Wrex (the big toad like NPC party member) during my playthroughs.
  
  3. The design of side quest planets seem to follow the same pattern from one planet to the next. 
 That is, mountains and lay out seem too familiar although one planet may be snow covered while 
 another has alot of lava.
  
  4. Several side quests are somewhat boring and their quality falls far short as that of the main 
 quests. It's almost like two totally different games.
  
  5. The MAKO (driving vehicle) can be difficult to maneuver through the toughest terrain on alien/side 
 quest planets. Pretty frustrating. They need to improve on this for the next game.
  
  6. Party member interface screens don't give enough information such as how much shields each member 
 has, how weapon damage output has changed with mods, etc.
  
  7. Purchasing from vendors who carry different menus of items can be frustrating. That is, if you 
 want to browse through a different vendor list, you have to exit the current menu that you are 
 on and speak to the vendor again in order to bring up the second menu option. Too time consuming!
 
  
  8. Characters tend to become too powerful past level 30-35'ish. 
  
  
  Positives
  
  1. Tremendous replay value as your choices lead you to different developments and outcomes 
 in the main story. The story is so good, that you'll want to see the different story branch lines 
 on subsequent playthroughs.
  
  2. Good amount of freedom as to when you want to tackle a different part of the story. You can 
 branch out and do side quests or explore at will unless you are in the middle of a core story world. 
 In that case, you could just finish the story world you are on, and then head out to whereever 
 you want... unless you are on the very last planet.
  
  3. The graphics are gorgeous. There is no visual difference between the cut-scenes and regular 
 sequences.
  
  4. Great music.
  
  5. Terrific addition of 3rd person shooter aspects to an RPG. It reminds me alot of Deus Ex except 
 that this is squad based fighting.
  
  6. Your conversation choices make an impact in this game unlike other RPG's. This applies to both 
 the core story and side quests.
  
  7. The last two hours of the main storyline are awesome. Really.
  
  8. Romance sub-plots with 
 NPCs are engaging.
  
  9. Numerous planets and ships you can visit.
  
  10. Dialogue with NPC's are revolutionary. You get to see your character respond (in voice) to 
 NPC's. No more reading through boring text-lines. This helps bring the game to life.
  
  Final verdict:
  
  The negatives would carry more weight with my rating if the strengths of 
 this game weren't so amazing. Should Bioware clean up a few bugs and improve on some of the issues 
 noted above, the ME trilogy has the potential to be remembered as the RPG series ever. I mention 
 this because I would have given this game my first ever 10/10 if it weren't for the small but irritating 
 glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dilan120
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  Something strange about this game for me is that i was really looking forward to it and while it 
 didnt completly live up to the hype it sure as hell tried.
  While playing i got a little addicted to this game simply because of the story.
  Its one of the 
 most amazing stories i have seen in a game and the voice acting 
  to help support the story is solid. The gameplay is just as solid providing lots of classes to 
 choose from that are fun to play. There are a lot of framerate drops and technical problems but 
 you will look past it when considering what experience the game offers and with sequals planned 
 I really do think this is a world worthy of an exploration
  
  This is my first review of a game so might explain if the review isnt that great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastertimx
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  I was very wary of getting mass effect since it was a bioware product. I hated KOTOR 1 and 2 and 
 i loved jade empire so i wasnt sure how this game would turn out, but after seeing the reviews 
 i got the game, now let me tell you how it is. First off i'll start with the good. The story, thats 
 right the best part of a bioware game is the story and the interaction with people, it was in KOTOR, 
 it was in jade empire, and its in this game as well, the only difference is that its done better 
 in ME (mass effect) for the simple reason that your character actual has a voice. it may seem strange 
 but talking with all the people in the game is incredibly fun, and rewarding at times, it helps 
 you understand the world of mass effect and lets you get even deeper in the story. the story itself 
 doesnt seem like anything new ( bad guy wants to destroy the universe) but somehow its more deep 
 than it sounds. If you love a good story then you will probably enjoy that part of the game. People 
 who like to explore may also like how you travel, you travel on a ship to many different galaxies 
 and planets ( sounds like ratchet and clank, but ratchet and clank did it was better IMO) and there 
 are alot to explore. You can also ride a vehicle called a mako on certain planets to help get you 
 to your destination. Another good part of the game is the gameplay. its a mix of gears of war with 
 a couple RPG elements throw in. the basic gameplay is like uncharted: drakes fortune and gears 
 of war, but on top of that you can also use powers like throw and stasis ( freeze enemies) . you 
 earn experince doing missions, killing people and aliens, and finding items around the galaxy. 
 after getting enough experience you can upgrade you characters health, weapon usage, defense, regeneration 
 rate, powers, and more. the combat combined with the RPG elements work great together. Then theres 
 the graphics, yup the graphics for the most part look great, alot of the characters look detailed 
 and so do the vehicles, and some locations. one of the better looking 360 games out there, but 
 definatly not the best. The game is a good length and should occupy you for a while and while i 
 think acheivments are useless in most games, i'm sure people who like acheivments will be playing 
 this longer than those who don't. Now that everything good is out of the way i have to tell you 
 why i only gave it a 7. fist off it seems this game was either rushed or the Xbox 360 can't handle 
 it. First off i have to complain about the AI, it is stupid, enemies will run at you even though 
 they see your shotgun out, they don't run from grenades more than half the time, and your teammates 
 are useless in most cases unless you want them to be a distraction. The dumb AI ruins the gameplay 
 sometimes because its not very challenging, it seems the enemies were made over powered to counter 
 their stupidity. Another issue i had was with the combat, every time you wanted to switch a weapon 
 or power up it froze the game while you selected, this isnt so bad, but it takes me out of the 
 OMG i'm surrounded feel, because when you hold the weapon switch button down, you can turn the 
 camera making it easy to spot enemies while they can't move, couple this with the stupid AI and 
 you've got an easy game ahead of you. The combat also seems lack luster, while fun it's not as 
 frantic, fun, or exciting as Uncharted: drakes fortune, or gears of war. You'll find yourself rushing 
 through fights just to get to another person to talk to because the conversations belive it or 
 not are alot of times more entertaining. Then there are the glithces.... o so many glitches. I've 
 encountered man glitches. first off the framerate is really bad, especially when you hold down 
 the a button. turning around corners slows the frame rate, moving to fast slows the frame rate, 
 hectic battles slow the frame rate, it just down right sucks. In the beginning the frame rate isn't 
 so bad, but later on it will become a hassel, mleading me to belive this game was rushed. Another 
 problem is the graphics, i said some places looked good, but not everyone or every place does, 
 there are alot of people who lack the polish of main characters, and alot of people you try to 
 talk to won't have their textures pop up right away. for example, i talked to an asari alien, her 
 face was all blu and smooth and her hair had no lines, after 2 seconds the textures kicked in and 
 she has distict marks on her skin and actual lines for her hair, even though it lasts for 2 seconds, 
 it happens alot, and to alot of characters. There are even some characters without alot of detail 
 period like the eyes and face of some of the people, just bland graphics. Most of the environments 
 look good, like the weather effects and dust clouds, but alot of areas are repetative, with a new 
 color instead of a new design. Theres also alot of loading times, and theres alot of places to 
 load, trams, elevators, the ship, everywhere loads, and it takes forever to load sometimes. this 
 really is a buzzkill seeing as how you back track to the citedel ( main planet) alot. there is 
 also a glitch where my team froze up and wouldn't move. they wouldn't follow me at all even after 
 taking an elevator or talking to someone (they automatically respaw next to you if you do either) 
 they just stood there and didn't move. i had to reset my 360 to get them to move again. Another 
 issue is the physics. The way people die are not only unrealistic, but laughable. One of my team 
 mates were killed and she died with her hands touching her feet on the floor and the rest of her 
 body in the air, she looked like a gymnastic or someone doing a crab walk, what kind of death is 
 that? if you can get past these issues you'll find a fun game, but belive me you will notice these 
 bugs, and for some it may ruin alot of parts for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezikiel2517
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  There have been a flood of fantastic, gorgeous, exciting and ...... over-hyped and overrated games 
 in 2007. Like Bioshock before it I enjoyed Mass Effect I really did, but how in gods name people 
 are giving it these perfect scores just doesn't make sense to me?!
  
  You start off with a Tiger Woods-esque character creation screen which will allow you to pick race, 
 sex, and physical characteristics. This is pretty neat and has alot of relevance on how the story 
 can play out. After this you are presented with a brief intro of when and how people are now able 
 to travel to far off stars and given a little bit of a back story on the main character Shepard.
 
  
  The story and voice work in Mass Effect are definetly top notch, but call me crazy when I say for 
 me this game suffers from Metal Gear disease. I mean I do enjoy a bit of story but sometimes it 
 just drags out and I find myself skipping alot of dialogue because I really stop giving a **** 
 what anybody has to say, I mean if I wanted to watch a movie then I would have rented a movie instead!!
 
  
  When you actually are fighting and following the main story the battles are fun and entertaining 
 and the action is pretty cool too when you are using you Biotic abilites. Sadly when you stray 
 from the main quest the game becomes an exercise in monotony. Most planets you cannot land on or 
 explore and the ones you can all start to look the same, the inside of buildings are all the same, 
 the objectives are all the friggin' same.... this was a real disappointment for me.
  
  Anyway I don't usually write reviews this long so I will summarize in the following way:
  
 
  PROS:
  -Great Graphics
  -Great Sound and Voice work
  -Fun Battles
  
  CONS:
  -Main quest way too short for an RPG (about 10hrs)
  -Exploring other planets boring as all hell
 
  -Too much conversation not enough action
  -Not much desire to play through more than once (for me anyway) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterman4312
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of the best games I have played, if not the best. The game deeply puts you into 
 the storyline by allowing you to choose the dialogue you want your character to say. You get lots 
 of customization on your character, as well as customization of your skills, powers, and weapons. 
 There are many other things you can do other than the main plot allowing a interactive galaxy. 
 This game has alot of excellent graphics throughout. The game allows you to choose what planet 
 you want to go to. This game is very addictive and alot of fun. I would easily recommend this game 
 to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  At long last, Mass Effect has finally arrived and I have finally completed it, and it really went 
 beyond my expectations. Mass Effect is an epic, and immersive adventure that you won't soon forget.
 
  
  STORY - Mass Effect has a hell of a story that has plenty of twists and turns so I'll just start 
 out with the one you're told about around the game's opening level. Basically, you'll learn that 
 a rogue Spectre (aka government agent with total freedom) is trying to summon a machine race to 
 wipe out all of humanity. But the story isn't that simple, both sides have agendas that make sense, 
 and there are plenty of plot twists along the way. Even the side quest stories are very good, from 
 having to talk down a hostage situation, stopping a murderer, or tracking a cult, they're all detailed 
 and pretty cool.
  GAMEPLAY - Mass Effect has three main areas of gameplay: Talking, shooting, and driving. Each one 
 of these areas are done pretty damn well, but some are better than others.
  The dialogue system is the best. To respond to the people you are talking with, you are given a 
 little dialogue wheel. On the left side of the wheel are dialogue options that are more inquisitive, 
 on the right side are options that are more decisive, then on the top right or top left of the 
 wheel, you have responses that will likely give you Paragon points, and on the bottom right or 
 left side of the wheel, you have responses that will usually grant Renegade points (more on Paragon 
 and Renegade stuff in a second) , and the options you can choose are just paraphrases. This is a 
 great way of keeping the dialogue going quick simply because you don't have to read entire responses, 
 and your Commander Sheppard has a voice-over, so that's pretty cool. Being a Paragon or Renegade 
 is the equivalent of being good or evil (a la KOTOR) or Open Palm, or Closed Fist (like Jade Empire) , 
 but instead of being simple like KOTOR, or different perspectives on life and the world like Jade 
 Empire, being a Paragon or Renegade voices your character's opinions on certain situations (which 
 can also be yours if you were in that given situation.) All in all the Paragon/Renegade system 
 is still fun, but it doesn't give your character any new abilities like it has in past BioWare 
 games, and while it's more interesting than KOTOR's simple good/evil, it's certainly not as interesting 
 as Open Palm/Closed Fist, so I think it's overall a step back for BioWare, just because their previous 
 work on that system was better.
  The driving is okay, but ultimately the weakest link. The controls are passable, but the physics 
 and the way the turrets work are pretty bad. The physics are way too jumpy, and in order to properly 
 use the vehicle's guns, you have to be level with your target, if you're a bit above it, or a bit 
 below it then you're out of luck, and this ultimately became the most frustrating thing about driving.
 
  The shooting on the other hand is pretty good. You have a good cover system, plenty of weaponry 
 and special powers, as well as a few other smaller mechanics, like sprinting or meleeing that just 
 make the experience all the more detailed, and fun. My complaint, though, is that while the game 
 offers many combat mechanics to play around with, some don't work to well, mainly meleeing and 
 throwing grenades. Meleeing isn't too good because there is no melee button, and instead you just 
 have to come in contact with an enemy, which will automatically melee them, which can be pretty 
 frustrating if what you're actually trying to do is shoot them when things become close-quarters. 
 And using grenades sucks simply because the button they are mapped to, which would be BACK, so 
 it makes it really hard to just plop down a grenade in the middle of a fire-fight.
  All in all, I commend the developers for offering three different gameplay segments, which are 
 all pretty detailed, but other than the superb dialogue system, these segments could've used a 
 little more work to ensure that all the details and mechanics actually work well.
  
  GRAPHICS - The graphics look great, the lighting is decent, the models look awesome, and the textures 
 look really good too. My one problem is that the game slows down quite a lot, but given how huge 
 the game is, it's forgivable. 
  SOUND - The sound is probably the best part about Mass Effect overall. The music is amazing, and 
 perfectly sets the moods of the game, from sad songs, to epic songs, to your regular sci-fi music, 
 Mass Effect's soundtrack is pretty awesome. The voice-overs for the most part are very good (they 
 even have some famous actors) with the exception of Shepard, but amongst all the other great voice 
 work, you'll likely not care too much. The sound effect are also pretty good, though there is a 
 fair amount of repitition.
  
  VALUE - You can approach Mass Effect two ways. Beat the main story, and forget the sidequests (which 
 I hear takes about 10 hours) , or go after all (or most) of the sidequests (like I did) , which could 
 probably get your experience up to 25 hours, so if you're willing to the side quests (which are 
 all pretty good) you can be playing Mass Effect for a while. But, perhaps the most interesting 
 and most original part of Mass Effect is that it seems that you were meant to play the game more 
 than once to either completely finish your old character (as his/her level, equipment, and achievement 
 progress will carry over to a new game) , or experience the other side of the story that you didn't 
 see the first time you played.
  
  TILT - Mass Effect is a great game overall, it has a good story, awesome dialogue system great 
 sound quality, and good value, but other parts of the game like its graphics, combat, and driving 
 are good in some respects, but are bogged down by some features that aren't so great. But all in 
 all, Mass Effect is worth the purchase of a fan of RPGs, or action/adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  I'll get something out of the way before anyone accuses me of favouritism, wearing rose-tinted 
 spectacles or drooling over any particular gameplay aspect: I love Bioware. From the epic beardiness 
 of Baldur's Gate and the community-happy gaming of Neverwinter Nights, to making Star Wars great 
 again in Knights of the Old Republic and fulfilling our Crouching Tiger fantasies in Jade Empire, 
 everyone's favourite Canadians deliver every time. And they've done it again, with a great sci-fi 
 action-RPG that can only be described as space opera in its purest form.
  
  The easiest way to describe Mass Effect is as KotOR meets Halo; a third-person, planet-hopping, 
 deeply personal, stat-building sci-fi RPG with a distinct action taste. Sharp reflexes and a quick 
 trigger finger will aid you in your mission; in fact the combat plays as a simple over-the-shoulder 
 shooter, albeit one with a multitude of combat skills linked to your class, level and stats. Do 
 not fear if you are not a shooter expert, however: the game is remarkably well-balanced and a range 
 of difficulty levels ensures everyone should be able to at least finish the main quest. The role-playing 
 aspects of the game involve choosing a class  which will dictate whether your character specialises 
 in technology (hacking and the like) , biotics (psychic combat powers) or all-out combat  and levelling 
 up various weapon proficiency and ability stats through the tried-and-true experience point system. 
 You gain experience by defeating enemies, completing quests or simply talking to everyone you meet 
 to find out as much about the game universe as possible. On the subject of talking, rather than 
 the usual 'pick your response' style of dialogue, instead you choose the general tone of your reply 
 (nice, naughty or indifferent) and let your character take it from there. The RPG staple of a morality 
 slider is in place, with a twist, however. You are essentially the good guy; due to the nature 
 of the plot you can't really be evil. Points are awarded for being a 'paragon' (upstanding, polite, 
 general goody-two-shoes) or a 'renegade' (rude, ruthless,  
 yet rather than one cancelling out the other you can potentially be a complete paragon and a complete 
 renegade, dependant on your actions. Using your combat and conversational skills, the game takes 
 you through a series of major areas that you must complete to advance the game and the story. However, 
 with a ship at your disposal you can go off exploring a fairly large number of uncharted worlds, 
 completing side-quests, finding rare artefacts or just driving around in your bouncy, near-indestructible 
 Mako  Mass Effect's way-cooler version of the Warthog.
  
  Social gamers take note, however: Mass Effect is a single-player-only title  as we have come to 
 expect from Bioware  an epic, story-driven role-playing game. Don't take the lack of multi-player 
 options as a downpoint, though. It's just not that sort of game. It's all about the plot.
  
  Bioware are known for weaving solid gameplay with exceptional storytelling, and Mass Effect 
 certainly does not slack in this area. The basic premise is that, a couple of hundred years in 
 the future, humanity has made tentative steps into outer space, sticking our noses into everyone 
 else's business, and are treated like second-class citizens because of it. I find it refreshing 
 that a science fiction story (for once) does not paint humanity as some kind of master race, but 
 rather a community struggling to make their voices heard in a universe that is much bigger (and 
 much older and wiser) than our relatively childlike minds can comprehend. Anyway, onto the plot. 
 At the outset, during character creation, you choose the basic background to your character, who 
 can be male or female  and rather than being just a nice bit of bio text, this actually has a 
 knock-on effect on future dialogue. Then, almost immediately you are thrust into the hot zone. 
 A human colony has been attacked by the Geth  a race of machines gone rogue  and you are there 
 to put things right, figure out what the hell happened and  above all  survive. The main focus 
 of the story becomes relatively clear early on. A Spectre (for all intents and purposes, secret 
 policeman) has gone rogue, getting delusions of grandeur and allying himself with all kinds of 
 ne'er-to-gooders, putting the universe at risk in the process. And it's up to you, as humanity's 
 one best hope, to stop both him and his ancient, evil allies. You are aided by an eclectic crew 
 of humans and aliens, each one interesting and uniquely specialised. Additionally, we are treated 
 to a handful of Bioware's trademark tasteful romances, including one in particular that caused 
 the Thai censors to get a little hot under the collar. Space opera much? It's all much better than 
 it sounds, set in a beautifully constructed universe and driven by some of the best dialogue I've 
 found in a game since Jade Empire.
  
  This brings me straight on to the voice acting. Hands-down the best voice acting I've heard in 
 a game, ever. What we hear in Mass Effect is easily on a par with any mainstream animated feature 
 you care to name, and a whole lot better than the acting in a lot of movies. Each and every line 
 of dialogue has a voice-over, and you'll be hearing a lot of familiar voices as you play through 
 the game. Nothing A-list (no Patrick Stewart a l Oblivion) , but plenty of genre favourites including 
 Seth Green, Armin Shimerman, Dwight Shultz, Marina Sirtis, Lance Henriksen, Keith David and the 
 ubiquitous Jennifer Hale. The music is spacey, open and cinematic, Dune-esque in parts, soft and 
 never intruding on the action or dialogue. Near perfect.
  
  Graphically, Mass Effect is equally impressive. While not as groundbreaking or realistic as some 
 other recent titles, it definitely makes good use of the XBox 360's capabilities. Everything is 
 smooth and well-animated. Character models are highly detailed, especially with regards to facial 
 expressions  in fact, the visual side of the character-creation process is one of the best I've 
 found and let's you create a player-character that not only looks good, but looks exactly how you 
 always pictured your hero. Interesting enemies provide cannon fodder, while the vast variety of 
 scenery on show is nothing short of breathtaking. The scenic views, action-packed gameplay and 
 innovative use of camera angles, added with the exceptional voice acting and unusual dialogue system, 
 create a much more cinematic experience than most other games can provide.
  
  So far it may seem like I am focussing on the plus points of the game. But really, aside from some 
 minor complaints about repetitive combat, the only real downside to Mass Effect is the length of 
 the main game. Or rather, the lack of length. If one was to ignore the side-quests and minimize 
 non-essential exploration, it would be quite easy to blast through to the final scenes in around 
 ten or twelve hours. However, on my first-play through I put in the best part of forty hours. That 
 shows, more than anything, that there is plenty of game to be found if one is willing to go look 
 for it. While I would have preferred a longer main plot  after all, epic storytelling is what 
 I look to Bioware for  I cannot complain about the perfectly respectable amount of optional content. 
 Value for money is not a problem in my opinion; the game is more than good enough to justify forking 
 over full price.
  
  So, to summarise: Mass Effect is an excellent action-RPG title from the masters of the role-playing 
 genre, and one of the best games I have played in a long, long time. I would recommend the game 
 without question to any fans of RPGs or shooters, but anyone who enjoys a good game no matter the 
 genre should seriously consider playing this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordhans
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is truly a stunning game. It's probably the best consol RPG I've played since Final 
 Fantasy 10 (several years ago) . If you are a casual RPG fan or someone who is looking to try out 
 an RPG this game is perfect for you.
  
  Pros: Great graphics, immersive story that gets better and better as the game progresses, great 
 voice acting, fun combat that feels like a shooter yet is still solid RPG combat. 
  
  Cons: Way too short. Story wraps things up pretty well but you are still left with a feeling on 
 incompleteness. 
  
  For a game that costs $60 I am a little upset it was over so quickly. I played through it fairly 
 casually and did a few of the side quests and I finished in just over 17 hours. I'm used to RPGs 
 taking 40+ hours minimum. It was a freaking awesome ride for 17 hours but I was left wanting more 
 so much that it was a little disappointing. Yes you can replay the game with saved characters on 
 a harder difficulty setting. You can also make different choices that DO have a real impact on 
 the game. These are good incentives to play the game again, giving it some replay value, but realistically, 
 unless you have a lot of free time and no money to afford other games there is no real reason why 
 you would do this. 
  
  In any case, while the game is not as long as I would have liked, the game was a blast to play 
 and is top-notch in all other areas. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordlunch2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  If this game turns out to be your kind of thing, you won't be sleeping for a while now. The game 
 puts you in the place of Shepard, your everyday hero kind of guy, and begins your adventure trying 
 to find out what happened to a research team. After you find an ancient teleporter thing, you see 
 visions of an ancient race being killed off. As if things couldn't be crazier, one of your friends 
 turns on you and turns out to be trying to destroy the universe. It sounds kinda so-so, but thats 
 a very short preview of the story. I just don't want to spoil anything. Alot of gamers seem to 
 say and think that this game feels alot like Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, which I do 
 not believe at all. Its actually a very fast paced game, featuring action somewhat like Gears of 
 War. Just more RPG focused than action. Firefights require you to shoot from cover with a multitude 
 of weapons at your disposal. Your weaponry consists of a sniper rifle, pistol, assault rifle, and 
 a shotgun. As well as grenades. Each weapon supports a multitude of upgrades you find throughout 
 the game. Furthermore, you can use any of your weapons at any time, which brings up many strategic 
 possibilities. Depending on the type of character you choose, you also have different powers at 
 your disposal that range from creating a warp that damages enemies all around, to allowing your 
 shotgun to release a huge burst of fire. These have a dramatic effect on how each fight goes. Each 
 of your teammates also have their own weapons and abilities that you have control over at any time. 
 (Although, you cannot take direct control of them.) The story is probably the games most wonderful 
 feature though. This game hardly has what you could call cut-scenes. Each cut-scene lets you control 
 what you character says to each question and mostly effects how the conversation goes. Just talking 
 in this game is fun and effects how your character turns out. (A good to bad sort of thing.) The 
 last thing to really go over in this game is the choices you have. Once you recieve your ship, 
 "The Normandy", the entire galaxy becomes your playground. Although you need to follow the storyline 
 to complete the game, you can go to any of the tons of planets at your disposal. It really is amazing 
 what options you have with this game and is one of, if not THE, best game I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wannabe
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  Before I even begin talking about the game in question here. Let me mention that I am an avid PC 
 gamer. I rarely even grasp the control of a console. In fact, I hadn't grasped the controller of 
 a console for about two years until I played this piece of art. I had been interested in Mass Effect 
 for quite sometime, but upon recognizing that the game would not be released for PC (at least not 
 anytime soon to my knowledge) I really didn't have a choice.
  
  One of my buddies in my unit went on leave back in the states for the holidays, and let my room 
 mate borrow his 360. At the time, I was craving for a good science fiction story. I was watching 
 a variety of movies, playing old games such as Nexus and Freelancer. All very nice. Touchy. However, 
 I was left wanting something new. Low and behold, there was a 360 here in my room, sitting on its 
 ass. I couldn't have that. I have a 22 inch LCD Westinghouse for my two 8800GT's. I now found myself 
 desperately wanting the game Mass Effect, so I was out on a mission to get HD VGA cables and a 
 subwoofer (to plug my PC speakers into) for the 360 in my room and a copy of Mass Effect. As a 
 fan of previous Bioware epics such as KOTOR, I couldn't miss this game any longer. I just had to 
 play it. 
  
  After spending about 50 bucks, I had all of those things in my possession. I began to play Mass 
 Effect and never looked back. From the moment I began playing, I was ultimately hooked on the game. 
 I was amazed at how detailed the background and the universe was in this game. Not only that, but 
 I was amazed at how plausible a lot of it was, for instance, the way they explain how future small 
 arms may work. It's really a nice touch and it just goes to show you that the devs really did care 
 about the game they were creating. As with most Bioware games, there are some really likeable (dare 
 I say "loveable"?) characters here (Wrex and Ashley being my favorites, even though I was paragon) , 
 and some that you wish you could shove a fork in their eye and give it to them for brunch (*cough* 
 Ambassador Udina *ahem*) . I really felt myself identifying with some of these people (and aliens) . 
 Call me a nerd, but the characters in this game have real problems, and troubles just like any 
 other people in reality. It makes it feel as if you're not actually playing a game sometimes, but 
 talking to real people. Or... wishing that you knew people like those in person. 
  
  Not only does this game have incredible background, story, and cool characters to drive it, it 
 also has a great combat system that makes it feel very action oreinted, whilst retaining that hint 
 of RPG. The game also comes with excellent sound design and brilliant voice acting by actors such 
 as Seth Green, Keith David, and Raphael Sbarge (Carth Onasi in KOTOR) coming back. Mass Effect 
 has great graphics too boot (looks pretty damn good on my monitor, though I miss my PC graphics 
 and FPS as the game struggles sometimes on the 360 it seems) . Put all of that together and you 
 get an unforgetable gaming experience on the scale of "Half-Life" all over again. No, i'm not becoming 
 a sucker for the console platform (trust me, i'm not, lol) , I just can't pass a good game when 
 I see it. This game delivers on all fronts. It even drew my room mate in, and we both have been 
 having tons of fun playing this game and discussing the story together or... talking about how he 
 offered Ashley and Liara a threesome. It's worth a shot on a lonely frigate in space, though, I 
 guess.
  
  Probably the worst thing about the game is that it does leave you wanting more, but can you really 
 blame it for that? It would have been nice if you could have continued travelling and what not 
 after the main story was over, or maybe could have gone to Earth to revel in all your glory for 
 expanding humanity's role in the galaxy (at least for the moment) . The ending was excellent, don't 
 get me wrong, but the post-ending scenario could have been expanded at least a bit further past 
 a credits scene. That shouldn't really go against the game though, the fact that it leaves you 
 needing more, and wanting to discover more about the fascinating universe Bioware has created here 
 is just even more props toward the game itself. 
  
  So in the end I say, if you enjoy playing video games for entertainment, have some spare time on 
 your hands, pick this game up and play it. If RPGs aren't your kind of thing, who cares, try this 
 game for the story and it's interactivity at least! You're missing out if you don't at least give 
 this game a chance. Don't let the barrier of it being 360-exclusive neglect you PC gamers out there 
 either. Trust me. It's worth every damn second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonteJax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I was awaiting Mass Effect for a very longtime and fortunately this is one game that does not disappoint. 
 From the moment you create your own Commander Shepard and begin the games' awesome story you feel 
 as if you are apart of that universe. Mass Effect may just well be the best game I have ever played 
 and if not definitely the best RPG. The only problem with Mass Effect is that there are a few graphical 
 problems, they are not a big deal and usually don't last more than 4 seconds. This is a buy that 
 will be worth the money.
  
  You are now probably wondering is Mass Effect. Mass Effect is an action RPG developed by Bioware 
 the guys who brought you Star Wars KOTOR and Jade Empire. If you are familiar with games made by 
 Bioware you should know to expect a great game where you make the choices. In Mass Effect you create 
 your own Character (Commander Shepard) using a top notch creation system even choosing that characters 
 military background. In Mass Effect you are in complete control of the Commander even choosing everything 
 that he says to NPC's in fully voiced dialogue. Combat is Gears of War meets KOTOR meaning you ca 
 run and gun and pause during gameplay to use special abilities.
  
  Mass Effect is "Masterpiece" that will not disappoint 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thirtytwoshoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 has had a relatively weak year when it comes to RPGs that is, but this game drags 
 the 360s RPG department out of the gutter and really revolutionizes gaming as a whole. The moment 
 you turn on your 360 and load up Mass Effect you're sucked in to a living, breathing world of magic 
 and wonder. Never before has a universe like this been created and I feel it certainly lives up 
 to the good Bioware name, in fact it's almost as great if not better than the Star Wars Universe. 
 You are Captain Shepard and with the help of your unusual party you must save, or destroy, humanity. 
 To cut to the chase this game is fantastic and probably the best game of the year. The graphics 
 are amazing and every character is brilliantly designed. I've spent hours just sitting back and 
 watching the brilliant job Bioware has done with these environments. Although when you enter a 
 new environment or just the status menu you'll notice that the game seems to have several texture 
 loading problems. Although this isn't really a big problem in most games this can really annoy 
 you as you try to enjoy the amazing graphics through out the game. I was also a little ticked off 
 with the combat, Bioware has never had much luck with the actual combat in games and this year 
 they had to make an exceptionally hard choice. Mass Effect has guns so obviously they couldn't 
 have turn based combat, but then again it is also an RPG so RPG fanatics might be mad if they made 
 it a shooter. Instead of choosing from one of these two options they decided to combine both genres 
 into one, the result will disappoint RPG and shooter fans at first but after a while you get used 
 to it and it really becomes fun. No matter which class you play you'll have a blast with the abilities 
 you have, the only problem is the classes are kind of unbalanced and the Vanguard class has a longer 
 learning curve than any of the others. The story is brilliant and the voice acting is the best 
 gaming has ever seen. And to top it all off they add in the brilliant conversation feature. Although 
 dialogue in most games is usually skipped because of lack of patience from gamers this games dialogue 
 is actually fun to use. It's really interactive and it actually makes you feel like you're in the 
 game. The only problem with the conversation feature is usually you can choose what to say but 
 not what to do; sure you can say something in a mean or negative way but it rarely changes the 
 out come. Another great thing about Mass Effect is how life like the characters are, you feel guilty 
 when a character dies because of your stupid decision or you chastise an innocent team mate. This 
 game is brilliant in almost every way and despite the minor flaws I pointed out in this review 
 I feel it's this years best RPG if not game of the year. I'll give Mass Effect an 9.5 out of 10, 
 no matter who you are you're going to love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gladi8or19
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I recently rented Mass Effect, and its the best rental ive ever had. its definetly going to be 
 apart of my collection.
  after being dissapointed with Halo3, Microsoft comes out with this.
  This game is Like the Star 
 wars Knights of the Old Republic, with a futuristic twist like Halo.
  Ive been wanting a new KOTOR to come out, but this will fulfill my craving, being a first person 
 shooter insted of a turn based action game, this is one of my favourite games out right now.
  Although theres no Multiplayer, The games are usualy worth it after focussing on the single player 
 game insted of Multiplayer as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Pros: The story will drive you to do everything, even though it's optional. 
  The powers and guns are definitely suited for this Sci-Fi RPG.
  Graphics and Voice Acting are 
 both high pointers for this game.
  You'll want to play this game again to see the other parts of the story.
  
  Cons: Sidequests 
 are dull.
  You can't explore every planet, only one every system.
  Game is shorter than you think.
  Loading the textures for the game happens a lot.
  Unskippable 
 cutscenes, even though you just saw it.
  
  [Regular Review]
  
  It took me awhile to write this review and kept pushing it back, as I didn't really want to play 
 Mass Effect again as I've already felt the experience before. There is a chance later on that I'll 
 be playing it again and trying different things. It's just hard to get back into it after completing 
 mostly everything.
  
  If its your first time diving into this game, then your in for a treat. The first time around you're 
 definitely going to immerse yourself and countless spend time grinding and getting your character 
 new gear and maxing out his/her stats. This is what a true RPG is about, even though it falls short 
 because of a few issues.
  
  First of all, when you start you can create your character. The only down side of creating any 
 possible looking character is... well you can only create humans. That's the only true downside. 
 Everything else about it is perfect. You can also just use the Custom Character built in if you 
 don't want to make your own.
  
  Once your done doing that you can make a background story for your character... which only changes 
 the dialouge in the game... and nothing more. I wish BioWare had intergrated a system where you 
 can make up your own, but that would make the game much harder to create and that's why you only 
 get to choose one out of three backgrounds.
  
  When you finally delve deep into the game, you won't get taught anything. That's pretty sad. I 
 would rather get taught something in five minutes then having to read the instruction booklet for 
 twenty minutes. You get taught absolutely nothing at first. You only get taught the different abilities 
 of skills and what they do.
  
  The gameplay is pretty new as you never really see guns in RPGs. The magic spells aka Biotics are 
 also new to the genre. Sort of. Some biotics lift enemies in the air or throw them afar, depending 
 on your level of skill.
  
  Skills in this game are pretty interesting to say the least. You don't even have to touch them 
 at all and instead can have the game auto level up your skills, which is neat. There is a different 
 type of skill tree for each class and almost every different character you get in the game. Every 
 level you break, more skills points to use for Biotics or enhancing your weapons or gaining new 
 armor to use, etc.
  
  The weapons in the game are guns and there is only four types of guns. Pistols are the most used 
 by every class as well as shotguns. Assault Rifles and Snipers are the most frustrating ones, depending 
 on your class. It's highly reccommended not use these two weapons if you already have a shotgun 
 and it's part of your skill tree. Assault Rifles in this game are garbage and are really inaccurate 
 no matter how high your skill for it is. Snipers, I won't even say, as I didn't have it in my Skill 
 Tree.
  
  Grenades and healing items (known as Med Gel) are both common items you'll get on your journey. 
 Grenades aren't really any help and are completely unused when I played. They take about 10 or 
 so seconds to explode and the enemy already left by the time it gets there. Med Gel helps alot 
 but you don't always get some from enemies as it usually drops every so often. It's too bad that 
 they won't heal as high if you don't have First Aid as one of your Skill Trees or if your teammate 
 has one. The other type of Gel which I think is called Oct Gel, is used to open certain containers 
 or to repair your Mako.
  
  The Mako is sluggish at first, but once you get used to it's driving and guns, then it's a piece 
 of cake. The only thing I hate about it, is it's slowness and in accurate shots. It however goes 
 up MOST terrain in the game, on certain planets, but can't climb steep hills. You might as well 
 go around.
  
  Every planet in the game that you go to, is practically just new looking scenery and textures. 
 Every planet practically has three objective places. One could be a stronghold or some building, 
 others could be mining objects, lost bodies, and/or debris. Each planet isn't really fleshed out 
 enough to be as cool as the Main Story planets you go to.
  
  Once your done with the game, you'll feel pretty happy and sad. You'll be happy you beat it and 
 sad that you can't continue the story, as it's ending isn't really fulfilled. Well, lucky for you 
 BioWare is making two more games that should continue the story with the character you created. 
 Hopefully there will be more choices, instead of three choices to continue the game. I also hope 
 there will be more classes as most people choose Soldier or Vanguard. The other classes aren't 
 really that helpful and make the game much more harder.
  
  All in all, the game is fun while it lasts and it's shorter than you expect. It took me around 
 20 hours to complete the game, doing every quest, reading every codex, etc. It's shorter than I 
 expected and hopefully BioWare's next two games are longer, the framerate gets better, and the 
 sidequests aren't so F-ING BORING!
  
  Thanks for reading!
  
  [Summary]
  
  BioWare has created a wonderful game, but there is too many issues in making this perfect. The 
 framerate sometimes becomes a little bit jittery, almost all sidequests are fetch quests, the game 
 is short, and the cutscenes are unskippable. Luckily, the graphics, the immerse gameplay, voice 
 acting, and replayability of changing your classes or replaying as your old character help make 
 the game feel more different from other RPGs.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  Wow, just wow. Thats all I can say about Mass Effect. The build up for this game was ridiculous 
 and the delivery, well it's ridiculous. 
  
  The world in Mass Effect is huge, absolutely huge. I remember seeing a developer walkthrough video 
 and when they were asked to answer how many planets were in the entire Mass Effect galaxy, they 
 didn't know the exact answer. First off the amount of content in Mass Effect will not leave anyone 
 wanting. There are so many side quests aside the 30+ hour long single player. You'll spend so much 
 time running around too different planets that you'll at some points forget the fact that theres 
 a main story line to work on. 
  
  When you boot up Mass Effect for the first time you'll start the game by going into a pretty deep 
 character creation system where you can tweak your hair face and all that good stuff along with 
 the sex of your character. You'll finish it up by making up a first name which you're never addressed 
 by since everyone calls you Sheppard. 
  
  After you got your character all straightened out, you'll pick your class, which would be a weapons 
 master, engineer, biotics (ME's magic) specialist, or a combination of those three. Once you got 
 that set you're thrown straight into the deep world of the distant future where humanity has recently 
 joined a galatic alliance where a former specter (what Sheppard is) has gone renegade and threatening 
 the balance of the Galaxy.
  
  Mass Effect is all about making choices and most of these choices are made by picking options in 
 the deep dialog system BioWare has created. In every conversation you're given options as what 
 to say. Most of the time the results of the conversations are the same, it just is different the 
 way you get to them. But sometimes the choices you get can alter the game in big ways. You can 
 either talk your way out of tense situations or you can just shoot the crap out of everyone, it's 
 your choice.
  
  The combat in Mass Effect is mostly third person shooting so its your standard affair every since 
 TPS got popular thanks to Gears. But in the middle of combat you can pause it and bring up a wheel 
 that will give you the ability to set different tactics for your team mates which is a lot more 
 than you could do in Gears. It is also really fun when along with shooting you can use biotic powers 
 to screw with your enemies. 
  
  The graphics are great. BioWare really took the U3.0 engine to a high level. All the character 
 models look great and the textures are solid. Facial animations is really one of the high points 
 in the game's design. That being said there are parts where the textures could take a bit to load, 
 there are some jaggies here and there, and some frame rates low down every once in a while. But 
 over all the problems are so few and uncommon that they don't take away from the game as a whole.
 
  
  Over all Mass Effect is amazing. It will last you a long long long time because once you're done, 
 you'll want to start another play through to play the game differently. If you got this game for 
 christmas, expect to be playing it a good portion into 2008 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Hobbit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  it suddenly occurred to me that i have had the game since release date and yet no review, how bad 
 of me! 
  
  well after playing it for such a long time i can only say this - you will go and buy it now and 
 vote of game of the year! lol. truly a wonderful game to sit down for a few hours (more like 17+) 
 and live in a universe where you're character evolves and shapes the worlds around you. seriously 
 its jaw droppingly like watching a movie sometimes. the storyline to this game is one of the best 
 i have played through, better than assassins creed (the main sci-fi plot that is) and hundreds 
 times better than halo3. you get sucked in and fast! by the end of the first level your wanting 
 to chase down saren so badly you'll find yourself getting angry with the game and jumping up and 
 down with frustration! 
  the worlds are wonderful and with at least one planet per system and about 3-4 systems per galaxy 
 and about 10-15 galaxys to explore, we're talking a very detailed game here! 
  your team mates in this game are some of the best bioware have created thus far, you seriously 
 feel for them towards the end, i found myself thinking, its a game but i dont want them to die!! 
 the new speech system in this game makes talking in this game fun and interesting unlike in KOTOR 
 where things got boring way too quickly. combat system for this game you can learn within the first 
 mission in no time, it may look complex but its so simple when you know what you're doing. big 
 plus for this game is once you have completed the game and you feel you want to do that again (and 
 you will!) you can select your character profile and use him/her to play through the game again... at 
 the same level they were at the end of the game! max level is 60 but you dont need to go on that 
 further; by that level you will be knockin geth back in their thousands. 
  i think this game got a bad review on the fact that the maco (the driving vehicle) was hard to 
 handle - a poor excuse really, someone shoot that guy! - but granted it isnt easy to use, think 
 more like the warthog in halo1, those kinda controls and things should be alot easier for you. 
 another thing i found annoying with the game was the fact that it ended! lol
  i seriously cant get enough of this game, not being over fanatical about it, but im just saying 
 it is by far one of the best games of this year, and only pass judgement on it when you have played 
 AC, H3 then ME and see the differences coz i have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: claytoncolgin
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 12:49 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of role playing games since the old pen and pencil days of D&D, Gamma World and 
 Star Frontiers. While I love fantasy RPG, my true love is Sci Fi, and it's great to finally see 
 one done well. It was like being the lead character in a movie with the rich graphics and complete 
 voice acting, perfect music and sound effects. Most importantly the game had a great story, which 
 is often the most lacking in both movies and games. The backstory of the galaxy and all the races 
 was rich and immersive. 
  
  I had just switched from playing Halo, so it took me a moment to re-adjust from crazy-run-fight 
 mentality to a true RPG, where you take your time, develop your own character and explore the world 
 thoroughly. I actually came to love the tactical mode of gameplay: taking cover, using different 
 powers, snipeing... there were endless tactical choices depending on my style of play and the details 
 of a particular fight. It was a satisfying battle style, rather than the arcade-like repetitiveness 
 of shooting it up with big guns.
  
  The only less than stellar aspect of the game was getting used to driving the Mako, but after a 
 few missions I'd mastered it and the limits of its gun. The worm creatures on many planets were 
 way over-powered for the reward they gave, so I just avoided them as much as possible. That said, 
 even the less than perfect parts of the game were still enjoyable. 
  
  For RPG fans out there, I can't recommend Mass Effect enough. Make your own character (I played 
 a female Sheppard and her voice acting was spot on) , explore the worlds, get to know the alien 
 cultures and enjoy true ROLE PLAYING for once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgamespotj
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  PLUS: Gorgeous character modeling, effects, and a very large universe to explore.
  
  minus: dull, repetitive combat and lengthy, pointless stretches of gameplay
  
  I wish Bioware 
 and Black Isle collaborated again. Every game that either company has created since the spectacular 
 KOTOR just feels lacking. Bioware's subsequent games have been beautiful, but really miss out on 
 combat mechanics and the character development side of things. Black Isle (now pretty much Obsidian) 
 has put out KOTOR 2 and Neverwinter Nights 2, both boasting excelent character development mechanics 
 and strong levels. Unfortunately, both companies lack what the other bringsw to the table.
  
  Mass Effect, like Jade Empire before it, suffers from simplistic gameplay and poor level design 
 and gameplay. I applaud Bioware for including a cover mechanic, but all of the combat in the game 
 takes place in limited arenas with very little to offer in regards to tactics. In addition, the 
 enemy AI has extremely little to offer besides simply charging you. The limited character developmentt 
 also tends to make every battle a reptition of the same basic tactics, if you even bother to use 
 them, as simply sitting back and letting your AI-controlled squad mates blast away at charging 
 enemies is enough to overcome most of the encounters that come your way.
  
  Also, the game's impressive depth adds to the repetion by adding an incredible amount of identical 
 3-room challenges and pointless, atmospheric text about planets that have no use at all in the 
 game. Yes, it feels like a complete universe, but it also feels like the dirt part of archaeology: 
 it's required to dig through, but dirty and not much fun.
  
  Finally, a depressing amount of game time is spent roaming around in the tortured vehicle system, 
 which handles poorly and drives over totally (yes, totally) featureless terrain in an attempt to 
 get to the four points of interest available in an entire solar system.
  
  Ultimately, the game feels very untested. It's pretty obvious pretty quickly that there's too much 
 driving and that the combat enounters are in too few environments and too small to make much use 
 of the combat tactics available. It's a shame, as there are a lot of good ideas at play in the 
 game: the cover system, the few (a grand total of 4) offensive "powers" and an interesting compelling 
 story line. Unfortunately, for a game that offers so much substance, there's remarkably little 
 depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bravoalpha5150
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a highly addictive and immersive RPG/Shooter for the XBOX360. The story is well 
 written and the acting is superb. There are some bugs when it comes to the combat system, but they 
 are rarely seen. The graphics are gorgeous and the music is astonishing as well as inspiring. It 
 is really hard to put the controller down with this game. There is quite a bit of replay value 
 as you can play as one of six classes (3 primary, 3 hybrids) and put your skills to the test by 
 unlocking and completing Hardcore and Insanity game difficulties. This game is for anyone that 
 loves Role Playing Games or Shooters. Those that love Science Fiction shouldn't miss this either. 
 All-in-all Mass Effect is a wonderful game that grows on you and is sure to be an instant classic. 
 This game should not be missed for it is revolutionary and will surely blow you away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuantumCat
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Just to get everyone with their feet on the ground.
  I could write of laurels and wonders, when it comes to Mass Effect, but it's not that ... almost 
 -very almost. But not the 100% perfect everyone wants you to believe. I can go on all evening about 
 the good, but everyone has already. Let's talk of the bad and ugly.
  
  Here's list (random order) :
  1. Buying interface (no sorting options available)
  2. Interface 
 (the Thumbstick is to sensitive to control all movement. Fighting & steering, it worls perfectly, 
 but has some flaws when manouvring through menus (e. g. buying, selling)
  3. No real skill developments - you can't "unlock" assault riffles by using them all the time if 
 you are not the right class. It's a class-only skill
  4. Interiour Design: apart from the key locations, interior design is bore. Everyting is the same, 
 from layout to colouring. Only the stacking of boxes changes.
  5. Vehicel Movement & Combat + camera views: definitely need some finetuning - its managable, but 
 there is room for enhancement
  6. Combat: camera views: not always the best
  7. OMG It's KOTOR without the Jedi!
  8. your side quest well runs dry around halfway the storyline 
 or maybe just a bit after halfway, forcing you to go on the storyline missions. For me, as a fan 
 of these games that should not end... I'd prefer side quests drying up at 75% of the game.
  9. Combat: Enemy & Partymembers IA is not very sophisticated.
  10. Planet terrain (except some 
 key locations) isn't very ... it looks great, but after the shock settles down, you start missing 
 trees, grass, rivers... it's a bit plain (forgive the pune)
  12. You can only land on so many planets ... why not all?
  13. In this vast and inhabited universe, 
 I cannot fly to inhabited places, land, and have a beer in the local cantina and maybe talk to 
 someone that might offer a sidequest. freedom isn't free in this game.
  
  i'm sure I'm forgetting something, but ... bottomline:
  Mass Effect is a very very good game 
 (understatment) that almost makes you overlook the flaws, by overwhelming you with evertything 
 it has. Great graphoics, awesome sound, great storyline that's delivered with so much cinematic 
 flair, you think yourself in an interactive movie. But once I saw through this, I realized this 
 was winner, because of a lot of good things. And I mean A LOT of good things. But, it still has 
 flaws and lacks something at some points, which makes me give it a 9/10 instead of a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SevenSamuraiX
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  This Game Is so Amazing, It really is a great Game One Of my Favorites. I love this Game so much 
 it has so much replay value, there are a few minor mess ups, like tech-ure popping, and A lot of 
 people were complaning that the auto saves were way too far apart, NoT TRUE, well yeah maybe if 
 you suck but I never had a real big problem with it. I love this game, Read the book if you want 
 to get more story out of it and you will enjoy the game more if you read it. In short a Diffenet 
 Play for everyone ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VGLeo34
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Bioware has done it again. 
  They've mad a great RPG and a great Action game. 
  Let's start from the story.
  There's absolutely nothing to report that's bad in the story.
 
  You set the story up yourself in the first menu and continue it from there.
  The bewst part is the fact that you can choose whichever story you want straight from the beggining.
 
  
  Now, the action part is a little different. The cover system is a bit weak, the AI is present but 
 not exactly Einstein.
  
  Guns on the other hand,.,,.,, The guns you can select are all different and can be modded acordingly.
 
  
  One problem in the game is driving, I personally think that the drivung sequences are WAY too long. 
 Also, the grenade button (which is needed for use in one mission) isn't there, whoops!
  
  Overall this is the best game on the 360. Yep better than that HALO 3 Sitfest.
  Seriously this 
 isthe most fun you'll have with your 360 untill they make a built in kocpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dominator957
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Besides the obvious technical issues, Pop in textures and quirky Mako combat, Mass Effect has one 
 of the best stories to be known in modern gaming. If you can appreciate a good story, then you 
 need to play Mass Effect. It's to bad Gamespot had to lower the review to a deceptively low 8.5 
 because of some basic issues, ones that in the end, do not subtract from the key point of the game, 
 the Story. If your a Halo fan who loved Halo for it's story, then this will be your new fix.
  
  BTW, Cpt Anderson has the same voice talent as the Arbiter from Halo, Julius from Saints Row 
 and the dispatcher from Crackdown. Are you ready for dis playa? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powah_serge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  You will never find a new gen rpg that is this interactive. You are sent into the role as sheperd, 
 a marine soon to become a spectre and it's not as overwhelming as you may think. You take on your 
 own role and your own Identity and beat this game your way. The only problems I have had is with 
 strange AI and texture generation. The biggest innovation that this game has had is the wheel for 
 speech. Simmilarly to KOTOR you make your own speech choices, good or bad and this time it actually 
 affects the game. It can affect what you want when you get it and getting certain skills. But the 
 major thing is the combat. The combat to me has too much FPS and not enough rpg to it. Luckily 
 they give you this feel with small aspects like minigames. This games storytelling and amazing 
 voice acting should alone get you to buy this game.
  This is a game I'm sure people can enjoy for a while! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceberg082002
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  This game reminds me so much of Star Wars: KOTOR and Star Wars: KOTOR II. The game has great music, 
 over 20 hours of exploration, and a great story that will make you want to play it over and over 
 again. I have played the game twice already and have played for over 70 hours. The voice over is 
 great. The expressions are great. The music is catchy and the exploration gets very addicting. 
 Like Knights of The Old Republic I and II you can chose to be good (Paragon) or bad (Renegade) . 
 The choice you make will affect a certain mission you will get. Some schievements can only be obtained 
 by playing the game more than once. One set of achievements can be obtained by playing it at least 
 3 times. Best game on the Xbox 360 since Gears Of War, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, The Darkness 
 and BioShock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sithlordkoko
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect immerses you into an absolutely fantastic world of diversity and provides near top-notch 
 environmental beauty. A few glitches here or there but nothing to cause you to go grab some cheese 
 to eat with your whine. Unique combat design and nice control layout gives this game yet another 
 plus. The dialogue with the amazing voice acting is another superlative bite that you can take 
 out of this delicious pie. The ability to explore and the freedom to do it is, for lack of a better 
 word at the moment, nice. If you are a fan of science fiction or even a fan of RPGs in general, 
 you should pick this up. Nothing short of Bio Ware quality, I gave this game a 9.5. It truly has 
 a Mass Effect on your gaming (and also the time you spend having no life and eating nothing but 
 potato chips because you can't stop playing.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HahnsHaven
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of those games where it has a main story line, but allows players to drift away 
 from it but still let them know that they have to finish the game. When people think of a Sci-fi 
 game they think of Halo or some other games that manifests things that people would never dream 
 of. Mass Effect on the other hand, takes the true element and gives you so many choices in how 
 you are going complete your objective. I almost had most of my fun just having speeches with the 
 well designed characters that almost interact realistically to your choices in the conversation. 
 You can play the game over and over again, leveling up your own Commander Shepard, but this may 
 get repetitive due to the fact that unlike Oblivion, it's not that big and time consuming. Unless 
 you are an achievement hunter, like me, there will be no reason for you to go through the game 
 again unless you want to explore every nook and cranny of all the planets, conversations, and choices. 
 I think Mass Effect is a great game for any determined achievement hunter and Sci-fi lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madditude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  To start off, this game is not perfect. It's not a 10/10. It has problems, but in my opinion this 
 game's story is just so strong that these minor faults can easily be overlooked. From moment one 
 to the roll of the credits, you fall into this universe Bioware has created and actually strive 
 to make humanity as strong as it can be. With that said , I'll begin the actual review. 
  
  I'll begin with the minor faults I spoke of earlier. The main three I have would be. The controls 
 of the Mako, the repetitive sidequests and finally the combat. Firstly the controls of the Mako. 
 The Mako is your ground vehicle, used on all sidequests and during one or two main quests. The 
 biggest problem I found with this vehicle, is the weapons. On any sort of a slant, it can be tricky 
 to take out the most obvious enemy. This may not seem too bad, but later on in more dangerous sidequests. 
 The Mako can be half-destroyed, before your first shot lands. Other than the weapons, the general 
 driving is far from solid and you may occassionally fail to realise your driving the car backwards, 
 since depending on the camera angle, the controls can do so. 
  
  The sidequests can be interesting, especially since many wil amass a great amount of experience. 
 Also they will enrich your playing experience, adding tidbits of information about the galaxy around 
 you. However on the negative side, each and every planet is basically the same. Each and every 
 terrain seems to be identical, from Mars to the most heated sun drenched planet. This will put 
 you off returning to these planets, however the rewards of Exp are worth the tedium and so if you're 
 anything like me, you'll overlook it out of necessity, 
  
  Finally onto the combat. It is far from FPS level, however it is not the worse third person I've 
 played. It can occassionally be hectic and a little clunky when more than a few enemies hit the 
 screen at once. It is also a little difficult to grasp and no doubt, you'll find yourself dying 
 alot in the beginning. Outside of these gripes, the combat is good enough to see you through and 
 later becomes enjoyable thanks to some special abilties, such as the Lift and the Overload. 
  
  Now onto the positive qualities, of which Mass Effect has plenty. The storyline once again 
 doesn't disappoint, with twists and turns of which nobody could predict. I won't ruin them for 
 you, but there are suprises a plenty across the Mass Effect world. Next major positive is the dialogue. 
 The writers are clearly some of the bes tin the business, given just how fluid the conversations 
 feel. A nice touch was the removal of literal text to dialogue. Instead the chosen option will 
 simply be the nature of your character's dialogue, not exactly what you pressed. This is a nice 
 touch, as you are no longer stuck listening to exactly what you just read through yourself. Praise 
 also has to be bestowed on the entire voice cast, who did an outstanding job. From the one-liners 
 from pissant marines, to the epic speeches of Saren, each and every line is meticulous. No doubt, 
 any fan of a good storyline, mixed with excellent acting will enjoy watching the story unfold in 
 full before them. 
  
  My next positive aspect has to be the graphics quality. The alien designs are so strangely realistic, 
 you almost begin to believe they are real. From the amphibious salarians, to the aviatic turians, 
 each race appears to have been perfected before being allowed to go into this game. The time I 
 felt th graphics really shone through, was when conversing with the various species on the citadel. 
 Somehow the atmosphere of the UN like Citadel, is the perfect backdrop for the various alien species 
 to truly appear breathtaking. During combat the graphics don't let you down, allowing you to see 
 it all unfold in pitch perfect quality. 
  
  Finally I'd like to mention the character development and class choice. Rarely does a game give 
 you such diverse reasons to choose each character type. Personally I chose the vanguard on my first 
 run through and I enjoyed every moment of mixing biotics with the soldier techniques to advance 
 through the game. However in my second run, I chose to be a fully fledged soldier. Mostly for the 
 health and assault rifle benefits. These were a nice trade-off, but I quickly found myself longing 
 to use more complex methods to kill my enemies. Needles to say once I finished my second run through, 
 I started all over again with a total biotic, having earned the ability to carry assault rifles. 
 The difference between Mass Effect and most other RPGs is that it really and truly motivates you 
 to play through the entire game again. Not just for a different ending, or key plot points you 
 missed on your first attempt. But because the more you play, the more you earn. The more you earn, 
 the more enjoyable the experience. And so on... This game is the pinnacle of console RPG's in my 
 book and while I can certainly not say it is flawless, it is abou as close as I dare say any RPG 
 will come on the 360 for some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CronoJKL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Now a days whenever a new Sci-fi: RPG, FPS, Or any game for that matter that vaguely resembles 
 the game play in Halo, people compare the two. Well I am here to say that Bioware has come out 
 and has broken that mold.
  Mass Effect is the most intense shooter RPG Sci-fi Adventure game I have ever played. No game can 
 even come close to touching it, and the reason that is, is because there has never been a game 
 like this before.
  
  I don't know about the rest of you, but one of my favorite computer games is Escape Velocity: Nova. 
 I'm sure about 99% of you have never even heard of it, but the basic idea is, you have a ship, 
 you upgrade it, you fly around in space, make a name for yourself, good fun.
  I've always been saying that someone should make a game like that, where you can fly in space, 
 do as you please, and make a name for yourself. Well, Mass Effect has done that. It's not exactly 
 like EV Nova, but hey, no one is perfect... But Mass Effect still blows EV out of the water.
  
  The story is just awesome, breath taking even. The combat is new, or at least to me how you 
 go about killing the bad guys. I've never played a game where you actually need your allies! And 
 not just for Human shields... *Cough* Halo *Cough*
  The weapon customization is great, changing the bullets you use depending on what for you're up 
 against. Only thing it's missing is some good melee weapons. And then it'd be a perfect combat 
 system.
  Some may complain that the game cost allot of money and all that "Boo-hoo stuff." All I can say 
 to them is, if you can get 50 hours of non-stop fun game play, then it's well worth it. It took 
 me 27 hours in one week to beat Mass Effect, as a good guy. Now I've started it again Renegade 
 style  :) *Evil Grin*
  
  And before you ask, Yes, the game is very addicting, but in a good one, once you beat it you have 
 that satisfaction of knowing that... your girl friend left you because you forgot your date Saturday 
 night... Just kidding.
  
  You may be asking, why are you not giving the game a 10? Well my children, I shall tell you. Because 
 some times the graphics are a little sketchy, and I've gotten stuck in random places. That's only 
 happened twice, but that makes the game not perfect. But everything else;
  Gameplay: 10
  Replay value: 10
  Graphics: 9.5
  Sound: 10
  Story-line: 10++
  
  Now I know I've sorta 
 been dissing Halo, but know this, I'm still going to play it, because they are both ground breaking, 
 phenomenal games.
  
  And in closing, The end of the game nearly made me cry, to find out why, just play it for yourself.
 
  
  Thanks for reading,
  Da Marque 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud9210
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an amazing game. The game has great graphics, great story, amazing voice acting, 
 great characters, and it just rocks. The controls are amazing and take only a few seconds to grasp. 
 The combat in this game is awesome. It really don't know how to describe it, it's just awesome. 
 The story to this game is really good. It gets you interacted with you team mates and leads to 
 some pretty "gripping" stuff. The Paragon and Renegade points themselves make you want to replay 
 this game as both an evil and good character. The only downfall of this game is the stupid Mako. 
 The controls suck. The vehicle is hard to move, hard to kill with, and it just sucks. You'll find 
 yourself unable to dodge enemy fire while driving the Mako. But despite this minor setback, this 
 game is fantastic. It is full of side-quests, weapons, and an awesome main story line. Mass Effect 
 is an awesome RPG that all gamers need to get their hands on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravanofdarkness
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect really is one of the Best Xbox360 games of the Year it really uses next Gen Graphics 
 and also has great sound Effects and great Background Music it also offers great details telling 
 about all the Races, Planets, Guns, Ships and so on it kinda plays like Gears of war with the Cover 
 System but the Action is just so Different it will remind you of abit of StarWars Kotor gameplay 
 but the only Diffrence is you have too do the Fighting this time and not just stand like an Idiot 
 doing nothing but watch plus the game also offers a good time of Gameplay with all the Side Quest 
 and Main Missions its really Fun just playing them over and over again Mass Effect is really a 
 9.5 Game in my Eyes and i bet most of the other SciFi RPG lovers would say the same or better. I 
 didnt gave Mass Effect a 10 because it just didnt offer a Online mode like 2 player Coop but still 
 even without the Online this game is one of the Best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpha99
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 12:56 am PT
Review:  Developer BioWare, famous for such games as Neverwinter Nights and Star Wars: Knights of the Old 
 Republic, it looks to continue to that pedigree with their latest title Mass Effect. The most important 
 part of an RPG is its storyline and Mass Effect delivers, with a Sci-Fi Space Opera of universe 
 shattering proportions. You play as Commander Shepard, this man or woman, can look anyway that 
 you desire with the fairly in depth character designer. After a short first mission you become 
 the first Human Spectre Agent and begin to chase after a rogue spectre named Saren. He appears 
 to be controlling a race of machines called Geth and is searching for an ancient technology that 
 threatens every living thing in the Milky Way. But what really sets Mass Effect apart in the story 
 category is the way you interact with the story and characters. The dialog wheel gives you the 
 opportunity to choose how to behave and what to do during the dialog scenes. Some may argue that 
 the dialog wheel is overly simplified, because top right is always Paragon (good cop) and the bottom 
 right is always Renegade (bad cop) , but each selection can change how characters react to you or 
 affect the entire situation.
  
  As a Paragon for example, you might talk out the situation, ending a potentially violent situation 
 in a peaceful way, whereas the Renegade might just decide to shoot first and ask questions later 
 or end violence with more violence. Another way the story is affected is by the choices you make 
 about your origins, you can pick what kind of life you had as youth and what the defining moment 
 is that set you apart in your military career. Based on what you pick characters will react to 
 you differently either admiring you for your efforts or get put off by your upbringings. By the 
 end of the story in classic BioWare fashion you will have to make a huge decision that might leave 
 you conflicted. The story is a great one that you will want to explore for yourself, but the depth 
 of the characters and the amount of back-story and detail about the universe and how it works went 
 above and beyond generous.
  
  Continuing on, with more on character customization, you can select from 6 pre-set classes. The 
 first class is a straight up soldier, who is good at all types of guns (the four being pistol, 
 shotgun, sniper rifle and assault rifle) . The adept who is excellent at using biotics, which are 
 powers that use dark energy to lift, throw and trap enemies in energy fields. The final main class 
 is the Engineer who is great at using technology to his advantage, by overloading energy shields, 
 sabotaging weapons or even hacking the enemy robots' AI using it against its own side. The other 
 three classes are mixtures of the first three: Infiltrator, which is a mixture of soldier and engineer; 
 Vanguard, which is a mixture of adept and soldier and finally Sentinel, which is a mixture of adept 
 and engineer. These classes are all well balanced, but require different strategies and support 
 characters to be effective. Also later in the game you gain access to a specialized class, which 
 allows you specialize in one aspect of your chosen class.
  
  As for the gameplay of Mass Effect you will take part in missions all over the galaxy on many different 
 planets and fighting your enemies in simple, slightly tactical 3rd person shooting. There are two 
 sets of progressions in Mass Effect the main story missions and the side missions. The main story 
 missions will last you about 15-20 hours as you make your way closer to stopping Saren. These missions 
 are generally longer and more detailed as you fight through all kinds of labs and bases and even 
 take part in some boss fights. The side missions however, are not nearly as interesting as the 
 main ones. They tend to be short, repetitive simple missions where your toughest objective might 
 be to just kill all the enemies infesting the base. But doing a mixture of main and side missions 
 helps balance out the repetitive simplicity of the side missions. Though there are over 20 hours 
 of side missions to take part in, all of which lead to good gear, interesting side stories and 
 lots of rewards.
  
  As you play all these missions your will be introduced to the game's battle system a real-time 
 3rd person tactical shooting engine. The first thing that you will learn is that if you try to 
 play it as a pure 3rd person shooter you are going to get destroyed. At first, with low levels 
 you need to really manage your squad, consisting of yourself (Shepard) and two others of your choosing, 
 by using the power selecting wheel that you access via the RB bumper. Activating this menu stops 
 the action allowing you to use one special power at a time on your squad or the enemies. Using 
 tech or biotic powers to help control the numerous enemies you will face at a time. Good strategy, 
 such as using choke points works well to help keep you alive. The shooting is solid and exciting, 
 so once you get the feel for the combat it all comes together, though the game doesn't really explain 
 the best ways to fight, you just have to learn, trail by fire.
  
  The AI of the enemies is different for each type of being you will face, the Geth like to use cover, 
 while the humans (and a few of the other aliens) like to charge recklessly. Some of the bigger 
 enemies are also aggressive, but this makes it much easier to run in to a room as Shepard and lure 
 them to the rest of your squad and your choke point for easy kills. Your squad's AI is good in 
 some situations, but there are occasions where it can unfortunately see an enemy through a wall 
 and will just keep shooting the wall even though it can't hit the enemy. Though if you tell them 
 to move towards a door they will take cover on both sides of the door and cover you when you open 
 it, which is a nice touch. Your squad as long as you keep an eye on them they behave pretty well 
 and give you pretty good support.
  
  To help protect your characters you will need weapons and armor, each character is equipped with 
 the four guns in the game, but only the soldier can train in them all. Without training your character 
 will not be able to use the gun well, though each class can at least train with pistols. The same 
 goes for armor, each class is only capable of a certain level of armor, all classes can use light, 
 some can train up to medium and only the soldier can train to use the heavy armor. Both weapons 
 and armor can be augmented with different types of add-ons, these upgrade mods can give you increased 
 shields, more stopping power, different types of ammo and many other types for all situations. 
 The only problem with all this gear is that there is no good way to tell how much you have, you 
 are only allowed to carry 150 items (guns (all 4 types) , armor, upgrades (all types) , biotic amps 
 and omnitools) . The biggest problem is that none of the items stack, so if you have three of the 
 same upgrade they all remain separate and clog up your list. The inventory system could have been 
 a bit more streamlined, but at least the game warns you when you are close to the 150 item limit.
 
  
  If you choose to do some side missions, you will encounter another side to the game, one that might 
 be as sharp as the rest of it. Most of the side missions take place on "uncharted" planets that 
 are nothing more than barren wastelands with maybe a single base or camp. They have no trees, no 
 rivers and no water, nothing just rocky terrain with a different colored texture. The other thing 
 that makes exploring planets not as fun as it could be is the Mako, your moon buggy crossed with 
 a tank. The Mako just does not control well, it handles jerkily and will sometimes change direction 
 without warning. But probably it's biggest flaw is the tank's turret, because it can only aim up 
 or down a certain amount, it means that if you move your crosshair passed the end point of the 
 gun you do not get true aim; this is especially a problem on uneven terrain, you just will not 
 be able to hit your targets with accuracy. Then final problem of the Mako is that while it has 
 pretty massive energy shields, they take nearly 5 minutes to fully recharge, causing a lot of wait 
 times before you can fight some more if you get in trouble.
  
  Mass Effect graphics are spectacular when they run properly. The game looks great; the characters 
 are great looking and have great facial animation which allows them to express themselves like 
 never before. The problem is that the game suffers from frame-rate dips fairly frequently and suffers 
 from texture pop-in after load screens and when the game switches cut-scenes nearly all the time. 
 These things are merely distractions though as you enjoy the great art style and even though the 
 planets often lack details, they do have some beautiful views and skylines. The final thing is 
 the sound and Mass Effect excels here too, with an amazing sci-fi score with an old school sort 
 of early '80 sci-fi flair with lots of synth type instruments, it's a joy to listen to. Then there 
 is the voice acting in the game. Every single line is read with perfect inflection, prefect pacing 
 even the smallest of parts. The voice acting helps draw you in and become attached to the characters, 
 you feel for them, you understand them and you want to see them all survive. Heck, BioWare even 
 went to the trouble of having a narrator, narrate the main entries in the galactic codex, which 
 is just amazing.
  
  BioWare has done it again. If you are fan of RPGs this is a must play, but even if you just enjoy 
 science fiction the amount of background details and the story can draw you in. With great graphics, 
 great story, great well voiced characters and so much interaction with the universe and its characters 
 belonging to you, you really have to experience Mass Effect for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billzspikez51
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  After reading Gamespot's review before buying it and playing it, I don't know where they come up 
 with a 8.5 rating. Mass Effect has pretty much everything a RPG AND a 3rd person shooter should 
 have. The story line/plot is remarkable, possibly one of the best i have ever seen, in a game or 
 even a movie. The gameplay reminds me of Gears of War, just a little more "watered down", which 
 isn't necessarily a bad thing. The graphics aren't the greatest you'll ever see on Xbox 360, but 
 they are exceptionable seeing how the game overachieves on other things. While Mass Effect could 
 have lived up to its name as an RPG by adding more items, outside missions and planets, it definitely 
 ranks on my top 10 games of all time, at least for the 360 anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstar_Sinada
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  So when the crazy month of November came around, and with all the releases, I for some reason didn't 
 pick up Mass Effect right away. Well, I'm glad I didn't get it right away, because I would have 
 never got to any of the other titles.
  
  Mass Effect is simply one of the best RPGs I've played in a LONG time: amazing story, voice-acting, 
 dialogue, combat, universe, the list goes on and on.
  
  STORY: Mass Effect has so much background to its universe, you'd think there were books and movies 
 before the game. Okay, so there was a book, but you get the point. 
  
  Besides the universe being rich in lore and detail, the story following you (Commander Shephard) 
 is immersive, beyond that of any game (even Bioshock in my mind) . It is told through excellent 
 voice acting, which is always spot on. 
  
  The story can change and twist based on your decisions and interactions with people. These changes 
 aren't blatantly obviously, Bioware did a good job of making situations change as you act. However, 
 play through more than once and you'll see the genius behind the system.
  
  Overall, probably one of, if not the best storylines in a game. I'm talking Final Fantasy VII stuff 
 right here. Towards the last 3-4 hours, I refuse to believe anyone can shut it off.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Mass Effect's gameplay involves your standard RPG stuff really. It just does it very 
 well. You can follow the main storyline, taking you to varied planets to do different tasks, mostly 
 involving talking to people or killing things. But here's the catch: both are extremely enjoyable!
 
  
  Dialogue in Mass Effect does what Oblivion did all over again. You can choose several impromtu 
 reactions as characters speak to you, and Shephard says things based on what you think. You can 
 choose to interrupt people, and between cocky responses and interruptions, dialogue can make you 
 smile and laugh quite a bit.
  
  Combat takes shape of a 3rd person shooter, but has to be played like a RPG. You can take cover, 
 zoom in, and use pistols, shotguns, assault rifles and snipers. You can also pause the game and 
 use magic spells/techs, and tell your allies to do so. However, the difficulty is pretty hard even 
 on normal, IF you try to play it like a shooter.
  
  Mass Effect has tons of sidequests, most involving exploring hostile planets and answering distress 
 signals. All have decent rewards and add more storyline/realism to the game.
  
  GRAPHICS: This is the category that stopped Mass Effect from getting a 10. While the graphics are 
 gorgeous, and the character models look good and react very well, there are problems. The game 
 has quite a bit of framerate problem, but you get use to it. Also, I'm not sure if it's intentional, 
 models often load only the first couple layers of textures when cinemas start, but then load the 
 fine details a little bit later.
  
  However, graphics are still great, lip-syncing is great (which is fortunate, due to all the dialogue) , 
 and some outdoor environments are breath-taking.
  
  SOUND/MUSIC: The sound effects are all spot-on, and often satisfying when an enemy burns of acid 
 shots. As I've mentioned voice acting is A+, better than pretty much all Sci-Fi movies, and most 
 movies that could be videogame material.
  
  There are some very epic scores in Mass Effect, although music often isn't playing. Still, no complaints.
 
  
  OVERALL: If you've been waiting for an amazing RPG for the 360 since Oblivion, the wait is over. 
 With a fantastic story, great combat, and multiple ways to play, you won't be able to put Mass 
 Effect down.
  
  And when you finally finish it, you'll probably start up a new character and enjoy the universe 
 all over again.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect is just like Ratchet and Clank, It is long, not easy, Has good graphics, gameplay, story, cool 
 weopens, combos, Solid Action ,Mass effect is 1 of the best 360 game.
  
  The story line is fantastic, you get to travel in alot of galaxies, purchase weopens and teamates. The 
 gameplay is so solid that it might have everything you need. Shooting is fun, and so traveling too 
 , There are so much galaxies that i even cant count. The enviroments are just work of art, Canyons 
 , ships ,galaxies and universies are all well made. Graphics goes with the enviroments ,characters 
 are really nice, aliens are escpecially.
  
  Its not easy nor hard, But somepoints in the game ( like using the car ) are really hard. Almost 
 wants to swear at it. It last long probebly 5 days. Also selecting teamate is helpful , sicnce some 
 parts of the game are hard , you can alwayz count on your buds. Weopens are cool to , camera doesnt 
 get in the way, and has a solid Action in it.
  
  Mass effect has what a good RPG needs , i sure hope there will be a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maggon_rohit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I love the RPG genre , but always cried that most of them are based in fantastical realms with 
 elves , dwarves and orcs . When will the game developers come up with something based in the future 
 with alien races and spaceships . Mass Effect is the answer to my prayers and done by BioWare , 
 it could never end up being disappointing . 
  
  You get to design the physical appearance and background story for your character ,Commander Shepard 
 .The physical appearance options are pretty limited but they allow your character to have scars 
 which is all I required for my character . But deciding on the background story affects conversations 
 in game and eventually outcomes of various scenarios. You get to choose from six classes ranging 
 from the conventional soldier to biotics . Each allows access to various skills which you will 
 use during the course of the game.
  
  Now the story , Mankind doesnot have a seat in the Council, the politicians of the universe, who 
 decide on what is to be done to maintain .They have a right hand, the Spectres who work above the 
 law to fulfill the duties assigned to them by the Council. You end up becoming the first human representative 
 for the Spectres. One of the Spectres has gone rogue and has gained alliance with the robotic race, The 
 Geth to bring apocalypse on the whole universe. You are charged to chase this guy across the universe 
 along with six companions, two of which you can choose on every mission.
  The story may sound a bit conventional but the plot is immersive and you wont get disappointed 
 by the story told.
  
  The graphics are beautiful, everything from the physical detail of each character to the various 
 worlds that have been created. The facial expressions of the characters make them feel lifelike 
 with some excellent voice acting , the lips of the characters move in sync with conversations. The 
 worlds where the missions involving the main story are rendered beautifully and the objects around 
 give a sense of completeness to the surroundings. While the side missions, which by the way are many, allow 
 you to land on barren planets with rocky terrains and random outposts of enemies. All in all some 
 of the best graphics I have experienced on the X360.
  
  The fighting mechanics are pretty fun when combined with the various biotic abilities which let 
 you sabotage enemy weapons from a distance , throw enemies in the air or sending them to sleep 
 from a distance. These powers can be easily accessed by pressing the right bumper for your character 
 and your teammates. You get an array of weaponry from pistols to rifles and shotguns, which can be 
 amped up with weapon upgrades and ammo upgrades. You cant rush towards enemies during fights ,that 
 is going to lead to a lot of reloads as you would end up dead, you have to pause ,study the positions 
 of your enemies and then command your teammates to use their abilities as you see fit. Also you 
 get to drive a vehicle the immensely resilient Mako on the barren planets you land on . It has 
 a machine gun and a canon ,controlled by the right analog and movement with the left analog. This 
 should have been worked upon a little more since the turret cannot move vertically so if you are 
 too close to the enemy , you cant aim at it your bullets or canon rounds will go over the top of 
 your enemy.
  
  Like all RPGs you get medi-gels and omni-gels . Medi-gels allow you to heal yourself and your teammates 
 while omni-gel is used to open lockers or repair your vehicle .Also like all RPGs every kill , 
 every side mission earns you experience which lets you level up your abilities and the abilities 
 of your teammates. But after you reach a level of 15 or so , you might notice that the enemies get 
 destroyed easily without even using any healing. Your characters and his teammates become next to 
 invincible but only if you decide not to go Rambo in gunfights.
  
  All in all if you play through the game thoroughly you can get a good 40 hours worth of gameplay 
 , but if you stick to the story , hell you souldnt, it is way too amazing an experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vdiv2003
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  There was so much about this game that was truly awesome, the seamless blend of FPS and RPG game 
 play. The Amazing graphics. The novel storyline, interesting and intriguing side quests and conversations. 
 Being able to start a new campaign with an old career. The awesome ability to be both "good" and 
 "bad" and the wide variety of offensive and defensive weapons and capabilities (especially considering 
 how compact they are) . It was a good game.
  
  Having said this I feel it is important to say I wish I had stopped playing after the first hour. 
 After that point the game felt rushed, not the base storyline or the game play, those remained 
 sound throughout, but the side quests, and conversations. This game lacks in the little extras 
 that make a good game a great. 
  
  It is my sincerest hope that someone from Bioware will read this and decide to finish the game 
 and make it downloadable content.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirty55409
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  I never played KOTR but now I might... This game has set itself apart from any other game I've 
 ever played. It's deep enough to keep you playing for hours at a time, yet it's easy to get into. 
 The first time I played through this game it was a rental. I played straight through, no side assignments 
 or anything like that, just Primary Missions. It took me roughly 17 hours to beat it straight through 
 on Normal. 
  
  I HAD to buy it because I really wanted to get more out of the game and I knew I could! Currently 
 I am 16 hours into the game and I have hardly scratched the surface as far as Main Objectives are 
 concerned. I'm taking care of everybody's problems in the galaxy, but it's not all for nothing, 
 each side missions allows me to gain skill points and levels, as well as make money for bigger 
 and more powerful guns and armor etc. 
  
  The Driving mechanic is a little flawed because the mako is easy to get stuck and flip and do all 
 sorts of erroneous things, but after you get used to it it's cake. I found the easiest way to maneuver 
 during a firefight in the Mako is to turn it sideways and strafe left and right while shooting 
 out targets with the secondary weapon (high powered grenade or something) Never had a problem with 
 the Creatures that pop out of the ground on some planets I was flipped over once but if you keep 
 moving it shouldn't come up from underneath you. 
  
  I found myself completely immersed in the game, learning about different planets, surveying rock 
 formations and taking out corrupt crimebosses. The only receptivity is found in the planets each 
 secondary assignment is on. They are all relatively similar and barren but they do have unique 
 weather conditions and varying terrain details. But they usually consist of you driving to 3 or 
 4 sites and walking into an underground bunker and killing a few rooms of bad guys. The combat 
 in the game is really fun!!!!
  
  Taking control of your squad is important when you want them to stay alive. Some enemies will charge 
 you or flank your position so it's important to be able to back up into safety and keep your team 
 with you (left on the D-pad) otherwise they'll stand out in the open and die quickly. That said, 
 team dynamic is gravely important to successful missions. Combat heavy teams do well if you like 
 gunfights straight on, but I found it easier to balance Liara, and Tali so they can incapacitate 
 enemies while I blast them in their vegetative states. 
  
  Anyways It's a fantastic game I had NO idea I'd like it this much, and I'm sure you'll enjoy it 
 too if you like varying dialog this is also a fun treat because you can negotiate your way to peace 
 or kill everyone in site! Love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cog77
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Updated Version of KotR, just not set in SW universe. People even have the force. Only its not 
 the force. Its something different. Except its the force. Story is generic, voice acting is wooden 
 and seems choppy (especially now that I've played Uncharted) . Graphics are great and the music 
 is the best part of the game.
  
  Exploring the universe is clumsy and repetitive. The landscapes are clumsy and repetitive. Story 
 is incomplete (the complete lack of explanation for the reapers with a dismissive "they just are 
 and we have to deal with them" seems weak) . Regardless of how you behave in this game, nothing 
 seems to change. The story just isn't dynamic enough to evolve around your choices. Characters 
 are generic and there really is little compelling reason to interact with them beyond the main 
 story line.
  
  The game itself is way to easy. There is no strategy needed. No reason to plan your battles - just 
 run and gun with a good cover system. Even the ending is waaaaaaay easy. 
  
  All in all, the final nail in a disappointing holiday season for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drago709
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  I never planned on buying this game, i never planned on becoming obsessed over it either. I had 
 read the reviews, watched online reviews and it just never seemed to stand out, but then i played 
 it. It has such a complex storyline with character conversations that feel like cut scenes. The 
 combat gameplay is just as good too.
  From the beginning you play as Commander Shepherd and you can be male or female. There are set 
 faces to choose from but like most people, i like to bring my own aspect of originality to it by 
 designing a brand new face. You can then choose his background e. g. was he earthborn, a colonist 
 or a spacer. Then you can choose somethig about his life e. g. was he a sole survivor of a horrific 
 attack, was he a war hero who saved an entire civilization single handed or is he ruthless who 
 will do whatever it takes to get the job done. Then you can choose his class. there is a Soldier- 
 combat specialists, an Engineer- tech specialists, an Adept- biotic specialists, Infiltrators- 
 a combination of combat and tech abilities, Vanguards- biotic soldiers and finally Sentinals- who 
 boast a combination of tech and biotic abilities.
  In case you don't know, biotics is very similar to telekinetic powers. It can lift up objects or 
 enemys, throw them and can be very useful in combat. Mass Effect is the first part of a trilogy 
 and if the next two games are anywhere near as good games as this then it will be a gamers dream.
 
  Other aspects of the gameplay is that during combat you have the choice of four weapons, your 
 assault rifle, your pistol, your shotgun and your sniper rifle, all of which can be used effectively 
 at different times. You can also land on planets and drive the MAKO, an all terrain vehicle with 
 6 large wheels and a thick armoured exterior. It boasts machine guns and explosive rounds to deal 
 with any eventuality. It also has some booster rockets on its underbelly to jump over oncoming 
 fire. This can come in handy in most battles.
  Overall, i'm addicted to this game, but I can't really describe to you how good it is. All I can 
 say is I recommend that you at least rent it out and have a go of it, because you won't regret 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguy182
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of the most anticipated games of this year and it delivers in allot of ways. 
 Mass Effect was said to be the perfect bled of action and RPG games, and it dose what it say it 
 dose-not only dose Mass Effect have great cinematic action pact game play and RPG customization 
 it also has an amazing and deep story and probably one of the best story's in a game ever! 
  
  The game starts you off in a cool create a character mode in where you are on this computer 
 screen trying to locate your military history. As it fails to locate it, it ask you to reenter 
 your history including your appearance. You can choose what back round you have and your military 
 back round, you choose from 3 over all types for both back rounds which have a small but cool affect 
 on the game. Then you get to the class there allot of these and have a big affect on haw you play 
 the game and a big affect on the way your character grows. It all depends on the way you wont to 
 play, there are 7 different class to choose from-i don't remember all the names but over all there 
 are 3 different "main" skills and the 7 class are different combinations of 2 of thous over all 
 skills but theres also solder types where your just a gun specialist, and theres one where your 
 just a biotic specialist (which is like a spell caster type) , and then there is a teic specialist 
 and then the rest of them are different combinations like i said but you wont be as good as you 
 could be at the skills if you choose a combinations class. Thats only the beginnings of the customization, 
 the really tailoring begins in the conversations and choices that you make in the game and the 
 way you upgrade your skills like different guns, biotic ablates and teic ablates.
  
  The story is about YOU and how you protect the galaxy from a rouge "SPECTER" (witch is like these 
 guys that operate on a hire lvl then the military and only take direct orders form the counsel 
 ) named Saren. The story grows in to a much BIGGER story that gets deeper and deeper full of plot 
 twist and great character development not only you but your hole crew become much then what they 
 start off to be, not to give anything away but ALLOT OF AWESOME STUFF HAPPENS and the story unfolds 
 as you investigate on these awesome missions to different planets. One of the most coolest parts 
 in Mass Effect is the galaxy map. Where you look at a whole galaxy (hens the name) and you go in 
 to different star clusters and then whole solar systems, you cant land on every planet but you 
 can scan them and read a description of the planet but there is at least one in every solar systems 
 that you can land one and find different stuff and sum times assignments. You have probably seen 
 the bad ass land rover that you get as soon as you land on a open land planet and as i said its 
 awesome it goes up steep cliffs, it can jump using rea entry busters for a genital landing, it 
 shoots grenades but they shoot more like rockets.
  
  The game play is solid but nothing special it plays like a normal basic 3erd person shooter and 
 tries to take some cover and running macanics from Grear's of War but still works VARY well for 
 an action RPG. You shoot your gun with the R trigger and you zoom in with the L trigger, you switch 
 your gun by holding down LB (the same for biotic and teic abilities except its on the RB and you 
 have to aim were you "cast them") and i brings up a circular like menu where you use the joy stick 
 to scroll around and press A to select (it mite sound like it takes you out of the action but it 
 dosent feel that way wen your playing it.
  
  Last but not least the graphics, physics, animation, sound and all that good stuff, if you have 
 seen the game play videos..... you already know that this is one of the best looking open ended 
 games sens Fable. But alas this is also were the game comes up short with texture pop ins and some 
 tiny glitches like some times you can get stuck in one place if you fall in a way they didnt program 
 you to fall in some small pits or a planets surfaces and some small other stuff. The sound is nothing 
 special ether as you will heir some of the same stuff over and over again. There allot of recurrences 
 including planets being VARY simaler , enemies reoccurring (aspeshaly the Geth, although they are 
 the main enemies and there are SOME different types of them) Throut the game you fell like you 
 going through the same stuf over and over again (but there is still allot of AWESOME uneac lvls 
 in the game wen you play through the main story) .
  
  OVER ALL Mass Effect is a SUPERB game that is a must play for any one. With a great story and characters 
 Mass Effect really Drives you in till the vary end of the game, its vary exiting and has great 
 replay because you will wont to see some of the different out comes of things in the game.
  
  (GET THIS GAME IF YOU LOVE RPG'S) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  Where to begin. For GOTY I am really stuck between this and Bioshock. This is slower paced, Bio 
 is faster paced. In general speaking KOTOR compared to this.... well once again its hard to choose 
 which is better. I am a Star Wars nerd to the extreme. But this game barley has any flaws and is 
 so good I can't really choose!
  
  I'll start with the good stuff and all that!
  
  The story is long and complicated. Not that you won't get it (maybe) but this is what it should 
 be. Yeah its probably semi like everything else but thanks to everything else going on and the 
 new worlds and all it feels diffrent in the same sense. Theres not to much I can say since you 
 don't start out with match. Really when you start the game you can choose from a "Premade" charecter 
 and intro story and choose your own. From there the game sucks you in and you'll forgot about real 
 life for about a week or two!
  
  The graphics are amazing considering the size of some of the levels. Of course there is a filter 
 option and blur option. Some people like it, others don't. it makes the game feel more "spacey", 
 grim, grainy.... like its a film or something. But if you turn it off it looks more like (not to 
 sound corny) KOTOR. And the blur is just personal preference. Theres actually not much graphically 
 to the game after you play through. Alot of the models are really the same model but with diffrent 
 colors or a tweaked shape (such as weapons) which was a slight disappointment but you could care 
 since your to busy with the story sucking you in.
  
  The faces alone amazing. When someones mad you see crinkles in noses, one eye gets bigger then 
 the other... etc. All stuff that most games can't do yet. Probably the most realistic game yet! 
 In terms of facial expression!
  
  The controls are pretty easy to. If your like me maybe you rented it. THERE ARE NO CONTROL SCHEMES! 
 You can't see the controls. Which trust me is fine because you learn them in game. And its actually 
 easy to learn stuff because you don't use alot of controls right away! The biggest controls are 
 perhaps that of telling your teammates what to do (special moves and weapon selections) . Although 
 you can turn them on auto and all this is easy.
  
  The sound and music is great too. Most games have great of one thing and crappy of another. This 
 game has great everything! The sound is great all around. None of the "alien" races sound silly 
 or like the used a cheap tweak to make it sound alien. And whether you decide to be good or bad 
 the voices make you regret or feel happy with what you did. The music.... wow.... I really love 
 it. Theres not a moment when I go "UGH not this again!". It just feels all perfect!
  
  The gameplay is amazing. You might recognize alot of it from a certain small game called KOTOR. 
 You use the joystick when talking to choose from various talking options, some of which you can 
 unlock as you level up. You have more teamates as the game goes on and can only take two at a time 
 but this all varies on what class you are. You can even drive, which is about the games only downfall. 
 You can go to tons of planets whether your on a mission or not explore some places on a small portion 
 of them and "loot" them and even explore some buildings and on rare occasions kill things. All 
 the time leveling up too and sometimes earning more towards your good or bad rating. 
  
  On the loot thing. All containers (your source of loot) , in order to open them you either have 
 to use omnigel (don't ask) or select hack which pops up a basic simon says kind of game. It flashes 
 red, you hit red. Then it flashes green, you hit green. Its quick, easy and better then waisting 
 omnigel. Like any RPG certain missions give you access to planets where can buy new weapons, armor... etc. 
 From here there are also lots of things to do like sidequests and some pretty interesting (and 
 sometimes very hard) stuff. This game is NOT short if you decide to finish everything to do. And 
 if you beat it you can go back through and either use your same character and team and all that 
 or start fresh. Good thing is if you did any number of things (see sites for this info) you get 
 bonuses on your next run through the game! 
  
  In case your wondering you use a ship called the Normandy to get around. From planet to planet 
 and what not. Here you can by stuff and swap out stuff when not on missions, talk to the crew among 
 other things. You can carry I believe 5 or 6 guns but it really boils down to what you like to 
 use. Most people use one gun (buy new ones) through out the game. For instance I used shotguns 
 through out the game. And this is effect by class. If your and adept you use just pistol and the 
 shotgun and get your biotics.
  
  Yes your teammates and you (depending on your class) get powers you might say thanks to these devices 
 on your wrist that let you do fun things like create vortexs (suck up enemies) , throw enemies, 
 suspend them, create shields, hack into robots... etc. Its really fun but if your going to use these 
 powers your class sacrifices weapons instead and sometimes depending on the class even health or 
 shields. But thats why you have teammates!
  
  So what are the negatives you say? Well no games perfect sadly. Even though this game has negatives 
 DOES NOT mean its bad. I barley noticed these but its only fair to point them out because something 
 people find more annoying in a game then others. 
  
  For one the vehicle end of it is boring after the billionth time doing it. Its a combination of 
 things. From the horrible shooting to the bad physics and camera angle to the planets that are 
 ALL THE SAME. Every planet no matter how awesome it looks is basically the same...... mountains.... mountains 
 .... more mountains. And since your objectives (well their mostly optional) tend to be random I 
 think) you can be on top of one or at the very bottom and since your Mako (you vehicle) drives 
 like crap when on a mountain you'll curse your tv after the millionth time doing it and at some 
 point skip searching planets for fun.
  
  While the ability to choose what to say doesn't actually matter most of the time, when it does 
 matter the menus are messed up. For instance (made up example) If someone says "Do you want to 
 fight me?" It would say from top (being the good/no) to bottom (being bad/yes) : "What?", "Maybe 
 we should talk more" or "Hmm". Now naturally I would choose "What?" if I was goijng the nice guy 
 route beacuse top answers mean "good guy". So instead of your guy saying "What?" He (or she) goes 
 "Huh? Fine lets do it!". So unless you saved and wanted to go back now your stuck with a negative 
 option you didn't want at the one time where choosing the right option for the path you are taking 
 is needed.
  
  Another problem is the save system. It does autosave. But you'll need to save often yourself because 
 the autosaves aren't often! And its not because of dying, but because of clipping. When your in 
 a level and it loads a new section real quick and your walking sometimes when it finishes loading 
 you'll end up stuck in an object because it kept you walking! Then your stuck and have to revert 
 to an autosave usually like 10 minutes back because you didn't save yourself!
  
  Perhaps the only thing that really drove me nuts next to the driving is elevators. Ugh. You'd think 
 in the future we'd have a faster way! In your ship, in cities... no matter where you do "load screens" 
 are sometimes replaced by elevators. Which take like 30 seconds while the go down or up to where 
 ever. Its slow and boring and when your running back and forth gets old quick. Luckily in some 
 places like the Citadel (main city) you can use transports to go to hotspots and these load ALOT 
 quicker.
  
  There are some other minor problems like the AI isn't exactly that great and your teammates while 
 great at somethings..... aren't great at following you (get stuck) and tend to shoot at walls alot) .
 
  
  Overall this game is worth buying. At the very least rent it. I may have listed negatives but no 
 game is perfect and these negatives are things that barley bug you in this VERY long game! Its 
 enthralling, fun and you'll want to more. You'll defiantly play it at least once or twice more!
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonkeyKong8765
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  So it's 2:11 AM and I'm on the holiday break, drinking some dew, and finishing the final boss on 
 Mass Effect... just awesome. This game really goes above and beyond most games today, and here's 
 why.
  
  1. This game is old-school
  
  I seriously thought that I was playing the Ocarina of Time in space for a few minutes. It's able 
 to mix RPG with combat so well, that you are completely blown away.
  
  2. Graphics and Visuals 
  
  One thing I will say is a problem in this game, is the frame-rate 
 issue during some fight scenes. It's just not fun to have to play at 15 frames a second, especially 
 when you're trying to blow of a Krogan's head. Other than that, the graphics will absolutely astound 
 you throughout the game. Just see for yourself.
  
  3. Storyline is one of the best (No Spoliers) 
  
  I'm not gonna say anything because I want 
 to you to experience it for yourself. I will say that this game has one of the best storylines 
 of all time. Even though it only take about 13-20 hours to play through (depending on the side 
 quests you do) it just simply blows you away.
  
  4. A. I..... eh... well....
  
  The AI isn't so good in this game which leads to some moments in gameplay when you're just like 
 "WTF?" Sometimes you'll get rushed by a Krogan and it just doesn't make the game fun when you have 
 to restart at the checkpoint. 
  Your teammates also might as well be blobs of crap. They hardly ever respond to commands. They'll 
 say things like "Uhh, that's not possible" when you command them to move to a certain area. It 
 just really, really bugs me when games can get AI working correctly.
  
  5. Saving
  
  Throughout this game make SURE YOU SAVE. When you land on a planet, and then 30 minutes later, 
 you die or something, you have to restart at the point when you landed on the planet unless you 
 save.
  
  6. Driving 
  
  Driving the car is meant to be done on mountains as you can see when you land on a planet with 
 mountainous terrain. But when you have to drive in open space it is really annoying to adjust. 
 The sensitivity of the controls is to high. Move the stick a millimeter to the left/right, you 
 car goes like 45 degrees to the left/right.
  
  7. Why the early release?
  
  I'm certain that if this game spent a few more months in development, it would've been the greatest 
 since Zelda: OOT. Yeah, it's that good. 
  
  I can see why GS gave it a 8.5/10, and all I can say is, bring on Mass Effect 2 baby!.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogeton
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  I just got done completing this game, and I must say that this has been one of the most appreciative 
 games I have ever played .. I reminds me of Oblivion but in a science fiction kinda way.. The story, 
 graphics, characters, gameplay..... well EVERYTHING about the game is just soo pleasing once you 
 get the basics down, the game is just so entertaining that you will find it difficult to put the 
 controller down, and then even after the game if you have not done them already.. you can go back 
 and complete all the extras, or just beat the game again, just in a different perspective and unlock 
 the bonuses, just like Oblivion.. there is just soo much left to do when ever you complete something 
 else. The side quests are most likely the first thing that anyone would end up doing after they 
 have completed the main storyline... as for me, I head for achievement tasks. Hope everyone enjoys 
 the game as much as I did
  
  I do highly recommend this game next to Halo3 this is the game of the year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unreal_gamer24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  This game truly speaks for itself, the graphics are amazing, the game play is really original for 
 a RPG game, and the voice acting is top notch. The story is great! The create-your-own character 
 is really sweet! Also the characters in the game really pull into the game. 
  The game dialog that you choose really turn the outcome of the game. The game is pretty long I 
 beat it in about 29 hours, and that's just the major storyline. The minor missions are great, and 
 keeps you playing on for a good while I think about another 13 hours of extra missions. Also BioWare 
 announced that they will release episodic content through Xbox Live, which makes this game even 
 better!
  This game really reminds me of Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, but this time its sci-fi. This game 
 is absolutely great, I love it! Rent this game if you are saving money for other video games, or 
 get this game for Christmas! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aravind_1979
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  One of the finest games made for X360. Stands rigth with halo3, Gears of war and COD 4. It has 
 a very good storyline and is fast paced. You dont waste time running around to find stuff. The 
 music score for the game is good too. But the game has its quirks, first of all it is the graphics. 
 Even though the graphics is gorgeous, there are some artifacts in the grahics, like black spots 
 under the eyes and cheeks and below the necks. Secondly it is the MAKO combat, The aiming system 
 for the MAKO is poor, the mako cannot shoot below the tureret level whatsoever and the driving 
 is somewhat funny. thirdly it is the inventory, the inventory scrolls upto the begining of the 
 list every time an item is converted into omni-gel and you have to scroll all the way back to your 
 original position, which is very frustrating sometimes when you have a lot of items. fourth no specter 
 armor!!!!!. Other than the minor flaws the game is very enjoyable, and the overall quality of the 
 game play is not affected by the small flaws. I would recommend the game to any one who wants to 
 have loads of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boonerr79
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  I just finished this game. Total play time was 59 hours and some change. I think it says a lot 
 for a title, that even after all that time spent, I can say I was craving more at the end (in a 
 good way) .
  
  Pro's: This was a great overall experience. The story borrowed a bit from several Sci-fi themes, 
 but blended them together wonderfully. The charecter interaction sequences were great (BioWare's 
 forte') . Combat mechanics were also a delightful surprise that worked well. Any fan of RPG's and/or 
 Sci-fi should definitely add this title to their library.
  
  Con's: This was a great game with a few problems. (1) Load Times: These were especially annoying 
 in the opening area of the game, the Citadel. Walking from area to area would jerk you around a 
 bit while you wait for the game to catch up loading. This is not totally unrelated to the second 
 of the games two issues... (2) Texture Pop-ins: During cinematics, conversations, even when switching 
 to the characters info screens, texture pop-ins would occur with some frequency.
  
  While the load times and texture pop-ins were annoying, I still rated this game a 9 (if those issues 
 would have been fixed, I probably would have given this game a 10) . It's a truly great game. I 
 can't wait for the sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I first became of fan of BioWare when I played Baldur's Gate 1 & 2, my favorite single player games 
 of all time until now. I love RPGs, but always wanted to get out of the fantasy stuff and into 
 the space theme, the opposite end of the spectrum, which Mass Effect is the answer to for many 
 non-traditional RPGers. 
  
  PROS
  
  The story and voiceover is at the top of the list of course. BioWare invested an insane amount 
 of time writing this game's background up, which you can tell almost immediately. Clearly they 
 are serious about making this a new IP and start of a trilogy which I have no doubt they will succeed 
 at. When you finish the game you'll see an insane list of voice talent they hired for this. Although 
 many of the faces will look generic, the voices wont be like Oblivion was prone to. 
  
  Throughout the game you will notice a lot of influence theme wise from two things: the movie Aliens 
 and the game Halo. There's a lot of stuff the game plays with involving coporations doing stuff 
 outside the law and messing with colonist sometimes. There's also some alien monster stuff that 
 at a particular planet will feel like right off the movie. Also, the whole getting dropped off 
 by your ship into a vehicle landing on a planet is extremely Aliens style, if not also the beginning 
 of Halo 3. Visually there's a lot of Halo art. Specifically with the environments. However the 
 character design and story are the most original so its not a huge problem and luckily I'm a fan 
 of their inspiration. 
  
  The music is the next best deal. I would argue it's even better than Halo's. The electronic music 
 is very mellow and fits perfectly with the feel of being in space the solace atmosphere provides. 
 
  
  The character models look incredible, some of the best ever. Faces especially look good. 
  
 
  Overall BioWare successfully provides an in-depth original IP for an RPG in a sci-fi setting better 
 than any game ever. If you hate playing swords with elfs and rather fire guns with ships visiting 
 planets, this is for you. Fantasy is so overdone. I think part of the reason why BioWare went this 
 direction is because the fantasy RPG side is now dominated by MMOs, so the only option left was 
 to go into an untapped subgenre with space which the MMOs haven't really nailed yet although there 
 have been attempts. Even with that, BioWare has still created a new game studio in Austin which 
 will be dedicated to MMOs. Its hard to tell if this means they are working on a complete transition 
 or will continue making single player RPGs like Mass Effect, a slowly dying breed unfortunately. 
 
  
  Going further into the story, you'll find it's good because it has alot of rational plot instead 
 of corny hero crap. Central to this is the fact it's so political charged, with issues that seem 
 to carry over from what we experience today. Philosophically you could make several similarities 
 such between humanity with aliens and the US with the world after the American Revolution, trying 
 to earn respect up into WWII. In fact the whole plot bares remarkable resemblance to comparing 
 WWI and WWII. The council feels very similar to the UN security council. Also, the friction between 
 alien races bares obvious resemblance to racial issues we face today. 
  
  There's also great ethical decision you get to make. This is an obvious potential spoiler so I 
 won't go further with that. 
  
  CONS
  
  Framerate problems take away the climatic experience during battles. There's also slightly more 
 load screens than you think there would be. 
  
  Issues with geometry bugs. I had a few times of getting stuck, or other group members getting stuck. 
 Not to often but when it happens the game doesn't feel polished. Also, having your group members 
 following you everywhere needs to feel more natural. Sometimes its like your having some pet animals 
 on a leash next to you. They should have more natural following patterns. 
  
  The menu took the longest learning curve to understand. Its extremely ugly and not user friendly. 
 Along with the learning curve, the gear is also not so great looking either. Essentially new upgrades 
 will just be a new skin and title on it. Its refreshing not to be a level/gear focused RPG like 
 many are, but this doesn't downplay it the right way I think. 
  
  The canon on the vehicle has an issue where you can only hit things if its in the same alignment 
 even though your cross-hairs may be on your target.
  
  The story is so detailed, that sometimes you might feel overwhelmed trying to keep up on what's 
 going on. Also, with so mich time spent developing story you can tell other areas were given less 
 attention. Alot of the side quests feel like essentially the same thing as far as landing on a 
 planet and clearing an area out. Bases look essentially the same every time. Each planet does look 
 great, but still feel like a new skin was simply put on it. 
  
  This is probably more of a current gen problem than actually Mass Effect, but the character models 
 still don't feel completely believable yet. They accomplished getting characters to move during 
 interaction creating gestures and facial expressions, but when your not talking to them they seem 
 very lifeless compared to the AI in Oblivion. During conversation you do see facial expressions 
 change but level of quality feels like watching an animated manequin rather than a believable person 
 yet. The lip synching is close, but still not quite perfect yet. Movements during dialogue come 
 of as a little rigid and not quite fluid yet. 
  
  This is also going to sound pathetic, but I don't think the romance aspect was played enough either. 
 I remember in Baldurs Gate II when Bioware first started messing around with the idea of having 
 relationships with group members, but back then it was just innocent flirting in a dialogue box. 
 They definitely take to a new level with this, but the relationships built don't transfer into 
 the main part of the game play as much as you would think. I mean, what are the consequences of 
 getting involved with crew members your commanding? Can there be jealousy? Its feel like its trapped 
 to only inside the ship and not outside as well, which makes it feel goofy as if nothing actually 
 happened between you two. This should have been broadened a little more, but I'm sure the developers 
 didn't want to draw too much attention which they already have, particularly with some foreign 
 countries with the controversy, which is over nothing. 
  
  The galaxy is not nearly as big as you will initially think looking at the galaxy map. It's divided 
 first into clusters, then systems, then planets. This may seem like a lot of places to visit, but 
 in reality there's usually only one landable planet per system. So all the extra stuff in each 
 solar system is just for show and makes the game look bigger than it actually is. 
  
  Combat is way to easy. I was playing it on medium and it felt more like on very easy mode. If your 
 use to shooter games this will feel like a joke. If you're an RPGer you might have more of a challenge. 
 
  
  Finally, although you do get to make ethical decisions, you never really get to be truly evil like 
 in Baldur's Gate. Instead you get to choose your style of being more of a paragon or renegade problem 
 solver to get the job done. This is nice, but somehow I wonder if my actions could be even less 
 linear. 
  
  OVERALL
  
  It took me only 3  game days to beat this, including almost all the side quests. This game has 
 a lot of potential, but there needs to be a lot more polish which is why it won't get game of the 
 year. Its hard to transition from fantasy to space which is why its not as polished as it could 
 be. But think further into the trilogy they will hopefully learn from this and there mistake in 
 KOTOR II to make a good sequel deserving comparing to Baldur's Gate II. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jbul
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Some years ago, a developer known for it's PC rpg's released their first console game. Star Wars: 
 Knights Of The Old Republic captivated critics and gamers alike with it's flushed out Star Wars 
 universe, ambitious (for it's time) dialogue system, and freedom of play. Since then, they've been 
 slowly refining their formula with successive releases of KOTOR II: Sith Lords, and Jade Empire. 
 Years passed, and people wondered how Bioware could top their already excellent RPG pedigree.
 
  
  
  
  Their answer is Mass Effect; a game that takes and improves upon their successful formula for storytelling, 
 and gives new definition to the term 'cinematic'. Mass Effect begins in the future. The Earth, 
 it turns out, is one of many planets in the galaxy inhabitied by life. An ancient artifact, found 
 on a planet in our solar system has enabled us to make contact with other species'. Humans become 
 one of the newer members of an intergalactic council, which encompasses representatives from many 
 of the galaxies' species. Depending on your choices during the deep character creation process, 
 you can come from a variety of backgrounds which effect how the characters in the game view, and 
 treat your version of Commander Sheperd. This is a fascinating way to begin your journey because 
 it gives you a feeling of what your character has been through, up until the point where the game 
 starts. The first thing you notice about Mass Effect are the detailed, streamlined graphics. When 
 you enter the deck of your commanding ship, consoles in your peripheral bustle with activity. Crew 
 members work intently. Adding greatly to the immersion is the audio. Everything from the sound 
 of crew members pressing console buttons, the the pulse or your ships engine sounds just as it 
 should, without being intrusive. The music is simultaneously subtle, and dramatic, coming to the 
 forefront at pivotal, dramatic moments in gameplay. The choice of your characters response to almost 
 every piece of spoken dialogue is astounding. You are given summaries of responses your character 
 would give. You never quite know what is going to be said, but the summary gives you a good gist 
 of the direction of the comment. Through trial and error, you begin to realise that the bottom-half 
 reponses in the dialogue tree and generally abrasive, and to the point, whereas the top half are 
 more subtle, long-winded responses. This means you basically choose your characters personality, 
 temperament, and attitude. So rather than being a passive observer to a story being told, you are 
 a substantial part of it, constantly changing the course of your journey through you choices. 
 
  
  
  
  The voice acting deserves special attention. Never before has a game been so flushed out with a 
 cast of complex, believable characters. From alien merchants, to your squadmates, to the game's 
 main villian, all sound, act, and react uniquely enough to make you forget you are playing a videogame.
 
  You may think to yourself while playing that the characters and universe would be highly regarded 
 in television or film, and you would likely be correct. An astonishing amount of creativity went 
 into thoroughly flushing out the game's universe. To make it feel substantial, unique, and lived 
 in.
  You encounter unique personalities, how you deal with them, treat them, or even if you let them 
 live is all up to you.
  
  
  The combat in Mass Effect has taken criticism. Mostly due to the complexity of the operations, 
 and the lack of instruction given to fully understand the combat/magic mechanics, which could take 
 the average player 6 or more hours of playtime to fully grasp. But the game doesn't shove it down 
 your throat. You learn slowly, through a progression of various encounters, each a bit more challenging 
 than the last, and forcing you to adapt and learn more. Would it have been more efficient to explain 
 the systems in a combat tutorial? Perhaps, but instead the player is left to explore it's complexities, 
 which I found enjoyable. You almost always fight with a squad. 2 other characters which you get 
 to choose before each mission. Their strengths are listed plainly for you to see, so it's up to 
 you whether you want a group that is combat intensive, tech capable (hacking CPU terminals, disabling 
 and overloading mechanical enemies) , or biotic (the game's mysterious magic) specialized, or a 
 combination of any of them. Another complaint is the framerate, which I found to be little more 
 than a minimal distraction at times, the screen never chugged too much, and if it did, it corrected 
 itself within a few seconds.
  
  
  Mass Effect is fairly linear. Not overwhelmingly so, but you are usually nudged in a certain direction, 
 even once you've gained the capability to go almost anywhere in the galaxy. The optional side-quests 
 are a mixed bag. Some are tedious, and overly long. Some are short, and pointless. Some are fun, 
 with small rewards. When you decide to get on with the main game, however, you're always given 
 the option to go back to any them, should you change your mind or get bored. 
  
  
  What this all boils down is scope. Never before has a RPG attempted to reach for the stars quite 
 like this. And it mostly succeeds. From the phenomenal story, the believable universe, the beautiful, 
 high resolution worlds to the too-good-to-be-true finale, this is one of gaming's biggest RPG treasures. 
 Don't miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrngod
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I almost didn't want to bother writing this review because of how accurate Gamespot's review already 
 is, but I figured it would be good practice.
  
  First off, you should know that I wanted a 360 for two games initially. Halo 3 and Mass Effect. 
 The fact that Bioware's name is attached to this game in ANY capacity shot it right to the top 
 of my list. Bioware, if you don't know, is responsible for many of the greatest western RPG's ever 
 made. KOTOR, Neverwinter Nights, Baldur's Gate II. For as long as I have been a fan I have always 
 felt like they are tops when it comes to story telling, and kinda mediocre when it comes to gameplay 
 and technical prowess. This tradition carries on in Mass Effect, faults included.
  
  Let me start by throwing out a comfortable mix of bashing and praising for Mass Effect. The one 
 aspect most deserving of this treatment would be the gameplay.
  
  There are 4 main aspects to the entirety of Mass Effect's gameplay. Combat, character management, 
 character interactions, and Exploration.
  
  Bioware really branched out here and made the combat play out like a 3rd person shooter. Thankfully 
 they mixed it up quite a bit by keeping the "pause anytime" ability that was great in KOTOR. You 
 can stop the action at any time and do a handful of actions including changing weapons, giving 
 squad orders and using abilities as well as looking around. This makes the clunky-to-aim controls 
 a lot more forgivable because you can just pause and aim whenever you want. At first that sounds 
 like cheating when you consider it in the context of a typical shooter, but here it works just 
 fine as does not make the game dramatically easier. It simply compensates for a fault.
  
  The character management is about what you would expect for an RPG. The menu system could have 
 used a little bit more tuning, but overall it is really intuitive and provides enough information 
 to make easy decisions about how to specialize your characters and what items to pick over what 
 you already have equipped. Sorting items alphabetically and "stacking" them would have been helpful. 
 Instead the game sorts by item "rank" ( rank II, rank IV, etc.) and if you have 4 pieces of the 
 same armor you have to scroll past all four instead of seeing a listing that says x4 or something. 
 Nit-picky I know, but considering how much time most players spend in these menus it becomes obvious 
 there would have been some benefit to include these changes.
  
  The exploration segments are Mass Effects major weakness. The bulk of exploration outside of the 
 main story arc consists of a mix of space flight and driving. The space flight is basically just 
 clicking on a map that starts at a Galaxy wide view and branches all the way down to a solar system 
 view where you can read about individual planets and explore many of them. This menu driven aspect 
 is pretty well done, but I was kind of hoping for some kind of space combat aspect. My only complaint 
 here is not about what the game is, but what the game isn't.
  
  The driving exploration/combat segments are the single worst aspect about Mass Effect. The 6 wheeled 
 truck/tank/thing controls absolutely horribly. It is extremely rubbery and jerky. Once you get 
 used to it things get better, but throughout the entire game you will dread these portions. The 
 gun turret can also not point below the vehicles ground plain. Meaning if you are on a ridge and 
 pointing the aiming reticle down, when you fire your shot goes straight ahead in parallel to where 
 the cannon is pointing. Since the cannon doesn't point any farther down then parallel with the 
 ground, this becomes a major pain later on. You spend a lot of time trying to find a good place 
 to put your vehicle instead of trying to line up shots. It also seems a bit odd that a 6 wheeled 
 tank can drive straight up a 70 degree ramp (almost vertical) . At least the Jumpjets on this thing 
 are fun.
  
  To make things worse the environments that you explore for side quests are extremely repetitive 
 and bland. They all look 99% the same, with the only differences being color and maybe some weather 
 changes. It seems that Bioware should have scrapped this entire aspect of the game and replaced 
 it with on-foot exploration segments.
  
  The driving aspects really seem like amateur hour compared to the character interaction this game 
 does into. The conversations between NPC's and your character are the single most immersive I have 
 ever seen in a game. The "response select wheel" is extremely intuitive and works very well. You 
 are given responses that can be considered "good" or "bad" with regards to your characters attitude. 
 If you want to tell someone off, you can, or you can be sympathetic. The level of animation detail 
 in character's faces and movements goes along perfectly with how each conversation plays out. The 
 entire game could have been 90% character interactions and I would have still loved it.
  
  The graphics in Mass Effect are really good, if you ignore the side mission planets. The animation 
 is really well done, with a few shortcomings, and the look and feel for the game are really immersive. 
 You really feel like you are on a huge space station when you are walking around on one. The weapons 
 could have used a bit more variety with how they look, but since you don't really see them all 
 that much this isn't a huge deal. Character models and designs are top notch. There are several 
 different species of aliens in the game and each type really feels unique and memorable. Once you 
 see one you remember exactly what they are. The graphics really shine during cut scenes. The cinematic 
 direction is on par with many big budget movies, even if the graphics fall short of CGI.
  
  The sound is also really well done. The voice acting is some of the best ever for a game. The characters 
 sound upset when they are yelling at someone, and they sound sympathetic when they are trying to 
 comfort someone. Sarcasm, humor, anger and sadness are all really well done with the voice acting. 
 Bioware even got a little playful with the voice acting for one of the species that ends up being 
 quite funny.
  
  The music goes a long way to setup the atmosphere and carry the game along. Every single time I 
 opened up the space map I got excited to hear the music. It's just cool and very fitting.
  
  The single best aspect of this game is easily the story and atmosphere. I rarely have emotional 
 reactions in games, but this game had a handful of them. Even early on in the game there are moments 
 where I was feeling very patriotic and motivated to get the bad guys.
  
  I read the Mass Effect book a few months back and was really intrigued with the universe that was 
 setup. The game does a good job of mentioning a lof of what is explained in the book, but doesn't 
 spell it out quite as well. I felt like reading the book provided me with a bit of benefit for 
 understanding some side aspects of the story.
  
  The story wastes no time getting interesting. From early on in the game you are sent off on your 
 quest and events will unfold in a very interesting way. The story is clearly presented and easy 
 to understand, if you pay attention, yet is quite involved and original. Plot twists are plentiful 
 in this one. I can't say enough of this aspect without ruining the story itself because all of 
 the greatness about it is because of what actually happens in the story. I would be spoiling quite 
 a lot if I went into anymore detail. I'll just have to leave it alone after pointing out that this 
 is easily one of the most memorable stories I have ever experienced in a video game.
  
  Overall I thoroughly enjoyed Mass Effect. After completing it by playing the "good" guy once through 
 I started a second game with the intent to be "Evil". I have too many other games right now to 
 actually dedicate myself to another play through, but it's easy to say that many people will want 
 to play it several times through just to see it all again. It's very rare these days that I ever 
 find myself giving a game a second lap.
  
  And for the record, the much discussed lesbian scene wasn't that big of a deal. I made a female 
 character and let my fiance know that I intended to pursue getting to this scene. She was nice 
 about rooting me on every time I had conversation segments with the intended target of my toon's 
 affections. We did a lot of "whooping" when the scene finally happened, even though the onscreen 
 action was pretty PG-13, just because of the novelty involved.
  
  Mass Effect is an easy recommendation. If you want to experience the closest thing to an epic movie 
 while playing a game, this is a great place to look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrawnis
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This is by far my favorite console game thus far. I have barely just started (only about 7 hours 
 played) but already the story, gameplay, complexity, and flexibility make this the most enjoyable 
 game I have seen.
  
  However, there are some issues that I would like to address. First off, the combat scenes are difficult 
 to control and the AI is not very impressive. That doesn't mean I never get damaged, it just means 
 that often I am unsure of how to proceed OR my team mates will run in my way and get shot by friendly 
 fire.
  
  Overall, the story is what draws me in along with the tremendous amount of influence that BioWare 
 lets the player have on the world and events. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit Mass Effect kind of snuck up on me. I had seen previews and glowing reports of 
 a great sci-fi RPG in the mold of KOTOR, but my mind had been lost in playing Oblivion and honestly 
 I was more excited about purchasing Bioshock. However, when late November came and a flood of great 
 early reviews poured in I couldn't resist the urge to try this game out.
  
  GAMEPLAY (9) To be honest the gameplay kind of grew on me the longer I played it. It uses a 3rd 
 person shooter perspective similar to Gears of War that also offers a cover system that does become 
 necessary as the enemies get tougher. The battles felt a little awkward at first but after awhile 
 I really started to enjoy them. One complaint is that some of my allies would occasionally stand 
 in my line of fire. A bit frustrating but nothing I couldn't handle. You are allowed to pick two 
 companions to accompany you, each with their own strengths and weaknesses. You do have some limited 
 control as far as giving them orders during battles, but I found that for the most part they handled 
 themselves pretty well. There are also times you will be traveling on an all-terrain vehicle called 
 the MAKO that is also combat capable, though a bit rough around the edges. At the same time the 
 game provides all of the many different attributes that you can level up as you gain experience, 
 just as you would expect from any RPG. At the outset you'll have a number of choices to make in 
 creating your character as you'll choose male or female, several different personal background 
 choices as well as professions, which will determine what types of weapons, armor and biotics (sci-fi 
 magic) will be available to you. You then get to spend some time in creating your character's face. 
 The customization was not as deep as say , Tiger Woods, but it still allows you to create a character 
 that should have at least a passing resemblance to yourself, if you so choose. Being as this is 
 a RPG you will spend a lot of time in conversations with many different people as well as spending 
 time in combat, so don't confuse this game with an "action" title. The conversations are wonderful, 
 and many will say that these are the best yet for a video game as they offer many responses while 
 the voice acting is top notch.
  
  GRAPHICS - (9) Some of the best graphics I've seen in a video game, with the only negative being 
 slowdown. Of course we'd prefer a steady framerate but I got to the point where I wasn't noticing 
 the slowdown too much after awhile. There were also times when the screen was a bit slow in loading 
 textures, but overall you can't help but be impressed with the final picture. The environments 
 were impressive considering that there are many unique planets to explore. Characters and enemies 
 were nicely detailed as well, using believable expressions and gestures.
  
  SOUND (10) As I previously mentioned the voice work was tremendous, the best I've ever heard. There 
 are an incredible amount of available conversations that are spoken, and spoken well. The music 
 had an appropriate sci-fi movie sound to it, at times just kind of subtle but at other times it 
 becomes very memorable, and fits the scene perfectly.
  
  VALUE (10) Playing through the game the first time took me just over 40 hours. It offers a huge 
 amount of sidequests, some of which are simple fetch quests but most involve traveling to distant 
 planets where you'll be sure to get in some good combat, not to mention valuable experience and 
 even unique weapons and armor. The big plus is the replayability. Choosing a different profession 
 will give you a new perspective in battles, and the many different conversation options will open 
 up new possibilities as well.
  
  SUMMARY - One thing I haven't mentioned is the story. With all of the great combat, graphics and 
 conversations, it may be the story that pulls you in the most. Who wouldn't want the opportunity 
 to travel to different solar systems, meet many different alien races, and be involved in a mission 
 to save the universe? The wonderful thing about it is that it all works so well it becomes completely 
 believable, and you can easily picture this happening sometime in the distant future. While not 
 quite perfect, Mass Effect achieves a great balance between RPGs and Shooters, and while some of 
 the concepts would be a bit heavy for young players, I heartily recommend playing this as soon 
 as you can get your hands on a copy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a game that starts the trilogy thing perfectly. Sure it has it's shortcomings such 
 as graphical glitches, and empty worlds but it has such potential for future continuations that 
 those glitches hardly interrupt my enjoyment of this game.
  
  Yes, Mass Effect does suffer from texture pop up that rivals Saint's Row. Often the camera pans 
 in and the engine slowly builds up the scene by popping up texture after texture until all the 
 loading is done. Fortunately it does lower actual loading times, on the other hand it looks ugly 
 and sloppy.
  
  That's too bad considering that almost every other aspect of Mass effect's universe is meticulously 
 detailed. Well that's a lie, The planets that you can explore are often uninteresting and devoid 
 of features other than jutting mountains, grass, or dirt. Seriously though, that's the last of 
 the complaints in the graphics department. The different races look fantastic, character animations 
 look right while expressions and emotion are wonderfully conveyed during conversations.
  
  The game starts out as you design your very own Commander Shepard the way you want him or her. 
 You can choose the looks, The class and even parts of your character's past that will slightly 
 effect the story of the game. That last part is the part I'm most excited about,. If this is any 
 indication to what Bioware has up its sleeve, this means that the sequels to this game could be 
 continued and catered to the character from the previous save file making the whole Mass Effect 
 story spread through the three games totally formed by the user. You have to love that kind of 
 possibility.
  
  After that the game pretty much forms to your decisions. You can choose where to go, when to do 
 it and how you respond to certain situations. The only thing I saw wrong with the dialogue system 
 is that the good, bad, and middle grounds responses were all positioned so that a person can easily 
 discern between the options. This, I think, made the game far too easy to tell what was going to 
 happen, I would have liked to see a more random placement so that you're actually rewarded for 
 reading and choosing the response best suited to that situation. That's just me nitpicking though.
 
  
  Combat is done mostly by firearms, with the occasional butt of the gun or special power but everything 
 is strictly stat based. You might have your first point invested in a weapon like sniper rifle 
 but the more points you invest into it the more apparent the improvements become. Near the end 
 of the game, the difference was very noticeable; where before I had to make every shot count because 
 the recoil was horrendous, at this later level I was able to just fire at one target and quickly 
 adjust to the next. Stats effect a lot more than just aim and damage, they improve heath, give 
 more dialogue options and things like that.
  
  The combat itself is like a simplified version of Rainbow Six Vegas, however, neither the cover 
 system nor the squad tactics are as in depth but they work out decently here. The most noticeable 
 difference is you have either technical or biotic attacks to assist you in dispatching the enemy. 
 With the use of an Omni tool, a character can overheat a gun, over charge and enemies shield or 
 over load their biotics, Biotics on the other hand can stun, lift foes into the air or through 
 them across the room. Each has their use in combat and neither of them feel gimmicky.
  
  Hacking into objects to get the loot inside is pretty much the only other gameplay aspect that 
 I haven't touched on but that's a simple mini-game that prompts you to press the button you see 
 on screen. Not very original but I guess it works.
  
  Besides being galaxies different than most other RPG's, another attractive feature is Bioshock's 
 habit of fantastic storytelling and impressive dialogue. These developers are simply a master of 
 their trade and Mass Effect showcases this in every way possible. Everything in the game has been 
 completely fleshed out and given life, every character is full of personality and the story itself 
 is complete by itself but easily starts off a great beginning to a series.
  
  All of these positives don't stop with the sound either. Voice acting is terrific and all the sound 
 effects and atmospheric music are great. There's really nothing bad to say about this section of 
 this game.
  Besides the texture issue, and the barren planets, there's really nothing I can complain about 
 here. Mass Effect is just a solid game that is exciting the first play though and warrants possibly 
 another two just to get all I can from the game. This is seriously one of the high points of the 
 year and shouldn't be passed up by any RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_green_Dragon
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  I had very high expectations for this game and for the most part it did not disappoint. 
  
  The graphics were very smooth, game play was solid and the ability to choose between good and evil 
 is always good fun.
  
  The game play kept me interested for hours, playing just the main storyline took me about 14 hours, 
 and I ignored alot of the side missions, with the side missions it would take much longer. 
  
  Some of the downsides were that exploring the universe is not all it's hyped up to be, you 
 can investigate a few select planets but the layout is mostly the same. For all the planets you 
 can read histories and occasionally scan for materials but overall it is fairly limited. 
  I should also mention the story was fairly directed and while it gave an illusion of control it 
 didn't really, sure you can choose to be good or evil but the results seemed to have ultimately 
 been the same with some obvious exceptions. 
  
  Overall I think it was a fairly good game and one of the best 360 games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightrise
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  If you have heard that Mass Effect is suppose to be epic, enthralling, and beautiful, you have 
 heard right. This game appeals to the shooter/rpg genre and it nails it. Increasing your stats, 
 weapons, and exploring galaxies has never felt so fun. The story is very good but not ground breaking. 
 The graphics are possibly the best on the Xbox 360. Battles are fun and engaging. I look forward 
 to leveling up just so I can see what my new biotic powers will do. Once you start the game, you 
 can create your main character, Shepard, just about however you want to. I won't ruin any of the 
 story but you will be interested to find out what happens next. I recommend anyone a fan of shooters, 
 rpgs, or to anyone that has a Xbox 360 to get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliteking
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect is one of the most immersive and deep games to date. The universe is and feels massive, 
 with many different species and personalities to fill it. I'm a big fan of the star wars KOTOR 
 rpgs, and this game clearly displays many of the qualities of those great games. The menus all 
 look similar to KOTOR games and there is even a good/bad meter that looks just like the dark side/light 
 side meter from the star wars games. I don't know if this was a ripp off or produced by the same 
 people, but either way its amazing. The graphics are stunning and the views look amazing. I didn't 
 expect this game to have as many RPG elements as it does, and they are used perfectly. This game 
 is a perfect rpg, but faulters slightly when it comes to the 3rd person shooting. Driving a vehicle 
 takes some time to get use to and is never very fun. The AI isn't very good and fighting in the 
 beginning is bland, but it picks up as you gain more skills and get to know your characters. Everyone 
 in the game has a unique personality and all the planets a unique look. The storyline and depth 
 carry this game and if it wasn't for a couple kinks in the driving then this would be and AI, this 
 would be a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judas-savior
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect despite its flaws is one of the most revolutionary RPG's to hit the current gen of 
 gaming and not one to miss this holiday season. Not only does it progress from what bioware had 
 achieved with KOTOR but they taken it to an all new high and have set a new standard for the world 
 of Western RPG's.
  
  Plot/Story:
  The universe of Mass Effect and the background/history surrounding it is so outstanding and immersive 
 that it even rivals Star Wars and thats a big say. 
  
  Definitely a flawless start to the trilogy which sets allot in motion and will make you feel like 
 you are the star in a big budget blockbuster movie and will keep you hooked to the last minute 
 and will never fail to deliver. You will find that when its finally finished you will be hungry 
 for more or want to replay the story a different way to see how you can change things.
  
  The Mass Effect universe is yours for the taking, your decisions will shape it or they will destroy 
 it. The choice is yours!
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are unbelievable in almost every way despite the flaws which come with the game not 
 utilizing the consoles HDD in order to cache. The detail they go into is amazing right down to 
 the subtle facial emotions right to the sun shining down over the mountains of those derelict planets. 
 The character creation is one of the best to date yet I feel should have more options but I can't 
 think of a better one thus far. Mass Effect has set a high bar but truth be told as said graphics 
 are not flawless nor the best to date but they certainly are amazing for a game that is so large 
 but I think that with a few of these little bug fixes we can expect graphical masterpieces in the 
 upcoming sequels.
  
  Gameplay:
  Mass Effect did one thing which no RPG has done to date, this is combine a third person shooter 
 with an RPG based system. In my opinion this was a massive risk but they pulled it off with ease, 
 the combat found in Mass Effect rivals any real-time battle system and has done wonders in drawing 
 a new audience to the world of role playing games. Everything about the gameplay in Mass Effect 
 was brilliant especially the character interactions, morality/decision making and the dialogue 
 system. I have not seen anything in any game that can rival this. Everything was perfect in my 
 eyes, yet I wouldn't of minded having control of the Normandy to fly myself even in a mini mission 
 but other than that the game delivers and has started a revolution of its own.
  
  Sound:
  AAA voice acting and music, its brilliant and one part of the game I can fault, I remember reading 
 that there were 15 movies worth of dialogue in this game and boy were they not kidding, the game 
 never stops you feeling like your playing a part in an epic blockbuster movie.
  
  Value:
  The game has massive replay value due to all the desicions you have to make which directly impact 
 on the game and its story so you will find most players get through the story more than one time, 
 along with the incentive to chose a different path you also get the option to start the game again 
 keeping your equipment, level and status so just another reason to keep playing. 
  
  Overall:
  Mass Effect is a game that no RPG fan should miss out on, even those who are into third 
 person shooters should give it a try. The game is brilliant and has lived up to expectations and 
 revolutionized the world of western role playing games. Despite a few graphical flaws, some lacklustre 
 side missions and some thoughtless derelict planets the game does not fail to deliver in any way 
 and will make you feel like your playing in big budget blockbuster movie the whole time and the 
 conclusion will be one of the most satisfying you will come across ever and leave you hungry for 
 the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJTurbo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the best games you'll see on this platform for a long time.
  The main story is great, but a bit short if compared to the time you can spend doing side-quests, 
 characters are well designed under all points of view (but have a very plain personality, you can 
 predict almost anything they'll do) , scenarios are cool, well dimensioned, but after a bit you'll 
 be quite tired of the side quests' planets (oh, a blue planet, wow, a red planet, great, a white 
 planet, and so on) since they have very similar design and all the facilities you'll find are exactly 
 the same, even inside. 
  Going around the galaxy doing quests is fun, getting equipment is fun, driving the ATV is fun, 
 and the difficulty grows with you, and even at the insane level it will be quite easy to make it 
 through without dying (assumed you are continuing with a leveled character) .
  The fighting system is nice, but it's always the same, since you'll mainly gun enemies down.
 
  Nothing to say about the graphic, simply awesome, and so are sound effects and music.
  So, if you don't already own it, put it on top of your Christmas list, it will blow you away and 
 you'll not easily get bored of playing it.
  
  Small ME Revelations novel review:
  Nice book, it will tell you a bit more of what happens before ME (around 20 years back) but it's 
 not that great, there are better Sci-Fi books available if you want to read one, this id more like 
 a novelization of a game script. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnjik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  Starting with player customization, you are in for a fun ride in the universe. Classes that you 
 can choose are a bit lame, and your personal history and background is limited. Main quest of the 
 game is a bit short but the game offers a variety of side quests that you can sink your teeth in 
 too and prolong the inevitable ending. you will need to build up your character if you want to 
 survive and enjoy the final battle cause it is hard and a bit frustrating. Inventory and diary 
 are a bit confusing and so is the map of the universe you travel around. When exploring planets 
 you have at your disposal a armored vehicle that will only fire at enemies on the same level of 
 ground with you and it takes a long time for it's armor to recharge. other than these few minor 
 flaws this is a great game and a lot of fun... so enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seteger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I've been looking forward to this one for a LONG time, and "Mass Effect" is overall worth the wait. 
 At the same time, its issues are serious enough to dampen the fun and hopefully sequels will adjust 
 accordingly.
  
  The good: simply a FUN game. A pleasant mix of sci-fi elements with gratifying character interaction, 
 interesting side quests, fun character leveling. I enjoyed every teammate and couldn't fault any 
 of them for being weak or useless, either.
  
  The so-so: The plot isn't as compelling as many are making it sound. It's not bad, but it's not 
 original or deep enough to consider the next Star Wars or anything (Star Wars ORIGINAL trilogy, 
 to be clear) . Also, dialogue overall works great, but things get VERY talky too often. If this 
 were a movie, you'd be yawning too much too often. Finally, making moral or immoral choices is 
 momentarily interesting, but ultimately inconsequential. If there is no real SIGNIFICANCE to being 
 good or bad, then who cares?
  
  The bad: horrible frame-rate issues at key moments. Too many waiting around moments, like elevators 
 (oh my god, REAL elevators move faster than these do) .
  
  Overall: What surprised the most was how much like KOTOR "Mass Effect" is. Now, KOTOR was a classic, 
 but it's also fairly old now. Picking up members; three-members "away teams"; moral choices; frame-rate 
 issues; even the combat plays out virtually the same (the game won't auto-pause, but you'll learn 
 to combat pause anyway, so same difference) . Where the game DID depart is where it was often weakest 
 (driving that lunar rover thingie got old fast) . 
  
  Having said all this, I still really had fun through it all and hope the sequels tighten the bolts 
 on the problems most of us seem to be in agreement with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster62
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I thought when I finally realized the scope of this game was WOW. It is so huge 
 and detailed that you could spend countless hours exploring it. I am a huge fan of the KOTOR series, 
 and this game falls right into that category. The level up scheme is great, the character interaction 
 and voice acting is great. I recognized several celebrities lending their voices to some of the 
 characters. The battles are fun, and the graphics are incredible. The amount of detail in the cities 
 and planets is staggering. The storyline is also great, and I havent even finished the game yet. 
 The only thing that I would maybe complain about is sometimes the controls are a little strange, 
 and hard to use, especially in big fights, but once you get used to it, its not that bad. All in 
 all, this is a game that should not be missed by anyone who enjoys long, good stories with great 
 characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostAdvenger
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  It's been awhile since I've played a game with much of a story (GH, sports games, xbl shooters) , 
 but this is a refreshing change. If you played KOTOR, you can pretty much expect most of the same 
 from this game, but you have more control over combat and teammates and the galaxy is much more 
 expansive. I've only played about 10 hours into it, but these are my feelings on it so far. Gameplay 
 8.5 / 10
  The biggest downfall in gameplay is the inability to drive and shoot Mako, your land vehicle. As 
 you spin the turret on top, it tends to offset your driving course.
  Otherwise, I love how the game works out. The weapon switching and power interface is done very 
 well I think. The pause menu, however, is kinda overwhelming, but you'll get used to it.
  
  Audio Video 9.5 / 10
  The words don't match the characters lips as well as I would hope, but 
 it is by no means poor. Definitely one of the best I've seen.
  
  Lasting Appeal 9 / 10
  At the beginning of the game, the Auto Save works perfectly, but as it goes on, you better start 
 saving on your own. About three times now, I've gotten pretty far through an area of combat and 
 died, just to find myself way, way back to when I first arrived to the place. Then I get pissed 
 off and stop playing the game for the day (but playing through it again is still fun) . Otherwise, 
 you will enjoy playing this game for hours a day and abandoning your responsibilities and your 
 personal health. Overall 9.5 / 10
  The game has a few mishaps and a few minor glitches you'll run into, but what game doesn't? Now, 
 my only gripe with this game is that I wish i spent more time in combat than trying to solve people's 
 problems. ( You'll spend about 1/3 of the game with your weapon out, and 2/3 doing other stuff) . 
 If you like adventure games or SciFi games, than this is for you. Otherwise, if you are looking 
 for a high action shooter, you might want to look otherwise. Still though, this game is still an 
 experience that you probably won't want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodModeEnabled
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a sci/fi rpg set in the distant future where humanity has recently discovered faster 
 than light speed travel. What they find is a galaxy governed by a council of alien races, and that 
 they are short in the pecking order of things.
  
  The graphics are excellent, as is the overall presentation. The character models are exceptionally 
 well done, and the voice acting is top notch. It topples Half Life 2 for realistic character models, 
 talking and voice acting. It is the best I have ever seen.
  
  While not spoiling too much of the plot (definetly the games strongpoint) you must track a rouge 
 council agent after he wipes out a human colony you were sent to investigate. What proceeds is 
 20-40 hrs of high political drama and nail biting decisions on your half.
  
  You can choose in most cases to either help, hinder or ignore people. The emphasis is definetly 
 on picking either the Paragon (good) or Renegade (not so good) path. Its not hard to distinguish 
 which choice in the dialog tree is which as the top choice is always Paragon, while the middle 
 is just that... the middle and the bottom choice is Renegade. This allows for at least two different 
 experiences/playthroughs of the game... as your different choices, in different scenarios change 
 the way the game unfolds.
  
  You start off in a fantastic character editor where you can sculpt your characters face to your 
 liking. It is really a detailed editor and allows you to create a very realistic looking character. 
 Whats even more neat is the background traits you choose here. Some examples are Ruthless and War 
 Hero different parts of your character history you can mould to your liking. Whats impressive about 
 this is that these background traits are integrated into a large quantity of the game, dialog and 
 sidequests. Some backgrounds even open up unique sidequest on their own, really again giving emphasis 
 on some replayability.
  
  The gameplay is tight but suffers in a few areas. Combat is in a third person shooter perspective 
 and mostly resembles Gears Of War in its stop and pop style of shooting. The battles on the normal 
 difficulty fall a bit on the easy side for any verteran gamer but ramp up nicely on the hardcore 
 or insanity settings. Combat on any difficulty is well done, and a strongpoint for the game.
  
  On foot combat that is. Another part of the game has you for a good chunk of your time, and 
 many battles in the mako some kind of futuristic tank. The tank controls ok while you are just 
 driving around but in combat it becomes annoying and frustrating as your canno can move side to 
 side and not up and down. So, a lot of times you are firing into a hill/mountain/enemy base while 
 ground troops pelt you with rockets. Expect some annoying deaths until you learn to stay on level 
 ground the hard way.
  
  Another emphasis of the game is its exploration. While it seems daunting at first it quickly becomes 
 repetitious and boring. You can choose from many different clusters of planets to explore. But 
 in each cluster there is only one planet to explore, the rest are useless facts about how much 
 hydrogen it contains, and what the temperature is there. Ok.... it makes the game feel empty and 
 unfinished.
  
  On the one planet per cluster you can explore it usually contains 2-3 fetch quest items to pick 
 up and a base of some kind to explore (mercenaries, scientific etc) the problem here is that there 
 are three different templates for these sideworld findings and they all repeat.... over... and over. 
 Not only is this annoying, it makes most of the sidequest monotonous and boring. In fact I honestly 
 recomend skipping them altogether and sticking to the fantastic main game, which is well varied, 
 paced well and has an awesome story.
  
  Overall the game is a strong reccomend for any rpg fan. But exploring the galaxy needs to be a 
 lot more exciting if the sequel is to elevate the franchise to the upper echelons of gaming nirvana. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DraconigenaDeus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  If you have been reading a lot reviews on Mass effect you have no doubt seen someone say Mass Effect 
 is not without flaws, or something like that. I am not going to deny the truth of that statement, 
 but the flaws of Mass effect are surface deep. The pure brilliance at the core of Mass Effect makes 
 small graphical blemishes a nonfactor. The detailed universe and epic storyline of Mass Effect 
 are rivaled only by Hollywood's greatest creations. And there are plenty of reasons and ways to 
 enjoy Mass Effect over and over again.
  
  ***Extensive Review, skip to the Conclusion for an overview of the game***
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Game Play 9.2
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Controls (Good)
  
  &gt;&gt; In Mass Effect there are two types of exploration, by foot and with the Mako (the vehicle 
 used to explore the surface of planets in ME) . On foot the controls are wonderful in every aspect 
 and skills are mapped to the controller perfectly. And the conversation mechanic is revolutionary 
 and unrivaled by any game of the past or present. It is similar to that of KOTOR except that you 
 can pick your response while people are talking. Responses are written in brief summaries of what 
 your character is going to say and are mapped out on a wheel making them easy to decipher. This 
 makes conversation flow seamlessly as if you were watching a movie. The menu's in Mass Effect get 
 the job done effectively and the issues I have with them are very anal and not worth mentioning.
 
  
  Unfortunately there are some issues with the controls in vehicle combat in ME. The Mako drives 
 really similar to Warthog in the first Halo. For the most part that is ok, but backing up can be 
 difficult depending on where you have the camera. The big issue is with aiming though. The turret 
 on top of the Mako can only aim up or down a little bit, so if an enemy is too far above or below 
 you you won't be able to hit them. With all of the uneven terrain in this game this can be a huge 
 issue. However, If you keep your distance from enemies this isn't as big of an issue. On the bright 
 side the Mako can jump and this is extremely useful when avoiding enemy fire.
  
  Customization (Excellent)
  
  &gt;&gt; Bioware is famous for excellent customization and ME 
 is no exception. This is apparent as soon as you begin a new game. You get to choose what you look 
 like, your sex, your personal history, and most importantly your class. Your characters class determines 
 his/her ability to use biotics, tech skills, or their combat prowess and thus governs the abilities 
 your character will have for the rest of the game. For example, a biotic could lift someone into 
 the air rendering them defenseless, while a tech specialist could overload someones weapon, and 
 a soldier could train to be more proficient with advanced weapons such as assault rifles and sniper 
 rifles. There are a lot of options, but don't worry because you can compensate for your main characters 
 weaknesses with your team mates. You can have 2 people with you at all times allowing you to dominate 
 your enemy in any way you see fit.
  
  The equipment in ME includes pistols, shotguns, assault rifles, sniper rifles, armor, grenades, 
 biotic amps, and omni tools. Biotic amps and omni tools increase the power of biotics and tech 
 skills respectively. You can probably figure out what the rest of the equipment does on your own. 
 And most of the equipment in this game can also be upgraded with items such as toxic rounds or 
 shield boosters. In combination with all of the skills your characters get you can build a pretty 
 dominant team come games end. My one issue with the customization is once again with the Mako. 
 You can not customize your vehicle at all. Whats the deal with that? With a little fine tuning 
 and the ability to customize they could have made vehicle combat a strength as opposed to a weakness.
 
  
  Battle System (Great)
  
  &gt;&gt; As the majority of you already know ME is a first person shooter/RPG. Other than the deep 
 level of customization what makes this an RPG is the ability to pause combat at any time using 
 the power wheel. Simply by holding one button you cause pause combat, look around at your foes, 
 and select the abilities you want to destroy your them with. You switch weapons in the same manner. 
 This is a brilliant mechanic that is executed perfectly, and if you don't use it often you will 
 be killed. This is why this game is more RPG than first person shooter. The squad based mechanic 
 in this game is questionable at best. The d-pad allows you to give commands to your teammates such 
 as attack or stay back, but they are rarely if ever useful. This is the area they could have improved 
 big time. Examples would be with more detailed and useful squad commands and the ability to tell 
 your team mates to attack a specific enemy. You could select your team mates target in KOTOR, why 
 can't we do that in ME? I also have to stress, yet again, that vehicle combat in ME is lacking. 
 I already elaborated on that in the Controls sections though.
  
  Puzzles &amp; Mini Games (Excellent)
  
  &gt;&gt; As previously mentioned in the Controls section, 
 every single time you are talking to someone in this game it plays out like a little mini game, 
 and is one of the biggest strengths ME. This motivates you to talk to people just for the fun of 
 it, not just because you have to. There is also a small mini game that plays out when ever you 
 are decrypting a computor or locker. This is cute and kind of fun, but mainly just filler. And 
 as you might expect from Bioware, there are several other puzzles scattered throughout the main 
 quest to keep your attention.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics 8.5
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Background &amp; Environment (Good)
  
  &gt;&gt; Landscapes and other backdrops are clean and slick looking, but they are kind of boring 
 look at. They don't have as much detail as you have seen in games like Oblivion. And then there 
 is there is the technical issues. Mainly, most the time when loading the game or entering into 
 new areas the graphics will load in piece by piece. It happens very often, so it is an issue. However, 
 it seems to decrease loading times (a criticism of KOTOR II) so I began to just except it as part 
 of the loading times and it didn't bother me. This same issue exists with the characters and I 
 dropped the score down one because of it, but I am not going to mention the issue in that section 
 of the review.
  
  Characters (Great)
  
  &gt;&gt; First off, I want to say that the default Commander Shepard is the best looking character 
 I have ever seen. It is obvious Bioware put a lot of effort in to making him and I didn't want 
 to mess with it. I did mess with the character creation mechanic for the fun of it though, and 
 it is pretty good. It is not as good as character creation in Oblivion though and you can't make 
 anyone that looks even half as good as the default commander shepard. Most of the other human characters 
 in this game look inferior and their skin looks rough. However the aliens in ME all look amazing, 
 especially the Krogan.
  
  Special Effects (Great)
  
  &gt;&gt; As with all Bioware games the cutscene graphics are the same ones used in gameplay. I 
 personally love this, but they aren't really special effects. Spell and gun effects are flawless 
 for the most part, but I felt they could have just a little more spice. Another definite strength 
 in this game though, very similar to KOTOR.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound 10.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Music (Exceptional)
  
  &gt;&gt; Flawless, if it could be improved I don't know how. The music makes you feel as if you 
 are watching a Blockbuster movie. For large portions of the game there is little to no music, just 
 subtle tunes, but I feel that is appropriate to the setting of the game.
  
  Sound Effects (Exceptional)
  
  &gt;&gt; Once again, flawless. Everything sounds as it should 
 and spells and guns sound cool.
  
  Voice Acting (Best Ever)
  
  &gt;&gt; Every single line in this entire game is voice acted and executed perfectly. Bioware also 
 brought in some big names such as Seth Green who played Joker (your pilot) . After this anything 
 else is a let down.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Story 9.7
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Plot (Exceptional)
  
  &gt;&gt; You play as Commander Shepard in this game who is an alliance marine and a candidate to 
 be the first human spectre ever. Spectres are agents of the Council (Intergalactic Gov. in short) 
 who are not governed by the same rules as everybody else. Spectres have to make decisions that 
 determine the fate of many lives and are tasked with eliminating threats to the galaxies well being. 
 The story in ME is amazing and worthy of being mentioned with the likes of Star Wars and Lord of 
 the Rings.
  
  Characters (Great)
  
  &gt;&gt; I place the characters of ME below that of KOTOR, but not by very much. There are romance 
 subplots available here as well as a plethora of interactions that only Bioware can offer. It is 
 always fun talking to your crew whenever you get the chance.
  
  Writing (Exceptional)
  
  &gt;&gt; Bioware has an author tasked specifically to writhing the script in ME. Every single 
 npc in the entire game has a unique personality that shows when you talk to them. I can't even 
 imagine how much time and effort they had to put in to accomplishing this.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Value 9.0
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Main Story (Good)
  
  &gt;&gt; The main story line of Mass Effect will last you about 15-20 hours. By RPG standards that 
 is fairly short, but by any other genres standards that is really good.
  
  Sidequests &amp; Secrets (Great)
  
  &gt;&gt; If you were to do all of the side quests in Mass 
 Effect it would probably double or even triple the games length. There are a ton of planets to 
 explore in the plethora of solar systems in this game. The galaxy map you use to determine your 
 destination in this game is awesome and provides a wonderful level of organization. You also have 
 a journal that organizes all the quests you have done and need to do similar to in Oblivian. All 
 of the quests that you run into while on the main story line are very detailed and deep and therefore 
 fun to do. However, exploring other planets, which makes up about 90% of the sidequests is sort 
 of boring and tedious. There are only a few types of enemy hideouts used for all the different 
 sidequests, so after doing a few all them they will begin to look the same. And aside from the 
 planets on the main story line the landscapes are barren. I just wish Bioware put the same effort 
 into all the sidequests as it did for the ones on the citadel or planets along the main story line.
 
  
  Replay Value (Exceptional)
  
  &gt;&gt; The main storyline may be short, but it is fun to play over and over again. There are 
 multiple reasons to do this such as using different classes or choosing different backgrounds for 
 your character (which will activate some unique sidequests and dialogue options) . Also you can 
 unlock harder difficulty levels and attempt to earn more Xbox 360 points. The primary motivation 
 though (started by the KOTORS) is to play as good or evil (called paragon and renegade points in 
 this game) . It is a different though, it is more like being honorable or a jerk in this game, but 
 still fun. Maybe the coolest feature is the ability to unlock bonus talents. This would allow you 
 use assault rifles as a biotic power user, which is something you could not normally do.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Tilt 9.8
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Cool Factor (Exceptional)
  
  &gt;&gt; If for no other reason, I encourage everyone to play ME just to experience the universe 
 created by Bioware. As I alluded to earlier, I feel it is on the same level as Star Wars and Lord 
 of the Rings. You have a codex, which is also completely voice acted, with hours of footage on 
 all the details of the species in and of the universe itself. And the combat is awesome, you can 
 toss your enemies around like rag dolls with biotics and/or equip ammo that will disintegrate them 
 upon death. Also, being a spectre and the privileges that go along with it is sick, you are the 
 top dog in this game. You answer to the council, but you have the ultimate say in who lives or 
 dies.
  
  Fun Factor (Excellent)
  
  &gt;&gt; I don't have anything new to say here, but for the aforementioned reasons this game is 
 extremely fun to just sit and play. I played through this game 4 times. I generally don't do that, 
 I replayed each KOTOR once and over a 10+ year span I have played Chrono Trigger 3-4 times. I have 
 also replayed FF7, but thats about it. The conversations, the combat, and the storyline stay fun 
 even after the shock and awe factor is gone.
  
  Tediousness (Low)
  
  &gt;&gt; The only part of this game that ever gets tedious is vehicle exploration and combat. Since 
 you can't customize the Mako this remains unchanged throughout the game and thus gets tedious. 
 The horrible controls associated with the Mako just add to this. Unless you explore a ton of planets 
 this isn't a huge issue though as the rest of the game moves smoothly.
  
  !! Tip!!- The only non combat skills your character gets are charm (associated with being good/paragon) 
 and intimidate (associated with being mean/renegade) . Maximise the points in one of these abilities 
 at all times. It opens up new dialogue options and is the only way to complete certain quests. 
 Doing this will also allow you to talk yourself out of dire situations where you would otherwise 
 fail.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Conclusion
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Pros
  
  -Quality voice acting for every bit of dialogue in the entire game
  -Revolutionary conversation system
  -Hollywood quality story, script, &amp; sound
  -Huge and 
 detailed universe
  -Deep customization
  -Fun and innovative combat
  -Extremely high replay value
  
  Cons
  
  -Vehicle exploration and combat is boring and tedious
 
  -Distracting graphical glitches
  -Squad based commands either don't work or are pointless
  -Short main quest by RPG standards
  
  Gameplay (20%)  9.2
  Sound (15%)  10.0
  Graphics 
 (15%)  8.5
  Story (20%) - 9.7
  Value (10%) - 9.0
  Tilt (20%)  9.8
  
  Final Score  9.4 (rounded down)
  
  &gt;&gt; Many before me have said it and I will say it 
 again, ME is not without flaws. The only reason everybody illuminates this though is because Bioware 
 has created a product that is on another level in so many ways. People like myself have to find 
 ways to nit pick an otherwise perfect game. My analytical review especially doesn't do justice 
 to how good this game is. No matter how hard I try I can't truely explain all of the nuances that 
 make ME special. You are just going to have to buy the game and experience it for yourselves [Looks 
 to the right and walks away] . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerver1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  When Mircosoft announced Mass Effect, BioWare's newest RPG, back at X05 before the 360 even launched, 
 fans of BioWare's past successful projects, Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic and Jade Empire, 
 involving a deeper focus on choosing sides and dialogue trees were eagerly excited for it. Being 
 intended as the first game of a trilogy, Mass Effect builds upon a story, premise, characters, 
 and loads of information of what a beginning of a trilogy should be known as. Even though disguised 
 as a third-person shooter as its core gameplay, the RPG elements are what to be expected out of 
 BioWare being deep and engaging with the dialogue trees, squad customization, etc. Despite its 
 technical shortcomings, Mass Effect starts a trilogy right and lays the foundations for future 
 sequels in both story and gameplay.
  
  When you boot up Mass Effect, you first create a character with a last name being Shepard. You 
 can actually go along with the appearance of what you have seen in trailers, or customize your 
 own appearance pending on gender and looks. You can select your class from Soldier, combat-focused, 
 Vanguard, close combat and biotics, Sentinel, biotic and tech focused, or Adept as well as being 
 a colonist, spacer, or earth-born. All these beginning choices will impact your play style and 
 how your character gets approached by others. Choosing a certain class as mentioned previously 
 will allow certain skills and weapons to be used effectively compared to others, which is one of 
 many reasons this game can be played multiple times to experience different play styles.
  
  The general story of Mass Effect follows Commander Shepard dealing with politics and war tracking 
 down a Rogue Spectre named Saren. It is up to him and his squad to figure out Saren's motives for 
 unleashing the Geth, a synthetic race being robots, and stop him from doing so. The whole political 
 side of Mass Effect's story is surprising deep with humanity trying to be accepted along with the 
 other races of the galaxy being a struggle at the beginning of this game. There is a huge back 
 story of all the races and their ways of life, which can be read by Codex entries throughout the 
 game engaging conversations with the various races. The story does indeed lay out the foundations 
 of a beginning for a trilogy and does end in preparation for the sequel especially if you have 
 followed similar trilogies like Star Wars, The Lord of The Rings, The Matrix, and likely the upcoming 
 Too Human games.
  
  As mentioned previously, the gameplay of Mass Effect seems disguised as a third-person shooter 
 especially with the flood of other shooters that came out this year. The thing is that Mass Effect 
 is a RPG first, not a third-person shooter, but playing it purely as a shooter will make the game 
 a little harder. The combat relies on various guns with custom upgrades and ammo at its core. The 
 RPG elements of the combat are the customization and the biotic / tech powers ranging from lifting 
 a dude up or protecting yourself by a barrier. These biotic / tech powers do make the combat of 
 Mass Effect more interesting than being just another shooter to play. The minor setback of using 
 these powers is pausing the game of sorts to actually using them instead of quick mapping them 
 to buttons, which is the only flaw of the overall controls, but then again these controls were 
 not designed for quick mapping special powers. There are also weapon specific powers such as Marksman 
 and Carnage being mapped the same way of the biotic / tech powers. Difficulty goes along with the 
 combat as well pending how aggressive and damaging the enemy A. I. will be as well as your own squadmates 
 being cooperative, which can be mixed at times in certain moments. Overall, the combat for Mass 
 Effect is solid enough and probably does not need any significant changes for sequels.
  
  The other significant factor of the gameplay in Mass Effect is the conversations with the numerous 
 dialogue trees. This system BioWare has made is the best it is at now being significantly improved 
 over KOTOR and Jade Empire. Dialogue responses are now actually short paraphrases of them instead 
 of the actual quote that Shepard would say, which is good. Another improvement is the flow of the 
 conversations continuing as the other person speaks, you can still respond quickly to continue 
 the flow even though you can still think about what to do and say especially when making tough 
 decisions later into the game. The good / bad side aspect returns as well with Paragon and Renegade 
 respectively, but it is not really a huge factor in the overall story compared to BioWare's previous 
 games, but they will impact major conversations at least on how the other will respond.
  
  Then there's the side quests for Mass Effect which seem like a mixed bag. The only thing only worth 
 getting out of the side quests are experiencing some back story, going to different planets, and 
 getting experience / achievement points. Other than that, the side quests are truly side quests 
 being not as mandatory investigating different situations. The major flaw of these side quests 
 involve the repetitive backgrounds of the planets and bases within them as well as similar missions 
 of killing dudes and finding information. As with most RPGs, there are the collect-a-thons and 
 there are tons in Mass Effect ranging from various minerals, artifacts, and lost tags. If you are 
 the completionist type of gamer, then doing the side quests will be worth it, be prepared for some 
 repetition along the way.
  
  The graphics of Mass Effect is truly stunning and among the best of this generation so far when 
 the framerate is smooth. Some of the character models especially with your squad mates like Wrex, 
 Garrus, and Liara are among the best character models in any game out so far. Actually, all the 
 non-human character models are pretty stunning, but the humans themselves are not bad either. The 
 weapon and weather effects are solid as well in certain situations. The major flaw of the graphics 
 that prevent it from being perfect are numerous times of slowdown and texture pop-in in certain 
 moments of the game. The load times are also another flaw when it loads at a random moment, but 
 that is minor. Despite those shortcomings, Mass Effect's graphics are still the best for the RPG 
 genre this generation.
  
  The sound of Mass Effect is also amazing with perhaps the best voice acting in a game this generation. 
 There are so many different lines of dialogue these voice actors had to say and executed very well. 
 There was never a moment in the game that the voice acting felt cheesy or dumb compared to something 
 like Halo 3. The conversations themselves with this great voice acting make the game feel more 
 like some Oscar-nominated movie than being just another generic action game / movie. The music, 
 even though it does not happen all the time throughout the game, is also pretty good maintaining 
 the sci-fi theme the game provides. The ending credits song is also another good musical moment, 
 almost as good as the Portal ending song. The weapon effects sound as effective as they should 
 too.
  
  Mass Effect is truly worth the wait ever since this generation of consoles took shape. It is the 
 best RPG to buy this year on consoles offering an experience that BioWare has now nearly perfected 
 after two previous attempts. It starts the trilogy strong and provides multiple playthroughs to 
 experience the different classes, both Paragon and Renegade sides, and different squad mates. On 
 a single playthrough, it will take 10-20 hours if you want to breeze only through the main quest, 
 but more than 30 hours if you are the completionist type doing most or all the side quests in the 
 game. If you are tired of playing all those other short games and looking for a long single-player 
 experience, Mass Effect is that game to check out and something to remember throughout this generation 
 of consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jocool1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Man... to be a gamer this year... I don't want this feeling to ever end! I was surprised by Bioshock, 
 excited for Halo 3, intrigued with Assassin's Creed, on the edge of my seat with CoD4, blown away 
 by Portal, memorized with Crysis, and felt like a kid in the candy store shooting through the other 
 galaxy in Super Mario Galaxy (Wii) , but those great games and a few that weren't mentioned, like 
 Rock Band, still did not strike quite the cord that Mass Effect did for me!
  
  Sure, some it may be that I am a Sci-fi geek, have been looking forward to this game for a long 
 time, and have enjoyed just about every other Bioware game - so call me a fanboy, but I will take 
 that as a compliment. The truth is, you don't have to be a sci-fi geek or fanboy to see that ME 
 is one of the best games to make its way onto the console (and later PC) market. You don't even 
 have to be a hardcore RPG gamer or Action Shooter gamer, or intriguing story whore, you just need 
 to sit in front of your TV and enjoy all that is before you and be thankful that you can partake, 
 or better yet, live and survive in such a believable epic world.
  
  The game also has its fair share of flaws or annoyances when it comes to the overall content or 
 gameplay. The game tries to blend the best of many games and doesn't always deliver because of 
 it. In the end we can gripe about the inventory system, the slowness of some side quests, some 
 of the texture mapping pop-ins, questionable AI, or some buggy issues, but as you've probably heard 
 in many reviews already, those DO NOT take away from the overall game experience because they are 
 minor in comparison to the story you are taking part in. Any other game that had some of the issues 
 that ME has may not have done that well or would not have been as enthralling, but ME does the 
 good things so right (story, dialog, pacing, emotion) that the parts that aren't quite up to snuff 
 don't really matter.
  
  If you are a gamer and enjoy an excellent story and interactive experience you should stop reading 
 the reviews in here and start playing this game!
  
  Later,
  ~Jer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asdaprice2
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  I'm really not sure how much I like or dislike this game. It's not often I can say that about a 
 game though.
  
  Pros:
  
  - Dialogue options are pretty good and the range amount of interactable characters is decent.
 
  - Immersive, and sometimes epic story.
  - looks pretty good.
  - plenty of side missions.
  
  Cons:
  
  - Major framerate issues.
  - Far too short for 
 an RPG.
  - Side missions aren't very varried.
  - Strange difficulty curve.
  - Misleading dialogue.
  - Elevator rides are far too long.
  
  All round this is just a GOOD 
 game, nothing more. The game starts off well although the combat is pretty difficult for an introductory 
 level, and you're sometimes left high and dry with controls. Graphics are very good but the XBOX 
 360 is just not quite capable of handling it. You feel that the game is just 5% too much for the 
 machine. You're never really told how upgrades and maps etc work so a lot of time is spent trying 
 to figure out how it all works but once you get it, uprgrading is useful and essential.
  
  Be prepared for the game to end very prematurely. You are fighting one of the main bosses (matriarch 
 Benezia) in only the second major level, and after that there are only a hanful of levels left.
 
  
  Dialogue can be frustrating cause Shepard never seems to want to say anything like what is actually 
 written on the screen, e. g. A reporter asks for an interview and when you select the dialogue go 
 away you end up punching the woman in the face on live tv.
  
  I had read and heard about being able to wipe out races and that doing so will affect the story 
 but that apparently has been lost somewhere, because I only got the option to wipe out 1 race in 
 the whole game and it didn't affect the story in the slightest.
  
  The game is probably worth renting instead of buying, unless your a real RPG maniac. But one last 
 word of warning, AVOID ELEVATORS AT ALL COSTS, you'll waste so much of your life.
  
  Mc G 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXJGeneration
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect; its got a great main story and a rich, detailed Sci-Fi universe to sink yourself into, 
 but some of other aspects to the game are quite shallow. You play as Commander Shepard, whom you 
 have the opportunity to create his/her appearance and background. It's interesting to see how your 
 character's face moves and speaks during dialogs and other cut-scene events. It's also nice that 
 you're character will actually carry out the dialog option you choose with his or her own voice 
 (by that I mean Shepard will actually talk) .
  
  Without revealing too much about the story, it's a thrill ride to play through; it never has a 
 dull moment to it. However it is cliche (But then again, what isn't nowadays) in its' overall goal 
 in that you're out to save the galaxy from some powerful, evil, alien threat. The main quest is 
 also shorter than what you'd expect (about 20 hours or so) . Still, the main quest will keep you 
 interested from start to finish. There's also a lot of lore to the Mass Effect universe as well. 
 I found myself spending a lot of time reading up on knowledge and information through the codex, 
 which is essentially the game's library. You find everything from the history and culture of one 
 of the alien races, to brief descriptions on the technologies present in the galaxy.
  
  Unfortunately, side-tracking from the main quest to pursue side quests aren't as exciting as you 
 would hope. Some of the side quests, such as those you receive on the Citadel or from talking to 
 your companions are fairly interesting. However, most of the UNC (Uncharted World Quests) usually 
 involve you going to some remote planet and raiding some facility with a few bad guys. Might be 
 a minor mystery involved, but there not as deep as one would hope. Other side quests include searching 
 the galaxy cluster by cluster, system by system and planet by planet to survey resources and locate 
 some old relics of the past. There's little benefit to doing any of all this unless you're looking 
 for the extra experience points.
  
  At first, when you finally get to view the galactic map, you may be excited and overwhelmed by 
 the amount of places you can go. This however, is a case of quantity over quality in my opinion. 
 Exploring uncharted worlds sounds fun, but most of the systems in game only offer a single planet 
 you can land on, and normally these planets are extremely barren and uninteresting to look at. 
 You'll come across no exotic plants and animals in your travels, only dirt, snow, ash and rock 
 (and I mean lots of rock) . You'll find yourself trying to climb ridiculously steep mountains with 
 your Mako vehicle, which is more of a hassle than a pleasant drive. This, combined with the poor 
 quality of the side quests makes doing almost anything but the main quest quite boring.
  
  The action is pretty solid. It's a blend of a traditional RPG, third person shooter and squad based 
 shooter. At first it seems like a straight forward third person shooter in that you can take cover 
 behind objects, increase your aim by the use of zoom etc. However, you have RPG aspects to it in 
 that you can pause the game and select a unique power or special ability to help your party or 
 harm the opposition. Squad based elements come into play in that you can order party members to 
 move to a location, remain where they are or follow your character. All in all combining all of 
 these aspects can create interesting tactics. However, the game isn't particularly strong in any 
 area.
  
  In my opinion, the poor quality of the side quests and uncharted world exploration is the only 
 thing dragging Mass Effect down into the 80% range. There are some minor menu nuisances, but nothing 
 too severe. The story telling is its' strong point, and its a nice refreshment for the RPG genre. 
 I mean elves, orcs and magical swords get old after a while. I would rate this more along the lines 
 of an 8.8, but the rating system doesn't really allow those rating anymore. I'd definitely recommend 
 this game to just about anyone looking for a good story in a game. There's a lot of potential to 
 Mass Effect, and hopefully new installments to the series turn out to be even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rageinabox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Awesome graphics a large array of spoken dialog and original story makes this a game worth playing. 
 This game had me worried at first since its made by the makers of Knights of the old Republic and 
 I wasn't very fond of there fighting segments in those games, where you put in what you want your 
 character to do and wait for him to do it. This was nothing like that which was great and a big 
 relief for me because I was really looking forward to this game. Your able to customize your characters 
 appearance (like in Oblivion) and you get various choices to make and even more choices or less 
 based on your disposition. Action in this game is good, its not a Halo or COD 4 but it holds its 
 ground. The thing I didn't like is that all your weapons look the same except for different color 
 variations other then that its an enjoyable game with a great story line. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnerkidd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game I have played in a long ass time. It is about damn time microsoft has 
 made a game that makes me want to punch the sony president in the face and scream \"YOU CAN\'T 
 COMPETE WITH THIS **** But anyway this is an amazeing game with tons of interactivity. with that 
 said the bigest drawback is the vehicles. or should i say vehicle? the land rover is like a apc/tank/humvee. 
 the main drawback of the thing is the cannon cant aim down so if the enemys are right next to you 
 it doesen\'t work. or if they are below you in a vally or something. but it can do some serious 
 dammage when your on level ground with the geth. Also it was a bit shorter than I would have liked. 
 the last but certinly not leat part of the game that pissed me off was the fact that you can\'t 
 continue your account after you beat the game! that is a bsic rpg rule. let the player play god 
 damn it!!! anyway the good parts about the game where the expected. levels work great. combat is 
 fun and feels like a tactical gears of war. graphics are the best since splinter cell: DA and the 
 diologe is fun and the is a lot of comedy and well pointing your gun at bartenders is the start 
 of the intimidation factor. over all this game is definitely worth a playthrough. I\'ll give it 
 a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bartiemuss
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is awesome the game is set in our galaxy where decide the fate of it. At the start 
 you spend about 15 mins deciding on who you want your Commander Shepard to be from a war hero to 
 a cold blooded marine who gets the job done. At the start you also choose which class to play from 
 Which ranges from the standard soldier to the biotic the games magic user.
  
  The game plays as a cross between an rpg and a third person shoter as in you level up like an rpg 
 and take quests ranging from saving hostages to exploring the various uncharted planets looking 
 for different items.
  
  When you choose whihc planet to go to by the way of the glactic map in your ship the Normandy you 
 will usally be dropped to the surface via your ships all terian vechill the mako this brings me 
 to one of mass efects few week pionts vechile comabat and driveing. The mako is unwieldy 6 wheled 
 beast that can climb most obstacles but it is hard to drive and while using it in comabt it has 
 some aiming glitches that can cause frustration like when you aim at an enmy who is lower than 
 you even though aim dead on it will go sailing over there head and you have to get lowere to compinsate.
 
  
  Mass Effect is about choices there are heaps of choices i the game will try and unite hummanity 
 with the rest of the galaxy or stand alone, Will you be good or Evil or somewhere in between the 
 choice is yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 319ni
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 16, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  mass effect, massively anticpated and hugely hyped, thing is tho is it good ?
  
  yes, it is. its fun bit of a good story.
  
  is it an rpg ? not in my book it aint. more 3rd 
 person shoot em up with levelling and squad based gameplay.
  
  its very pretty, got a great story, huge game area ( a frikkin universe ) , good supporting ensemble 
 , few good twists and will keep you playing all the way to the end.
  
  however oblivion it aint, and surely thats what all rpgs are based against at present. why isnt 
 it oblivion , to many little issues that ruin it
  
  first off swinging a sword, blasting fireballs and stuff FEEL like like an rpg should. levelling 
 up properly but shooting someone with a shotgun, pistol etc just doesnt feel the same. the biotics 
 ( magics ) are good but ultimately uninspired and really bear little effect on combat or anything 
 else really. the play area tho huuge is either one of about 2 - 3 explorable (on foot worlds) and 
 a ton of driveable worlds you can explore round.
  
  also its 2 damn short, 20 hours and your done and youve seen most of the game, i went for the 50 
 / 50 character and found little or no real challenges, sure it was on normal but i still would 
 expect a fairly solid end of game guardian. all in all i would like to say mass effect 2 listen 
 and learn then sort it
  
  enjoyable but flash in the pan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Penguin
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  In the beginning of Mass Effect, you are basically John Shepard, but you can customize the character 
 to make it your own. you can change your characters name, history, personality, special abiities 
 and their appearance. although you can't change your characters last name, it doesn't decrese the 
 possible outcomes of your player. for example i could make my character be a big headed, brown 
 haired, hazel eyed, jerk who grew up on the streets and is better with weapons then he is with 
 his magic. but thats only one of the million possibilities of characters that you can create.
 
  
  once you create your character you are assigned your first mission, in which you are supposed to 
 land on a planet and find out who or what is killing everyone. but after you complete this, and 
 a few other missions, you get to explore the galaxy on your own with your very own ship and crew. 
 On the ship there is a really cool map feature where you can see every system and planet in the 
 galaxy, and you can travel to each one of them. but you can't necessarily land on everyone of them. 
 basically there are four types of planets; there are story planets that you land on because you 
 have to find someone or do something, then there are fun planets, that you can use your space rover 
 to drive around on, and there is the planet that you cannot land on but you can survey to see if 
 you can find rare metals or other things, and then there are the planets that don't do anything. 
 sure you can read a nice paragraph about the planet but that is pretty much it, you can't land 
 on it or survey it, which is kinda disappointing, but understandable because the developers obviously 
 couldn't put that much data on to one disc if they wanted to make every single planet accessible.
 
  
  more on the space rover, it is a kind of half tank half space craft vehicle called the mako, and 
 it can basically go anywhere; up the sides of mountains, off cliffs, into water, almost anywhere 
 you want to go, but my major problem with the mako is that it is hard to drive. through out the 
 whole game, it feels like your driving a little red wagon; it's hard to steer, most of the time 
 the boosters don't help, and every bump on the ground sends you into the air. at first it's okay 
 but when you have a time limit it becomes extremely frustrating.
  
  back to the main story elements, they have added a conversation system that can completely change 
 the pass of your story. basically you get around to 3-6 options when speaking to someone and some 
 of the responses can make you seem really mean, or really nice but the choice is yours, this helps 
 in the story because at some points you have to use this conversation system with enemies and it 
 can make them stop whatever they are doing if you make the right decisions. also, a lot of the 
 time, this conversation system, shows you side quests that you can complete or just brush off and 
 walk away.
  
  but the most important part of this game is the fighting system which is very innovative. first 
 when your character spots an enemy, you and the rest of your crew's weapons will be drawn and it 
 turns into a normal third person shooter with cover mechanics and and rechargeable shields, but 
 what makes this really innovative is the choice to stop and plan your next action. to do this you 
 just hold down the Right Bumper and select what you want you or someone else in your team to do 
 next. the things that you and your crew can do are amazingly fun, because based on the class you 
 chose you can do anything from, throw your enemies in the air to making there guns explode. it's 
 very nice because you can play the same combat scene over again and have different result every 
 time. to sum the game up it is a highly addictive game with plenty of planets to explore and tons 
 of people you can talk to, making you want to play is game for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGamerDiet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect review:
  
  1st an issue from the Gamespot review must be addressed. Mako weapons: In their review they indicate 
 that the torrent does not go up and down and that the weapons don't work well except on the same 
 level. CLICK THE RIGHT THUMBSTICK. When you do this you will zoom in and have MUCH more control 
 over the Mako weapons. You still can't get crazy and be too off angle but you will hit many more 
 enemies. Why the game doesn't tell you this I have no idea.
  
  Let's make the rest of this quick.
  
  I started playing this game and was not too impressed, 
 I thought it was good but not GOTY and I thought the combat was broke. I ran into a frustrating 
 spot where I dialogued and died over and over and over. Then I decided to back out of that fight 
 and load from an earlier save and spend a little time leveling up (attack the game from a different 
 angle if you will) . The more I played the more my opinion changed. Leveling up and\or just understanding 
 how the combat works (you have to think) makes a world of difference. I can now easily see this 
 as GOTY though it does have some technical issues.
  
  Technical issues:
  Frequent load screens; Occasional stutters and slowdowns; no rumble to tell you when you have been 
 shot (this is actually a design issue but it annoys me so I will list it) ; I got stuck on the environment 
 once; your AI teammates are sometimes idiots (but what game are they not?) ; and I had an AI teammate 
 and an enemy fall through the floors twice;
  
  Technical issues are easy to overlook if you like a good story though. This game has a good story. 
 The cut scenes are cinematic and even the every day conversations are cinematic. It would have 
 been nice to have more variety in the side missions but after assassins creed the actual MISSIONS 
 were diverse enough even if the planets were nearly the same. The main missions were fantastic. 
 Graphics: sometimes amazing sometimes not
  Sound environmental: Appropriate and nice
  Sound characters: Excellent
  Sound music: Sometimes amazing but sometimes annoying on some side 
 missions.
  Story: Excellent (a little Stargate, a little B5, a little BSG, lots of little star trek homage's 
 unless those were all subconscious. Basically its just good sci-fi with cool enemies)
  
  I was impressed. I have played it twice and will play it at least two more times. No matter how 
 many times I play it I still like it. Is it my GOTY? Well, um. It's a tough call, so many great 
 games this year.
  
  I recommend a buy at full prices. HOWEVER there is a TON of dialogue in this game and you MUST 
 think for the combat to be fun (leveling up also helps) , so this game wont be for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  With so much riding on Microsoft's ability to provide a solid game in a genre that is seriously 
 lacking in their library of selection, its safe to say Mass Effect fills a much needed void. For 
 some hardcore fans of RPG's, this game might come up short in particular areas. While many others 
 who are not as familiar with such games might think its the greatest thing they ever played. In 
 all respects, the game is long overdue for the 360 and Microsoft as a whole. Meaning, if the mega 
 company can continue to provide such games that venture away from their stereotyped structure that 
 has been a popular target for scrutiny, this could be the start of something very amazing.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Nothing beats customization! Starting the game you're introduced to the lovely 
 option of creating a male or female character who can visually be adjusted in many decent ways, 
 but other than external details, voice and behavior is locked in from start to finish. Once you 
 kick off the story, you begin the space adventure by gaining a bit of back story and jumping right 
 into the first mission that basically defines the remainder of the game. Visit a planet, survey 
 material and resources, interact with locals and teammates, take down baddies, solve basic puzzles, 
 complete the overall mission. Its all fairly easy in perspective, with every few missions revolving 
 around the same few objectives, its hard to ever really feel lost thanks to the handy journal. 
 Once you understand the lay of the land, combat takes the spotlight allowing for full contact battle 
 using rifles, handguns, and shotties which can all be adjusted in abiltties and ammo usage. If 
 you prefer a more distant approach to battle, commanding teammates is done through the D-pad and 
 long range powers called Biotics, allows for wickedly Jedi-like attacks. Lift, push, freeze, weapon 
 damage, healing, and many other abilities give you a serious advantage if you choose such a skill 
 set, but know now such passive approaches to battle are not easy against the computer players who 
 get very aggressive in later levels of the game. Exploring similar areas and facing familiar baddies 
 can wear thin in due time, but in no way should you ever let your guard down because the Ai is 
 strange in certain areas, vicious in many others.
  
  VISUALS
  Being a exclusive 360 title, anyone who owns the system deserves to see what this game can do. 
 Amazing back drops, wonderfullly detailed environments, solid character animation, and my personal 
 favorite, awesome weapon and skill effects. While exploring strange alien worlds that have dangerous 
 environments, you move about with your crew only to discover a rebel group who wants nothing more 
 than trouble and you find a way to diffuse the situation by either conversating or destroying them. 
 To see all this unfold at your finger tips is quite pleasing, especially when the graphics are 
 not suffering its minor hiccups. If you've ever played Gears of War for the 360 you might recall 
 textures, which is the property that covers a character or object within an environment, coming 
 in a bit late at times. Mostly during freshly loaded areas does this become a issue, yet its hardly 
 ever a problem in playing the game from start to finish. When things are running smooth, there 
 is much more to appreciate rather than pick on.
  
  AUDIO
  Not enough can be credited to how this developer brings so much to creating a breathing world. 
 Everything from NPC's, important cast members, weapons and environment sounds, to even the muscial 
 score, all strike phenomenal! Playing numerous RPG's over the years you begin to think you've read 
 every possible line, but in ME, you have the joy of hearing just about every exchange wonderfully 
 spoken by a stellar cast of popular actors and actresses. Beyond hearing your favorite hollywood 
 voices repeat the same bit of information, you can explore vast areas for great ambient music that 
 plays during dugeon crawling and action moments. Privileged to such well made music extends to 
 every facet of the game, and even after trafficing through certain areas numerous times you can't 
 help but feel at ease with music that picks up at all the right times and holds a steady tempo 
 during idle moments. If thats not enough to hold your attention, futuristic weapons pack a delightful 
 punch when disposing baddies who all sport their own distinct sounds and voices that range from 
 annoying to simply unique.
  
  EXTRAS
  A single play through of ME can last the average player well over 40 hours, side missions included. 
 If you decide to complete the main objectives and ignore side bits, you won't really miss anything 
 of great importance besides oppertunities in advancing skills, discovering back story, and taking 
 advantage of the paragon/renegade meter. With this, you basically decide how evil or nice you are 
 to fellow teammates and characters through out the story. Most choices revolve around killing or 
 defusing situations, which is cool since the conversation wheel is meant to be diverse, but everything 
 weighs heavily on flat out decisions in the long run, leaving very little room for grey area choices. 
 First time through, you can score about half the achievement points simply sticking to good/evil 
 responses, exploring plenty of back story, using the same 2 partners and utilizing the same biotic 
 power/weapon skill numerous times. If successful in completing some of the more difficult task, 
 certain perks are unlocked for future characters that are made from scratch. Online features are 
 basically nonexistent, which is really a bummer since the game plays as a decent shooter. Yet there 
 is a DL option at the start screen which encourages downloadable content that can easily extend 
 the orignal game by a few hours.
  
  OVERALL
  Stepping into the spotlight as the flagship RPG game for the 360, ME delivers many great wonders. 
 Yet after playing half way through the game, any hardcore fan of the genre will quickly realize 
 the blatant use of recycled areas and characters that can easily come off as rude and lazy by the 
 developers. No doubt, sloppy errors in level design, faulty Ai in clutch situations, and graphical 
 issues from time to time would bury any other game, but ME makes up for it in equal stride with 
 quality. Level design might be repetitive, but if future downloads can capitalize on the already 
 solid foundation, various missions can mix into the overall game extending its orginal life. Ai 
 could be at fault for a majority of comabt issues, but the old saying that the game is only as 
 good as the user rings more true than most would like to admit with ME. Textures is not what drives 
 this game to success, its the intuitive gameplay and immense production values. To harp on a game 
 that offers so much in a genre that has been lacking for the last 5 years is a absolute crime for 
 any gamer. To allow something with great potential to slide under the radar with such apparent 
 flaws is not very reasonable, but Mass Effect has more than potential, it delivers quality in ways 
 the industry hasn't seen for sometime. With that, the pressure is on Bioware to follow up with 
 DL content or at the very least a sequel worth playing, and my hopes are high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  
  The CRPG genre has many forms and varies greatly depending on the developers ideas and ambitions. 
 Bethesda Softworks "Oblivion" has its non-linear approach with a large and varied setting as keypoints, 
 the action RPG games like Diablo I & II and Titan Quest have their clickfest gameplay, loot and 
 leveling as its main focus - and Biowares RPG games usually has its main story as its main selling 
 point - and Mass Effect is no different on that point, compared to RPG classics as Torment, KOTOR 
 and Baldurs Gate I & II.
  
  But that doesn't mean Mass Effect is similar to previous efforts. In fact, Mass Effect feels like 
 a very fresh approach to the CRPG genre, with Biowares signature storytelling as its core component. 
 But what makes Mass Effect better than most of their previous games is, that the gameplay aspects 
 of Mass Effect has been streamlined and optimized, without losing any of the necessary complexity 
 in the skills and attribute system. Putting all the theory aside, the main story centers on a mysterious 
 race of aliens, the Protheans, which disappeared some 50000 years ago. Their artifacts and structures 
 can still be found, but some of these artifacts are potentially dangerous in the wrong hands. The 
 main character, Shepard (which can be customized by the player) is on trial to become an interstellar 
 agent for the Council, a kind of a galactic-wide democracy, and early in the game he finds out, 
 that a traitor is looking for some of the old Prothean artifacts. It is unclear what the traitor's 
 purpose is, but it seems to involve the very reason for the ancient Protheans disappearance.
  
  The story does its best to keep the player guessing, though, as appearances can be deceiving. 
 And throughout the game, the player can influence the story by his decisions in much the same way 
 as we saw it in KOTOR. The combat has seen some changes from the previous Bioware games - in KOTOR 
 the combat still had the old P&P roleplaying feel to it, but in Mass Effect the combat is basically 
 FPS fights, but you can stop time by holding the right shoulder bumpter on the controller - this 
 brings up an easy-to-navigate skill screen, where you can choose a variety of different skills 
 (depending on the characters chosen, their level and skills) , of which most of them has a cool-down 
 time to the next charge. This systems ensures that you have both the action oriented gameplay of 
 FPS games, and the tactical elements of more traditional CRPG games. IMO, the system works flawlessly 
 and makes the combat even more engaging and intense, than - lets say - KOTOR or Baldurs Gate more 
 chance-driven combat system.
  
  You'll even find vehicle combats in Mass Effect as well. Although not as deep as the character 
 combat fights, they make for a good break from the more traditional fights. 
  A hint for those, who has problems with some of the larger adversaries: You can use the vertical 
 thrusters of the Mako vehicle to jump over rockets or shots. Getting out of the car and shoot down 
 turrets from a distance can be helpful at times, as the Mako is a bit too exposed. 
  
  The visuals are extremely beautiful, at times even competing with Gears of War - which is impressive 
 for a RPG game, and although the game stutters a bit here and there, it never becomes annoying 
 or intrusive for the gameplay. The characters feel alive, not only because of the well-written 
 dialogue, but also due to the convincing facial animations, which is on par (at least) with what 
 we have seen in Half Life 2. 
  
  In short, Mass Effects is one of the few games I've seen since Oblivion that has impressed me. 
 The game has both a deep and well-told story, intense firefights, lots of exploration and sidequests, 
 at times even bordering to the non-linear gameplay of Oblivion, as well as believable characters, 
 smooth controls and GUI as well as a ton of details, which helps flesh out the game setting and 
 structure. 
  All these elements has been succesfully put together by the experienced crew at Bioware in order 
 to give us a great, offline sci-fi roleplaying experience, of which there are so precious few. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidudeone27
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  When i first got this game i was a little skeptical on how it would play. When i first played it 
 the game drew me in from the beginning. You get caught up in this fun, dangerous, political, world 
 of mass effect. With its amazing gameplay and storyline Mass Effect will be a game everyone should 
 play and will be definitaly a classic.
  
  I just have to say the storyline in Mass Effect was one of the best storylines ever created in 
 the game. The way you control the game with dialogue options and how missions work and who and 
 how you fight all depends on how you react to the people around you. The graphics in this game 
 are of course awesome. I love the film grain touch as i thought i was not only playing a game but 
 watching a kick butt movie. The detail in this game are spot on. Especially the detail done on 
 the different kinds of alien races.
  
  This game is hands down my game of the year and i have played bioshock, cod4, halo 3, orange box, 
 cyrsis, rock band, and about all the others. If your thinking of getting mass effect get it because 
 the dialogue options and the side quests will make you play this game way over more than once. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polsci1503
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an ambitious beginning for Bioware's new IP that lays the ground work for future 
 games set in this universe. The game is not without some technical issues, but the level of detail 
 in the story and the RPG framework Bioware is famous for, more than make up for a jittery frame 
 rate and small menu issues.
  
  The scope of the story that has been laid out here is enormous. Your character, Commander Shepard, 
 becomes the first human to be inducted into the Spectres - an intergalactic group who act independently 
 outside the bounds of Council law. They are essentially judge, jury, and if need be, executioner. 
 However, one of your fellow Spectres is suspected of going rogue and it's your job to track him 
 down and find out what he is up to. Your search takes you around the local universe, visiting planets, 
 completing side quests and digging up more of the back story behind Mass Effect. What you will 
 find is an incredibly detailed story that over time really pulls you into its world. Getting to 
 know the different alien species and their own histories was quite enjoyable, as well as working 
 your way through the main story line.
  
  The game controls like a third person shooter, but needs to be played at a slower pace so you can 
 plan your attacks and keep your shield strength up. You will have two characters accompanying you 
 - you choose which two. You can control how they attack also, or just let them do their thing (which 
 is what I did without any problems) . Your personal character can be tailored to suit how you play. 
 You can either be combat orientated (relying on weapons) or biotic orientated (relying on biotic 
 powers) or a combination of both to varying degrees. The biotic powers are cool to use, especially 
 Throw and Lift. If you are familiar with how KOTOR integrated weapons and force powers, you will 
 instantly be acclimated to how Mass Effect works.
  
  One of the coolest features to the game is the dialogue trees. This is definitely an advancement 
 over previous iterations of dialogue interaction. You will need to pay attention to what other 
 characters are saying and what tone you are choosing to use in replying more than you probably 
 ever have before. There will be instances where you will be surprised at the outcomes even when 
 you are confident in your choices. This adds a dynamic lacking in other games where you are just 
 fumbling through the dialogue trees so you can end the conversation and get on with the game. Another 
 cool component of the game is the music. Mass Effect has some of the best music I've heard in a 
 game in quite some time, rivaling Halo's spooky monks as best menu music of all time. The odd thing 
 is, the music is actually very subtle and you won't always notice it's even there, but when you 
 do notice you'll find yourself saying that sounds so cool . What's remarkable is that, in some 
 strange way, the music perfectly fits the game. I can't imagine that's an easy feat to accomplish.
 
  
  As far as issues go, Mass Effect suffers from the same stuttering frame rate that afflicted KOTOR, 
 so obviously it's an engine issue. I can see how this would really bug some gamers, but it is something 
 I could easily put aside and tune out as I played. It's odd to say, but you actually get used to 
 it.
  
  One issue I had was the repitiveness of exploring the same floor layouts for mines, bases, etc. 
 on the various planets. Why are all the mines dug the same? I bet this is something we see less 
 of in future games, as resources can now be taken from developing the core game and can be spent 
 expanding the variety encountered.
  
  Some have criticized the controllability of the Mako, which is the vehicle you use for exploring 
 the planets. I fell in love with the Mako and I'm not sure why others had problems controlling 
 it, since I had no issues at all. That thing can go anywhere! I had it up and down mountains, into 
 tight spots, taking out thresher maws with ease.
  
  To conclude, Bioware has demonstrated again that they know how to build quality RPGs better than 
 anyone out there. What they have shown with Mass Effect is that they can build story driven experiences 
 on their own, without relying on a movie license or D&amp; D themes. This game is a step forward 
 for not just Bioware, but for the genre as a whole and I personally can't wait to continue the 
 adventure in the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NikokingNL
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Lets first tell the downsides:
  The framerate is bad but it wont bother you at all ( it didnt bother me ) . And the fights in the 
 Mako arent really good but if your playing it on casual or normal you can fight trough the game 
 without the Mako on veteran, hardcore or insanity you really need it so it wont bother you.
  
  Good about mass effect:
  I could write 10 hours but il keep it short. The RPG feeling is 
 just great exploring planets and doing sidequests is really fun. You'll really build a band between 
 your squad members SPOILER  
 so you'll feel kind of sorry when you have to choose between Ashley andKaiden or when you dont 
 have charm or intimidate and you kill wrex 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesis110
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I thought is was going to be boring as Fu#% ( because I'm not 
 a big RPG fan) but a friend of mine brought the game over and started playing, when it was my turn 
 I was actually amaze, I couldn't stop playing. First of all you could create how your character 
 looks, it could either be a girl or a guy then of course choose his/her background story, after 
 that the story keeps getting interesting and interesting every minute, I couldn't wait what well 
 happened next, So yeah the story is fu#$ bad (I also like the idea of how you could choose what 
 to say for your response, it could affect the story, be good or bad kind of thing) . The graphics 
 is awesome, but there is a little flaw, when the game loads the level takes a second for the texture 
 of a mountain to load up, but I don't have a problem with that. The controls are a little complex 
 but yet, you'll get used to it. Overall this game is badass, I don't like RPG games but this game 
 is the first RPG game I liked, so yeah I recommend this game for whom ever is interest in a good 
 story, or maybe just playing the story your way by being a Good or Bad person. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  Very rarely have video games ever left more of an impression upon me than That was fun or OMG I 
 JUST KICKED ASS!!!1111one because you blew up some big bad monster and there was gush of blood 
 and you feel exhilarated.
  Mass Effect certainly has those situations, but it goes way beyond that. It impacts you on such 
 a deep level that what you do and choose in game not only affects your in game outcome, but it 
 makes you as a person think about what choice you made. The storytellers at Bioware are masters 
 at their art, and borrowing from the Game Informer Review Make KOTOR I and II look like test runs 
 in comparison to Mass Effect.
  
  A short synopsis about the game. It's in the middle of the 23rd century and humans have discovered 
 how to travel faster than light speed. You are Commander Shepard who you can choose to be male 
 or female and customize his/her appearance. You can also set some backstory about your past (Which 
 has ramifications on your gameplay later) , and pick your class. The story starts with your crew 
 on the most advanced ship in the fleet responding to a distress call on a planet named Eden Prime. 
 The story takes a dramatic turn when an elite agent in your squad, called a Spectre is killed by 
 another one who turns out to be a rogue agent trying to take over the galaxy. The story progresses 
 and the real reason your Commander Shepard is chosen to go on this mission is because he/she is 
 the first candidate to join these elite agents from the human race. The story becomes infinitely 
 more complex and the subtle details and nuances can only be appreciated as you move along and experience 
 the universe as Bioware envisions it. I could easily write for pages on this, but one must experience 
 it for their own self.
  
  Gameplay : The gameplay revolves around a pleasing mish mash of Knights of the Old Republic and 
 Gears of War. It's like Gears of War in that you use Pistols, Shotguns, Assault Rifles and Sniper 
 Rifles to get the job done.
  
  During character creation you choose what type of class you want to be from what I call the triangle. 
 There is Engineering, Combat and Biotics. Combat is straightforward, you get lots of life, you 
 get good use of all weapons, you get heavy armor, you get to recharge your combat abilities very 
 quick. Engineering (think like Thieves in Final Fantasy or something) can overload enemy robots, 
 hack computers, unlock locks, make things explode, shut down Biotics. Biotics (which can't specialize 
 in any armor as per tradition in RPGs) are Mass Effect's version of magic. They involve picking 
 up enemies, throwing them, making barriers or just doing outright damage. Each of these are represented 
 by talents. Talents increase damage, after a number of points or increase the abilities you can 
 use, their refresh time and more. They unlock certain other skills that are prerequisites as well.
 
  As I was saying though previously, you can be a pure Engineer, a pure Soldier, or a pure Biotic 
 (called an Adept) . Then there are mixed classes called the Sentinel, Vanguard and Infiltrator. 
 Depending on your playing habits will dictate what class you choose.
  
  The game itself is a 3rd person shooter with the weapons you have. Simply aim and shoot with the 
 Right Trigger. Left Trigger helps you aim (if you have assisted targeting on, which I suggest you 
 do if you are not good at shooters, and even just anything beyond normal difficulty) . You have 
 infinite ammo, but the more you shoot, the worse your accuracy gets. In addition to that, you can 
 overload your weapon, and must wait a good 4 seconds or so to cool down in the middle of a firefight. 
 So guns you pick up, depending on type, model (there are dozens of weaponry makers in the Mass 
 Effect universe, each with their own backstory that you can read in the weapon details) will have 
 different damage, accuracy and shots before overload ratings. You can crouch and hide behind objects 
 for cover like in Gears of War, which you need to do in many cases. Sometimes enemies are very 
 tactical, like the Krogans, other times, enemies are close to being space zombies and bum rush 
 you, so no hiding will help. If enemies rush you, the trigger makes you do melee damage instead 
 of shooing at close range.
  
  Pull up the ability screen with the right button and unleash abilities on unexpecting enemies to 
 clear them out fast or hack them to join you for a second. Refresh your shields that come back 
 like Halo. Your armor has a shield rating, which says how much the maximum capacity is. Better 
 armor = better shields. Once your shields drop, you start taking physical damage to your character's 
 HP. This can be lessened by abilities and your characters armor's damage prevention stats. The 
 other stats deal with Biotic resistance (magic defense essentially) .
  
  You can regenerate life through using Medi-Gels or from letting time do the work assuming you have 
 the proper armor upgrades or are a soldier type class with HP regen talents.
  
  Speaking about upgrades, you can get weapon and armor upgrades which play a dramatic role in gameplay 
 (and sort of in graphics at least in terms of what type of bullets you have) . Some weapon enhancements 
 increase damage, but lower the overheat capacity, others increase your accuracy, or some combinations 
 of those effects. Others bypass enemy shields, some add fire damage, others add poison, some do 
 more damage to organic beings, others do more damage to robots. If you are fighting a lot of Geth 
 (robots) , pull out Tungsten rounds which do +40% extra damage to synthetic enemies.
  
  For armor you can increase your shielding capacity, the damage reduction abilities, the cool down 
 rate for abilities, your HP regeneration (most of your allies don't even have this ability, so 
 this is handy in an armor upgrade) . Certain armors and weapons are of lower quality, others of 
 higher quality and rarity. They do more damage, and usually have more upgrade slots the higher 
 the quality and rarity. In your squad, you can select 2 additional NPC characters who come along 
 with Commander Shepard. I suggest selecting a wide spread of character abilities, that is take 
 an engineer if you are a soldier type and maybe someone with biotics. Your allies can allow you 
 to open certain locks and electronics, assuming their talents are high enough, so you don't have 
 to have that ability (which I hope someone in your party does, as many goodies can be found from 
 opening lockers and weapon caches) .
  
  You can control your squad (to some extent) using the D-Pad to assign whether to follow, engage, 
 hold position or move to a waypoint. Now, here is where the few flaws this game has come in.
  
  Your squad seems to think they can shoot through solid steel walls or giant rocks. Tell them 
 to stop and move, No can do is the response. This isn't a localized phenomenon, it happens every 
 so often. Usually it involves the ally taking a dirt nap. At least you can easily revive them with 
 the Unity ability Commander Shepard has. Aside from not listening to squad orders, you allies have 
 a bad habit of stepping in front of your shots every so often, especially after you used your Assassination 
 ability with a sniper rifle. Sometimes the AI is a genius and will stay behind cover, sometimes 
 they just have in the middle of the path firefights. I wish they would make up their minds. It's 
 not enough to ruin the gameplay as you usually do most of the work as the Commander anyways, they 
 are just there for support it seems, although when they do their jobs properly, most enemies die 
 before you can even pull the trigger sometimes.
  
  Gameplay also takes a turn in vehicular combat using the Mako exploratory rover to land on uncharted 
 planets and drive into hostile territory for many full missions and side assignments. It has a 
 regular machine gun, a rail cannon and a booster to jump shots at you (and navigate terrain when 
 stuck) . With all the side missions and enemy incursions you will be facing, you will become an 
 expert in using this piece of weaponry. Too bad it doesn't come with chrome rims though and a 40 
 inch TV in the back.
  
  Too bad that while this game has an amazing backstory and some scientific basis, apparently every 
 single planet you land on is highly rocky and jagged and all gravity is equal on every planet. 
 But you seem to constantly bounce and float and have a hard time traversing some terrain. It's 
 just nitpicking here, but if gravity affected how easy you could bounce over a little bump disrupting 
 your driving or making it easier, this would be a whole lot better.
  
  Finally, while this game has many cutscenes, each cutscene plays a part in how you proceed, whether 
 you will finish up a quest or ultimately, a choice of life or death. Yes, how you answer something 
 will have a drastic outcome on the rest of the game. So while it's a very enthralling story element, 
 it not only creates an emotional attachment, it has a direct bearing on the story, your characters 
 and any additional missions and outcomes you can or cannot participate in, so think before you 
 just dismiss it.
  
  So frankly, this game has an amazing amount of gameplay and options, however, some real faults 
 exist and others are nitpicky (but most people should really let them slide since most other games 
 with the same problems never are scrutinized so much) , which prevent me from giving it a perfect 
 gameplay score.
  
  Overall:
  Gameplay = 8 out of 10
  
  Graphics : I believe I heard it said in the General Games Discussion Forum. I don't ever want to 
 see a prerendered cutscene again . Yes, with amazing graphical standards set high by Gears of War, 
 we have reached a new graphical standard set by Mass Effect.
  
  Starting with the rich and robust character customization from the beginning of the game to the 
 closing credits, Mass Effect is nothing but a live rendered CGI cutscene quality tour de force. 
 The characters look almost photorealistic (except for maybe some of the alien races, of course) . 
 Scars, complexion, eyes, hair, eyebrows, everything can be controlled. The characters move and 
 flow as if they were alive. Take for instance games where you break into an instantaneous run and 
 then stop just as fast. Mass Effect shows people slow down to a trot then they come to a halt slowly, 
 arms slowing down from pumping to coming to a gentle rest at the side. When sitting, characters 
 fidget, put their head on their hands, slouch or sit up straight. They make many different articulations 
 and hand gestures, not just a standard repeating one that so many RPGs use to convey a myriad of 
 emotions with.
  
  If someone is angry, their facial expressions show it, especially with humans. Wrinkled brows, 
 scowls and more come from pissing off the Commander. Disgust and irritation are followed by the 
 rolling of eyes. If someone responds that way in real life, I assure you it is mirrored realistically 
 in Mass Effect. Even the bipedal aliens are able to show such emotions.
  
  Some aliens don't have facial expressions and speak monotone, so they have to announce their feelings 
 (Which you will read about later) .
  
  The Citadel is a massive spaceship with huge terraces an a lake in the center. Nightclubs are full 
 of neon lights and bars and strippers (who thought blue skinned Asari would be so attractive?) . 
 Crowds are engaged in conversations and moving about their own businesses.
  
  The various planets you travel to range from military installations on a tropical world, to a frozen 
 science base to the myriad deserted 400 degree desert planets to frozen wastelands, all with different 
 lighting effects, number of stars in the sky and other distinguishing feature. One of the most 
 beautiful sights in Mass Effect was heading to Luna, in other words, the Moon. Traveling to the 
 Sol System was something that made me feel like I was traveling the stars. I was on the moon looking 
 up at the Earth. It was amazing, breath taking even. The developers said We want you to feel like 
 you are exploring a universe here . They made that goal feel exactly like they said. From zooming 
 into famous nebulae, such as the Horse Head or Crab, you zoom into distinct planets who all have 
 a number of shapes and sizes which have a little blurb describing as why one appears blue, but 
 one is purple and another yellow. One planet even looks like it's at night, but covered in little 
 lights as if the whole world was one big connected city. The game explains the microscopic organisms 
 give off light as a byproduct of their metabolism.
  
  On the surface of planets, look up at the local cluster star. You will see the roiling surface 
 of the star moving in the background if you have high enough definition. It's just amazing the 
 amount of stellar detail put into Mass Effect.
  
  These little nuances go a long way. Bullet holes remain, until they burn out. The high velocity 
 particles superheat the area which glows until it cools down. As I was saying before, the ammo 
 choices affect not only how your weapon reacts in battle, but different color shots come out. Enemies 
 when killed can melt from toxins, burn up from fire weapons, shatter from cooling rounds or just 
 fall to the ground if you have regular type shots. The physics in Zero G environments are amazing. 
 You can kill enemies by lifting them off the ground and watching them tumble into the void from 
 which gravity has no influence. The default settings are set at motion blur and film grain (which 
 look nice actually) but they lower the graphical fidelity of the game. You can turn these off for 
 a crisp high definition experience.
  
  The only reason I cannot score this game a perfect 10 out of 10 is there are a few hiccups in the 
 frame rate, but most importantly, there are pop up textures. Play Halo 2, and you will know exactly 
 what I am talking about. This is particularly common when surveying mineral deposits but also appears 
 at other times.
  
  While there are long elevator rides at some times, they don't seem out of place. It's too bad they 
 are usually the loading screens, although some loading screens are cleverly disguised as decontamination 
 rooms to get back onto your ship, the Normandy or the elevators have music or random chit chat 
 between the squad. Still, this isn't as an egregious problem as is the loading of textures.
  
  So overall:
  
  Graphics = 9 out of 10
  
  Sound : Let's just say this. EVERY piece of 
 dialogue in Mass Effect has voice overs. Yes, if it is said by a character, even NPC, it is voiced 
 aloud. This includes two sets of every characters reaction depending on whether Commander Shepard 
 is male or female or what your specific background you chose was. We have an epic list of voice 
 over actors, Keith David of Pitch Black/Chronicles of Riddick/The Arbiter from Halo, and more, 
 Jennifer Hale from Metal Gear Solid 2, KOTOR 1 and 2, Seth Green of.. well Austin Powers, Robot 
 Chicken, Family Guy and so much more. Every voice actor is excellent, even the random non central 
 characters. They convey the emotions that this game expertly portays. Another nice thing is that 
 the lip sync adds up with the characters dialogue for additional realism.
  
  However, it is not the human voice acting that is the most impressive, it's two non humans I find 
 to be most interesting. The Salarians (who live shorter lives than even humans due to high metabolism) , 
 they speak at a very rapid and high strung pitch. The Elcoor, a sloth like alien race who speaks 
 monotone. To distinguish how they feel, they announce their feelings prior to what they say. It's 
 a little nuance, but only adds to the rich diversity of the Mass Effect universe (Which you can 
 read all about in the journal and codex entries in addition to talking to NPCs and your crew) .
 
  
  Nintendo and most other RPGs could take a lesson from Bioware. Everything done here is voiced, 
 any other dialogue and text box seems archaic. The music itself is phenomenal. From the opening 
 theme (Prothean Theme titled Vigil ) which is a very pensive and melancholy fare (you will understand 
 why at a certain point in the game, to say more would ruin everything) , to upbeat techno synth 
 at the local nightclub Flux to a wonderful mix of Orchestral music with synthesizers. It's a pure 
 science fiction soundtrack masterpiece. One of the most impressive themes is when you are searching 
 through the galaxy map and the music is playing, it is some how appropriate, haunting, an amazing 
 feeling that you are actually seeing the galaxy up close and personal, something that we in this 
 age can only dream of.
  
  The music only enhances the experience and the voice overs and sound works are second to none.
 
  
  Subtle sound effects such as the shields raising, bullets firing, echoes of gunshots off canyon 
 walls, using medi-gels, they all have their own distinct sounds. You can eventually recognize who 
 did what even if you didn't actively issue a command.
  
  I can say confidently that the sound in this game is nothing short of flawless.
  
  Sound = 
 10 out of 10
  
  Value : This can be short and concise.
  
  Yes, you can easily blow through this game in probably a good 15 hours. Will you want to? Hell 
 no. There are so many side missions and explorations to accomplish, too many chances to get to 
 know your characters and the galaxy around you. In fact just playing through once my first time 
 took me 32 hours, and I did most of (not all, but almost) all of the side quests and all the missions.
 
  
  To get the full experience I guarantee you must play the game at least twice. Once as a Paragon 
 (think Light side) or Renegade (Think Dark side) . And to get all the achievements, you need to 
 complete the game on regular, hardcore, and insanity. Additionally, you must use certain talents 
 a number of times (this can happen over any number of gameplays) . Also to get your ally achievement, 
 your allies must be in your party the majority of the game when you complete missions and quests.
 
  
  So for people who are achievement lovers, you must play this game at LEAST 3 times, which is probably 
 the minimum most people will.
  
  Expect to be playing this game for a good 100+ hours at the minimum to see everything, considering 
 there are 3 possible love plots, many side quests which depend on your self selected background 
 and more.
  
  Value = 10 out of 10
  
  Tilt : I'm going to start by saying this.
  
  Once I completed Mass Effect about a week ago, I sat there for 15 minutes after the credits rolled. 
 I was thinking Are we as a species so trivial and petty as to argue over geopolitical and religious 
 beliefs. Don't we have more important things to deal with like eliminating poverty, illiteracy, 
 disease, and saving the environment? We are in a small world, and if we don't ever get off this 
 home planet we will never evolve as a species, rather than individual nations and races .
  
  Mass Effect teaches you that the galaxy is a bigger place than you think. It tries to illustrate 
 points about racism, unity, patriotism, compassion for others and generally it is a massive lesson 
 in human morality. This game, nay, I refuse to call it a game, this experience makes your choices 
 in game affect you as a person. You will literally sit there thinking...
  
  There are life and death choices you must make. I am not the only one, many people I have spoken 
 to have had the same reaction. You will get to know and care for your crew. You really feel like 
 you are an integrated part of the Mass Effect universe yourself. You feel the joys, the pains, 
 the victories, the defeats. This experience really breaks the fourth wall.
  
  The master storytellers at Bioware have developed a rich and living world in which you can learn 
 about the Quarian Migrant Fleet, or the biological reproductive capabilities of the Asari or the 
 Turian Military Doctrine. If there is a backstory or how something works, I assure you the Codex 
 will tell you how it functions. Mass Effect is just something you cannot forget. You will become 
 immersed in it, you will want the sequel immediately upon completion of this rollecoaster ride. 
 Since you cannot have it, you will want to travel down the opposite path of being an upstanding 
 selfless human citizen to a self centered humans first patriot. While Renegades aren't Good , you 
 aren't evil, so this game isn't about who can be downright terrible, it's explores the white and 
 grey areas of morality.
  
  Mass Effect is unlike anything you've ever experienced before, and is one of the most important 
 works on any media that has come out ever.
  
  Tilt = 10 out of 10 (I can't give it an 11 or higher) .
  
  Recap:
  Gameplay : 8 out of 10
 
  Graphics : 9 out of 10
  Sound : 10 out of 10
  Value : 10 out of 10
  Tilt : 10 out of 10
  Old Gamespot Score = 9.3
  Current Overall = 9.5
  
  Pros :
  + The 
 most engrossing story. You will care about your characters in the end. Only has Metal Gear Solid 
 3 invoked so much thought or care about what happened in game for me. You must see and play it 
 yourself. + Amazing graphics, incredible details. You really feel like you are exploring a huge 
 galaxy that is living and breathing.
  + Voice acting is second to none, period. Soundtrack and sound effects simply add to a sonic masterpiece.
 
  + The amount of backstory put into the game is incredible. You don't even need to read the novel 
 to get it all, it's in the game.
  + The best blending of two genres I've ever experienced. A seamless blending of Shooter and RPG 
 that many predecessors didn't quite get.
  
  Cons :
  - Sketchy AI at times. Oh, did you want me to step in the way? Sorry Commander, I'll try more often 
 .
  - Pop up rendering issues. Halo 2 had this problem, why can't we solve that 4 years in the future?
 
  - Some nitpicky things like elevator rides being long, all gravity being the same even though 
 the planet description says more than 1 G force.
  - ... it ends at some point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torgue21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is good but it was not great. It was fun to play but it is not something that you will 
 still be playing months after you get it like Oblivion or Gears Of War. Once you have beaten it 
 there really is no point in playing again unless your out for achievements. Don't get me wrong 
 I loved this game and thought it was worth my money. However I also think there were many things 
 they could have done better to have made this a great game.
  
  Once you start the game you customize your character. The facial construction is a little weird 
 because a character that looks fine in the setup turns out to look just plain freakish once the 
 game starts. The dialog mini-game is fantastic and only a few times do you wish people would shut-up 
 so you can start shooting. However some of the replay value is diminished because 60% of the time 
 choosing a positive or negative response brings the exact same dialog line from Shepard and ether 
 way you will get the same ultimate response from people unless you have the special charm or intimidate 
 option.
  
  One part I liked was how the loading screens were concealed by elevator rides. Which is a fun way 
 of getting around the boring old loading... please wait screens. But the amount of elevator rides 
 you will be taking gets extremely frustrating as some take a long time and you will on average 
 be riding in one about twice every five minutes. Another thing that I hated doing was combat in 
 the Mako. The Mako is the armored personal carrier you drive around in to explore planets. It takes 
 a long time to get used to driving it. If driving the Mako is not bad enough the planets will only 
 make it worse. They are all basically the same map but with different skies and ground colors. 
 They are all montanus and rocky and have the same gravity, even Earth's Moon. Driving up a steep 
 hill in the Mako (which you will do often if you are into the side-missions) is the crappiest part 
 of the game. Most of the side-missions will take place on these planets and are just as boring 
 as the planets themselves. Ninety percent of them are one of two different small base maps with 
 the same number and types of enemies in each one. If you have played five side-missions you have 
 seen them all.
  
  If you are still reading this you probably have the impression that I hate this game which is not 
 true at all. I had a good time playing it and would play Mass Effect 2 if it came out tomorrow. 
 On the plus side this game has amazing graphics, a immersive story, a great soundtrack, and fun 
 gameplay (unless your a Adept) . The only real problem with this game is that once you beat it there 
 is no point in playing it again unless your out for achievements. So I would recommend renting 
 it and not playing sixty dollars for a game you will not be playing in a months time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megawavez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is an amazing accomplishment! It has awesome graphics, excellent sounds and a terrific 
 story. It's not that this type of game hasn't been done before, just never as well. This universe 
 is vast and very well developed. Not everybody is exactly good or bad, but there are many shades 
 of grey. There are ton's of places to explore and a pretty darn good plot.
  
  There are some things that are a little annoying - like the Mako and some occasional graphics glitches 
 - but this can all be ignored for the incredible story.
  
  I honestly don't know what gamespot was thinking with an 8.5 - the reviewer must just dislike sci-fi. 
 The production values for this game are awesome - including the voice dialogue which is excellent.
 
  
  Ignore the gamespot score - f you are looking for a good involved story with fun fighting - pick 
 this up. If you are looking for a shooter like Halo 3, then I'd steer clear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ternimator07
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  I had been anticipating Mass Effect ever since the first gameplay video showed up on E306, but 
 I was always a bit more Hyped over Halo 3. Now that Halo 3 is behind us and it sure was a great 
 game, but after playing through Mass Effect I realize that it beats Halo 3, CoD4 and all other 
 games I have played this year.
  
  Mass Effect's probably best part is it's story, which is mind-blowing. I definatly won't write 
 any spoilers but in the beginning your facing Saren, a so-called Spectre whos gone rogue, but you 
 soon realize that he is not the biggest threat. Even some of the side-missions have great backstories 
 and are simply not run and fetch quests like some of Oblivions quests. Many friends of mine have 
 been thinking that Mass Effect is Oblivion in space, heck even I thought so at first, but it's 
 very different, firstly it is not near as long as Oblivion, Mass Effect will take around 15-20 
 hours to complete but if you are into the side-quests it will take you much longer. Secondly Mass 
 Effect is a lot more story driven and conversations in Mass Effect completly blow those of Oblivion 
 away.
  
  Now enough with me comparing Mass Effect to other games. Graphically Mass Effect is stunning, but 
 however it is here that Mass Effect's only fault lies, it has some texture-loading problems and 
 slight framerate issues, however this never gets in the way of you enjoying the game. So Mass Effect 
 is my game of the year and I recommend it to anyone who is interested in a Sci-Fi Masterpiece! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lasberry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  I love adventure games! Not much can be said about Mass Effect that has not been said before. You 
 play as Commander Shepherd. Your gender, past, and abilities vary based on what you select at the 
 beginning of the game. Conversations later in the game build upon your first, seemingly meaningless 
 selections.
  
  The storyline is massive, deep, ever-evolving and very sci-fi based. I love that! I'm not a Star 
 Trek or big Star Wars fan but it has the likability of both. Shepherd elevates his/her status very 
 quickly to that of a Spectre, an elite agent selected by the Galactic council. Shepherd is the 
 first human ever selected as a Spectre and thus has a lot riding on his/her shoulders.
  
  The first real assignment is to track down a rogue Spectre named Saren, a Turian agent who has 
 resurrected an army of robotic warriors in order to fulfill his ultimate scheme. The game is very 
 task oriented and thus you have a journal that logs missions, those critical to the game and assignments 
 that resemble sub-plots throughout the game. It's nice to have the journal there to keep you on 
 task.
  
  When the fighting begins it is very deep. You can control the ability of your other party members. 
 You do have to pause the game to switch your abilities (drawback) but not your guns. This slows 
 the action down but not enough to disrupt your flow. It is very rewarding when you defeat a horde 
 of 6 enemies at a time. The action is frenetic but never seems like it's too much to handle. On 
 the AV end, it is superior to many games I've played. Sometimes voices seem a little distant but 
 the voice acting is superior. The graphics really show the power of the 360. Water effects, smoke 
 clouds, and horizons are simply beautiful and you'd be hard pressed to find a game on the 360 that 
 does all of these better. Anyone who values story over gory should buy this game. The game pulls 
 you in and you'll find yourself involuntarily pulling all-nighters like I did. it's a great experience 
 for any mature gamer. Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvatarofRage
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  One of the main problems I had with this game; it was trying to be something
  It ain't, namely, it tried to pass itself off as not being another KoTOR game (by removing most-all 
 melee combat, and tweaking everything else SLIGHTLY, and replacing 'Jedi' with 'Spectre')
  
  The character customisation options are far too limited to be worth any merit, with little 
 more than 5 basic options for each part, with some shallow, and ineffective moulding implemented.
 
  
  But by far the most frustrating was the dialogue options, namely, that the box says one thing, 
 but half the time when you clicked it, Shepard said something that only slightly resembled the 
 chosen option.
  
  The plot seemed to fall flat on its face and at times, and more often than not just plain tedious.
 
  
  The paragon/renegade point system just seemed irrelevant for the most part, and any reward for 
 being strictly one or the other went by unnoticed, My final complaint was Shepard, or rather, the 
 unchangeability of the name 'Shepard', that made choosing a name a defunct option, since, when 
 you get down to it, you're only choosing the name of your Save.
  
  That said, the voice-acting was impeccable (if not slightly disturbing to see a mandible-bearing 
 alien talking with a slight British accent) , and the visuals just plain beautiful at times, along 
 with the soundtrack
  The character designs themselves were also visually appealing,
  but aesthetics can only get you so far. A game for people with too much time on their hands 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D34DLY_V1P3R
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: SWEET
  
  GAMEPLAY: FRESH (MILDLY BUGGY)
  
  CONTROLLS: FLUID
  
  ORIGINALITY: &gt; REWORKED BIOWARE RPG ELEMENTS
  
  STORY: WELL PLAYED
  
  IMMERSION: HIGH
 
  
  RENT OR BUY?: BUY
  
  MULTIPLAYABILITY: NONE
  
  SINGLEPLAYABILITY: HIGH
  
  REPLAYABILITY: MILD
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Adult
  
  Aeroplane
 
  
  Air
  
  Aircraft Carrier
  
  Airforce
  
  Airport
  
  Album
  
  Alphabet
  
  Apple
  
  Arm
  
  Army
  
  Baby
  
  Baby
  
  Backpack
  
  Balloon
  
  
 Banana
  
  Bank
  
  Barbecue
  
  Bathroom
  
  Bathtub
  
  Bed
  
  Bee
  
  Bible
  
  Bible
  
  Bird
  
  Bomb
  
  Book
  
  Boss
  
  Bottle
  
  Bowl
 
  
  Box
  
  Boy
  
  Brain
  
  Bridge
  
  Butterfly
  
  Button
  
  Cappuccino
  
  Car
  
  Car-race
  
  Carpet
  
  Carrot
  
  Cave
  
  Chair
  
 
  Chess Board
  
  Chief
  
  Child
  
  Chisel
  
  Chocolates
  
  Church
  
  Circle
  
  Circus
  
  Circus
  
  Clock
  
  Clown
  
  Coffee
  
  Coffee-shop
 
  
  Comet
  
  Compact Disc
  
  Compass
  
  Computer
  
  Crystal
  
  Cup
  
  Cycle
  
  Data Base
  
  Desk
  
  Diamond
  
  Dress
  
  Drill
  
  Drink
  
 
  Drum
  
  Dung
  
  Ears
  
  Earth
  
  Egg
  
  Electricity
  
  Elephant
  
  Eraser
  
  Explosive
  
  Eyes
  
  Family
  
  Fan
  
  Feather
  
  Festival
  
 
  Film
  
  Finger
  
  Fire
  
  Floodlight
  
  Flower
  
  Foot
  
  Fork
  
  Freeway
  
  Fruit
  
  Fungus
  
  Game
  
  Garden
  
  Gas
  
  Gate
  
  
 Gemstone
  
  Girl
  
  Gloves
  
  God
  
  (THERE U GO, 100 WORDS, U HAPPY NOW??) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CommanderTWiCE
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  People keep talking about how the graphics and voice acting in Mass Effect bring you closer to 
 the characters and make you feel more invested in their well-being. I admit, the facial expressions 
 in Mass Effect are quite stunning, people seem to blink randomly and shift their eyes realistically 
 and little things like people shifting their weight help make them seem more alive. But everyone 
 seems to forget about all the characters we've become attached to in other games that lacked the 
 high-def graphics and expensive voice actors. When Gremio died in Suikoden I was stunned and had 
 to put down the controller for a few minutes to collect myself. When Aerith died in FFVII I actually 
 cried! These characters in Mass Effect, no matter how realistic they are, just don't demand that 
 kind of emotional investment. For one thing they're all pretty basic archetypes: the tough solider 
 chick, the loose cannon cop, the rough and tumble merc. Add to that the fact that the game only 
 lasts about 20 hours, you can only have a handful of different conversations with them, and the 
 fact that they play little to no role in the actual story and you end a bunch of cardboard NPC's 
 who you really don't give a damn about. Not to mention that most of the time you're in combat they 
 just stand there and shoot at walls, and even the Krogan Battlemaster refuses to melee attack anyone 
 (he gets +200% melee damage but he never uses it!) . When it really comes down to it, paying all 
 this money for voice actors and graphics takes money away from other vital aspects of game develpment. 
 This is not a Next Gen game. I know a lot of people are gonna get mad at me for saying it but it 
 has to be said. Let me reiterate what most people have been saying for years: Next Gen does not 
 mean pretty graphics! From inception this game has been marketed as having deep character interaction 
 and an immersive universe where your actions effect the game world. Neither of these things are 
 present in the final version. Even the commercial makes it seem like you're gonna have tough decisions 
 to make - if you decide to ignore that distress signal those poor suckers planetside are screwed. 
 Not true, you can leave the system and come back two weeks later (that is if time actually passed 
 in this game) and they're still there waiting to be rescued. In fact even in the main story missions 
 your actions don't effect the rest of the game. The only choice you make that has any real effect 
 on the game world is at the very end of the game right before the credits roll. Seeing as how there's 
 no rundown (like in KOTOR2) of what happens after the game is over even this decision is made pointless 
 (and hardly counts as an alternate ending) . Nor is there a vast galaxy to explore (there are only 
 2 moons in the entire galaxy!?) . In fact by the end of the game only half of the Milky Way is accessible 
 for exploration. But this might actually be a blessing Every system you visit is basically the 
 same. A few worlds to scan for minerals or lost artifacts (collection quests have you combing the 
 galaxy for artifacts and you get money for finding them, yay!) , maybe an asteroid to scan or derelict 
 craft (why are they all the same class of human freighter?) to board, and one uncharted world to 
 explore . These worlds, though they have different skies and textures, are completely un-interesting. 
 Not one has any plant life on it (unless you count moss) , and the few animals you do find seem 
 like last minute additions (they're hardly animated and they don't connect with the ground properly) . 
 After visiting three or four of these places the game stops being fun and starts being a chore 
 (especially when you have to try to drive the clunky Mako to the top of a mountain just to find 
 a crashed probe with some ammo in it) . In the rare event that you find a research facility (aren't 
 these worlds uncharted?) or a mine you're still just in for more boredom since every interior is 
 nearly identical to every other interior only with boxes in different places. The only planets 
 that vary from this formula are the main story planets and there are just four of them. Once you 
 finish that planet's quest there's no reason to every go back, not even to buy equipment! I think 
 all told, throughout the entire galaxy there are only eight merchants, and four of them are on 
 Citadel Station (the main hub of game activity) , five if you count the Normady Req. officer. Speaking 
 of equipment, these are the least inspiring pile of toy guns (ooh! my new shotgun is red with a 
 white stripe on it!) and lame-looking armours ever to shame an RPG with their presence. In fact 
 I never even bother to re-equip my squad until we return to the Normandy and I usually just end 
 up selling everything I find (you can always buy better equipment than you find anyway, aside from 
 the occasional Savant Amp) . My hard-nosed, Renegade Shepard was forced to walk around for half 
 the game in pink armor because I never found anything better and the other set of armor I had sucked. 
 Don't get me wrong, Mass Effect isn't a horrible game and is in fact quite enjoyable for the first 
 25 hours or so. It's when you try a find some real RPG meat that the game becomes a great disappointment. 
 Even the conversations become monotonous and dull after a while (why does Shepard have to begin 
 every inquiry with Tell me about... ?) and often you're given options which make Sheperd say the 
 exact same thing and/or receive the exact same information no matter which option you choose. The 
 Paragon/Renegade system is kinda cool since you can pretty well max out both of them (unlike KOTOR 
 where you're either light or dark side) and fits well with the games shades of grey mentality, 
 but other than dictating whether you can charm someone or intimidate them your rank in this aspect 
 is meaningless since no one cares if you're a nice guy or a jerk (and again, you're actions have 
 NO effect on the game) . All in all I'd say Mass Effect is a great game to rent but until we get 
 to see what some of this downloadable content is I'd avoid actually buying it. The Bioware team 
 obviously spent a lot of time flushing out the mythology of this future universe and there's a 
 lot of miscellaneous information you'll find to help give the galaxy life (at times the Codex reminded 
 me of The Hitchhikers Guide to The Galaxy) . Sadly the characters, events, and RPG elements aren't 
 nearly as deep or interesting. The only reason I keep playing it is because I traded in Bioshock 
 and my Rock Band drums broke so I've got nothing else to play. I'd like to give Mass Effect an 
 8 but so much of it seems unfinished (like the 'percision' marks on the Thorian's Neural Nodes) , 
 coupled with the fact that it sells itself as more than it is - I'm forced to give it a mere 7 
 (though it deserves to get minus 2 points for over-hyping itself, it's not so bad that it should 
 only get a 6) . Hopefully the sequel will redeem this promising title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fzs1000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  The controls are kind of clunky when you are in the middle of a fight and you need to hit the left 
 bumper and A then the Y bumper and A to get the right powers and guns lined up. Usually you die 
 in a firefight right after some long dialogue scene and you have to relive the same dialogue over 
 and over until you get pat the firefight.... this can be frustrating and wastes a lot of time. The 
 characters can't jump and that limits the explorability of the planets and bases. It seems strange 
 that you have no difference in gravity effects on the various planets and moons, even though the 
 game goes to great pains to tell you the physical details of the planet (mass, size, etc.) . The 
 dialogue is great and the story is draws you in. With just a little more polish this could have 
 been a fantastic game rather then just very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lego863
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect, a game that could possibly be the game of the year. This game has everything an RPG 
 fans wants. It has amazing story-line, unique and breath taking visuals and unique character interaction. 
 What is cool is that you can really change the course of the game. The combat of this game is also 
 very unique which mixes strategy with fast paced action, of course the combat system it is not 
 always easy but practice makes perfect. The Milky Way, which is the galaxy that you will be exploring, 
 has different systems for your side missions and also your main mission. Trust me you will never 
 get tired of exploring the galaxy. Even without playing the side missions you will probably need 
 at least 15 hours to finish the game it would take at least more than 20 hours if you are a hardcore 
 RPG fan that finishes all the side missions. Overall, Mass Effect is a superb game where you will 
 never want to stop playing the moment you start the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djsundowner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Attention science-fiction fans! The greatest tribute to all the greatest in sci-fi history is now 
 available as a video game for your X-Box 360 gaming console. Think of something sci-fi: this game 
 has something that references it. Star Trek? Got a ship with an engineer, a doctor, and a crew. 
 Star Wars? We've got Force-like powers and ass-kicking female royalty. Firefly? Besides a soundtrack 
 done by the same guy as that show, you've got a cast of characters that you can't help but like. 
 Dune? I fought a giant worm that came out of the sand, so yeah! Hell, the MACO reminds me of the 
 old Atari game Moon patrol! It's got elements from Blade Runner, The Terminator, Predator, Starship 
 Troopers, and a bunch of others that are escaping me right now. Freakin' awesome!
  
  The story in Mass Effect is the best I've ever had the privilage of interacting with. I'm not going 
 to try to explain it: you must just experience it yourself. I will say that it's a big story with 
 lots of twists, and, as I mentioned before, your rag-tag teammates are all very likable. The conversation 
 interface is deep, and you can really establish relationships with your crew.
  
  The only thing that holds this game back from perfection is gameplay that just isn't quite intuitive 
 enough to make you think you're really doing the butt-kicking. Using skills and abilities is cumbersome.
 
  
  Bottom line: if you want to play a story-driven RPG, Mass Effect is the pinnacle of such an experience. 
 If all you care about is running &amp; gunning in your sci-fi games, play Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Mas Effect is an extremely solid "space opera" with enough fundamentation to take it away from 
 the sci-fi/fantasy genre and place it alongside most traditionals sci-fis, such as Dune and Star 
 Trek, also carrying a somewhat strong hint of cyberpunk. Needless to say that any sci-fi fan will 
 fall in love for this game.
  Making a huge story short: humanity found an extinct alien technology on mars (Prothean Technology) , 
 that allowed us to travel through space, etc. Decades later we are part of a galactic community 
 composed of many alien races. The three "stronger" races, are the ones in charge however. Those 
 three races have representatives at the Council, a sort of over-ruling government, now these guys 
 have a powerful team known as the Spectres, they are the best of the best and they have clearence 
 to do what they will, as long as they reach their objectives. Thus comes the turian alien Saren. 
 Saren is the best Specter around... Or was, he has gone rogue and his plans might as well include 
 the obliteration of every organic life form, including his own race. This introduction I just made, 
 however, is not telling 1% of the beggining of the whole story; I should mention as well that, 
 anyone willing to enjoy this game to its full extent must read the prologue, which is a book named 
 Mass Effect: Revelation.
  The graphics are the best I've ever seen. However, there numerous issues (that strangely seem to 
 become worse if your console is connected to the internet, apparently the XBox becomes quite slower 
 when it's dealing with the internet simultaneously with the game running, which is strange since 
 the game is not online nor anything) . The main issue is that the texture will take a few secs more 
 than acceptable to load completly. But then again, you may forgive this, cause the shadow effects 
 and the facial effects of each character is virtually perfect, there are scars, there are pores, 
 marks of every kind, particularly the Turians and the Krogan races are ridiculously well molded, 
 which a facial expression that will make anybody's jaws drop, also, most humans (males specially) 
 look extremely like a real person. These ARE the best graphics to have graced the XBox360. Gameplay 
 is something strange to say the least, it's a blend of shooter with the system used before on KOTOR 
 and Neverwinter Nights 2. It's not hard to understand, but it takes quite some time to get the 
 hang of.
  Every character carries an assault rifle, a sniper rifle, a pistol and a shotgun, but it doesn't 
 mean they'll be useful, depending on your character's class you might, for instance, be the kind 
 of guy who doesn't even know where to point the rifle at.
  Creating a character is pretty fun, it has a fair collection of faces which can all be customized 
 by changing hair, eyes, lips, placing scars, beard and also moving things like the depth of your 
 jaw, etc. The hair is a weak point however, it's not a "lose" kind of hair, but then again, doing 
 that would probably be too much even for a nex-gen machine.
  The weapons are full of details, every time you detach them from your back they open themselves 
 in order to function properly, all those little details bring an intense vivid effect to the gameplay.
 
  Your party is composed of three characters always, one them being youy, which is also the only 
 one that can b e completly controled.
  The universe of the game is, literaly the universe, it has clusters that have system that have 
 planets, may of them allows you to land and search for items or, most of the times, do a sidequest. 
 The planets are pretty unique, but the bases (for the sidequests) are all-too similar. Whenever 
 you land on a world, you will, most of the times, do it on the MAKO, a kind of all terrain-vehicles, 
 it has quite a firepower, but it could have been more precise, but it rocks anyway.
  The main quest itself is very short for a RPG, but it since this game is so fun and the story is 
 so well written you'll find yourself playing the game over and over again just to see how things 
 turn out.
  You choice of words, your reputation, your deeds, they all have an influence on the storyline. 
 You have three possible romances to go through: Kadan (if you're playing with a female) , Willians 
 (if your playing with a male) and the the asari Liara (both male and female can have a romance 
 with her, her race only consists of what we call "women", but to them the comncept of men and women 
 does not exist for obvious reasons) .
  The enemies, the ones that aren't aliens or humans, are pretty well made. The Geth, an AI robotic 
 army is really good-looking, the Husks, akind of enslaved mech-zombies created by the Geth are 
 just as impressive, and then you have the big guys themselves which are splendorous, such as Saren, 
 Matriarch Benezia and Sovereign.
  This game is bound to have a continuation, after all it saves your character after you end the 
 game, so I bet there's a continuation comming and you'll be able to use your previous character 
 again, also I'd bet there are expansions on the way, there many worlds on the game, and many of 
 them are unexplored, they can be easily filled with ne sidequests, and then again, the game has 
 an "extras" department for downloadable content.
  This game is not a must have for RPG, but it is a must have for any sci-fi fan; don't let this 
 one pass, this game is one that was made with passion, and the story is one that will drive our 
 minds beyond, like any good old sci-fi.
  NEW CONTENT: the expansion called "Bring Down the Sky" will take you to the same level of action 
 as the main game does, only its final moments are pretty tough, tougher than the final battles 
 of the main storyline. For the first time you'll see the Batarian race (they were around as villains 
 in the book Revelation) , they have highjacked an asteroid that was being used as some sort of scientific 
 facility and now they intend to throw it against a human colony called Terra Nova. You get with 
 your MAKO to the asteroid and there you'll get the main quest (with multiple endings) and a sidequest. 
 It also brings 50 gamescore for the completion of the mission, whcih takes about 90 minutes (on 
 Insanity mode) , its not long but it IS worth its price (400 M$) . Most scenario of inside buildings 
 is teh very same built from every other sidequest, only the main base is something completly new. 
 Only one MAJOR complaint here, this sidequest does not "re-open" the game where it ended, so it 
 requires you to have a save game somewhere you can still get on board the Normandy, in order to 
 shoot it towards the expansion's system (Asgard) . If you don't have such a save game, you'll have 
 to start the game all over again (using an old character or a new one, it doesn't matter) so you 
 can get to Asgard when you get the Normandy (Asgard is ALWAYS available after you get the Normandy 
 for yourself) ; it's a short but very entertaining and decent expansion for Mass Effect, and you 
 even get to choose a good equipment by the end of the mission, not to mension the 50 gamescore 
 points! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmitDog109
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Wow, what a great game, all-be-it not perfect and I'll get to that in a minute, but definitely 
 one of my new favorites. I just love games like this that offer the player the freedom to chose 
 and do virtually anything you want within the concept of the game. The story line in this game 
 is fantastic; as a result I am going to make a point to read the book from which this game was 
 based on. Mass Effect: Revelation by Drew Karpyshyn the author who brought us Star Wars: Darth 
 Bane: Path of Destruction, and several other fantasy and science fiction novels. He is also an 
 award-winning writer/designer for the computer game company BioWare, where he was lead writer on 
 Mass Effect and the popular Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic video game. 
  This game offers players upwards of 50 hours of game play on the first full play through, with 
 endless hours of enjoyment by playing as different characters and classes on subsequent play through. 
 For my first go, I chose to play at the normal level with an earthborn survivor character with 
 combined tech and soldier traits. I'm the type of player who doesn't like to let one corner of 
 a game go unsearched so I spent hours reading about all the planets and aliens races, and searching 
 every corner of the planets and places that you can visit. You don't have to read everything but 
 for me I feel that I get the full game experience. 
  With games like this that are based on a story and offer you choices as to how you interact with 
 players, you have the ability to choose your path along either the good side or "Paragon" as it's 
 defined in the game or more of a bad boy or "Renegade" character. I set out deciding to play as 
 a Paragon and really started to ramp up those points, but as the game progressed I found myself 
 sliding toward the Renegade side. By the end of the game I had almost equal Paragon and renegade 
 points. In this game there are many achievements that you can obtain by doing repetitive tasks 
 like kills or specific tasks. Two of these are the paragon or renegade medals which I was unable 
 to achieve because of the fact that I ended up playing on both ends of the spectrum. On my second 
 play though I plan on doing it almost 100% Renegade to see how that effects the game. 
  This is also a squad based game but they do it in such a way that it's not a hassle to manage your 
 team members, you can set your options in the options menu to allow for full control, mixed or 
 you can make it 100% auto. You can also change this up as you go, so for first timers, having everything 
 set to auto is great and as you get more experienced with the game you can go back in and make 
 modifications to those options, very cool. 
  As you get into the game depending on how you interact with your main squad members you can develop 
 a pretty interesting relationship with the female members of your squad. I'll just leave it at 
 that as I don't want to give anything away 
  I found that this was a very easy game to get comfortable with regarding the camera angles, use 
 of weapons and special powers. The only clunky aspect to the game play is regard to setting your 
 weapons, and upgrades, it took me a while to get accustomed to switching this up on a regular basis. 
 Also, the ability to save at any point in the game aside from battle scenes is key and save is 
 your friend, so don't be afraid to save early and often.
  The only component of this game that I felt was really lacking and the only reason why I didn't 
 rate this game a 10, was the lack of creativity regarding the planets, ships, caves and bunkers. 
 They are all the same every planet has the same landscape, they change colors but the terrain 
 is absolutely the same, there are no tree's, jungles, lakes, rivers, or any other geological feature 
 other than barren open spaces and rocky out crops. This get's old fast regarding how many planets 
 you get to visit. The same is true for the ships, caves and bunkers, every single one has the same 
 blueprint, there is no variation what so ever, I find this to be very annoying. I would like to 
 see some variations to the places you visit if Bioware develops a Mass Effect Sequel, which is 
 probable as the ending was wide open to it. 
  So other than those small issues and no real issues with the AI which is something that I usually 
 find annoying, I have to rate this game a solid 9.5. The ending of the game was pretty cool but 
 I am never truly satisfied with game endings, I'm always left wanting more or expecting more, this 
 one wasn't bad but one of these days I'll get an ending that is at least 5 minutes of cinema. The 
 game has so much to offer and I look forward to playing through multiple quests with different 
 characters, I don't plan on putting this game down for a long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeyosa
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This game brings gameplay to a whole new level with exploring destinations, killing geth and saving 
 a universe this game takes it. With the good creation of bio-ware, this game will be a legend to 
 here to come. Becoming a specter, being a soidler, enginier this game gives u the sensation to 
 be whatever u want, Good or Bad u choose those decisions and then live by them even if somebody 
 dies it effects everybody. Also trying to have a love connection with either human or prothian. 
 SO i give this game a perfect rating of 10/10 and good work on Bio-wares behalf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeyLarry
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a solid RPG, and a good game in general. However, in light of numerous glitches 
 and shortcomings, you may find the game is not quite as inspired or original as you may have hoped. 
 
  
  You play as Commander Shepard, an officer in the Alliance millitary, and a candidate to become 
 something called a spectre, which is like an interstellar cross between a spy, a detective, and 
 a spec ops soldier. Your mission is to track down rouge spectre agent Saren, and uncover his diabolical 
 plans for galactic apocolypse before he carries them out. Despite the dire nature of this main 
 quest, you will frequently be tasked with seemingly less important missions throughout the course 
 of the game. Such is the nature of RPGs. 
  
  There are six charactors who will eventually make their way into you party, and some pretty interesting 
 interactions can occur between them, which gives the party an organic, life-like feel. At times 
 you may have to use your persausive skills to difuse a situation between charactors that may otherwise 
 have become violent. Like in other bioware games, getting to know your party members is a key task 
 to understanding the story of the game, and it can be a fairly rewarding task here. Your conversations 
 with charactors can lead to side missions, backstory tid-bits, and even romantic involvement. But 
 the dialouge system is not all it's cracked up to be. At times the three or four word blurbs that 
 sum up your dialouge options can be misleading, so that you sometimes have only a vague idea what 
 will actually come out of shepards mouth. For most of the dialouge trees you'll find yourself just 
 picking the dialouge based on where it places in order from top to bottom (top-paragon, bottom-renegade) 
 and left to right (left-prolong the conversaton, right-make it snappy) . Dispite this, however, 
 it remains one of the most entertaining expieriences and is quite rewarding.
  
  Combat is done in the third person, and is kind of like a cross between gears of war, and KOTOR. 
 You can give your squad simple commands, and with the left and right bumper buttons, you can controll 
 what weapons, and attacks they are using, respectively. It's a decent system, and works most of 
 the time, however if you don't take advantage of the bumpers, particularly the one that controls 
 attacks and abilities, you will most deffinetly encounter many a slow-mo death scene. Some enemies 
 will stay back and attack you from a distance, which in my eperience worked out better, but a number 
 of the more powerfull foes will rush you in force, which can prove deadly.
  
  The problems with mass effect lie more with the mundane tasks you perform while playing a game 
 that really should just fade into the background and be unnoticable. For intstance, the menu system 
 really stood out to me as a weak point in the overal design because it was so compartmentalised. 
 I felt like I was constantly going through the motions of opening the journal, finding the information, 
 closing the journal, checking the map, checking the journal. After a time, the fact that the menu 
 features didn't flow together more smoothly was a dissapointment. The loading times are another 
 hairy mole on the face of the game. Most of them are not incredibly long in and of themselves, 
 but they are everywhere, and they add up. This problem is most evident when using the many elevators 
 you will encounter while exploring the world of Mass Effect. Never before, in any game, has an 
 elevator ride been such an authentic experience, you feel as though you are really there, standing 
 impatiantly as you slowly crawl from floor to floor. 
  
  The last problem, and probably the biggest issue with the game, is the main quests brevity. If 
 you did nothing but blow through the main quest, it may take you 10 hours on your first play through, 
 which leaves most of the games 20-30 hours in side quests. Unfortunatly, most of the side quests 
 are identical, as are a good portion of the unsettled worlds they inhabit. The geography on each 
 of these rocks is practically the same. While the colors change, the actually planets really look 
 pretty much all alike. A dissapointing turn of events for a game that was hyped to be so vast, 
 and organic.
  
  All beefs aside, however, Mass Effect, though not quite as polished as previous titles by the developer 
 is still a worthy game. One thing of note here is the fact that no matter how many things about 
 the game irritated me, I still wanted to keep playing, it couldn't shake me off. The charactors, 
 story, and overall vibe really lend a lot of brownie points to the things about the game that weren't 
 so steller. It may not have been the ultra spiritual sequal to KOTOR some may have wanted, but 
 it's certainly something I would like to see more of, albeit more polished in the future.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LowlyKnight
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  Fact: Mass Effect will have a cult following for years to come. Fact: Every game you've ever played 
 just got owned... by Mass Effect. Fact: It will change your life. 
  
  Really though, this game is incredible. I was worried that the story and roleplaying elements would 
 be great, but the action would feel like an after thought. But, the action elements are fun and 
 well balanced. If you've never played a video game before, you may experiance a learning curve. 
 But if you're reading this, my guess is Mass Effect won't be the first game you've ever played, 
 and thus, a very brief learning curve. 
  
  The part of the game that shines brighter than any other game to date is the fusion of storytelling, 
 acting, and music. You don't feel like you're playing a video game, you feel like you're partaking 
 in an experiance. With decisions having realistic consequences that play on your emotions, you'll 
 be totally saturated in the experiance.
  
  Stop reading this and go play the game. It's the first time in a long time that I've wanted to 
 immediately go back and play the entire game again after beating it the first time through. Depending 
 on your decisions you can have a completely different experiance each time you play through the 
 game. There's only one major flaw in this game... the sequel isn't made yet, and the game's just 
 too good. Play the game, savor the game, cause it's gonna be a long time till numbers two and three 
 come out. Until then, Mass Effect!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strandiam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  There are plenty of reviews of this game so I don't really want to add another in depth review 
 of all gameplay elements as that is readily available information. I just want to make a quick 
 rant about how this game has been handled by reviewers.
  
  OK, we all know this game has some good stuff going on. It has a better story, voice acting, and 
 dialog than most video games and that is really where the game shines. Aside from that the game 
 is basically a buggy pile of beta. This is clearly a game where the developers spent lots of time 
 and money on some aspects of the game and just had to wrap up the rest quickly to meet a release 
 date.
  
  Nobody can deny the bugs and crappy parts of this game and most professional reviewers do cover 
 them in their reviews, which is informative and important. The problem is, after listing the huge 
 amount of problems with the game, people still tend to score the game in the near-perfect to perfect 
 range, which is not at all reflective of what is actually going on in the game. 
  
  You may think I am just nitpicking over numbers because I disagree with the reviews but that is 
 not the case. I am against these praising reviews because they negatively affect us as consumers. 
 Bioware made a pretty good game which has the POTENTIAL to be an amazing game, but released it 
 before it was finished in a buggy incomplete state. When reviewers give this game a 10 and call 
 it "game of the year" that is telling the developers and big companies like EA "We know your game 
 is incomplete and buggy, but that's ok. We will accept this buggy released-too-early game and buy 
 a million copies and give it a 10 anyway." Because of overpraise of games like Mass Effect, game 
 companies know they can lower their production costs and release lower quality games and still 
 make plenty of money. Why would Bioware spend an extra million to further improve their game when 
 they can just meet a holiday deadline and everyone will buy it anyway?
  
  I just want to remind you that I am not bashing this game as crap, but merely not ignoring and 
 accepting it's huge flaws. Praising games like this with a constant flow of 9.5 and 10 scores will 
 only hurt the quality of future games. Stop settling and let the companies know that you expect 
 better for your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaJesus232
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  15 hours into the game I'm completely blown away by this game. If you like me have never been a 
 fan of RPG's fear not, Mass Effect manage's to feel more like a massive adventure game, you have 
 some typical role playing game elements like increasing your character's stats, weapon stats along 
 with also doing the same with the rest of your squad. Its pretty easy to figure out how to do all 
 that the hardest thing to do is to decide if you want to put those points towards upgrading say 
 your assault riffle skills or your shotgun skills. Not only do you upgrade your skills with a particular 
 weapon you can upgrade the weapons themselve's, along with all your teammate's weapon's and skills. Interaction 
 with the the different characters in the game is just amazing you can spend a couple hours just 
 doing that before the next mission, maybe even longer.
  
  After a few hours of playing the game you get control of a ship and were you want to go next in 
 the giant Milky Way galaxy. There is just endless of place's to go I dont know if its possible to 
 actually complete this game intirely. The combat system reminds me of Halo in third person with 
 a cover system, just press up on a wall, rock etc. and you will go into cover mode. I could go on 
 and on about all the other cool things about this game like controlling your two squadmate's and 
 the INCREDIBLE graphics, it has the best facial features I've ever seen. But I'll stop here I've 
 only ever gave a game a perfect 10 that was recently with Call of Duty 4 but now there is another 
 10 in my mind this one.
  
  There is absoulutely no doubt in my mind that this game deserves to alteast be ranked in the top 
 4 games of 2007 if not higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grunt1096
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the best game on 360 in my opinion. I love it for the story, gameplay and just its 
 overall fun factor. The story is the most immersive part of the game. You'll get sucked into it 
 so fast. It makes you come back for more. The moral choices you have to make are another reason 
 for re playability. 
  Gameplay- Well balanced, and well executed. The environments are derailed and really fun to just 
 run around and explore. In the end this is just one great game every 360 gamer needs to play. The 
 characters you meet are all believable and the voice acting is top notch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klitsapp123
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect is a rare game. It is one of those few gems you find walking on the beach. It is a 
 great dream made reality. 
  
  Mass effect is the first game since Morrowind back in the day, that I picked up-played through-and 
 enjoyed, without once looking for what I did not like in the game, or what seemed uncharacteristic 
 of the company or genre. Mass Effect simply in my book is perfect. It has the perfect amount of 
 open gameplay, the perfect distribution of combat-versus-dialog, the perfect story, and please 
 when i say the perfect story, well..... I mean it. You feel as if you are watching a movie one moment, 
 and ten the sound of angry krogan gunfire and missles flying over your head, bring you back into 
 game mode. Mass Effect is a must play, must purchase, must... you get the picture.
  
  
  Mass Effect is-was-needs to be the game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7guns
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I have played the game once and it took me around 50 hours to finish it, and these 50 hours have 
 been the best , the most rewarding, and the most inspiring 50 hours I have spent in front of my 
 XboX 360.
  
  This game is beautiful. Everything about this game is fascinating and you will be impressed with 
 the characters. I have never seen any in-game character express themselves so creatively. Superb 
 voice acting makes the characters so memorable even the ones who makes you want to punch on the 
 nose. The conversations are innovative and so life like you almost feel like you are watching a 
 great movie. The story is very impressive and immersing and the way it unfolds gradually is one 
 of many reasons that make the game a masterpiece. Then comes the game play which is fantastic too 
 and hardly any glitches to bother you with and did I mention that the graphics is just what you 
 would expect from a great game. The character build up system is quite perfect, and as you level 
 up , you can really feel your character becoming powerful and a formidable death machine to your 
 opponents. The shooting is surprisingly excellent for a roll 
  play game and your allies and open environment makes up for great fights with guns, biotic and 
 tech abilities. In all, this game has everything you would expect. 
  
  This game has taken the roll play gaming engine to a whole new level, breaking so many contemporary 
 barriers, and excelling at almost all of them. I have played Assassin's Creed as well which is 
 a great game too but Mass Effect is by far, the winner. DON'T MISS IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Multi-Magic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  This game combines beautiful graphics along with additive gameplay and to top it all off, one **** 
 of a big galaxy to explore.
  
  I have just finished my 3rd run through and still not bored of this masterpiece. With lots of different 
 decisions and different endings each time, its pretty hard not to.
  
  Its worth the full price just for the actual content.. easily racking up 40 hours with the main 
 story, side quests and exploring each system in depth. There are a number of classes you can be 
 and the path of "light/good" or "dark/bad" so you will want to play this through more than once.
 
  
  The story is one of the main values of the game, it is so in-depth and detailed you actually get 
 lost in its very own world.
  
  A must buy for any 360 owner and one that will last a long time!
  
  Bring on the next part 
 of the story i say!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: themillerj
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of the first KOTOR game so it was a given that I would pick up a copy of Mass 
 Effect as soon as possible. I played through the main story in about 13 hours, but that was without 
 doing any of the other side quests. A few key points make this game a true masterpiece.
  Firstly, the graphics are absolutely amazing. Facial expressions, character movements, everything 
 seems real. Textures are great looking but they tend to load a little late. This just means that 
 for a second your going to see 'blah' on a character and then once everything loads, they look 
 amazing.
  Secondly, I love the sound. The sound of the weapons are great. The dialog is perfect, but I expected 
 this with the VO lineup. I actually played through with a female Shepard just so I could hear Jennifer 
 Hale throughout the game. The music fits well too. Sometimes games tend to put a bit too much intensity 
 into situations by bringing in exciting music when you are doing something simple - like pushing 
 a button. ME's soundtrack is well balanced to bring the appropriate music to the current scenario.
 
  Finally, the storyline. Never have I been so caught up in the story of a game (except maybe for 
 the first KOTOR) . Politics, religion, romance. All of these are brought together to form a believable 
 yet extraordinary story. I originally started the game intending to be a renegade character, but 
 as the story progressed I actually felt bad about mouthing off to certain characters and such. 
 Every time I said something bad to a character they seemed to grow less fond of me. 
  Vehicle control, however, is completely annoying at first. Eventually you get the hang of driving 
 the Mako around, but I initially just jumped out and fought on foot when I had to. Still, this 
 setback is not enough to really hamper any enjoyment.
  All in all Mass Effect is a superb game. I am currently playing back through the game with about 
 four different characters and I am not tired of it at all. This is a great game for those who loved 
 KOTOR, but it also a game that anyone can fall in love with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agirlyman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is another Gem from Bioware, it will take you on a roller coaster ride of non stop 
 action, beautiful, fun, deeply immersive. Once you get use to the controls, and forget about the 
 "Cover system", the game is a blast to play. The more you play the more addicted to Mass Effect 
 you get, just like any great game, you can get lost into it, and forget all the other great games 
 you have. I just beat this game, and i'm ready to go through again. 8.5 my arse, this game does 
 everything right, and does is very well . The replay factor sets it above other many a great game, 
 the only things, that could make this game better is co-op, and massively multiplayer. Finally, 
 I am able to satisfied my "Captain James T. Kirkfantasy, and gett some blue tail!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystoval
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Story: The story is not original like all excepected has a lot of star wars and others games and 
 movies sagas,,, but the way to present the story its quite well you live in the huge galaxy plenty 
 of world and worlds that yuo can explore so you feel really inside the game.
  
  Graphics: the graphcis are so well inlcuding the award of graphics that earn this game a few days 
 ago,, so the award saids all,,, the game has some noise visually like an old or classic movie that 
 gives to the game so realism and help so much to intriduce you inside the game, the textures are 
 quite impressive and the models are so much detailed,, the enviroment plenty of details too but 
 the really innovative is the light and shading that gives a lot of realism and volume. 
  
  sound:: the soun is very good so much different sounds in the game that inmerse you so much is 
 like a war movie tthat has a lot of details in the sound.
  
  Music: The music its so good its amazing you have to listen to your own to figure out how well 
 the music is.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay is not very good the movement of the player is a little robotic and the 
 control sometimes feel heavy but its not ths badest control ever ,, only could be better
  
  Engine: The engine of the game its so powerful because its a huge universo of different worlds 
 and the loadings are not long, the enviroment has a lot of models enemies explosions interacts 
 with the worls and the frame rate its very well so the engine its so powerful. bioware has done 
 a very good work in this game
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a game where one can loose one's self in completely. BIoware has worked hard to 
 ensure the player will be swept up in an epic tale that sees the player cross the galaxy to rid 
 it of evil.
  
  Upon loading Mass Effect, it's quite clear it's one of the best looking games for the 360. However, 
 this comes a price. Sometimes the frame rate drops, and as a result the high powered graphics are 
 unable to load quickly and instead show up as 'bumpy' images. Although this is annoying, it's only 
 a minor problem, considering everything else the game does right.
  For example, straight away, the game introduces you to the world within Mass Effect. The character 
 creation screen is made up as a computer data-base, where the player is required to 'log-in', where, 
 you can choose to re-write over the data and create a new character or play as pre-made Shepard.
 
  
  The storyline of the game is your average good vs. evil plot, seeing the good guys traveling across 
 the galaxy in search for the big bag. The plot, and structure of the overall narrative is similar 
 to that of KOTOR, which isn't a bad thing, since it worked then, and works now.
  In relation to the main narrative, it is possible to do the main quest in under 20 hours, if one 
 is to rush and not stop and absorb the atmosphere Bioware has worked so hard to create within the 
 game.
  
  There are side-mission as well, naturally. These consist of going out into space to find a planet 
 with pirates, or seek out a ship with some rouge scientist etc. There are also uninhabited planets 
 to explore. However, these soon become boring and dull to explore, since each planet is more or 
 less the same, but with different skins (i. e dusty, icy, green and lush etc.)
  
  The gameplay is almost like that of KOTOR, expect everything is in real time. The combat system 
 works very well, but sometimes feels more difficult than it should, perhaps due to the camera sometimes 
 going crazy and all over the place. There is more focus on projectile weapons in Mass Effect, and 
 at first, it does feel like some type of 3rd person shooter. After a while however, you will move 
 away from this generalization, and the game will simply feel like its own.
  
  Sound is brilliant. As always, Bioware has crafted a decent soundtrack that fits in nicely into 
 this Space-Age drama. I personally found nothing wrong wit the soundtrack, but I'm sure some would...
 
  
  For the Christmas period, this game will suffice nicely. One can spend hours upon hours playing 
 and re-playing this game, which is always nice. It is a beautiful game, one of the best looking 
 on a console right now. The story blows all other games out of the water (including making the 
 Halo 'story' look like child scribble) and the game is worth playing just to go along for the right. 
 
  Even though there are slight technical errors and the slight case of repetition, Mass Effect is 
 simply a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kymanded
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Maybe, I'm just biased or something, because I loved Jade Empire (also by Bioware) , but Mass Effect 
 was a truly wonderful experience. I can't wait to play it again and again. There were a few glitches, 
 in which it took a fraction of a second for the graphic details, like some uniform details, but 
 it's barely worth mentioning. The official game review says that the vehicle combat isn't that 
 great, but who cares? It's only a way to get from place to place, they just added combat to make 
 it a little more interesting. It's really not an important enough piece of the game, in my opinion, 
 to even matter. The story itself is wholly unique and a really enjoyable experience. I really hop 
 there is a part two, or at least some downloadable content for it, to expand on the story. They 
 certainly leave room for it at the end. What I don't understand, is how they only gave it an 8.5, 
 it was so much better than that. I'm playing Assassin's Creed right now, which they gave a 9.0, 
 but Mass Effect is so much better. The graphics in AC are pretty cool, but the whole game is repeating 
 the exact same things over and over again, in different parts of the cities. It's kind of fun, 
 but doesn't hold a candle to the storyline and options that you have in ME. Anyways, this is a 
 fabulous game. Get it, play it, love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pata
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I don't think I have ever bee so awed by a video game as I am by Mass Effect. The voice acting 
 is the best ever made for a video game, the writing is unsurpassable, the visuals are awe-inspiring 
 and the music is evocative. 
  
  Mass effect is truly a work of art as a video game. It pulls you in from the start and you never 
 want to let go. We all know that Bioware is good at writing, but this time they have outdone themselves. 
 The attention to detail and the depth to which they have gone to endow even the most trivial NPC 
 with a rich background is unbelievable. 
  
  Sure, the combat has a lot of problems but the game is all about the story, which is superb. Not 
 only is the overall plot with the difference races quite interesting and very well executed, but 
 the side quests amazingly entertaining as well. The influence you can have over your actual character 
 is quite impressive as well.
  
  All in all, Mass Effect has got to be one of the best games I have every played in my life (and 
 I am also playing Assassin's Creed :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthDravvid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a game that is developed by Bioware, one of my favorite developers. I LOVED KOTOR, 
 and I mean loved it. This game was in my sights since I first saw the demonstration.
  
  I'm going to start off with the problems first:
  Texture pop-ins. They're not TERRIBLE, but I'd 
 still like to see a little more polish. 
  Lack of Variety in side quests: The side quests need some variety and the structures you infiltrate 
 need some variety as well.
  
  THE GOOD:
  Basically everything else is awesome, combat, graphics, sound, controls, just everything. 
  I 
 WANT the second installment in this series sooooooo bad. I want to know where this series goes. 
 The story is EXCELLENT..
  
  Not much else is to be said. I love the new dialogue system and the way it works. I think that 
 it should be expanded upon and all the little glitches touched upon in the sequel and we'll have 
 a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherbie1989
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a very great game. You are a commander who becomes a spectre who works for the council. 
 Thats all im going to say story wise dont wanna give it away. Gameplay its what i like to call 
 a tpsrpg Third person shooter role playing game. You can use stuff called biotics that let you 
 mulipilate thearea like moving things and picking up people. The best part of it is how you can 
 treat this game like a shooter. You can also choose multiple paths by talking to people and being 
 nice or an a** loland also level up like anyother rpg. The graphics are top notch you wont see 
 very many games look like this. You will see some graphics not load up sometimes they always oad 
 up though just not fast but that doesent take away from the game. The game can sometmes slowdown 
 but it wont mess you up at all.
  This game is about 15 hours long and then you still have side quest to do so about 30 hours. Overall 
 I think this game is worth your 60 bucks so if your thinking about getting it you wont be let down. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ray_735
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Its likely that im a huge RPG fan, but the question is this : which is the best RPG you know?
 
  And I dont have an exact answer! both KOTOR II and Mass Effect have different backgrounds and 
 are simply Stunning, because Sci-fi games have something special, we cant get tired of them! Now 
 to the comparison, we can realy see the graphics winner, Mass effect : all its content has exceeded 
 the limits, its like a treasure to the eyes.
  Now to the Story, KOTOR II is surely the winner, of course all who played this masterpiece were 
 involved in a great story, unlike Mass Effect, its story is a bit short but very good.
  Mass Effect and KOTOR II are tied 1-1. And here is the third important point!
  Mass Effect has 
 such a large number of planets, explore mode gives mass effect the third and decisive point.
  So its 2-1 , and New gen games simply beat the rest.
  I surely recomend both, because they are 
 the best RPG adventure games you can get!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetom5482
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Instantly inserted into my top 5 greatest games of all-time list. If you have an Xbox 360, you 
 need to buy this game. I think one of the great things about this game is that, it appeals to such 
 a wide variety of gamers. A lot of the casual gamers will enjoy the 3rd person shooting aspect, 
 and most likely create soldiers that will become tanks by the end of the game. Hardcore gamers 
 will just become immersed in the story, unprecidented dialgue freedom, upgrades, powerups etc.... theres 
 so much to this game, I just don't know where to begin...
  
  First of all, the story is one of the best in any game ever made. You will fall in love with some 
 characters, and genuinly dislike others. This game gives you the freedom to play your own way, 
 make your own decisions. Some of those decisions will affect the storyline in an EXTREME way. Make 
 a wrong decision, one of your allies may die, maybe you get lectured by the Counsil, etc.... these 
 pivotal decision making points in the game give it so much replayability. You will want to play 
 it over and over again just to see what happens when you take a different route/response/action.
 
  
  The graphics are amazing. People will complain about textures popping in, but who really cares? 
 It only takes like 5 seconds, and while the graphics are downright breathtaking in this game, it's 
 not the real reason it's so great. The voice acting is top notch, every single characters voice 
 is great. Sean Green does a great job with the "Joker" character. During conversations, you will 
 notice slight facial expressions in your character and other characters, this small yet effective 
 detail keeps you immersed in the game.... Everything about the way they move or talk is just so 
 realistic, they would be great actors if it weren't for the fact that they're in a videogame.
 
  
  Again, the storyline in this game is unbelievable. I would explain it to you, but I don't want 
 to spoil ANYTHING. You really just have to play it for yourself. I guarantee you won't be dissapointed.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of those games that can easily be misconstrude as pretentious. It can be easily 
 dismissed by KOTOR fans who are annoyed this wasn't kotor 2. Casual gamers can get intimidated 
 by the vast sprawling deep of galactic exploration.... at least until someone gets them to sit down 
 with the game for 30 minutes.
  
  Mass Effect... well, affects you. It gets under your skin in that all engrossing way that happens 
 with titles this good. It'll remind you of the first time you called in sick to work because you 
 had to go deal with the gangs in Grand theft auto 3. It'll bring back memories of the first time 
 you went without sleep for the sake of halo multiplayer. And it will overwhelm you in the same 
 way Oblivion did the first time you rode your black stallion across the plains of Cyrodil. Mass 
 Effect is not only total escapism, but complete immersion as well. It's a wonderfully crafted hybrid 
 of sci-fi adventure and role playing goodness that Bioware is so well known for. The story is as 
 epic and grand as final fantasy 7, if not considerably easier to follow. The action is utterly 
 satisfying. Truly.
  
  The action/rpg ''turn based'' menu process is very well implemented. It's not really turn based, 
 but if offers you the same latitude to strategize that a turn would. It takes some getting used 
 to, but you will grow to love it, and miss it in other titles that aren't so adept.
  
  It has some technical glitching, i. e. pop up... like all the time. but you can overlook it almost 
 always. It's larger issue is vehicular combat in the rover. The rover was... a mistake frankly. 
 The gun can't aim on the y-axis, and in plains where you take on uber worms (maws) it bugs pretty 
 bad. It's an unfortunate blight on an otherwise stellar title and denies it a 10.0 score.
  
  That aside however the bottom line is this. If you liked star wars, and you've played through 
 final fantasy 7... then odds are Mass Effect is your game this season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordkhronos
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to write much because you probably already know if you'll like a game like this or 
 not. Basically if you think you may even like this in the least bit, definitely play it, it's great! 
 I'm not sure what the editors at Gamespot found to say this is deserving of anything less than 
 a 9, and as far as I'm concerned a game that tries this many new things and gets so much of it 
 right deserves a perfect score. Definitely worthy of buying; it's one of the first RPGs in a while 
 that really has some replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fanta_Man
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect for the Xbox 360 places you in the role of a human, Commander Shepard, on a mission 
 to save the galaxy and earn respect for humanity from the alien council by stopping an invasion 
 of sentient beings that periodically show up to wipe out all intelligent organic life from the 
 galaxy. No pressure though. Upon starting you can jump right in with the default male character 
 that Bioware has used in all of its previews to date, or you can customize your character's gender 
 and facial appearance with a decent selection of options provided to you. Along with appearance, 
 you choose your character's class and background by selecting an event your character took place 
 in as well as a summary of your childhood and how you joined the Earth Alliance. These options 
 don't drastically change the game, but do affect some dialogue from certain characters and determines 
 which special side quest you receive in the game.
  
  After the initial character screens, you watch a brief cutscene introducing your character to "The 
 Normandy" which is the spaceship you will travel in throughout the rest of the game. You quickly 
 receive your first assignment: Recover an ancient alien artifact that was recently uncovered on 
 a human colony. You also learn that a Turian will be watching you to determine if you've got what 
 it takes to be the first human to be made a Spectre (an elite group that answers directly to the 
 Council) . However, the situation rapidly deteriorates from there. The colony is attacked by a machine 
 race known as the Geth, one of your Alliance squad members is killed, your Turian watch dog is 
 murdered, and the artifact is destroyed.
  
  This starts you off on the main storyline quests, known as missions, but you can also now start 
 to receive side quests (assignments) from characters throughout the game. Most missions and assignments 
 can be done at any time throughout the game given that you've talked to the right character. There 
 are considerably more assignments than missions, but they do not advance the main story line. This 
 causes you to feel a lack of urgency in an otherwise very epoch plot. At least most of the assignments 
 don't feel the same, even though in essence they really are. There are very few missions in the 
 game, but each one takes a good amount of time to complete and they all occur in unique places.
 
  
  Graphically, Mass Effect has some stunning sights. That is, when they are done loading The game 
 suffers massively from texture popping. Sometimes you can be moving around for ten seconds before 
 all the textures are loaded. When all is said and done though, the graphics are great. Most impressive 
 is the characters models, specifically the faces. You really take notice of this when engaged in 
 dialogue with another character. Since this happens a lot, it's a very good thing that there's 
 appropriate eye candy. Even wrinkles from facial expressions are crisp and very pleasing to look 
 at. Environments are equally convincing even though some of the side quest planets look very similar 
 with minor landscape differences.
  
  The game controls nicely for the most part when you're just using your character. However, menus 
 can be frustrating and the vehicle segments tend to be extremely annoying. Menus suffer from some 
 design choices that wouldn't matter to much for a PC game but become annoying with a thumbstick. 
 Scrolling through item lists also seems unusually slow. Vehicle segments are basically all the 
 same and it's damn near impossible to go in reverse in the direction you want to go. You character 
 controls well on foot though, but issuing squad commands sometimes makes you feel like you should 
 get a different camera angle. These are minor complaints in the grand scale of things though. The 
 dialogue wheel works very well and is consistent with its options. The HUD serves its purpose and 
 disappears when not in combat mode for a more cinematic view.
  
  Audio is a grand slam for Mass Effect. The voice acting is arguably the best in a game to date 
 and there's so much of it that you'll wonder what the fuss was with Oblivion. Every alien race 
 sounds unique and easily identifiable. All of the humans sound different as well. Aside from the 
 superior voice acting, the music is also a complete success. It is reminiscent of 80s science fiction 
 movies with the synths used and electronic grooves. Some orchestral pieces also occur in some of 
 the truly epoch scenes of the games. The only complaint feasible would be some of the sound effects 
 for weapons may feel under-powered or too quiet and the different weapon choices for the same categories 
 have no effect on the sound effects used.
  
  The storyline of the game is memorable and enjoyable. It also feels like it takes place on the 
 grand scale it is intended to. Despite some pacing problems from side quests, the main story by 
 itself is one no gamer should miss. The game ends up with enough resolve to be a stand-alone game, 
 but it also leaves room for a sequel. Obviously, the sequel will be realized and there won't be 
 any complaints after you finish the game. You can play through the game again with your leveled-up 
 character or start a new one upon completion. Using a previous character makes the harder difficulties 
 much easier to manage, but then again you can change the difficulty at any time with various options 
 when you pause the game.
  
  The aspect of Mass Effect that almost cripples it is the game's technical performance. As mentioned, 
 texture popping is a big problem. Just as noticeable is the games frame rate. You will often notice 
 the game becoming sluggish just from your character moving or even standing still. This is because 
 the game is continuously loading new content. Another thing you'll notice is lots of load screens, 
 even if they're disguised as elevator rides. There's faster-than-light technology but elevators 
 with 20th century speeds are still everywhere. This category is what truly disappoints with Mass 
 Effect. It will not outright destroy your love for the game, but it takes away from what the game 
 could have been.
  
  For fun factor, this game delivers. There may be annoyances, but you'll love the game regardless 
 all the way through multiple times. Replay value is high given the character background choices 
 and the different character classes and methods of playing. It does start to lose its charm though 
 after five or six time playing the whole game through. The game is an amazing experience unlike 
 any other with truly unique moments that make you glad you're a gamer.
  
  If you're looking for an epoch game with great entertainment value in a universe that you never 
 want to leave, then this is the game to do it. I'd recommend this game as a buy to anyone that 
 is physically able to play and enjoy it. Only the biggest nit-pickers can find this game to not 
 be enjoyable, so don't miss out this instant classic.
  
  Visual: 9
  Controls/Interface: 8
  Audio: 10
  Story/Plot: 10
  Performance: 5
  Core Score: 8.4
  Fun 
 Factor: 10
  Final Score: 9.2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Ill be honest, KOTOR was one of my least favourite games, and Jade Empire didn't excite me much. 
 However, Mass Effect simply proves BioWare can do more than silly Star Wars RPGs.
  
  Mass Effect allows you to begin by creating your own character from scratch. Think up a name, customise 
 your face features including scars, hair, cheek bones, etc, etc and begin to choose your class 
 and speciality. Once your done and ready, begin your greatest adventure.
  Not only are the graphics superb on Mass Effect, but the storyline is brilliant and the imagination 
 and thought put into this game make it unique to any game on the market. In most games, you watch 
 your character as he/she talks for him/herself and get's conversations over and done with. Mass 
 Effect allows you to speak for yourself by giving you a choice in what to say when asked something 
 or speaking to someone. This may seem fairly simple, but everything you say could change anything, 
 you be nasty to someone, it could come up later when you least need it. You kill someone whos innocent, 
 and expect the unexpected consquences in future. You choose your story, and you choose how you 
 want to go about your missions, it's up to you.
  
  Although it's an RPG, Mass Effect is also a great shooter. It has great cover tactics similar to 
 those on games such as Gears Of War, where you can go up to a wall and take cover behind it and 
 then peer over and shoot your enemy. It's rather tactical game if you play it properly, if you 
 feel like charging on in front and becoming a war hero, you won't last 2 minutes. The AI can be 
 incredibly hard if they need to, but of course, there's always the option to tone the difficulty 
 down, but we don't need that do we?
  
  During your travels in Mass Effect, you'll have new soldiers wanting to join your squad. Your squad 
 is one of the most important things you'll need in the game. You can upgrade their armour and weapons 
 for them, and even get them to do some of your dirty work, but don't expect too much. Another thing 
 is, depending on who's in your squad, they can say different things. For example, if Garrus want's 
 you to help him track someone down on a planet, you can choose to take him or not. If so, he can 
 tell you if he reconizes someones face. If you dont take him, you'll have to figure it out for 
 yourself... this may sound confusing, but you'll figure it out.
  
  Mass Effect is a truely brilliant game, and although it might get it's occasional glitches here 
 and there, it's still a fun packed game and is worth every penny of your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astonerbum
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the shortest RPG ever, though simultaniously being the most fun to play RPG ever.
 
  The voice acting is so amazing, and so abundant that there is no need to read in this game. It 
 plays out smoothly, in the end it is REALLY enjoyable.
  
  Also, play on hardest difficulty from the start. Trust me. (I wish hardest available difficulty 
 was available from the first time you turn it on)
  
  GOOD PARTS:
  1) Fun to play -- the combat is fun. Fast paced, simple to learn/master, absolutely fun, and occasionally 
 you can stop it to select an ability (a list which re-arranges every time you get a new one)
  2) Amazing voice acting -- the only rpg where i don't really care to read it, i can just listen 
 like a movie.
  3) Best graphics EVA -- the best graphics i've ever seen in a video game. period. Sure one game 
 may have this and another that, but no game looks like Mass Effect and the awe you get from looking 
 at the citadel from the inside.
  
  HOWEVER there are a couple of problems:
  1) Short -- This game takes 25hrs to beat if you stretch it.
  2) Economy -- In this game money 
 is not an issue. At first it is, but eventually by selling all your loot you get access to the 
 best weapons quickly. I managed max cash without even trying AT ALL.
  3) Exploration is not fun -- The premise was "explore uncharted planets" yadda yadda yadda... it 
 is not fun to explore them. A bunch of rocks and mountains and an occasional thrasher maw... and 
 a crashed probe or 2...
  4) Lots of planets, few cities -- There is only 1 real city, the citadel, everything else is mainly 
 planets you explore in a car. I was dissapointed.
  5) Repeated areas -- The main missions have all unique stages, but the planets are sometimes literally 
 identical except for the textures, enemy "bases" are all identical on the inside, there are like 
 4 different base types and maybe 50 mashups of enemy bases based on one of the 4 (and they aint 
 that big)
  
  
  6) First play though i was disappointed, i chose normal difficulty and it was a mistake. Normal 
 is easy, and i am scared to think what easy is like, i guess there you just win, period. At insane 
 difficulty it began to get challenging. Definitely play it hardest difficulty first for maximum 
 fun.
  
  Bugs:
  Surprisingly, they are not that many of them. My game never froze. However thrasher maws do have 
 bugs. Once in a while (1/4 of the battles) the thrasher maw will miss-calculate and think that 
 you are right near it... the problem is that it kills you can you can't do jack about it. even 
 if you are very far away. Also the framerate is JUST playable, but they left no buffer for occasional 
 slowdowns so sometimes it just becomes clunky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charma
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Now that I've gotten a few hours into Mass Effect, I thought I would write a review of it. I wasn't 
 sure about this game in the beginning, but MANY people write how they like this game very much. 
 Knowing that, I had to put several hours into it before I could justifiably give my own review 
 of it.
  
  I think the horrible controls really keep this game from getting to its potential greatness. They 
 just don't FEEL NATURAL. ..... let's see, you have to hold down RB and move your right stick!! 
 Excuse me??? The people who came up with these controls are either masochistic or don't understand 
 good control mechanisms.
  
  The lack of thorough documentation means you have to figure their stupid little mini-games out 
 for yourself. When I first started playing I came across my first decryption mini-game. OK, so 
 B is highlighted. So I press "B". Immediately I get "Failed to decrypt"..... ok.... well, I'm only 
 guessing what to do because it doesn't say in the documentation what I'm supposed to do, how fast 
 to press the buttons, etc. I then reload and keep trying 3 more times, failing each time.
  
  I have visited a few planets and the control mechanisms of the Mako could have done better. 
 It just doesn't control fun nor intuitively. They should have looked at how Halo 3 did their vehicle 
 control mechanisms.
  
  Lastly, I think this game could have used more and varied graphics. I walked around Citadel everywhere. 
 It almost all looks the same. I got confused a few times because many places reuse the same graphics. 
 The graphics could have been better, in my opinion, and they should have turned off the film effect 
 off my default. It looks better that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  In short :
  
  Positive things :
  
  - Conversations are excellent, with good options and they're long enough. Also, the facial animation 
 is somewhat accurate to represent the feelings on character's faces, that makes'em seem more alive 
 than previously. Conversation in general is the game's strong point
  
  - Many different possibilities to how to build and play your character
  
  - Graphics aren't 
 flawless, but they're quite top-notch nevertheless. Not the best looking game, though.
  
  - Story is a bit of cliche, but it's a good one, nevertheless
  
  - Background for the world 
 has been made with love and while it's unknown at first, you'll get into it quite quickly
  
  
  Negative stuff :
  
  - Generally the textures take their time to load. Wouldn't matter 
 so much if it would only happen from time to time, but when we see foggy textures on a quick scene, 
 it eats away some of the immersion
  
  - There's plenty of weapons and equipment, but I would have loved to see more than two models for 
 each type in graphics
  
  - Inventory system is pish, plain and simple. Everything under same category and it's slow to scroll 
 up and down
  
  - While the mainplot and scenery are great, the same kind of imagination hasn't gotten into the 
 subplots and additional stuff. I would have thought that having over ten systems to visit, they 
 would have had more than dozen planets to land on. But, since the planets you can land on have 
 basically nothing besides some crashed probes and maybe a small scientist base, they're really, 
 really deserted. And if you take out textures and skyboxes, they all look the same
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  BioWare once again comes up with scifi-roleplaying game, where you can have your character go a 
 few ways; the good boy, the bad boy, or the something in-between. Previous games such as Knights 
 of the Old Republic had you going either way, now the line is more gray, or as clear as you make 
 it to be.
  
  I picked a soldier, who eventually became a shiny hero. Eventually I have to admit that being a 
 total Renegade will most likely result in more funnier conversations, so that's definetely the 
 way I'm gonna play it through the second time. Also, since I'm a soldier, I totally lack all electronics 
 and biotic skills, which seem to be quite nicely done, at least when it comes to effects alone, 
 so there's something more to try out too.
  
  The mainplot itself isn't very long. Some people have commented playing the game through in 9 hours 
 or even less. I did almost all (missed just a couple) quests I gathered, resulting in about 39 
 hours of gametime. So yes, if you do everything (and why shouldn't you) , it'll have a proper length.
 
  However, here comes the downer : the sidequests and places are bit of a lackluster. Every planet 
 looks the same, just with a different ground texture and a different, albeit usually very beautifull, 
 sky. Also, they're highly mountainous, if that's even a word. No rivers of anykind, neither any 
 tree's or tree-like plants or whatever. No formations of rock, no craters, no nothing. Well yeah, 
 sure, they have some places you can visit, but none of those places that have no real meaning, 
 they'd just be there. So basically in Mass Effect, almost every building serves a purpose, there 
 isn't anything left just stranded or inhabited with no quests. The one's that do not have anything 
 living nearby or inside, serve as a point of interest for minerals or some discovery.
  On some (or most) planets you can land on, there's aliens of sorts or quests involving you to do 
 some shooting. Sadly, these 95% of the time happen in same looking places. I can understand if 
 all scientist bases look the same, but a spider-like-race's caves are also identical in layout 
 (only boxes and other stuff are in different place or switched) ? That's just pure lazyness.
  
  Same thing goes for weapons really. You have dozen or so different manufacturers, maybe even 
 more. But wether the manufacturer is human, turian, salarian or whatever, they make the weapons 
 from two different types of molds (per weapon type) . I wouldn't think that asari's, more used to 
 small-group tactics, would use the same looking weapons as the krogan, who like to attack in horde's 
 and can take a physical punishment in greater amounts. That just doesn't make sense.
  Inventory system has suffered a great brain-lapse from someone, since it's one of the most useless 
 one's in years. It is tedious (everything under the same category) and slow to use. Scrolling down 
 the list takes around a second per item, so scrolling down the full inventory (150 items) can make 
 you feel a bit stupid.
  
  Graphically the game looks great, but that is only when the textures have fully loaded, which sometimes 
 takes far too long. And by long I mean moments like, you're watching a cutscene and time to time 
 the camera-angles change fast, but the the textures do not have enough time to load, so all you 
 see is a bit rough-around-the-edges things with blurred textures, which is something you wouldn't 
 expect on a machine that doesn't have varying graphic cards to buy. And it doesn't merely look 
 bad, it also eat's some away from the scene, when your characters look far less detailed than they 
 should.
  
  But gladly, the game has it's high points, and that are the conversations in general, which are 
 made with pure excellency. The voice acting is good, spiced up with good-enough facial animations, 
 that more or less reflect what the person is feeling. And what is most excellent, is the fact that 
 all the dialogue is spoken, not just text, which makes it far less tiring to follow. Also, one 
 half of the Codex is also spoken, making finding out about history and other things much greater 
 fun, so it's a bit sad they didn't do the other half as well.
  Along the conversations, come the choices. Often comes a moment, when you have to make a choice 
 of what you're going to do (of which charm and intimidation skills add a choice of their own, if 
 your skill is high enough) . Sometimes, those choices directly affect if some person is going to 
 live or not, and since there's a possibility where you've began to care about a person or the situation, 
 the choices become hard to make. But gladly, there's always choices suiting your character, wether 
 you play good, evil, or the in-between'er.
  
  One thing left to say is about combat. I'd say it's ok. It's not great and lacks the polish of 
 modern FPS-games, but it works good enough. Unlike in KotOR's, you cannot personally control your 
 teammates, but you can still give'em basic orders (follow me, get into cover, attack the target 
 and move to location you're pointing at) , which sadly doesn't work in paused mode. You can still, 
 however, command your friends to use their abilities in a pause-mode, which adds some depth to 
 it. Your mates have an A. I of high enough to properly act on their own, altough they keep close 
 to you if you do not tell'em otherwise. Their A. I has two settings, passive and active. I don't 
 understand what's the point with passive, since while it should make'em defend themselves instead 
 of just attacking, they seem to die a whole lot quicker than in active mode, so I didn't see any 
 purpose for it. And of course, regarding this matter and others, the manual of the game is a complete 
 joke, and doesn't answer to any other questions besides your controller button layouts and customer 
 support numbers, etc etc.
  Difficulty on normal is... well, easy after 15% completion or so. First the combat is hard, sometimes 
 too much so, but after a point it becomes way too easy, and the geth will begin dropping like fly's, 
 while your shields are still up and running. But I guess harder difficulties can be more rewarding.
 
  
  There's a bunch of those small negative things that keep bringing the illusion of a uncharted space 
 down, but due to the combination of good graphics, excellent conversation and plot, Mass Effect 
 ends up being a very good game (but not a GotY) . If the non-mainplot places would have had the 
 same kind of respect added to'em as the mainplot places had, I'm sure the overall review would 
 be much, much more positive, definetely a GotY material. But now, it leaves more to desire.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supernoob662
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  As i said early a true innovation, i personaly have never played a game like this before. This 
 is one of the only games that can get me off of Halo 3, with a deep emersive story it pulls you 
 in and you can't stop. The awosme gameplay dosen't hurt either, the combat is so fun, no other 
 words can describe it, fun which is the way games were meant to be. The only not good thing of 
 Mass Effect is that very raley there is some framerate jitters and sometimes in the corner of my 
 eye i will see my allies firing at a wall, but besides those little nitpicks this is a true clear 
 cut winner for game of the year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tombfyre
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  This weekend I completed my first run through this great Bioware epic. I can only start by saying 
 that it was incredible. My first playthrough was 41 hours. I don't think I've given very many games 
 "10" on a scale of 10... every game has flaws and this one has a few, but makes up for it in storytelling. 
 (i'm also a big fan of RPGs in general) .
  
  I was simply stunned by the quality of the dialogue and how for the most part you never felt like 
 you were saying anything unimportant. Bioware has revolutionized the way we play RPGs yet again, 
 this time focusing obviously on characters. All of the characters exhibit a full range of emotions, 
 making eye contact and using realistic body language to express themselves. It is truely a step 
 ahead. The main plot is interesting and the setting, lore, and the entire universe takes shape 
 almost imediately upon starting a new game. I won't get into any details why I liked the story, 
 because its not worth ruining for anyone. If you are a fan of Sci-fi / Fantasy, you'll like it.
 
  
  As far as gameplay goes, I was ery impressed how they did the real time combat. I always hated 
 turn based gun combat, and ME fills the gaps between full FPS & Turn based very well. Making it 
 a twitch based system that doesn't require you to overdose on red bull to enjoy. The dialogue interface 
 is well done. Level Design for the MAIN story arc was exceptional (i'll get to that in a moment) . 
 
  
  Now on to what wasn't right, no games perfect after all even though i gave it a 10. First, the 
 interface. The 150 slot inventory the layout, and the entire design of the menus, were just aweful 
 (except for the character skill screen that was ok) . I mean... having to gel level 9 and 10 items 
 because i forgot to sell off my level 8 stuff, made me cry (not really) . The Party AI was average, 
 I found myself fighting alone many times because my party members would stand in the open and wave 
 at people firing at us. But other then that, I can't attach any more flaws to the game. 
  
  Why don't I factor in the above in my score? Its because my own personal "tilt" towards RPGs and 
 Sci-fi fantasy settings pushes it up, and its been a very long time that a game has given me that 
 happy warmy I've finished a great piece of story telling and I feel great about it. I think the 
 last time I could say this was Final Fantasy 3. 
  
  Great Job Bioware! Don't let EA change you! And let me bring my character over to ME2. 
  
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Bioware has done it again with Mass Effect. The latest release in the company's celebrated heritage 
 and their first Xbox 360 exclusive title, this is the next-gen role-playing game Microsoft fans 
 have been waiting for.
  
  But to label Mass Effect as merely an RPG wouldn't be doing it justice. It's an evolution of everything 
 Bioware has done before, refining some of the more flummoxing hardcore elements of its games gone 
 by, adding more action-oriented combat, and laying it all on a bed of oh-so-shiny interstellar 
 HD loveliness.
  
  As an adventure, Mass Effect makes Jade Empire seem small. As a cinematic sci-fi fiction, it makes 
 Knights of the Old Republic look like a Choose Your Own Adventure picture book. And yet as a game, 
 it falls somewhere between the two.
  
  Mass Effect has none of the latter's complex item management, but also delivers deeper character 
 customisation than the rudimentary system of the former. The outer-space setting makes it feel 
 like Star Wars without the lightsabers, and yet Mass Effect's combat takes Jade Empire's idea of 
 real-time combat and, instead of martial arts, gives you guns.
  
  The story in Mass Effect is pure science fiction melodrama, seeing you create a character and set 
 out on a truly immersive space opera to save all allied worlds from the threat of the invading 
 evil cybernetic space faring Geth, led by a rogue member of the galaxy's elite law enforcement 
 agents, the Spectre Saren. Playing as John (or whatever you choose his first name to be) Shephard, 
 you're soon in charge of your own state-of-the-art spaceship and delving into Mass Effect's engaging 
 mix of action, dialogue and exploration.
  
  Mass Effect's action takes its cues from Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter, with a tactical Bioware 
 twist. On the surface its all-out squad combat, with orders (take cover, fall back, move to a waypoint 
 or attack a specific target) for your two team mates on the D-Pad, aiming on L, firing on R, plus 
 movement and aiming across the two analogue sticks.
  
  Press the bumpers, however, and the game pauses to give you one of two wheels  letting you switch 
 weapons or direct your team to use their magic-like biotic abilities. It's a fine balance between 
 action and turn-based RPG combat, and proves rewarding if you're concentrating. Those wanting a 
 more accessible experience, however, will want to knock the difficulty down to easy.
  
  Though combat is a step forward, the dialogue and moral systems in Mass Effect are closer to KoTOR 
 than Bioware would have had us believe, with dialogue choices split between friendly, businesslike 
 and aggressive. What's delightful is how your background (chosen at the game's outset) , responses 
 and actions throughout Mass Effect shape the way characters interact with you, giving you increased 
 conversation options as the game progresses. 
  
  That's a Bioware staple, and in Mass Effect it's been refined to the Nth degree. It's also presented 
 impeccably well. Full recorded speech is of the highest order, with a rousing, epic musical score 
 and visuals up there with Gears of War. This is the new benchmark for RPG titles, make no mistake. 
 
  Rip-roaring and radiant Mass Effect might be, but it's far from flawless. Firstly, having been 
 thrown in at the deep end with no tutorials in the first five hours, you discover that the majority 
 of planets in Mass Effect's seemingly diverse galaxy are rocky terrain with one single building. 
 And getting across these means controlling the Mako; a Halo Warthog-esque land vechicle with frustratingly 
 floaty controls and a next-to-useless turret weapon. It makes for a deceptively more repetitive 
 experience than we'd have hoped.
  
  The most annoying gripe, however, is that throughout Mass Effect there's no way to manage your 
 inventory unless you sell things at shops. If you pick up items with a full 150-item inventory, 
 instead of allowing you to drop old, unwanted ones or refuse to take the new items altogether, 
 Mass Effect forces you to reduce your fresh gains to the game's puzzle-helping aid, omni-gel.
 
  
  Despite the visual flair, Mass Effect also runs inconsistently at best. Film grain and motion blur 
 activated as default can see proceedings crawl when the going gets hectic, so it's best to turn 
 them off (it looks shinier, and arguably better without them anyway) , but even then the frame rate 
 will clunk out occasionally. That said, Mass Effect's RPG nature and pausable combat make it less 
 of a problem than that might sound.
  
  Overall, it may have more than a few flaws, but Mass Effect is still nothing less than the 360's 
 biggest and best adventure, bar none. And as the first chapter in a trilogy, Bioware have two titles 
 to improve the template. Pacing problems and the odd technical glitch aside Mass Effect is rich, 
 absorbing sci-fi fun, and should be regarded as one of the finest titles we've seen in 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnubisRaHorus
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  This is the game to get if u love shooters and/or rpg. The ability to choose what to say is so 
 much fun. I love it when u get to a point in the conversation where it ill say either let's end 
 thi peacefully or myn favorite choice "Just kill him already". I also love how u can do ide missions 
 before touching any of the main missions which helps with those main missions. This game is so 
 addicting that I end up waking up in the middle of the night for no reason and I start playin Mass 
 Effect for at least 2 hours. This game is a must have and don't let anyone tell u otherwise. I 
 may only have 32 hours played but I plan to play through it again since u can use your previous 
 career stats on a new career, and do it all renagade just to see what happens. If u get stuck anywhere 
 sned me a message on xbox live my profile name is 
  xFDMxAnubis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  I was very skeptical about this title... I was never the biggest fan of Bioware previous console 
 titles (KOTOR, Jade Empire) so I wasn't exactly sure if this game would live up to it's hype... thankfully 
 my hype was practically non-existent and my opinions were left wide open. From the moment you start 
 creating your character, to the open cinematics... to the final cut-scene... you're completely pulled 
 into a world that looks and plays excellent. The visuals and cut-scenes are very impressive... and 
 your choices actually reflect the way the council and people react to you. The combat might be 
 complained about but works really well... the controls are dead-on and I never had a single issue 
 commanding my team or myself. The game might dip a bit on the framerate... I chose to remove the 
 motion blur effect... but I highly recommend keeping the film grain on because it provides ton of 
 atmosphere to the whole presentation. The story is probably the most interesting and engaging i've 
 ever experienced in playing a videogame... I actually cared for my teammates and the choices I made. 
 I am currently on my 2nd playthrough just because I enjoyed it sooo much... this time I'm making 
 different choices and can already see the difference in transition to the overall plot. My only 
 complaint is it ended too soon... otherwise it would have been a perfect 10. Everyone MUST play 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elcamino72
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Its Been a while since i was this excited to re-play a video game. To put it simply this game Is 
 better then any other game on any next-gen consle. Fir. st of all the graphics are amazing. I own 
 a TV that was made in probly 1978 and Mass Effect made me belive that i had a HDTV. Next the Soundtrack 
 is amazing and is turly amazing. In the right time the music perks up and makes you belive your 
 watching a movie insted of playing a game. The Gameplay is a little short of perfect i must admit. 
 It is a good over the shoulder shooter but the aiming could use a little help. The biotech powers 
 are amazing to play around with and make you feel like you can control anything. The Conversations 
 in the game are somtimes too exciting for simply talking. You feel as if you choices in the conversations 
 in the game will affect the game 'til the end. It is also very playable as it is easy for anyone 
 to pick up the controler and play on the casual setting. Easily the best game of '07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingDevon23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This game could entertain you for many hours, but I just expected a tad bit more ! You get to customize 
 your player to look like you and the whole game plays out in an intense story where you get to 
 choose what you say or do. The only complaint about this game would be the part when you have to 
 battle enemies. I can be fun, don't get me wrong, but it doesn't seem realistic enough for all 
 the work they put into other parts of this game. There is no bloodshed and when they get hit by 
 bullets they don't seem effected unless you do it multiple times. The graphics a GREAT !!! I played 
 this game on my old T. V. and the graphics were mind blowing.... now just think if you hooked it 
 up to your HDTV. Overall the game is worth buying, but I think its more of a story game than battle. 
 But you may see it differently from me. Also there are a FEW glitches... they aren't that bad but 
 they are noticeable. I think if they were to make another addition to this game and improve the 
 shooting actions and the guns then they would have an instant classic !!! GO BUY IT NOW ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jphurley82
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  What a great game.
  
  Story line-which is what makes an RPG-voice acting, character animation, all are top notch. It's 
 an engrossing experience. And you don't have to be a Sci-Fi nerd to enjoy it!
  
  Real RPGers will no doubt agree with me when I say the character development isn't a strong point 
 here. The character development is not much stronger here than Bioshock, which was a shooter first 
 and RPG second. Most leveling up will come in the form of equipment changes and upgrades and not 
 stat advancement. 
  
  The classes feel somewhat limited in their various powers. However, limited power interaction does 
 one thing for you -- it makes you want to go back through and play the game at least an extra time. 
 Sniper rifles don't mix with biotics, and you'll want the chance to use both.
  
  
  The story and character interaction alone are worth playing the game, but that's not all that is 
 here. Once you get used to the interface, battles can be strategic and exciting. Unfortunately, 
 unless you are playing on the difficult setting, strategy and thought are not usually necessary 
 to get through conflicts. You'll find that a little thought and planning may make boss battles 
 easier, but planning will only waste time against 90% of the battles that you will encounter.
 
  
  
  It is a great game with a great story. I don't agree with Gamespot's blasting of the combat system, 
 but overall, I'd agree with the review they've put up.
  
  Check it out. Buy it! Let's get a sequel here and get what few bugs there are worked out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beachbob1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I LOVED this game and would like to see more of this type in the future. Bio Ware did a Great Job 
 on most of this title. Graphics, Dialogue options and marriage of the 3rd person shooter all were 
 pulled off with a 10. My only gripe is the story didn't grab me like in Neverwinter nights or even 
 Blue Dragon. I found myself bored wandering around talking with insignificant npc's. Just didn't 
 feel epic in nature or make me want to keep playing all night. (could of used a better antagonist 
 maybe? less elevators?) Maybe it's just not my flavor. That said everyone should experience this 
 game, it does break new ground in many ways.... But for pacing and story I only gave it a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dojodawg
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I thought that Mass Effect was going to be the best game this year. Unfortunately, Mass Effect 
 is just another Role Playing Game. I found the game to be buggy and glitchy. It is repetative. 
 Although this game does have a good side. I found the combat mode to be very innovative and fund. 
 Unfortunately, all of that is drowned out by the monotonous dialogue. I still would rather play 
 Kotor because of the story. I just wish Mass Effect would let you skip the dialouge. Still it is 
 a good game. I prefer Assassin's Creed, Cod4 and Rock Band this year, but Mass Effect will keep 
 you occupied for a while. I think that the characters in this game are great. Also the AI is fantastic. 
 TOo Fantatstic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pachatad
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I was incredibly excited to play the game and was almost completely satisfied. The story was better 
 than advertised. It was immersive, epic, and very well executed. The main campaign was a lot of 
 fun and really well paced and exciting. The side quest are fun but very repetitive. There still 
 enjoyable but there are only really one or two types of side quests. The combat is also really 
 well done but during the side quests gets repetitive. The same enemies get thrown at you, the only 
 challenge is the numbers you face. I found the game very difficult in the beginning but as I leveled 
 up and upgraded my weapons I found I had more money then I could spend and the combat became too 
 easy. The way the game was advertised it made it seem the dialogue would be deeper. Each conversation 
 only has two ways it can go, you can be nice or a dick. The graphics and sound were really awesome. 
 This game is just begging for surround sound! I really loved this game and besides repetitive side 
 quests I have no complaints. If you love a good RPG, are a fan of Science Fiction, or are just 
 in the mood for a fun immersive game I highly recommend Mass Effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomsantos
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I've been staying up way too late playing this game. The intrigue-laden plot is huge. You decide 
 when and where you want to bring your ship around the galaxy, although the beginning of the game 
 has you mostly on a wheel-world where the galactic council sits. There is a ton of stuff to do 
 before you even *start* to go out into the galaxy with your agenda. You have complete control over 
 the way you handle yourself. You can choose to be downright Evil, saintly Good or anything in between. 
 Dialog between you and the NPCs is very natural and looks great. You can decide to quickly go through 
 most dialogs or you can dig deeper on many of them. Combat is fluid but you have to pause it frequently 
 to direct your cohorts. I found combat to be quite challenging. I think the GameSpot review punished 
 this game too much for the few gripes they had. I've hit a bug or two and the ATV you use to cruise 
 around planet surfaces has a turret which doesn't have the greatest firing arcs but it looks about 
 right for how the ATV is designed. Also, the "worm problem' they griped about really isn't there 
 as far as I can tell. I manage to avoid them most of the time. If you like games with tremendous 
 plots and plenty of dialog, you should not miss this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfunkmaster
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  There are a few companies that i will no dout buy a game from when it comes out ( Blizzard, Total 
 War, Bungie, Ubi Soft, Epic...) Now Bioware is on that list. This is my number 1. it is quite possably 
 the best game i have ever played. it gest a 10 in all categorys (graphics, difficulty, voice acting, 
 story, game play...) Bioware has a petagree of making some of the greatest RPGs around, But now 
 they have made the best rpg around. The Game is much like there other titals in witch all your 
 choices will efect some clymatic ending to the story. But in this game before you eaven start playing 
 you get to choose what your carecter is like, if he is brutal or a war hero, born on earth or in 
 space. And what you choose wont totaly pre desten you to be that peson that saves unifys or destrys 
 life but will effect the conversations in the game world. But unlike there other titals like kotor 
 and jade empire this game is almost totaly open ended. i say unlike kotor or jade becuse in kotor 
 there are 5 planets to go to and in jade 4 towns or citys but in this game there is upwords of 
 50 different planets with almost 100 diferent side qwests. also the cobat system meshes the over 
 the shoulder shooter style of gears of war and the turn based strategy of Kotor. That is Just a 
 few resons why this game is indeed "Revolutionary". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasianman
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  This has got to be 1 of the best games I've ever played. The story is the best of every game that 
 I've played. The combat system is as good as GRAW if not better an you can upgrade to new guns 
 and modify your guns too. Them game is a technical marvel because they fit almost 100 huge planets 
 on to a 9 gb disk. There are a few glitches though. There not really glitches just things they 
 need to fix. Every time you get to a new area or a cut scene it reloads all the textures so things 
 are blurry for a few seconds. it doesn't take away from the game play though. Its probably my favorite 
 single player game and should get GOTY. I've gotten so addicted to it and can't stop playing it. 
 You would be stupid not to by this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HercDriver
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  This game is great! I kills a rainy day like no other. There are plenty of submissions and a lot 
 of exploring to do. I like all of the basic concepts of an RPG rolled into new techniques of playing 
 them! By that I mean I like the dialog trees, and I like how I can choose the dark side or light 
 side, but the way I go about it makes it better. 
  
  This is a relatively simple game! I still don't care about all the upgrades and the armor and the 
 extras. Being a part time guy who likes a good RPG from now and then, this game makes it easy to 
 just pick up, play, and win. I don't need to spend endless hours upgrading, buying and selling 
 stuff! In fact I went the whole game without buying a thing!
  
  This game won't blow your socks off like X-play led me to beleive! But it is a great game. One 
 that I think I will pick up in a couple of years and play again!
  
  Thanks BIOWARE!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sugamama9944
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2007 12:44 am PT
Review:  The game is developed from Bioware. Bioware is the hottest and best company out there in the RPG 
 gaming world. It has brought KOTOR, Baldur's Gate, and the famous Neverwinter Nights for the PC. 
 This company has a great track record for delievering games of high quality, usually pushing a 
 PC or console's ability to run it.
  
  I have had hands on experience with the game at my friend's house and I played it for at least 
 an hour. The game was a great blend of RPG and FPS. The developers spent time on the combat and 
 it was a better experience than KOTOR. The graphics weren't Gears of War great, but they were amazing 
 anyways. 
  
  The voice acting was amazing and it sounded as if you were in the middle of a movie with the power 
 of picking the character's words. The cinematic scenes were amazing as well. I enjoyed watching 
 them.
  
  I've heard that there isn't much customization in the game and that most planets look the same. 
 I've also noticed that there is a slight drop in framerate, graphics drop a little, loading is 
 long, and that there are glitches that pop up once in a while, but that is expected from a game 
 as large as Mass Effect.
  
  I hope that the game isn't dull because I plan to buy it soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OneWingedAngeI
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  I had my reservations about Mass Effect. I played KOTOR and other WRPGs, and let me say in general, 
 they have not been my favorite. I tend to feel disconnected from the characters, and the main stories 
 tend to be underwhelming. Fortunately, I decided to give this one a chance, and I was utterly blown 
 away.
  
  It took a few hours for me to realize how amazing the game was, partly because it does a poor job 
 of acclimating you to the mechanics of the game. I can see how some people might look the game 
 over before they get to experience its excellence, and that is a shame.
  
  Once you gain understanding of how the combat works, let me tell you it is amazing. First of all, 
 do not, by any means walk into this game looking for a shooter. Headshots and the like are meaningless. 
 This is an RPG. In fact I am going to use one of my favorite RPGs in my description of this game.
 
  
  When it comes to combat, anyone who played Secret of Mana on the SNES is in for a real treat. Mass 
 Effect uses a mechanic very similar to the rings used to select spells and other options in SoM. 
 As you pull up this ring however, it is not such a break in the action as it was in Mana. When 
 this ring comes up you can do 2 useful things. You can target enemies and you can que up a special 
 attack or skill for each character. 
  
  Once you have things que'd up you generally want to fire as you let go of the right bumper button. 
 This all comes together to allow you to quickly assess each battle and make sure of how you want 
 things to go down. I find it much better then the way other games like this had done things. They 
 just took too much of a break in the action.
  
  The dialogue system is great, not perfect, but great. I had heard talk of being able to interrupt 
 people mid conversation, but that did not materialize. What they did however was allow you to really 
 control the way the conversations go down. This leads to a feeling of connection with your character 
 because you can choose the way everything goes down. The usual good guy/bad guy or something in 
 between mantra applies.
  
  The music in the game is absolutely well done. I only wish there had been a little more of it. 
 One of the other things that truly shines in Mass Effect is the map. A map seems like a silly thing 
 to praise but if you have any sort of interest in space and the universe, you are in for a real 
 treat.
  
  At the most zoomed out layer, you can see our galaxy in its entirety. The sheer number of stars 
 you see is amazing. Scattered about are the various nebulae in the galazy, quite a few to be had. 
 You select one, and the screen zooms through into the nebula, which in turn contains solar systems. 
 Again you can choose one and zoom in to the system.
  
  Why is this special? the way you zoom in and out gives an idea of the scope of just this one single 
 galaxy that i cannot quite put into words. It is breathtaking, humbling. In each system you have 
 the various planets, but unfortunately only one is usually actually explorable. On the bright side 
 however, each planet may be examined and most contain very detailed information about the planet, 
 its makeup, history, and notable features.
  
  The game's central plot is absolutely 5 star quality. Without spoiling anything I will say that 
 the story will envelope you in the goings on of the entire galaxy in a way that keeps you interested 
 for the duration, and beyond.
  
  Now this game is not without its flaws. I would be a bad reviewer if I failed to note them. The 
 inventory system is an utter mess. It's difficult to explain, but it is confusing and downright 
 stupid in some areas. The item limit does not help either. If you hit the limit, and pick up new 
 items, you will have no choice but to discard them. So be warned, always keep free room.
  
  The non-story essential planets are mostly bland, often reusing the buildings and structures found 
 on each other. Whoever was contracted to build all this stuff must be wealthy because they have 
 the whole galaxy on lockdown. The planets are also mostly barren, and I feel the developers missed 
 a real opportunity here to develop some interesting ecosystems.
  
  You are not required to play through all of these planets, but if you are any kind of completionist, 
 you may find them very boring at times. Your squadmate's AI can get iffy at times, and the system 
 for giving them orders is not great. Fortunately you can usually control the action enough that 
 it is not an issue. 
  
  There are also loading and texture issues which should just not be happening. The mako tank does 
 not have the best controls, but it isn't horrible. Another personal peeve is the need to unlock 
 difficulty settings. I would have enjoyed the game more if I could have played a hard mode from 
 the start.
  
  All in all the game is not a perfect one, but it definitely lives up to the hype. Do not let the 
 negative aspects of the game deter you, I almost did and would have sorely regretted it. You are 
 left fully satisfied at the end of the game, but as Mass Effect is a trilogy, they keep you interested 
 enough to want more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmflood1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  I rarely complete a console game. That is a fact. I have Halo 3, Bioshock, Call of Duty 4, Orange 
 box and some others sitting here in my room (except for Call of Duty 4, who really buys that for 
 one-player)
  
  But, Mass Effect was the most enthralling! It has a solid storyline that draws you into the game 
 play. And Mass Effect's sci-fi theme has a much different twist from all of the many others that 
 have been flooding the market this year. This game plays like an episode of Stargate and has some 
 of the classic outer space themes in there. But the graphics, excellent voice-overs, and the unique 
 decisions that I can make that change the game play is over the top! 
  
  I highly recommend this game to everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IISF-SniperII
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect, what can i say? First off Mass Effect is an action rpg with some shooter elements 
 that come together in an amazing package and presentation that made me drool the first time i popped 
 in the disk. It's an rpg so of course the story is a major part. If you have ever played a game 
 from Bioware you know how mezmerizing the stories in all of their games are, and Mass Effect is 
 no different the story is extremely deep and leaves alot of room for expansion. There are plenty 
 of moments in it where you will say "that was friggin awesome", i know i did.
  
  The universe is not actually as big as you might think, you can't land on every single planet you 
 see. Which was a bit of a dissapointment on my part but did not get in the way of enjoying the 
 rest of the game. Another small complaint is the lack of different enviroments, if you've landed 
 on one ice planet you have landed on all of them.
  
  The combat is a complete innovation for rpg's, it has a cover system which works rather well and 
 the guns have an awesome amount of power behind them which makes mowing down your enemies pretty 
 satisfying. There are powers your character has called biotic powers, kinda like force powers in 
 star wars, that are hard to use in the begginning of the game but they grow on you and eventually 
 become another enjoyable part of Mass Effect.
  
  The graphics are amazing in Mass Effect, characters and enviroments are highly detailed. The only 
 drawback to this graphical awesomeness is the framerate which occasionally slows down during intense 
 firefights and other moments that call for extreme rendering.
  
  The game is actually pretty short, my first playthrough was at almost exactly 30 hours, but i can 
 guaruntee that you will not see everything the first time around which calls for multiple completions 
 and makes the game fun every single time you play it.
  
  Overall Mass Effect is an amazing game that is definately worth buying if you love a game with 
 a good story. If you have ever played another Bioware game you are in for a treat with Mass Effect.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paperlink789
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is pure on amazing and you know whatI think the people that review this game and say 
 that it is bad should go die because no one will miss them. This game has a huge expansive universe 
 and you can choose your on destiny linke in such great games as kights of the old republic and 
 the elder scrolls 4 oblivion. The graphics in this game are so great you will sometimes mistake 
 it for real life .this game is huge and great and if you are not already rushing off to get it 
 then you have no soul. (If you are right know trying to get the money to buy this game that is 
 understandable) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agreb91
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The Storyline, Visuals, sound.
  The Bad: Auto-saving is a mess, and the game slowing down. 
  
  
  First off, Mass Effect is 
 an amazing looking. The game's visuals are one of the one games strongest attributes. Even better 
 than the pretty looking visuals are is the amazing story.
  
  In Mass Effect you play as Commander Shepard. When the game begins you can create you own customized 
 character or you can choose to play with the default pre-made character. The customizing elements 
 are well thought out and let you take full control of your characters full appearance, from sex 
 to hair. 
  
  The story involves you, Commander Shepard. The story begins with you aboard the Normandy. The Normandy 
 is a Human Navy Alliance Vessel. You start the game out by having to go to a human colony where 
 a distress signal came from. After beating the level you discover that a Specter has gone rouge 
 and you have to stop that Specter. Over all the story is amazing, and with BioWare's famous "choose 
 you own path" style you can make you story unique through every play through.
  
  The game does has it faults as well. The game requires a lot action going on on the screen. So 
 at this times the game tends to lag, even at time you loosing track of what is going on, causing 
 your death. These instances are very annoying and can hold back a battle from being enjoyable. 
 
  
  Saving in the game is a problem too. The game does not auto-save enough either. It does very little, 
 so you can find yourself going back and doing things over again, even dialogue, which can be a 
 hassle doing over again. This problem tends to lead you into saving a lot during your play through 
 on Mass Effect. 
  
  Overall, the small problems that Mass Effect has does not stop the great story and great time playing 
 the game. It looks great, plays okay, and probably has one of the best story lines of 2007. 
  
  Recomended to all who loved Knights of the Old Republic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antpower
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect-All I can say is this is by far one of the most amazing games I have played in my life! 
 I've never had a game where 26 hours has flown by so quick! The story is thrilling and the sheer 
 amount of backstory giving to the characters is outstanding. After each mission it's well worth 
 going round and talking to your crew as you never know what else they are going to say or where 
 it may lead!
  The graphics are fantastic! Many a time I found myself stopping to admire the scenery. Whilst the 
 texture loading is quite frequent, it never in my opinion mars the game as it only last a matter 
 of seconds. As for the frame rate, a tad jerky at times but again, nothing that makes you think 
 "this is really annoying!"
  Occasionally a character got stuck in the scenery but I'd say it happened only 5 times in the 26hrs 
 I played it-so that's not too bad when all said and done!
  There, that's the only downpoints to the game!
  The combat system is easy to use. I preferred 
 to play the game with the party set to active use. I found they got me out the deep end a few times 
 whilst still being able to manually attack certain targets with their powers if I choose. The AI 
 of the squad can be iffy at times but again, not that bad that it spoils the game. All in all, 
 I enjoyed the combat. All of the wepons were nicely affective when used in the correct situation.
 
  The dialogue system with the rotating wheel is simple and quick. Also, you never know for sure 
 what they will say which leads to some surprising consequences!
  The game leveling up options again offer you good freedom as you can choose to level up your favourite 
 abilities or go for a general spread-the choice is yours!
  Mass Effect is the closest video gaming has got to been an interactive movie. I'd say this game 
 is better than most of the rubbish on tv or released at the cinema's! 
  I finished the game disapointed with one thing-knowing that we are all facing a long wait until 
 Mass Effect 2 is released!
  in the meantime, their is multiple different ways of playing the game and higher difficulty levels 
 that are unlocked after your first run through so it has plenty of replay value.
  If you are looking for frantic non stop action with minimal plot then this game is not for you. 
 If you are looking for a top quality sci-fi story, tough decisions to make, visually stunning with 
 good action segments to compliment it, then buy this game now!!!
  Be warned though, if you rush through the main quest and choose not to talk to people or explore 
 the galaxy then you are missing a big chunk of the game.
  I'll conclude my review by saying this-Mass Effect is bold, big and ambitious. The bar by which 
 games like this has just been raised!
  A milestone in gaming history-a video game classic-enjoy!!!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HESSLER1960
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  For the life of me, I can't figure out the reviews this "game" has gotten ! You spend an incredible 
 amount of time wandering around ,wondering what the next task is. The whole time making mostly 
 non-consequential chatter with unimportant characters. All this while your waiting for doors to 
 open and taking elevator rides that take forever. Even when you FINALLY get into a fire-fight, 
 the targeting , squad commands, speed and movement options are lousy. I was literally YAWNING while 
 playing this disaster. The cherry on top is a horrific button lay-out that requires an octopus 
 to operate smoothly. I'm going to use the disc as a coaster. P. U. !!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batmaniac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Aside some minor issues the game is amazing!
  From graphics to sound track, passing through storyline, characters and voice acting. This game 
 has everything, the one thing that bother me most was the inventory management, buying, selling 
 and manage your inventory in painful.
  don't let my complain stop you from playing this game, even with a couple of minor problems, BIOWARE 
 hit the spot and granted this game a place in the hall of 'BEST RPGs of ALL TIMES' (IMHO) .
  I'm yet to play the second run but is for sure it will happen.
  As usual the achievements get 
 you to try thing until you get it right or as said before play again to get the mutual exclusive 
 ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apersoninmd
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Alright, as most people were, I was excited about Mass Effect. It came, I got it, and I popped 
 it in. I made a character, but was slightly disappointed in the options. There are three basic 
 classes, and combinations of these three classes. Right off the bat, you could tell that the classes 
 weren't very well balanced. But you know, no biggie. The first positive thing I noticed was the 
 depth of the dialogue. Characters reflect what you are trying to say pretty well, and the models 
 are nice to look at. Textures don't load as subtly as you would like, however. There are countless 
 number of times that I saw layers being loaded, which just detracts from the experience, since 
 it seems like something that could have been fixed with a little more development time. Also, the 
 game cannot hold a steady frame rate. For such a highly touted game, you would think the developers 
 would have made sure the game was nice and polished before they sent it out the door. 
  
  The story is well told, and it really does feel like every decision you make changes the direction 
 that the game is going in. The AI of you squad seems to be pretty solid, although controlling them 
 is not really a fun experience. It seems to be much more practical to just let them do what they 
 will, and focus on you own character. There are some issues at times with opponent AI, however. 
 They often just foolishly rush straight at you, but also tend to just lounge around. Even with 
 this AI issue, it's still quite easy to get immersed into what is going on. There were several 
 times where I was surprised at how engaging the story is. 
  
  There are plenty of side quests, but the actual story line can be as short as 13 hours. The side 
 quests are generally enjoyable, but planets tend to all be the same. Some are bumpier than others, 
 but gravity and size tend to all be the same. 
  
  One thing that really helped getting into the game was the thought put into the galaxy. Everything 
 that seems unreal in the game is explained in a way that is easily understood. For example, ammo 
 is unlimited, not just because it makes the game more fun, but because technology has allowed guns 
 that don't use traditional rounds. Bioware makes sure to explain not only this, but every other 
 detail. Everywhere you turn, there is more information to put into your "Codex" (like a handheld 
 encyclopedia) . This information often explain why species act a certain way or why guns behave 
 the way they do. Pretty much anything you're curious about is explained. 
  
  The leveling system seems flawed as well. None of the abilities are all that thrilling to use, 
 and I found myself end up not using biotic abilities that often just because it was easier to pull 
 out my shotgun and blow them away. Core statistics cannot be changed (like speed, strength, dexterity 
 etc.) but instead there are abilities that increase damage as well as other statistics. There are 
 also not too many abilities to choose from, which detracts from the overall feel. One thing I expected 
 was good/evil based abilities, but this was nowhere to be found unless you include charm (good) 
 and intimidate (evil) , which only gives minor store discounts and some more dialogue.
  
  There isn't much diversity in weaponry or upgrades. There are pistols, shotguns, assault rifles, 
 and snipers. The only character that can use all of these to their full extent is the soldier. 
 All the characters can technically use all the guns, but if a certain character is not trained 
 in using shotguns for example, it pretty much becomes useless because of the heavy accuracy penalties. 
 Another issue I had with the items is that you would literally find five of the same item multiple 
 times in any given assignment. That means you could find the same armor upgrade five times, the 
 same ammo upgrade five times and so on, all within the same mission. This makes opening crates 
 and such pointless, and makes earning money from selling far too easy.
  
  Overall, Mass Effect is an immersive game that doesn't quite deliver what you would hope for. Mind 
 you, it's still fun to play, but it's not quite what you'd hope for. It's undoubtedly better than 
 the sum of its parts, simply because the parts aren't all that great. It's worth playing, but not 
 really worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodwakeace
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  mass effect is the best RPG i have played in a long time. i know that you have probably herd this 
 before but the acting in this game in fantastic. now you mite say who cares and you care you just 
 have only seen bad acting you probably didn't even know you had a chose. there are so many things 
 like that this game is so polished that it could blind you. if you liked KOTOR you just found a 
 game you are going to love. if you have played KOTOR you can see the similaritys but BioWare got 
 rid of all the stupidity from the old game and add a lot of cool things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawq902
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  When i went to go try this game out i was not all to excited because i heard there was A LOT of 
 cut scenes and talking, and there is. But all of this just makes the game a whole lot better. The 
 storyline is very interesting and you can tell they put a lot of thought into it, this really makes 
 the game a lot more interesting. The fighting is awesome, all the "powers" you have really can 
 affect the way you play the game, and it's great having two people always by your side and at your 
 command. The vehicle controls are a little tricky, it's quite tough to learn how to rive straight, 
 but you get the hang after a while of driving around. The coolest part of this game though is how 
 every decision you make affects the out come of the game. It's great because every time you play 
 through you could have a different experience. This game is a definite must have.
  Note: I've only played this game once and would have played it a lot more if i owned it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halosniper52
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  This hands down one of the best for the 360 and what I think is game of the year. You start out 
 as commender shepherd and your mission is to save the galaxy. If you want a great story this is 
 the perfect rpg for you. I can not stop playing this game i have beat it twice now and on normal 
 difficulty it will take you about 15 hours or so. With side quest tho alot longer. Graphic wise 
 its a pretty game to look at. But it does have alot of glitches you will see pop ups after loading, 
 frame rate drops, and will freeze sometimes. The game only froze on me two times and the frame 
 rate and pop ins can be forgiven since the game is just that good. You can take along with you 
 two others for your crew when fighting. The combat is great it will take you about 3 hours or so 
 till you really know what your doing tho. You can tell you crew what to kill and what moves to 
 use or you can just let the AI do that. There is so much to see in this game and so much voice 
 over to hear. You will find yourself coming back to this game for some time to come. Get this game 
 I think this will be the game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeavisRules5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun and has a lot of replay value. I have already beaten it once and I'm on my 
 second go around and I am still not bored with it. This game has very good graphics. The game is 
 a cool mix between an RPG and Shooter. The only problem I have noticed is that the FPS isn't the 
 best but it doesn't affect the game play at all. When making your character there is a lot of customization 
 between the look of your character and the characters history. The game is very detailed with the 
 chat system. The way you talk to people affects the way they react with you and the way other people 
 talk to you later in the game. All in all it is an awesome game with a lot of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darafina
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  I have been anticipating this game's arrival for almost a year. Now that I have played it at least 
 once through, it was well worth the wait. My best description of this game is that it is an oblivion 
 style game with gears of war style fighting. Plus, the storyline is well worth playing once through. 
 Although, I found the romance section of it a little awkward. Since I played as a female through, 
 I found that the only male option to romance with to be a little too girlie. I think my female 
 character was more of a man than the guy I was romancing. Really weird. Since it was an achievement 
 for the game, I had to sit through the torture at least once. This time around, I am a female again 
 but now I am romancing the asari. HA! I heard it was a little strange with her, but it is better 
 than having to watch through another romance scene with Keidan. *gross* :-) I hope this helps those 
 who are still up in the air about playing the game. If you like RPG's, then this is the game for 
 you. Oh, and the soundtrack for the game is really nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2577007
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  Its just flat out amazing, best RPG that I have ever played, and to be honest, its actually the 
 first RPG, in fact any game, that did not make me want to throw my controller out the window, but 
 mass effect will keep you engaged in the came for years and years to come, georgeous graphics, 
 with the beautiful laidout digital animations, its just like a movie experience, a must own. In 
 most cases, you actually do not have to be a RPG fan, its mostly just the experience you get playing 
 and interacting with the enviroment. 9/10 and of course EVERY game has glitches so dont go bitching 
 about rendering because every game in existence has it. Mass Effect best RPG next to Fable. Its 
 a gotta own game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MF5K
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  I finished my first play through and must say I was impressed with the story. There are many twist 
 and turns that left me going "What the Hell!!". As you learn more about your team, you get a feeling 
 of understanding them. I honestly felt invested in the characters. When you lose one you feel like 
 that was some bullshit. The fact that the not everything is what it seems was a great part of the 
 story.
  
  Game play for the most part was fun and exciting. As you level you really start to notice a gain 
 in power, both with weapons and abilities. The biggest draw back is the horrible inventory system. 
 You can't look at all your inventory at once to clean up some space. Other then that the system 
 works fine.
  
  The Graphics though great had a lot of texture popping. Which really took me out of some of the 
 scenes. But other wise the game looks gorgeous. 
  
  All and all the game was fun. An outrageously good first game now they just need to tweak some 
 of the stuff a bit. I'm sure the next game in the series will be just as good if not better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holopaw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a game you will probably remember for the rest of your days. Everything about this 
 game that we consumed for the last two-three years finally came true, and just as great as we all 
 had hoped. The game is of course a science fiction based rpg in the style of Bioware's famous KOTOR, 
 but thats not saying they are the same.
  The battle system consists of you holding down a button which pauses the game and brings up a radial 
 menu of abilities that you use along with weapons you used in a fps style, with the exception of 
 the pure biotic which cant really use weapons. I thought that it worked very well, accept for your 
 squad AI would be off sometimes during battle (firing at walls, casting actions at walls, not taking 
 cover, etc) . But, the AI problems are very forgivable once you get into the story of Mass Effect. 
 The dialog trees are brilliant, and gives it great replay. The graphics are beautiful, and the 
 voice acting among the best I have seen in a game. There is a problem with texture loading that 
 requires you to wait a few seconds for everything to load up once you start or reload a save, or 
 enter a building, but it again is forgivable on the larger scale of greatness this game brings. 
 The characters are very easy to get attached to, as they all have very unique personalities. Space 
 exploration was a very neat aspect, as it brought you all these fictional planets and systems that 
 were very well thought out and put together, which is great because im studying Astronomy, and 
 makes for a more deeper understanding of all the info they provide. If your like me and wanted 
 to consume everything possible, then you read all of the codec's, or had them narrated to you. 
 The codecs were amazingly well thought out, and explained things vital to fully understanding the 
 story and universe of ME.
  I played through as a soldier and finished the game level 50 and had played 40 hours on veteran 
 difficulty. I very well could have completed every available side quest in the game and got the 
 best ending possible. I have currently started another play-through with a pure biotic, and going 
 the Renegade path this time. I give Mass Effect a 9.5, it's just that amazing, and the best thing 
 about it is that Mass Effect will be a trilogy, along with episodic down-loadable content for all 
 three. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainWolf32
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Being a avid gamer age 33. In all my gameing years. I have never experienced such an emmersive 
 game. 
  
  Graphics. They are photo realistic. From the futuristic space theme. The neon lights, the characters 
 animation, faces. Everything is highly detailed. And every detail is there. The world feels alive. 
 With vast npcs to talk to. Places to explore. Its very bright and colorful. 
  
  Controls. The controls are very easy to learn. For rpg fans. The controls will be a fine. You have 
 your basic 3rd person shooter controls. Plus you have other buttons to select your biotic powers 
 or weapons, or team weapons, powers. Which is very fluid and easy. Cover system is very well done. 
 
  
  Gameplay. There is alot of variety. Each missions is different, different areas, different tasks. 
 Its the kind of game you loose yourself in. From realistic npcs to talk to. You have shooting. 
 You have interactive conversations. You can be bad, or good, even neutrul. Even though you have 
 this story. You have side quests. And different ways of doing things, either, bad, good, neutrul. 
 The leveling up, skills system, and just enhanceing, creating your character is truly amazing. 
 Best rpg I have played. I am hear to tell you. Its easily 100 hours plus. I am a huge Deus Ex fan. 
 Its my favorite game of all time. And never thought a game would be as good as it. But Mass Effect 
 is the game you have waited all your life from. Sure you may rush through this game in less time. 
 But if you really emmersive yourself. Take your time to do everything, explore everything, do every 
 task, talk to every person, level up manually yourself. It will take you easily over 100 hours. 
 Not to mention replay value of playing as bad, good, neutrul. Different endings. 
  
  Sound. The sound is very realistic. You can hear npcs, characters talking. The voice dialogue is 
 very high quality. The sound effects are also high quality. 
  
  Conclusion. As a gamer I have waited for a perfect game. And in past its just been this myth. However. 
 This is a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I have been a long time fan of BioWare games, with Knights of the Old Republic standing as one 
 of my top 3 Xbox games and probably amongst my favorite 10 or 15 games ever. So, I had high expectations 
 for this game and was more or less satisfied. However, there are a few complaints I have that keep 
 this game from perfection.
  
  Good: The battles are fantastic for an RPG. They are almost as well done as a top notch third person 
 shooter. The powers (biotics) are also excellent. The characters are absolutely compelling and 
 interesting. They emote constantly, and when they speak, you will want to listen. The script/story 
 and voice acting are the best of the year, no question. When the graphics are working, they are 
 also very impressive.
  
  Bad: Main missions on the Citadel and Feros/Vermire/Noveria are all fantastic. They take place 
 in varied and interesting environments that I would not mind going back to. But, side missions 
 almost always take place on an uncharted world. You scout around a barren or mountainous landscape 
 for 20-45 minutes and scan minerals, look for wreckage, and then enter either a mine, a base, or 
 a camp. There is a single environment model for each, and after 10 times or more in what appears 
 to be the same building, I feel like BioWare just tried to be too ambitious. It is not possible 
 to render that many worlds and create interesting missions on all of them. They really should have 
 aimed a bit lower, say 3-5 side missions and created varied and interesting landscapes/buildings 
 for these planets. This would have been much more fun and quite honestly, a lot more in the spirit 
 of KOTOR. Finally, the graphics engine has some serious technical problems. There is always pop-in 
 and there are frequent and irritating load times. There are some graphical/engine glitches as well 
 that cause you to get "stuck" from time to time. This is extremely frustrating if you are not vigilant 
 about saving your game as it will set you back several minutes or hours.
  
  Verdict: Although Mass Effect is filled with technical problems and seems to bite off a little 
 bit more than it can chew, the unforgettable story and compelling characters make this a worthwhile 
 game. Rent if you must, but I could easily justify buying this if you enjoy RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDSSTT
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Its Like "Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic" meets Scifi channel's TV show "Firefly" and movie 
 "Serenity". The game has one the best storyline out there for 360 right now. It does a very good 
 job at making you feel for the character or characters and how they live or die. KOTOR I/II was 
 one of if not the best Star Wars game today, and left me wanting more. Mass Effect takes the player 
 on a fairly straight forward mission of "get the bad guy" and then throws you twists and turns 
 and you find yourself making life or death choices that don't just affect you as the main character 
 but the game as a hole. I am working on my second time through and it is completely different. 
 The only real down side is the driving experience. The game should have a better rating then 8.5. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostwraithe
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I have only logged a few hours into Bioware products. I played KOTOR for about 10 hours, and Jade 
 Empire for about 5. I like both games, but they were easy to replace them with something else. 
 Knowing that I like Bioware games, and I love sci fi shooter games, I figured Mass Effect would 
 be a great game. I was 100% accurate.
  
  Mass Effect delivers as a great game in every aspect. Great story, stunning visuals, superb controls. 
 However it does have some shortcomings. 
  
  The dialog wheel for conversations is done quite well. Transitions in conversations run smooth 
 and flawless. After a answers, it is easy to give the game a cinematic feel as you converse with 
 people. One thing that I really appreciate that Bioware does, is that NPC's that have important 
 stuff to say, have actual names. This way I can bypass the 30 people standing outside that are 
 named Guard, or Attendant. I can go straight to the people I need to talk to, example characters 
 named like Captain Anderson, etc. Mass Effect falls short on their great dialog wheel at times 
 though. An example is sometimes each of the 3 choices you have give you the same outcome. Also 
 pressing X does not interrupt the character that is talking to allow you to shove it in their face, 
 it simply skips the dialog. The dialog wheel still works, and does a good job, just isnt quite 
 what Bioware promised.
  
  Visually Mass Effect is stunning. Unreal engine 3 really shines and the first time that you use 
 the sprint button you will be hooked, and will push it all the time. The sprinting graphics are 
 just, wow. Character models look great, and so life like. I did notice some texture loading issues, 
 but the things that load first look stunning, and then the textures load making it look tons better. 
 Even if the textures did not load at all, you would still be amazed. The character creation is 
 fun and their are loads of things you can customize, but Bioware did not deliver what they had 
 promised. Very close, but not quite.
  
  Controlling all the mayhem on screen during battles is amazing, but takes a little while to get 
 used to. After a few hours, intense firefights became cake, and you can use all your skills with 
 ease. Once I put the difficulty to Hardcore, I have noticed a few times where my right trigger 
 doesnt fire my weapon. Only for like 2 seconds, but it does happen. It has never gotten me killed, 
 but easily could.
  
  Level design is good but lacking in one particular boss fight. The only real flaw with the level 
 design is the everything is the same. Once you travel through your first base, every single base 
 for the entire game is exactly the same in layout. Every mine is the same. It is nice that you 
 know where to go always, but a change in layout would have been a more welcome idea.
  
  Being an RPG, this game responds exactly as an RPG should, however, if RPG's are not your thing, 
 you can play this game as a pure shooter. GRAW style with limited squad control. Even with Mass 
 Effects shortcomings, texture loading problems, clipping through walls, sometimes wonky AI, and 
 every base looking the same, it is still a great game and probably one of the funnest games to 
 ever play. Doing lots of side quests I logged in 27 hours of gameplay on my first run through. 
 Second run with lots of side quests I am about 10 hours into it, and am nearing the final 10 hours 
 or so. Lots of replay, however the main campaign feels very short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakerunner
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  The game is amazing don't get me wrong about that, the graphics are great but with some minor glitches 
 that caught my eye. The story is the biggest thing for me, I recently got more in to liking game 
 with really good stories behind them, game play just doesnt cut it anymore, but it still has to 
 be good. The game play is fun but its kinda the same thing over and over some enemys take 1 shot 
 some take 6 but the combat isn't very intense or making you want more. Now about the graphics, 
 the 2nd play throught I dont know if i just starting noticing or the game has more to load but 
 somethings the image splits a little, like one half of the guys head it up an inch higher than 
 the other side. Also somethings the games graphic loading takes some time, you may be walking around 
 in a low polygon world where everything is discolored and smooth, then finally the final layer 
 of graphics load on. Only one other small complaint I have is the explorable planets. There isn't 
 much to them. I could probably make you an explorable planet my self using the Unreal editor. Its 
 basically a big square open level that is all just terrain and an open sky with ocassional meteors 
 falling in the background then some minerals to survey so it gets repetative. Other than that the 
 game has an amazing story great graphics fun game play, alot to do *even if its a little repetative* 
 and the talking and character interaction is fun. Also the moral choices are interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMR1904
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  8.5 by gamespot. Sorry guys you're wrong on this one. 9.5 as a minimum. Yes it has some unpolished 
 bits in it. Yes it has a few areas which get repetitive in level design, and yes there is an horrendous 
 slowdown if you play it for 8/9 hours at a time like some unreconstructed obsessive fanboy. 
  
  None of that matter a damn. Mass Effect is a brilliant, compelling, beautifully presented, 
 wonderfully acted piece of computer roleplaying. Most action CRPGs are so light on RP bit as to 
 contravene the name. In Mass Effect Bioware have given us proper RP experience. You feel what you 
 do matter. There are character, you care about them. There is a universe to explore with an history 
 and multiplicity of cultures which are fascinating. You are presented with choice after choice 
 and they count, they have consequences. This is both where roleplaying came from and where i hope 
 it will go. 
  
  The carping about the things which they got wrong and giving this massive, wonderful game lower 
 scores than the pretty but empty Assassin's Creed, or C&C3, is ludicrous. This is a major achievement 
 in computer game playing. And it's the 1st in a trilogy. 
  
  Bring them on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heydawg321
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  -----Mass Effect -----
  
  If you want to know whether this game is worth it, just skip to the last paragraph. The following 
 paragraphs are just explaining my decision.
  
  I don't really troll system wars, or even post there that often, but I do like to keep track of 
 the hype of games and see if they can live up to it. Mass Effect had such an aura about it since 
 it was first shown. The idea of exploring planets and the incredible dialogue system seemed too 
 good to be true, and in some ways it was. However, I don't think it's fair to judge it based on 
 what it didn't deliver, but instead by weighing it's pros and cons and determining whether this 
 is a space adventure worth taking.
  
  A pro that is easy to see right away are the visuals, they are stunning to look at and I especially 
 like the animation of the face. I think it's important to remember that a game that has such a 
 large amount of dialogue needs properly animated faces, or else it can detract and distract from 
 the experience. 
  
  I didn't really know everything about this game when I bought it, so I wasn't sure what to think 
 when I first learned the combat system. Basically, you have two team wheels. One holds your gun 
 selection and the other is your ability selection, mapped to the LB and RB respectively. You won't 
 barely use the weapon selection only because unless you get to a really high level, your going 
 to have enough skill points to max out one weapon and one weapon only, which is obviously the one 
 your going to wield. There is a cover system in the game that works a bit like Gears of War but 
 not as smooth. You lock onto walls just like in Gears and than stop-and-pop each enemy, or you 
 can just strafe behind objects and try to tank them that way. Anytime you want to use one of your 
 abilitys, hold down the RB for the ability wheel, line up your reticle with the enemy if it's a 
 target spell and select your ability and go. It's really not too bad and I've heard people complain 
 because it pauses the game. That is true, but this isn't a game where you run in guns blazing and 
 take everything down in a hail of bullets, so i don't really agree with that arguement. The combat 
 system is great, for the next game I would expect some tweaks, but overall it's a nice foundation.
 
  
  The biggest pro is the story. While I have just said that the combat is great, I don't think it 
 could carry a game like this unless it had a great story to shoulder the load as well. Luckily, 
 the game does have that. Basically, your Commander Shepard and you have to stop a rogue villain 
 from destroying humanity and the universe. Obviously things get more complex than that and your 
 drawn right in. The reason for that is the dialogue system. Whenever you talk to a non playable 
 character (NPC) your going to get the information you need from them right away, than if your so 
 inclined, you can go a little deeper and find out meanings or history. That's great because you 
 might just want to go and get back to the combat, or you can learn as much as possible from the 
 game, which is a lot. That about does it for the pros, let's start complaining!
  
  The first gripe I have with this game is the custom character creation, it's pretty bad. There 
 aren't enough choices for you and usually half of them are ridiculous. The best way to explain 
 this are the selections you have for the characters hair. Let's assume you chose a male and your 
 choosing his hair. Well your options are a buzzcut, a messy look, slicked back hair, spiked hair 
 at the front and some other standard military looking haircuts. Your character has no chance to 
 look unique. Take my word for it when I say if your looking to create a badass character, just 
 use the default Shepard. There is no hair that will do him justice, other than the hair that the 
 default Shepard uses, which is mind boggling considering you cannot choose it, that hair style 
 is completely restricted. I don't understand how it can be on the default character, but it won't 
 let you choose it for a custom character.
  
  Visuals were a big pro, but they are inconsistent at times. There isn't clipping between objects 
 really, but the problem is the loading. Your going to see textures on walls and objects not loaded 
 all the time. Usually you have to wait a few seconds and than it pops in, but it's very noticeable 
 and takes away from the experience. It can't count how many times I noticed a really ugly object 
 and said to myself, 'Wow, that really is bad, it can't honestly look that way' and I would wait 
 for five to ten seconds for the texture to load in because I knew it couldn't be that bad, which 
 it wasn't. The other thing is the load time. There is a soldier at the bottom of your spaceship 
 that can sell you better weapons and upgrades, but to get to him you have to go down an elevator. 
 This elevator, takes at least twenty seconds to fully descend before it lets you off, not twenty 
 seconds isn't a long time, but it's long enough that more than once your going to wonder if that 
 guy has anything new to sell you, but just said forget it and and enter the next mission because 
 you don't want to wait for that damn elevator. I hate that damn elevator.
  
  I feel bad bashing on this game so much, especially when I think it's a bit under-rated, but I 
 want you all the know what to expect. We were promised planets to explore, and you can explore 
 over twenty planets. However only a handful of those are actually filled with buildings and unique 
 characters, most are just barren landscapes with a lot of hills. You can find minerals and ore 
 that give you experience there, or maybe some space pirates, but it's really not worth it as it's 
 just not fun to explore these empty areas. The Mako is the vehicle you used to traverse these planets, 
 and this poor vehicle has been ripped to shreds in other reviews for saying how overpowered and 
 absurdly maneuverable it is. Yes, it can kill just about everything you come across with ease and 
 it can climb almost completely vertical walls, but I didn't do much exploring due to the bore of 
 it, so i'm not going to cut it down. I'm having mercy on you Mako.
  
  So the conclusion, is this game worth it? Well, that depends on how often you buy games. This game 
 has no online play, it has it's share of bugs and the texture pop-in and some of the load times 
 are almost ridiculous. However, this game is fun and provides and Final Fantasy caliber storyline 
 that will definitely keep you going through this fifteen to twenty hour adventure. If your looking 
 for a game with a great story and some killer action, and can overlook the minor gripes, your going 
 to be rewarded because I think Mass Effect, is a Xbox 360 must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting so long for Mass Effect to be out so I can give it a try and it is finally 
 here! I got the game as an early christmas present and when I put the game it, I knew it was going 
 to be good! I started playing the begining and it all made sense and it acutally felt like I was 
 playing KOTOR again and it felt great and this time you control the fighting instead of watching 
 your guy do it for you. The graphics are just awsome they look fantastic! The enemies are acutally 
 smart and challenging. The weapons dont all look deadly, but when you upgrade them to better ones 
 they are powerful. The armor that your people get to wear looks great! The game lets you make the 
 choices like you did in the KOTOR series and it makes a Paragon (good guy) or Renegade (bad buy) 
 . Your enemy is the Geth who want to realease an army of enemies that people dont think exist and 
 you team up with a group of bad asses to take the fight to the Geth. The game has earned its place. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemerson00
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  wow i must have put about five hours in without checking the time then i remember that i had to 
 work in the moring, needless to saying i didnt get any sleep at all. mass effect is a good name 
 besuase this game is HUGE i must have spent two hour wondering. you can put different allien races 
 in on your team plus the alien and they all have different skill if you like final fanasty fable 
 or obliovion you will want this game. if you like shooters its good to. there is some solid shooting, 
 cover options somewhat similar to gears of war with the cover mechanics. one of the thing that 
 lags if the dialog some parts it can be a little drawn out but with any rpg you will run into that. 
 for the most part any gamer will like this game, just plan on putting in sometime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kagomesango
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  I love everything about this game the game play along with everything else is very beautiful the 
 storyline makes the game even more exciting. The way that you interact with people is fun I love 
 roughing up my squad members if they disobey my orders the only thing that I don't like on this 
 game is those creatures that come from under ground while your exploring planets because they t 
 sometimes would pop up right underneath me and kill me that kinda got on my nerves. That's only 
 one thing that I hate but other than that the game is solid and I would strongly recommend this 
 for any true RPG player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelram12
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  this is the deepest game i have played so far for the xbox 360 i can honestly say there wasnt much 
 to complain about the only thing that got to me was the fact when you reach your item limit it 
 doesnt let you get rid of old items for new ones you just have to omi-gel them the customization 
 was real deep you can honestly play this game the way you want to if you want to beat the game 
 in like 20 hours you can but if you want to get the most out of it you can a number of sidequest 
 and get about 40 or so hours from this game i admit the sidequest are kind of repetitive but if 
 you like exploring the game to its fullest you can its your choice thats what makes this game so 
 great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  I love bioware games, KOTOR and the follow up were excellent and even Jade Empire had its charm. 
 When I originally heard about Mass Effect and the potential depth of the game both in terms of 
 size and story I would be lying if I said I was not excited. 
  
  Although more often then not I find games hyped for such a long period of time often fail to live 
 up to expectations, and I feared that Mass Effect would suffer the same fate. Placing it into my 
 360 for the first time I wondered to myself if I would find myself playing this game well into 
 late December or if I would be replacing the disc with Guitar Hero III in a few days or delving 
 into Uncharted or Super Mario Galaxy. 
  
  We are nearly a month later and I am still playing it so that is a good sign, although even great 
 games have areas that they fall down. 
  
  When looking at the gameplay of a game that is the scale and scope of mass effect I am not expecting 
 the same thing that I would get in any other genre. Overall the layouts of the areas are very well 
 done and rarely require you to stop for a moment and wonder where you are and how far back you 
 made a wrong turn, you normally spend enough time in a major area that you learn its ins and outs 
 very quickly and the speed of the storyline allows you to take it section by section rather then 
 simply being dropped into a massive area and told "Go" this was an issue I had at times with KOTOR 
 2. Mass Effect has improved on this issue. 
  
  Combat is different, even for veterans of the Bioware games it takes some getting use to and I 
 think many people will find the battle menu awkward at first, but as your skills and the abilities 
 of your team grows you will understand the need for the complexity and after a few hours it becomes 
 second nature. 
  
  I should note that in large open areas when you are running with the camera at certain angles the 
 screen tends to "jump" a little bit which can be annoying but does not hinder what you want to 
 do it just takes away some of the aesthetic charm of the level. 
  
  Consider the game has a series of different modes, namely walking around, combat, piloting the 
 ship, and driving the Mako (a cool ride that you get to roam around planets on) the learning curve 
 is not all that steep aside from the combat issue which I raised earlier. 
  
  The Storyline is perhaps one of the better stories I have seen not just for a Sci-Fi RPG but for 
 the genre as a whole. It's interesting, it's deep, and even if you do the bare minimum you still 
 get a very good sense of satisfaction when the credits roll. The warning I should heed is that 
 your main story quest often gets tied into area specific stories which do not necessarily link 
 to the rest of the storyline but offer the end users a better idea of the "whole picture" something 
 that I would imagine is needed if this series will be a Trilogy which seems to be the case. 
  The question I keep being asked is "how long is the game" and I can only answer from my own perspective. 
 I had no walk through, no strategy guide, playing on the standard difficulty, doing 20-30% of the 
 side quests which had NO link what so ever to the main story that could have been left without 
 effecting progress and it took me a touch under 30 hours from designing my character to seeing 
 the credits roll for the first time. 
  
  So take that for what its worth, I can imagine now that I know where everything is had I played 
 with the same stats, on the same difficulty knowing what I know about certain situations had I 
 started today and run through the game without doing and side quests what so ever and focusing 
 solely on story quests and upgrading and using only the same pair of characters in my party maybe 
 20  22 hours? Give or take?
  
  But on the flip side, had I started from the start and did all the side quests and took in everything 
 the game had to offer I could see this game spanning perhaps 45+ hours? 
  
  Regardless of how you play, this is a game you buy, not one that you rent. 
  
  Graphically, 
 it's the benchmark moving forward for what American RPG's on consoles are going to strive for. 
 The best way I can describe the graphics is epic. Walking onto Citadel Station for the first time 
 is one of the most unique experiences I have had playing RPG's in my lifetime. Keeping in mind 
 I have been playing RPG's since Phantasy Star for the Sega Master System. 
  
  The character models are stunning, and the fact that there are so many NPC's from so many different 
 races the fact that there is so much variation within the different NPC's is very impressive,
 
  
  Even the environments look different. Far to often when you play a Sci Fi RPG or even a Fantasy 
 genre RPG the towns and areas of different races or cultures often look the same which really makes 
 me roll my eyes, here you have a lot of diversity from area to area even some of the "Uncharted 
 Worlds" offer a very cool looking surrounding that makes the player want to touch down and see 
 what's down there. 
  
  As for the score and the voice acting; it's excellent. Too often you get one or two of the characters 
 who sound like they just phoned it in, but in this case even some of the NPC's that you speak to 
 once during the game are very well done and convincing. The fear with a game of this size is that 
 you will have a great core cast and a collection of out of work actors/waitresses filling out the 
 balance of the secondary and tertiary cast, Mass Effect seems to make every effort to make sure 
 the quality of the acting is consistent and that really helps develop and maintain the story. 
 
  
  The score is as large as the game, an interesting mix of classical epic score mixed with I guess 
 what one could call "Alien" beats. While many of the heavy hitting RPG franchises have excellent 
 scores many of the secondary titles often leave me disappointed and I will admit I had my fears, 
 KOTOR and KOTOR II had the benefit of borrowing from a legendary score from the Star Wars movies 
 and Jade Empire left me feeling like I was handed a generic eastern score. Bioware however did 
 right by making the score equally impressive to the rest of the game. 
  
  However, certain sound effects in the game seem either overdone or underdone and I will point to 
 weapons fire as my primary example. This generation has raised the bar on what I expect from this 
 minor aspect of a game and I felt that at times the bang on the screen did not match the bang from 
 my speakers, although more of a note then a knock against the game. 
  
  Then we move into value, as I said early this is a game that you buy it's just too epic to handle 
 in a rental unless your vacation plans are penciled in as you and Mass Effect for a week. It is 
 worth the cost on the price tag and I have no issue with the value of this title. 
  
  However I did not have the same "need" to pick this game up right away after I had completed it 
 as I did with say KOTOR II, while there is a difference in terms of the path you can take in this 
 game and you have a lot of option unlike KOTOR II it did not effect which characters you get or 
 make HUGE changes in the direction of the game. Playing this game again taking a very different 
 route would be different, but I could not play it back to back, perhaps in a few months. 
  
  Although for the hours of gameplay I got out of it I will hardly complain about it. Even if 
 I play it again and get half way through its still going to be nearly the 50 hour mark which is 
 more then I expect from a new game nowadays. 
  
  Overall, on a console this year you will be hard-pressed to find a more complete package then what 
 is offered in Mass Effect for the RPG genre it is the best RPG for 2007 I have played to date and 
 a good argument could be made that it is the best RPG on consoles this generation. Bottom line 
 if you don't have it yet, get it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxsuck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  the people at bioware are geniouses. im not a huge fan of role-playing games, and this is (believe 
 it or not) the first rpg i have liked since KOTOR. the only rpg i like other than KOTOR. they have 
 created a sci-fi universe all its own on par with star trek and star wars. there is so much backstory 
 and every piece of tech is explained in some way. as for gameplay, its a great mix of real-time 
 3rd-person shooter and using strategy to plan your attack accordingly. along with the gorgeous 
 graphics and the number of different atmospheres of each planet, (including the chance to visit 
 earth's moon and see earth from the surface) this game is one of the best of the year and one of 
 the best rpgs ever.
  and as a side note i recommend reading the book Mass Effect: Revelation, as it provides more background 
 on Captain Anderson and Saren as well the rest of humanity's history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gorebashd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  I was afraid, very afraid on how this game might turn out. It was highly advertised, so it had 
 a very high profile. Due to that it was expected to be the greatest game ever created.
  
  Although it isn't the BEST GAME ever as some people would say. It is a great quality game. The 
 graphics are top notched, especially the facial dynamics. All i can say is wow. They did a very 
 good job integrating that one into the game. I don't like the fact that there is only so many presets 
 for you to choose from, but there is still a fair amount of choices.
  
  The voice acting is one of the best i have seen in a game. The female Shepard in my opinion is 
 the best of the main characters. The male is still well done but I feel that (Jennifer hale) does 
 a better job at conveying emotion then the male. All of the NPC's and other team members are also 
 well done.
  
  The dialogue selection is truly amazing. The choices are great and you can have a great selection 
 of ways to react or charm other characters. This innovation is probably my favorite of all the 
 additions to this game. I could spend hours just talking to people. The conversations can differ 
 so vastly that it can affect how those NPC's see you. These conversations a lot of time influence 
 your paragon (good) or renegade (not so good, because you are never totally bad. mainly your are 
 ruthless in the pursuit of what you see as the best option.)
  
  I must say i love the fighting dynamic. It is TPS style, sort of like Gears of War. You can get 
 cover by walking up to a wall or crouching and pushing up against the wall. You can shoot from 
 cover using various weapons. My favorite being the sniper rifle. Put the right ammo on it and you 
 can take out some of the toughest customers in the game. You can also use things called bionics 
 to throw, warp, and hack enemies. Very simple to use and can be oh so satisfying. You can also 
 order your team mates in the same way to use there various skills to attack, run for cover, or 
 use bionics.
  
  With positive things i should also list some of the negatives. The negatives do not necessarily 
 take away from the positives of this game. A lot of them only occur to some people if you read 
 on the blog boards. Some people complain of tearing, minor glitches and dumb AI. For the most part 
 I did not have many of these problems. The only thing that bothered me was the elevators. They 
 mainly seem like over glorified load screens and creep and creep to the next level. I always joked 
 with people that they can travel through space but these people cant build an elevator lol. Maybe 
 in the next game they will allow for partial installs on the hard drive to stop a lot of these 
 problems.
  
  in closing this game is one of the best RPG's out this year. Id go as far to say easily the best 
 RPG on the Xbox 360 and i am looking forward to the next installments to continue the fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a great game, In this game, your a marine specter (something like that :/) ,trying 
 to stop a traithor and save the galaxy.
  
  It's a RPG shooter, you haver many weapon, skill, ally and foes. You can upgrade your weapon and your 
 armor, very interresing. The graphic is just AWESOME!!!!! You can choose to be a good specter or a 
 bad specter. You will have to do hard decision during your traveling in the space, help other... 
 or let them die. Many kind of ennemy and hard boss to beat.
  
  The story is pretty good, the game time of this game is very hard to descrive, if you do only primary 
 mission you can beat this game in 10h if your a hardcore player or in more than 20h if you do many 
 secondary mission and primary mission. The bad of the game is all report on the vehicule control 
 :/ When you will ride in the "Mako" (advanced explorer vehicule) you will certenly want to trow 
 the game away (like me --' ) well I think this little point make the game more "horrible" but it's 
 a good game even if the control suck when your in a vehicule.
  
  I higly recommend this game for Star Wars fan and Star Trek fan and for player love RPG and Shooter 
 ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  Bioware always rocked in making RPG games .Now Bioware and Microsoft Game studios again presented 
 us a superb next gen RPG game in Xbox 360 and it is MASS EFFECT .
  
  In MASS EFFECT you play the role of commander Shepard who leads a team of elite squad members throughout 
 the galaxy to stop a ancient threat from demolishing entire civilisation .Its storyline rocks highly. You 
 have to deal treachery , corruption , danger at every step and you have to decide wisely to choose 
 the correct path of your destiny. As usual apart from main mission MASS EFFECT has tons of engaging 
 side quests too. You get to explore many planets in the galaxy to complete your primary or secondary 
 objectives .You get special armed vechile to ride during your exploration of planets.
  
  In MASS EFFECT you can customise your character as usual in any RPG game. You can choose the class 
 of your character as you deem fit. You have to gain enough experience to level up. More higher 
 level you are , you get many advantages for you unlocked .You gain most experience from side quests 
 and its best to complete them all before you begin your final endgame .You earn Paragon or renegade 
 points according to your deeds / conversations . It dosen't hamper the game but your deeds makes 
 you either a evil or good soldier , choice is yours .You can spend your experience points in any 
 of your skill bars as you deem fit .As in any RPG games you get to buy and sell weapons , upgrades 
 , armor , mods through weapon vendors .Your health and armor replinishes as you take cover during 
 fights .
  
  You get to unlock your team members as you progress in the game .All of them have thier own abilities 
 and you can choose only two teammates from them during any of your missions , so choose wisely. They 
 level up same as you and you can customise thier weapons , armor , upgrades , skills yourself .Plus 
 you can issue them to use thier special abilites also or order them to move , follow , fight or 
 cover simply. Characters in MASS EFFECT leave a very nice impression in your mind.
  
  The more high level you have , you get to unlock more powerful armors , upgrade slots , health 
 bars , unique abilities and weapon upgrades. The weapons in MASS EFFECT are good , you get variety 
 of sci fi weapons (like assault rifles , pistols , shotguns ,grenades , sniper rifle etc) to use 
 and mod , upgrade them .Thier firing rate , recoil , aiming depends on the weapons upgrades they 
 presently have . Plus you can use weapons with your and your team mates special abilities which 
 helps a lot during boss fights .
  
  MASS EFFECTS graphics / visuals are very impressive ,its not a. k. a CALL OF DUTY 4 graphics, but 
 it certainly looks best amongst all of Biowares games till date .It is a open ended game so you 
 get to expirence the beauty / hostilty of all the planets you visit .Visiting different planets 
 for full exploration is unique. The graphical environments of each planet or place has been done 
 very nicely and no way you can say both planets look alike. All the places have thier own atmosphere 
 , environments accordingly .
  
  AI is remarkable in the game. Your squad obeys your commands perfectly plus opponent AI can be really 
 mean sometimes .The last Boss fight can be real pain for many .Overall all the main boss fights 
 in the game can be challenging.
  
  The games cutsenes rocks . The voiceactiing of all the characters and conversations choice / tree 
 are of top quality .
  
  Music , soundquality is very impressive in the game .
  
  MASS EFFECT Xbox 360 version has few negilible cons like on some maps it lags a bit or you can 
 get stuck in some place unless you reload last save .Plus vechile controls and firing mode could 
 have been more better .It best you save often. Stll controls of the game are user freindly .
  
  Overall i recommend MASS EFFECT to any Xbox 360 owner and specially to Xbox 360 RPG lovers.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilgunney612
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  A lot of things could be said about mass effect, Awesome storyline, Replayability, Great character 
 customization, and the list goes on. About 100 years in the future, mankind discovers an artifact 
 on mars that advances their technology by 200 years, making space travel and general living something 
 unheard of today. humans call it a miracle... Other alien races call it.. Mass Effect. You start 
 out about 200 years after the discovery as a human named Sheppard, a solder for the human alliance, 
 you are able you choose your past, your class and your appearance. The Alliance is having a hard 
 time establishing they're place in the counsel (the capital for the galaxy) , And an evil alien 
 named Seren is plotting to destroy the counsel for some greater good. Your mission.. To stop him 
 and make a place for humans in the galactic counsel.
  
  Character Customization is good, like oblivion without all the goofy looking options and the option 
 of adding a scar adds a nice little effect. Choosing your history add a little pop to the roleplaying 
 experience, you can choose something like being a war hero, to being born on earth without a mother 
 or father to raise you. There are a lot of classes to choose from at the beginning, from purely 
 combat oriented to using these powers called Biotics that let you levitate people in the air to 
 freeze them for a certain amount of time, all of witch are useful. Advancing your skills is one 
 of the best parts, you can become someone who does a hell of a lot of damage with assault rifles 
 to someone who can wear armor to their maximum potential, a lot of options are available.
  
  Choices you make throughout the game make this the most replayable game in 2007, the game may 
 only take you 15-20 hours to finish your first time through but after you finish it one time, the 
 game urges you to play through another time to see what other options you could have chosen. Other 
 characters in this game are different from all the rest, i think because of the new communication 
 system they put into the game. Characters feel real, they have a history, and they interact with 
 you based on the choices you make. they even make you regret making those decisions. Not to mention 
 how the people you bring along with you effect your decision as you are making it. Also, the love 
 scene between one of your other crew members is very overrated.. A side boob and some partial butt 
 nudity are nothing to overreact over.
  
  The storyline isn't what you would expect from a Bioware game, it doesnt have the twists and turns 
 you would expect. But this doesn't mean it's a bad thing, the story is deep.. Way deeper than you 
 would think within the first hour of the game, witch is a good change of pace from your typical 
 Your working for him?!? He did what?!?! That bioware usually puts in their storylines. Still making 
 it one of the best i've experienced in a good long time. Just shows that Bioware has a few tricks 
 up its sleeve.
  
  Graphics are are one of the best i've seen on a 360 game, Although, at times you can come across 
 fps problems and meshes not loading at the right time. Other than that the nice gunfire effects 
 and special effects look fantastic. Music goes along well with Whatever actions you make, it goes 
 from a deep horn music from whenever you do an evil act to a high action sound while in combat, 
 it adds a good effect to the game allowing you to get into it even more.
  
  Overall its the best game this year, and worth the 60 bucks its at, a typical run through can take 
 about 15-20 hours depending on if you do side quests or not, but even though its short, each run 
 through gives you a different experience making it seem like 5 games in one. I do advise you to 
 buy this game, Because once you beat it once, You will want to finish it 5 more times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYGamer164
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect comes from the developers BioWare, which made games like KOTOR and Jade Empire. Mass 
 Effect is very close to those games because like those games the story, side missions, and the 
 interactions you have npc's are what really drives this game. Mass Effect has a great story and 
 has many twist and turns that the player might not see coming and there are a ton of side missions 
 for you to do. If you saw a video of Mass Effect gameplay you might have thought it was a third 
 person shooter, but it is not its definitely a action rpg, with ton of abilities to level up and 
 classes. It is also a lengthy game it took me 25 hours to beat the game and side missions can increase 
 that. Even though Mass Effect is a great game it does have some problems. For example the frame 
 rate issues and also when you are not doing a mission the game gets boring. Also even though the 
 game is not a third person shooter the squad controls weren't very good, I found myself only using 
 the squad controls on the first mission and then I never used it again and you don't have to use 
 them. But this game is a definite must have for all the rpg fans and even for non-rpg fans as myself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killernova
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games i have ever played in my life and one with going to keep playing over and 
 over again. Theres just so much you can do in mass effect that from the bigging of the game you 
 are planning what path to take when you beat the game and start again. Mass Effect offers one of 
 the best storys in the history of gaming, one with so much depth and life in it that makes you 
 want to keep playing not only for the amazing gameplay but you find out what happens next, so few 
 games offer this type of rush to find out the story. I have to say that the end of this game was 
 simply amazing and cant wait to get to it with a different character style. All in all Mass Effect 
 is a game that players will never forget and ruins other games for them because they will want 
 the same fealing they got when playing Mass Effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visnovsky17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of the most amazingly immersive universes ever created for a game. HOWEVER, 
 the game was far too short. If you're going to make a game this good give it a little more depth. 
 Using a game guide i figured out i did about 70% of all available side quests and it took me 20 
 hours. Now let's talk about the good: Graphics, Gameplay, Dialogue, Voice Acting, Storyline, and 
 overall experience. Like i said this is one of my favorite games of all time, but it just makes 
 me mad how short it was because when i pay $60 for a game i want it to last a long time. The replay 
 value is ok but it's just the same thing over again with harder difficulty if you want. I thought 
 the game was a little easy once you get the good equipment near the end of the game, however, i 
 haven't actually started a second play through. Definately get this game if you have extra money, 
 but if you have to decide between this and say almost any of the new blockbusters this holiday 
 season, i don't know if i would get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikhail_tisoy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  the best game ever The story is awesome, you get really dragged into it because you make your own 
 decisions in the conversation. What you decide will determine how good (paragon) or evil (ranegade) 
 you will become. that will make you really want to replay the game more times to see the differences 
 the graphics are one of the best ive seen so far the game is so detail even tho its soooo huge 
 ive finish the game 3 times now and am yet to play it again it soo fun i cant put it down this 
 game deserves much much more than 8.5 this game is perfect from sounds to story
  
  
  a true recommendation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniwisdom
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great. It has so many great things that putting them on a list will make the 
 list huge. The story is great, gives you a lot options and freedom of choice and it is so well 
 build that it sucks you in. And then you have the acting and the voices... The game looks like 
 an action packed movie where dialog flows naturally and with enough depth. 
  But the thing that made me upgrade the rating from 9.5 to 10 is the music; it complements perfectly 
 the action in the game. During the chase of Saren the music played on board of Normandy is high 
 paced and suited for the chase, while after the difficult choice from Virmire it is low and sad 
 and it really manages to translate that emotion to you.
  If you haven't bought the game yet, you should, because in my opinion it is a must have and it 
 gives you a lot for the money, unlike many games available on the shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth-revan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  When most people think of a game, they see the game with its problems and good sides, and its normally 
 how many good things there are versus the bad to see how good a game is. Mass Effect is the anomaly 
 in that trend. 
  Now Im going to get this out of the way, Mass Effect has MANY, many, many flaws. From the framerate 
 issues (where the game just slows down to single digits even sometimes) , various bugs (especially 
 when driving the mako) , graphics that occasionally pop in and out of high detail (think Halo 2) 
 and the vehicle portions of the game. That said, there is not a better story or world in all of 
 gaming. 
  Constantly the game throws surprises at you. Even when you think everything is figured out and 
 set in stone, even at the very final minutes of the game, the game throws surprises at you. To 
 put it plainly without spoiling anything, you are a handpicked soldier who must stop a rogue SPECTER 
 (think spy in space) named Saren.
  The game also brings up the morality and choices issues like in Kotor, but they aren't limited 
 to just good and bad. Yes there is a morality meter but they don't measure your good and evil, 
 so much as if you have the ability to say as good or evil things in conversations. Also, this lets 
 choices become much more ambiguous verses good or bad meaning just actions and consequences.
  Speaking of choices, the game has a lot of them. In kotor, you had mainly one big decision and 
 turning point at the end of the game and that was it. What you did before didn't matter so much 
 as what you did at that moment. In Mass Effect, you can practically change the entire world and 
 almost everything until it becomes what you have shaped over the course of the game. There is no 
 large "good or bad" decision's you make at the end. There is no Good ending Bad ending, just a 
 large shade of gray. 
  What really amazes me about Mass Effect is that despite the numerous issues that would absolutely 
 destroy any other game, it just doesnt seem to matter as much. All the bad things are really cast 
 down and overshadowed by all of the good, and considering that sometimes I had to reload an entire 
 area because of some bug they were pretty bad .This is one of the best games of the year and in 
 my opinion, the best game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyghiorzi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  This is my very first review so be nice! :) I am very glad I purchased this game for many reasons. 
 The graphics are really slick, the voice acting is awesome, I love just listening to them talk. 
 Music is pretty good, doesn't seem overbearing or annoying. Overall sound I will give a better 
 than average all sounds are sci-fi type stuff. Game play specifically combat to me is somewhat 
 of a weak spot, being an old school gamer give me turn based :D, but for this it gives it a run 
 and gun feeling typically ok with a sci-fi game, the only thing for me its hard to fight and use 
 the abilities. Coupled with that I can see why some folks choosing a non-combat oriented class 
 would have more trouble than others, on another note I wish there was a way to bypass certain scenes 
 when you die that way it doesn't seem like your rehashing the same old dialog again and again. 
 I can also see why some do not like Mako combat, I really didn't experience any problems with my 
 first thresher maw battle, but I was sweating bullets there lol.
  
  All in all I can say I feel like I spent my money well as I am enjoying the game, and for once 
 trying out the "evil" side of things :D, some of the comments are funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trigger2099
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  ok i'll get all the praise of this game out of the way first.
  first of all the game is orignal, obviously it has aspects of KOTOR but it has new elements thrown 
 in such as................. ok maybe im wrong on that one the game isn't all that original but it 
 is good to look at and just like a clone of KOTOR it's a great game to play, its beautiful, the 
 characters have all there own little back story, the story keeps you interested, the AI level with 
 you so your always in for a challenge and the main character choices are insanly funny at points. 
 ok so its not as good KOTOR but what games are these days? 
  
  ok now lets talk flaws!
  the first point that everyone will notice (unless you have some sort of time warp in your room) 
 is that the elevators are incredably slow, years in the future we master space travel and now have 
 the ability to make high tech weaponary and armor but for some unknown reason our elevator skills 
 have dwindled into 1,000,000 BC when we were trying to firgue out the wheel, if it was real life 
 it would be the only time that i would be happy to walk downstairs, even if a slow fat woman was 
 walking in front of me still eating her pies and gaining weight as she woddled because it would 
 be faster than this.
  At points the game seems slow to load and most of the time you'll notice that the details of your 
 character aren't always there but in all fairness this can be let off because the game itself is 
 such a beauty to look at that its worth the wait.
  1 problem i encountered ( too many F**king times ) is that the AI are sometimes stupidly over intellegent, 
 such as a sniper being able to put a bullet through a half inch hole and through your skull at 
 other times a rocket can be shoved right up you ass from the otherside of the map. Please don't 
 take this all as a flaw because it's nice to finally have a game that actually poses a challenge 
 rather then being able to bitch slap them with your feet and still have the upper hand after they 
 shove a nuke up your nostril and have it only take 20 points off your health.
  The game at first (once i got to fly around space) seemed massive to me with all the star systems 
 and planets i could visit (even though i was overly dissapointed i couldn't land on earth!) but 
 after awhile you come to realise that most of it is for show, and even most that aren't for show 
 you just get to survey so you can do missions that are clearly more important then saving the universe! 
 i think if your gonna put all those planets in at least have us doing something other then the 
 same thing over and over again, its fun for the first 6 hours looking for mineral so that earth 
 may one day be able to overthrow the galaxy but i wouldn't think this would be work for a commander 
 of a ship to be doing.
  going back to the missions, the main missions are surprisingly short with only around 5 which makes 
 you have to do the repeatative side missions just so you can beef yourself up which tends to have 
 no point coz the harder you get the harder the AI gets so its like getting money for free and then 
 being kicked in the balls.
  
  I could go on more about it naming more faults and more good points but i think that this sums 
 up the main ones, personally i would advice people to buy this game as it's one of the best games 
 this year. The replay value is good ( especially if your an achievment whore ) and i'd be happy 
 to play again to see how it works with different back ground story and choices. If your one of 
 those people who say "yeah but knights of the old republic was better and i dont see why i should 
 waste my time with a game thats lacks in all its glory" then i say go lie in a bath with a toaster 
 and start jabbing it with a fork because you are a retard! of course it's not KOTOR if they wanted 
 it that way they would have made another but after the crippling crapiness of number 2 i think 
 they wanted to go with a different route. 
  so like i said unless your a person who thinks that all good games should be the same ( like halo 
 ) then you should try this game as it's probably the best game of the year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcm_117
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Amazing Game. The story is very detailed, with lots of subplots and interesting characters and 
 venues. Combat is solid with lots of variety. Amazing graphics and Voice Acting with high replay 
 value due to the different classes and many planets to explore, and side missions.
  
  The characters are far beyond generic, each has a back story and a personality that is believable, 
 you come to care about the characters for who they are. This is one of the best RPG's of the current 
 generation of consoles and a must buy for an xbox360 owner looking for a great single player adventure.
 
  
  Minor performance and technical issues keep it from getting 9.5, they aren't that major but they 
 are there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sumbelina
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect wholeheartedly deserves a 10/10 review from me. This is the first game since Gears 
 of War in November 2006 that I have completed and then IMMEDIATELY started playing all over again! 
 This game was so much more than I hoped for. I knew to expect excellence from BioWare (I'm a KOTOR 
 fanatic, that's my quintessential Xbox game) so I knew this game wouldn't disappoint. But I didn't 
 expect all the amazing things that I got. The story, the graphics, the dialogue, the gameplay: 
 all are wonderful. It says a lot when I have a game guide for a game and I'm still enthralled. 
 There were some minor glitches (poor Ashley died during a side mission and was stuck in a wall 
 til I used Unity, LOL) and the Mako is possibly the most resilient video game vehicle EVER. But, 
 that being said, this game does so much more well than it does poorly. You can see the love that 
 everyone on the creative team put into this game. In fact, let me just go ahead and thank everyone 
 involved (however remotely) in the creation of this game for making me forget how lame some over-hyped 
 games have been (i. e. Halo 3 and the disc read errors that Bungie wouldn't acknowledge) and remember 
 why I spent $500 in a Target in August 2006 for this console.
  I only have one question: when does the adventure continue? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfitzy117
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect from the start shows itself to be a game that delivers. When you star it you can design 
 your own character to surprising detail for a console game. Choosing the back-story is fun but 
 not critical to the game. 
  
  While most games promise to shoot for the stars mass effect is one that really does make it. while 
 other games may seem rough and rushed mass effect flows from combat to the dialogue. the choice 
 system while not new has been taken to a new level that proves to other companies it can be done 
 in such a way your not bogged down deciding for ten hours what to do.
  
  Really good game.
  
  first ever review ive done please be kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boyusmaximus
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a great game. The beautiful graphics and the really polished presentation suck you 
 into the game world, and when they come together with the awesome music and fascinating plot, there 
 can be times when this game really, really works. I think the music deserves special mention, as 
 it is some of the most apt and wonderfully atmospheric music I've ever heard in a game.
  The character customization is good, and seeing your character in every cut-scene looking how you 
 intended is really cool, but it's not so in depth as BioWare's earlier AD&D licence based RPGs 
 with stats and D6s boring you half to death. Actually, it cuts a really good balance between traditional 
 hardcore RPG and adventure to create a game which doesn't bog you down with needless detail, but 
 also lets you experiment and play how you want to.
  The ambitiousness of BioWare to produce one of the greatest games ever shows through but unfortunately 
 it isn't quite there. There are a couple of frame rate slowdowns, but not so many, and the trade 
 off to get great looks is acceptable to me. I occasionally got stuck in some geometry, which is 
 always frustrating, but it only made me have to reload once, every other time I managed to get 
 free. The last criticism I've got is that it can be difficult if you want to play this as a non-fighter 
 type. This has always been the way with RPGs, and Mass Effect sadly is no exception.
  The playing time of course varies. If you go for all the side quests and try to 100% it, it might 
 take you 30-40 hours. If you just go for the plot stuff, it'll be much shorter, but that's not 
 the way to play RPGs.
  I think the last thing to mention is that unlike many RPGs (the aforementioned AD&D style ones, 
 or Star Wars based KoToR,) BioWare had to create the entire back story, the planets, the plot, 
 the characters, the different races and everything else from scratch and they did a really good 
 job of it. It really gels together to create an immersive, fun experience.
  Highly Recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunloved
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  So, you've all seen Mass Effect in the making and now here it is. First off, having finished it 
 twice now and still doing new quests, I'll say this game is one of the best I've played... ever. 
 You basically play as a character named Commander Shepherd, rather it be a female or male. And 
 your get play the path of paragon (Good) or renegade.. (evil of course... or bad boy/girl) . The story 
 line revolves around you going out to stop an evil alien from bringing back an alien race that 
 will wipe out all life as we know it. You have a good cast of allies which will make you play time 
 and time again to see their reactions at key points and how they interact with other allies. So 
 expect to play again and again to see what happens. The combat is also interesting, since it pretty 
 much plays out like a shooter. Though your skills will make a noticeable difference in combat. 
 There are different classes of course. Your standard soldier, technology user and those with the 
 ability to pick people up and let them hang in the air while you pump them full of bullets. (To 
 me, that seems rather evil in itself... as I did in alot... lol) There are lots of things to do in 
 this game and you'll do alot of flying. The only thing I disliked is driving the Mako on planets. 
 Its fun to see it drive up a mountain no problem. But its kind of a pain to get around in it. And 
 of course, my dumb head didn't figure out about the cannon on it till I played it a third time. 
 Which made a difference in me not dying alot... lol. And I have hit invisilbe objects somethings 
 in which I've flown up in the air. Though that was rare. I did find some issues with the objects 
 interacting, for example after getting off the galaxy map I ended up someone in the map itself 
 running around trying to get off it. Which i couldn't. luckily, I tried talking to one of my crew 
 which put me back on solid ground! *hooray* But enough of this, this is a great and wonderful game 
 and you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a very interesting RPG. You start off by creating your characters face and giving 
 him a name. With enough time spent on this feature you can get the character to look very similar 
 to your own face. 
  The games starts off pretty slow and is actually pretty boring for the first hour. It wasnt until 
 I reached Eden Prime where the fun and story started to come together. Throughout Eden Prime there 
 are many side tasks to find. Speak with everyone and investigate as much as you can to find and 
 solve these tasks. Doing all the tasks will greatly improve the value of the game creating over 
 50hrs of gameplay.
  In Eden Prime you will learn everything you need to know about the galaxy and the different species 
 living there. You can learn everything there is to know about what has happened and what exactly 
 is happening now. The more you talk to people the more you learn and understand.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  The graphics are extremely detailed and at times seem to be a bit more than 
 the console can handle. At many time you will see a 1 second delay in the textures appearing. Its 
 not enough to make you mad or bother you. The graphics are still one of the best the console has 
 to offer.
  
  Sound 8.5/10
  
  Mass Effect features some of the best voice acting in any game. There are even some well known 
 actors lending their voice such as Seth Green. The weapons and explosion sounds could have been 
 done better though. 
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  Throughout the game you will need to earn XP for leveling up. The higher the level the better the 
 weapons and armor you can have. The fighting part of the game isn't as good as I hoped it would 
 be. When you first start off your weapon are terrible and aiming isnt as smooth as it should be. 
 I expected more from a guy who single handedly took down an army. Once you learn and understand 
 how to upgrade weapons and choose the right ones for you squad the fighting becomes a little easier.
 
  
  Value 9.5/10
  
  With over 50hrs of gameplay packed in this game I dont see how any RPG fan could pass this game 
 up. It has a fantastic story with many many side missions to accomplish.
  
  Overall 9/10
  
  The graphical glitches and the lackluster aiming hold this title back a little but the rest 
 of the game is near flawless. Once you get past the first hour the game really takes off and pulls 
 you right in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazmaster666
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  First let's get the major negatives out of the way:
  
  Mass Effect has it's share of technical issues. It seems that during combat, or on the rare occasion 
 after exiting the galaxy map, it's possible for Shepard to get stuck in place due to a clipping 
 issue. In the latter, this can be fixed by saving then loading. In the former, it can only be fixed 
 by loading a previous save. This was very rare but it can happen at the worst times, and happened 
 to me a couple of times after I had just finished a big fight, forcing me to replay the battle 
 all over again.
  
  The framerate for the most part is relatively smooth but can definitely boggle down, and at times 
 for seemingly unknown reasons. It can occur during a large firefight or outside in a dense blizzard 
 or during a train ride from one portion of a map to the other. 
  
  The Mako is a great vehicle, but controlling it can sometimes be downright irritating. It moves 
 and steers well enough but it tends to overreact, sometimes violently, whenever it comes into contact 
 with a rock, a wall, or any sort of slope. This can be very annoying during a firefight, and at 
 times can cause a critical mission failure (essentially game over.) I've once had it make contact 
 with a relatively small rock at low speeds and almost do a flip because of it. Also, aiming the 
 Mako's guns could have been better implemented, especially when not using the zoom feature.
  
  The inventory system in the game needs some tweaking. Scrolling through long lists can take 
 long periods of time and there is no real way of organizing your inventory the way you want it. 
 The overall equipment interface also needs a overhaul. As a result you may spend a lot more time 
 in the equipment menu than you'd want to.
  
  Finally, make sure to save often. The games autosaves are sometimes well placed, and at other times 
 horribly placed. If you're purely relying on autosaves, I would suggest you play very carefully 
 as in some cases dying may force you to replay a good chunk of a level.
  
  Okay enough of the doom and gloom. Yes Mass Effect has some issues. But despite the glitches and 
 the few annoying gameplay flaws, Mass Effect is a totally immersive, incredibly fun game. The core 
 gameplay isn't much different from a typical third person shooter: you get over-the-back Gears 
 of War-style camera with a basic cover mechanic that, while not very useful, can come in handy 
 at certain points in the game. Adding to this core gunplay is wide variety of special abilities 
 including "biotics" which are magic-like abilities, tech abilities, and defensive abilities. You 
 also get abilities that improve upon the weapon you are currently using.
  
  Which abilities your character has depends of course on which class you choose. Some classes don't 
 get biotic or tech abilities at all while some specialize in one area or the other, or in the case 
 of the sentinel, both. In general tech abilities are designed to stun and damage your enemies while 
 biotic abilities are designed to disrupt your enemies. So while tech abilities like sabotage or 
 overload can be quite damaging, especially when used together, biotic abilities like throw or lift 
 some typically harm your enemies directly but disrupts them, allowing you to quickly finish them 
 off with your guns.
  
  Assuming you pick a class other than Soldier (which is the one class that has basically no biotic 
 or tech abilities) how often and when you use your special abilities, especially the offensive 
 ones, really depends on the difficulty setting. On normal or casual, I found that while using these 
 abilities helped, they weren't really ever necessary except in rare occasions or as a last-resort 
 to prevent yourself from being killed. For the most part, on the easier difficulty settings you 
 can get by simply through the gunplay alone, provided you get the proper upgrades for your weapon 
 and some decent armor. Now the defensive abilities can come in handy even in the easier difficulties 
 since your player does tend to take damage pretty easily even if you're wearing some tough armor.
 
  
  On the harder settings, gunplay alone is not sufficient. This is because not only do enemies have 
 more health but they will immunities as well as be able to kill you in very few hits. So if you 
 plan to replay the game on Hardcore or Insanity (which I did) , you'll need to learn to use your 
 special abilties wisely and in conjunction with your squadmates.
  
  Which brings us to the team-based gameplay. Now the squad AI is not the best I've seen but your 
 two squad mates will generally be able to fight fairly well by themselves, though at times they 
 will try to shoot through a wall to hit the enemy (not very effective) rather than tracking down 
 the enemy and then engaging. You can also control how they use their biotic abilities. For instance 
 you can set it so that your squadmates will use both offensive and defensive abilities by themselves 
 or set it so that they won't use any abilities without your say so. You can command your squad 
 with basic commands using the d-pad but in general this not particularly useful.
  
  Since this is an RPG, you will gain experience and money as you complete missions, sidequests, 
 kill enemies, explore uncharted planets, recover artifacts, unlock containers, survey minerals, 
 etc. Naturally this experience allows you to level up your character. Which each level your character 
 gains health but also gains skill points to can be spent on your character's special abilties or 
 weapons training. This is the part of the game that let's you choose what type of character you 
 want to build as how you allocate your skill points, especially in the earlier portions of the 
 game can often dictate your particular playing style. You'll never be able to fully max out all 
 your skills, so allocating skill points will always be a balancing act. 
  
  Of course throughout the game you will come across equipment, lots and lots of equipment. From 
 weapons to armor, to biotic implants (which improve your biotics) to omni tools (which improve 
 tech abilities) to upgrades. Depending on your character level, the items you find will also be 
 leveled. Each type of equipment will also have different levels from 1 to 10. You'll can also purchase 
 weapons from vendors throughout the game, though since you get so much stuff from all the containers 
 lying around, you'll probably spend less time buying stuff from vendors than you would think. In 
 fact, apart from special "Spectre" class weapons, everything you buy from vendors can appear in 
 containers throughout the game world. 
  
  Unfortunately, you are not able to customize your weapons or armor persay, though you are able 
 to apply upgrades. These upgrades can affect many aspects of your weapons and armor including increasing 
 accuracy and damage with your weapons or adding additional protection, a medical interface to regenerate 
 health, etc. Higher level equipment will allow a greater number of upgrades than lower level equipment. 
 In fact, upgrades can definitely often change the tide during battle.
  
  So then there's the story. Mass Effect's storyline is classic space opera. Though it borrows elements 
 from films like Star Wars and games like Halo, it manage to tell an engrossing storyline that kept 
 me interested from beginning to end. Bioware definitely knows what they're doing on this front. 
 Now we get to the dialogue trees. The dialogue tree system is actually quite ingenious as it gives 
 you the sense that the decisions you make are more important than they actually are. It also makes 
 for some fun surprises since you're not exactly sure what your character will say.
  
  The production values are top-notch. Mass Effect is definitely one of the best looking 360 games 
 I've seen so far and it leverages the Unreal 3 engine quite effectively. The lighting and shader 
 effects are fantastic with some great looking textures, and excellent character models. The environments 
 are less impressive but are fairly detailed, though slightly repetitive. Film-grain and motion 
 blur effects are also featured, though they can be turned on or off depending on your tastes. The 
 main issue with the graphics aside from framerate issues is texture popping. Now this is not the 
 fault of the game itself but rather an issue with the Unreal 3 engine. However, it can still be 
 slightly annoying to make textures "pop in" five or so seconds after you load a level.
  
  The sound is also top notch. The guns sound like they should, the music is dynamic and changes 
 in tone depending on the situation. 
  
  Overall, Mass Effect is a very very fun game with an quality storyline that ties everything together 
 quite well. The technical issues prevent it from reaching its full potential, but even so you are 
 still left with a superb action RPG that has plenty of replay value. Definitely a worthwhile purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  This really is the first big step i've seen in gaming in a long, long time. No one aspect of this 
 game is specifically unique. It combines several well known game genres: RPG, Third Person Shooter, 
 Adventure and Tactical Shooter. However, it is the way in which this game Mass Effect is presented, 
 that makes it a clear cut above the rest.
  
  The level of immersion in this game, for me, was unprecedented. The conversation flows with such 
 grace and sophistication, the characters react in incredibly complex and deep ways which you're 
 talking with them. Emotions and voice acting are absolutely fantastic. Sound design as a whole 
 is absolutely phenomenal, with a rolling, swelling, synth and orchestra soundtrack. Never in the 
 game are there sections which are definitively "quiet", with no music or atmospherics, something 
 that always made some other games a bit shallow.
  
  The visuals are by a benchmark the best to be seen on any console at this time, i'm very confident 
 in saying that. In terms of how gorgous, rich and Sci-Fi they are, i don't think anything takes 
 their place on top right now. I very highly rate the efforts of Microsoft and Bioware in creative 
 a believable game universe, detailed in almost high-art fashion everywhere you look, stellar bodies 
 look just right and you never get the feeling you're hemmed in, even though some of the game is 
 linear.
  
  The quality of presentation is perhaps the only area with a spot of tarnish. There are a few points 
 in the game where the autosaves are not frequent enough, but for anyone who plays RPGs, it's a 
 given that you need to save frequently anyway. The texture pop-ins are not a failure of the game 
 design team, but rather an advancement in engine technology, in that loading times are critically 
 reduced, as can be clearly seen in this game with barely any long periods of waiting before you're 
 back in the action.
  
  I was in awe with the ending of this game, a very brilliant way of doing it, with just enough mix 
 of finality of the story arc, and continuity of the franchise, to promote a sequel in the years 
 to come. A sequel has now been confirmed by Bioware. This game should probably be coming to PC 
 within the next year or two.
  
  Definitely recommending this title, it's a graceful work of genius in story, plot and architecture. 
 Great replayability as well! Every time you play, different things are bound to happen, with pleany 
 of side quests to pick up on, on a second run through, or even a third or fourth with different 
 character. I LOVE IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  Lets be honest here Mass Effect has a few technical glitches, but that's all they are, glitches.
 
  They don't interfere with the gameplay; they don't detract from the storyline and your not going 
 to miss a crucial sniper shot because a texture hasn't popped into place yet.
  The game will occasionally pause as it loads new data, but that it has to load data is not surprising 
 when you consider the level of detail and size of the areas you roam throughout the game.
  The glitches so not affect the game one jot, they're annoying and almost seem to get worse the 
 further you get into the game, but if you think they take anything away from the game itself then 
 you're either a Graphics Whore or a Sony Fanboy.
  There are other aspects that annoy as well, when you've landed on a planet and as exploring an 
 underground excavation, the layout of the mine is exactly the same regardless of which planet your 
 own, as are the underground bunkers and pirate hideouts.
  One design fits all.
  Yet despite all this I can see myself playing it through again and again and again, what happens 
 if I take the Renegade Route through that part? Would it have been any different if I'd acted more 
 like and Angel then a Demon on that planet, would Wrex really be that ugly if I'd been nicer to 
 him? Would it make a difference if my character were male or female?
  I intend to find the answer to all these questions by repeatedly playing the game, it might take 
 me the best part of four months but I don't care, the story line grips you so hard that what may 
 have started out as a quick half hours play becomes a five hour session as you just have to find 
 out what happens next.
  As is always the case in RPG's you do end up having the same conversations over and over at times 
 as you strive to find the one response you're looking for, you can end up aimlessly scouring the 
 galaxy to find one planet for a side mission, but that's half the fun, there are plenty of galaxies 
 out there to explore, why not try and see them all.
  In all it took me around 30 hours to clear the game first time through, and I attempted to complete 
 as much as I could (and picked up the "Completionist" achievement for completing the majority of 
 the game, so I can't have missed out too much) so it'll take a while to run through it again trying 
 a different tact, you could rip through the game in maybe 10 to 12 hours but where's the fun in 
 that?
  In that 30 hours I mostly ignored the Biotic powers, only using them towards the end as the battles 
 became bigger and the enemy more impressive, so that's something else to try and explore.
  If you like a game you can sink your teeth into, and are prepared to put the hours in, then this 
 game fits the bill nicely, if you played either of the KOTOR's and liked what you found then this 
 is as close a sequel you'll find for a while, without the constraints of the Star Wars licence.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kozzy1234
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  Its not every day that a game like this comes out.
  First off Mass Effect has the msot amazing story maybe ever in a videogame. To go along with the 
 excellent story, the game also has AMAZING voice acting for the fantastic characters. The combat 
 is also alot of fun and very strategic.
  The only problems i had during the game was once in awhile a few clipping issues with the graphics. 
 The sound is also great in this game to and fits perfectly.
  
  My first time going thru this game it took me just over 37 hours, i did alot of the side quests 
 (id say about 80% of them) . And now in my 2nd play thru i am doing the other side quests i missed 
 among other things.
  This is not only the game of the year for the 360 but its the best game ive played in years and 
 years. 
  Do yourself a favor and go buy this fantastic game, that has pressentation features, story and 
 characters of a full blown movie trilogy.
  
  This is the game that you buy a system for people.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSacredRing
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I've been a follower of BioWare since the days of Baldur's Gate, Star Wars: Knights of the Old 
 Republic, and Jade Empire. BioWare has astounded me time and time again, and perhaps this time, 
 more than ever. Mass Effect is, simply put, one of the greatest games I've played in my life.
 
  
  I won't do you a disservice by telling you major details about the story, but if you're a BioWare 
 fan, you're in for a treat. Even if you aren't, you are sure to remember it for years to come. 
 Dialogue is a major component of the game's story, with your choices of what to say and do having 
 a profound impact on how everything progresses. That thrilling, emotional, and exhilarating feeling 
 from experiencing it first-hand is too incredible to spoil.
  
  The game plays very differently from (one of my personal BioWare favorites) KOTOR. It's played 
 mostly in real time, with a slightly familar feeling of control to Gears of War. Instead of having 
 Force Powers and Droid Abilities, you now have Biotic Powers and Tech Powers. You can consider 
 them as what they are, as Force powers, as magic, or whatever you please, but they are still intensely 
 fun to use. Cover is your friend, but it does not mean that you always need to be right on top 
 of some piece of architecture to survive (depending on your difficulty setting) . The game defaults 
 to Normal difficulty, with Casual being the easiest and Veteran the hardest of those three initially 
 available. After completing the game once, you unlock the Hardcore setting, and the Insane difficulty 
 is available after completing it on that, respectively. If you are a skilled gamer and intend to 
 go on to those difficulties, I would recommend playing on Veteran your first time through, in order 
 to better prepare yourself for the harder settings.
  
  Visually, the game is very well illustrated. The artistic design is awe-inspiring, with water effects 
 that seem very natural and shockingly real. Facial animations and features are some of the best 
 I've ever seen, with top-notch voice acting to match. You will frequently feel like you are talking 
 to a real person more than a game character. Love, hate, jealousy, anger, happiness, sorrow, it's 
 all here and done remarkably. Some of the only flaws visually, those being of the only flaws in 
 the entire game, are the framerate and slightly long/frequent loading times, but otherwise, the 
 entire galaxy is beautiful and varied.
  
  I have already mentioned the superb voice acting, but the game also has a very original, beautiful, 
 and fitting soundtrack. In addition to that, sound effects (while not quite as outstanding as other 
 elements of the game's sound) are very good. Overall, you will want to turn the volume up, instead 
 of down.
  
  The game has a very good length, which is a major part of role-playing games. If you have played 
 a lot of RPGs and/or BioWare's previous games in particular, you can finish the main storyline 
 and the majority, if not all, of the sidequests, in anywhere from 40-50 hours your first time through. 
 If you are new to this genre or style of role-playing, it will probably take you a bit longer. 
 But the game is entirely worth a second, third, and more playthroughs, to see different scenarios 
 in the story and to play around with different classes and abilities.
  
  Mass Effect is easily one of my favorite Xbox 360 games, and quite possibly hits my top 10 for 
 best games of all time. I recommend it very, very highly.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jchristenberry
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  At first this game gave a very cinematic appearance as the introduction to your character (default 
 or created) unfolds before your eyes. But before it gets too exciting the intro stops and your 
 dumped into this massive multiverse. However, any veteran of KOTOR or Jade Empire will feel right 
 at home after about 30 or so minutes of play. The combat is fun and loaded with strategy (later 
 in the game.) The character are by far the best animated bunch I have seen in any MMO. Bioware 
 has taken mass amounts of time to add the smallest nuances to each denizen you come across. Its 
 these little eye flutters, head tilts, squints, facial gestures that stand out. This added with 
 the superb voice acting done by an all star cast that really makes every moment of dialogue something 
 to enjoy. 
  
  The dialogue tree is similar in nature with KOTOR and Jade Empire in the aspect that, a character 
 says something and you have varied responses (some based on your stats.) However unlike the games 
 in the past where you could see every word you would say before you say it, this one gives you 
 a shortened and often reworded version of what your character will actually say in spoken dialogue. 
 This really helps in keeping the conversations moving along nicely and adds to excitement of not 
 actually knowing what ,even your own character is going to say. The music in Mass Effect is a nice 
 and seemingly balanced mixed of orchestrated sonatas and Digitized beats. Thus far it has not felt 
 out of place or posed any sort of distraction. 
  
  The combat feels like a balance between KOTOR and Jade Empire. Is has the quick interface for commands 
 reminiscent of JE along with its real time speed. Or at any time you can choose to Micromanage 
 things yourself like in KOTOR. The subtle music, excellent Ambient, amazing character voices, and 
 all around enjoyable combat really stand nicely along the incredibly deep story. Bioware has shown 
 their commitment to believable places with an assortment of politics, side missions, and characters 
 to drive the story, even if your not into RPG style games. I myself easily spent 8+ hours doing 
 side missions and enjoyed every minute of it because they didn't feel like side missions. 
  
  The downside to Mass Effect are things that I noticed a lot in KOTOR. The biggest things is 
 the graphics. While excellent to look at, they all too often load seconds after the next scene 
 has already begun. Thus leaving you confused as to who or what your are looking at until they finish 
 loading. Sometimes this can really hinder your understanding of the story as a few seconds to load 
 the bump mapping and shadows is often too late. The menu interface is a mess but only takes a hour 
 or so to get used to. Lastly the land vehicle, while fun to make it climb impossible slopes and 
 hop off of high peeks to the ground below, its ultimately annoying when trying to switch between 
 forward and reverse or fight while moving. In fact, now that I think about it, driving that vehicle 
 feels a LOT like the old arcade and NES game Dirt Rally (if I remember right) Although I would 
 like to see these minor issues go away, they are not nearly enough to shadow all the other amazing 
 things that this game brings. I recommend it to any Sci-Fi fan or KOTOR style RPG fan. 
  
  Note: The only reason my score is a 9 and not 9.5 is because I know this game is part of a trilogy 
 and I never like the idea of knowing a game is going to take my money multiple times before I can 
 finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARCWULF
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I don't really know why I'm writing this, as everyone seems to be in denial about how bad this 
 game actually is. Oh well, on with the show!
  
  I'll admit, from the E3 gameplay trailers I bought into the hype. I pre-ordered the game on little 
 more than a few videos and Bioware's reputation. I'm ready to admit that I made a mistake.
  
  Just to be clear, I haven't played the game all the way through yet, so maybe there's something 
 after the 23 hours I've put into it that will change my opinion, but putting the time into it to 
 find out is painful.
  
  I'm not saying that the game is bad, it's just not good. Here's why:
  
  Graphically, the game 
 is Merely adequate. The characters are all high poly, and the texture effects all look great. I 
 realize that on-the-fly facial expressions and intricately animated body language are a relatively 
 new thing, but some of the faces in the game just don't animate to match a particular emotion (Captain 
 Anderson always looks like he's going to cry, no matter what he's saying) . I'm willing to forgive 
 that - for the most part the character animation is spectacular - but not perfect. The Quarian 
 race, for example, looks like it should walk digitigrade (on its toes) , but the animations are 
 clearly plantigrade (heel-to-toe) , and it looks awkward (this is a pet peeve of mine, so don't 
 let that shade your opinion of the game) . Texture maps "pop in" a lot - way more than in Halo 2, 
 which was annoying even back then. This is to cut back on load times, I'm told, but it still drives 
 me up the wall (besides, I'm only playing this on a standard television, and it's just as bad for 
 me as it is for my roommate who's running it in hi-def) . All of the gameplay videos you see are 
 of lush, tree-filled colonies or spectacular space cities - this is a lie. While those locations 
 are in the game, there are only about three that I've found about 20 hours into it. All of the 
 other locations are ugly, rocky, terrain lacking any plant life or architecture to speak of. Fortunately 
 you won't always see the ugly locations because camera control will often times put your view underneath 
 the "Mako" vehicle, especially when you're fighting enemies!
  
  Speaking of locations - lets talk about them, shall we? In the developers' gameplay video (the 
 one that was included with pre-orders from BestBuy and other retailers) the player picks a planet 
 seemingly at random, and then has a spectacular battle on the surface. This would lead someone 
 naive to believe that the game has dozens of these locations to explore. After all, each solar 
 system has four or five planets, each star system has two to four solar systems, and there are 
 around a dozen different star systems. What they don't tell you in the developers' video is that 
 every solar system only has one explorable planet, and you can only explore about one scale square 
 mile of that before you're out of the "operations zone." If you were color blind, you would have 
 quite some difficulty telling one of these planets from the other - as mentioned before, they are 
 all essentially the same planet, which brings the total (for my 23 hours of play) to five. Incidentally, 
 if you've played Bioware's Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic (KOTOR) for the original Xbox, 
 you've already seen all of the environments for the most part (Feros looks like the Sith tombs, 
 The Citadel looks almost exactly like Taris, etc.) , and the awe will wear off even faster for you.
 
  
  Control is important in any game, except in this one, apparently. Controlling your characters is 
 easy for the most part, with exception. Your A. I. compatriots will most likely get hung up on the 
 seemingly smallest things while you're walking around, and stand stupidly in your way when you 
 need to back up. The developers' video will show you the tactical A. I. and how to use cover. Unlike 
 Perfect Dark Zero, cover is automatic in this game. This is, I suppose, for ease of use, and when 
 it works in a mission, it works well. When it doesn't work, it really doesn't work. Allow me to 
 explain: In the main story levels, the enemy A. I. is programmed to duck and cover from a specific 
 angle, and to shoot at you. You'll be impressed with the very first mission for this reason alone. 
 The downside is, since all of the games side missions seem to have been thrown together at the 
 last minute, the enemy A. I. in these stages will simply rush you. That means that if you're taking 
 cover, in the split second it takes for your character to go against or come away from the wall, 
 you will be swarmed with enemies that you can't target, allowing you to see the game's annoying 
 death sequence time and time again. The side missions are also flawed in the fact that your vehicle, 
 the Mako, has a freely rotating turret. Starting out, you'll be surprised at how much it steers 
 like the Warthog in Halo, but that's the problem - it should steer like the Scorpion in Halo! Strafing 
 becomes a chore, because while driving the Mako your steering follows the camera (which follows 
 the turret) . If you're trying to drive and fire without stopping it's pretty much impossible - 
 you'll steer right into the enemy you were trying to avoid. It's really hard to describe this, 
 but people who've played the game will know what I'm talking about.
  
  Control aside, gameplay in Mass Effect is one of the most formulaic and dull formulas that I have 
 ever seen. I'm not talking about the conversation sequences - I've played KOTOR and I expect and 
 enjoy them - but the actual action part of the game for the most part is the same:
  1) land on the planet with the same real-time video sequence (the backgrounds change, big whoop) 
 and wait for the game to load.
  2) attempt to drive the Mako over mountains.
  3) find mineral deposits that all look like space poop, and the crashed probe, and the mummified 
 alien, and play the stupid "Simon" type mini game.
  4) find the base with the enemies in it. Just for variety Bioware made 3 types of these locations: 
 Split-level box, single level research station with hallway, and cave with two tunnels. Each has 
 its own slight variations but these are all the structures you will see on most planets.
  5) fight the thresher maw, a monster that can pop out of the ground and kill you with one hit, 
 but that you will have to shoot with your canon about 20 times to kill. 
  Oh, and here's a tip for the burgeoning player - Auto save is worthless. If you die while planet-side, 
 the game will only start you where you were dropped off, so save frequently!
  
  All of your character's "Biotic" powers are pretty much exactly like the force powers in KOTOR, 
 except that there aren't as many of them and absolutely no story elements really revolve around 
 them. Upgrading guns isn't nearly as fun as making lightsabers either. If you think that I'm being 
 unfair in making this comparison, play both games and tell me with a straight face that you don't 
 see the resemblances.
  
  Another irritating gameplay element is the store system. When you start the game, you'll have really 
 crappy equipment, but EVERYTHING is far too expensive at the store for you to upgrade. By the time 
 you have the money to buy armor even slightly better than what you start out with, you won't need 
 to because you'll have already found nearly as good or better stuff from scavenging planets. It's 
 not even worth it to sell the stuff you find, because on any given item that the shopkeeper sells 
 for say, 32000 credits they'll only give you about 100 for it, so you might as well turn the item 
 into the highly versatile "omni-gel." So basically the stores in the game are useless, and that 
 makes the game really hard starting out because you need to find better equipment.
  
  Story-wise, the game is alright, despite pacing problems. This is the most important part of any 
 RPG, and there are a lot of elements here to enjoy (the part where you have to decide who your 
 girlfriend will be is hilarious) . Unfortunately, I'm at the point right now where I'm more interested 
 in reading about the composition of the games many un-landable planets rather than hearing my Commander 
 Shepard constantly say "Don't worry, we'll get Saren!" Anyone familiar with the Wheelchair and 
 Eh, Steve! from Sweet Cuppin' Cakes will know what I'm referring to.
  
  Sound-wise, this game doesn't just hit the mark, it tears right through it! All of the effects 
 are nicely done, and the voice acting is top-notch - if this sets a new standard for that we'll 
 all be better off. The music is meant to sound like a cheesy '80s sci-fi soundtrack, and covers 
 that nicely, though it does get just a little repetitive. No complaints here, though.
  
  Aside from everything else though, the game is really really glitchy. You'll have to reset occasionally 
 because your Commander Shepard gets stuck between the rock sample you've scanned the marker the 
 game automatically puts down (there's no jump button in the game) . You'll spend inordinate amounts 
 of time wondering why the Mako's turret is shooting the hill behind an enemy when the reticule 
 is clearly over top of them! You'll scratch your head as your NPC friends refuse to follow orders 
 on a perfectly flat and clear playing field because they're "blocked!" You'll be awed by the incredibly 
 bad camera management on the Mako! You'll be stunned as the thresher maw that you've just killed 
 (and it makes the death sound, clearly explodes AND gives you experience points) comes back from 
 the dead to kill you with just one hit! You'll watch the minutes fly by as you sit through the 
 unnecessarily long death sequence over and over again! You'll be amazed at how the game has to 
 load the same tiny level that you died on as if you were going there for the first time and it 
 was the size of one of Halo 3's levels!
  
  Although I can't say that it's Bioware's fault, when I loaded the Mass Effect theme on my 360's 
 dashboard, suddenly I couldn't connect to Xbox Live anymore. While I have since gotten it back 
 online, I now have to wonder...
  
  In conclusion, everyone in the world is saying how great this game is, despite the fact that it 
 has many glaring and unnecessary flaws. I am personally offended that they decided to put the time 
 into this half-baked drink coaster, rather than giving us a proper (and faster loading) sequel 
 to KOTOR. I'm only playing now out of spite (I did waste $60 on it, after all) , not because I find 
 it fun. When a video game, even a RPG seems like more work than accomplishment, it's time to play 
 another game.
  
  Mass Effect, more like Ass Effect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Well there's not much more to add that hasn't been said about this game already. I've been a bioware 
 rpg fan for many years with games like the neverwinter nights and KoToR series. If you are an PC 
 rpg fan and haven't got an xbox 360 it's worth it for this alone, considering they are planning 
 on making 2 sequels then it's even more reason.
  
  The graphics is pretty much the best of any rpg i've seen. It has the most realistic lipsyncing 
 as well with details even given to the eye and facial expressions. The speech delivered lines are 
 flawless and there is a boggling amount of dialogue in this game. You can go into all the history 
 and backstory of each characters and even get their opinions on the missons and other people in 
 your party.
  
  As with other bioware games, dialogue with other npc's can change totally depending on who you 
 take in your party and how you treat them. There is also unique quests that can be done for each 
 character you get to know better.
  
  The galaxy of mass effect is quite big and there is many side planets and quests you can take on 
 which develops the story in so many ways. It's all presented in a beautiful 3D minimap of all the 
 different star systems. Although there is some criticism the planets are bare, I think it fits 
 in with how planets do look like mars, barren wastelands.
  
  The combat is fun and challenging, you can take cover and lean out and fire, much like the system 
 in gears of war. There is also the usual many different armour and weapon and character upgrades 
 available to personalise your character. When creating your character you can go into alot of depth 
 in personalizing and it shows in the cutscenes. 
  
  The story is intriguing and well thought out, though a tad predictable in some ways as most all 
 rpgs are, aka kill the bad guy, only to find out there's a bigger bad guy, kill him and save the 
 universe etc.
  
  The sound is great, music is ok, more just fits the mood than anything else, the menu track is 
 pretty cool though. If you've played the halo series you'll find controlling the vehicle similar 
 to the warthog in halo though they need to retune the settings more. I can see though that people 
 who haven't played FPS games would find it very difficult.
  
  This game almost feels to advanced for the xbox 360 even, there is times when it can't seem to 
 keep up with everything going on and textures load a bit late or it slows down a bit in big battles. 
 It doesn't happen often but it makes me wonder how the xbox will handle the sequels in bioware 
 somehow improve on the graphics engine even more.
  
  Overall the few minor shortcomings of this game (and let's face it no game is perfect) aregreatly 
 overshadowed by everything else this game has to offer. A must for RPG fans.
  
  Mass effect will go down in RPG history.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Excellent Texture Detail, 3rd person is intense even within the context of the game, different 
 ways of doing quests make this game worth two play throughs easy, great story
  
  Cons: Rpg skills feel unnecessary in gameplay, textures do not load right away and are often buggy, 
 framerate slows down when the game asks too much of the xbox 360, Sidequests are repetitive.
  
  
  Mass effect immediately blows you away and takes very little time to get the feel for and 
 get into, expecially if you are a vetran of Bioware's other Rpg games like Kotor and Jade Empire. 
 Except instead of turn-based combat, you are treated with intense 3rd person action comparable 
 to Gears of War, or Resident Evil 4. On top of that you have the ability to customize your character 
 down to how he uses weapons, biotics (physics control) or tech abilities, his face, and his weapons.
 
  First, the combat. Mass Effect is 3rd person, the damage you do is based on your weapons and upgrades 
 as well as your skills. You also maintain the abilities to use biotic skills or tech skills to 
 give your team an advantage in combat. However, the combat never gets more in depth than the duck 
 and shoot system, blowing up the explosive barrels, and isn't exceptionally hard, even early in 
 the game. This puts a bit of the damper on the game since most of the quests rely very heavily 
 on combat.
  ANother Key feature of the game is the ability to talk to other character, selecting your dialogue 
 lines which has impact on the outcome of the conversation (like real life, who would have figured?) 
 You can establish relationships with your team members, and change the outcomes of quests with 
 this dialogue system. This really helps the game feel very personal and really helps you to step 
 into your character more. Quite clearly this is one of the games shining points.
  Simply you can't go wrong with Mass Effect, expecially if your looking for a game with some replay 
 value, and a lengthy story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is by far the best story telling experience you can get on the 360. Its an epic space 
 opera with enough grit and emotion to pull at the hardest heart strings.
  The story goes youre the best humanity has to offer and its time to stand up amongst the rank and 
 file and become humanity's champion. The galaxy doesnt take us seriously, but thats all about to 
 change and youre the person who will do it. You can create your own back story with 3 different 
 psychological backgrounds and service history records. Each affect game play in their own way and 
 have quests fleshing out the effects these events had on the universe. 
  Along the way to saving the galaxy and getting humanity recognized as the grand race we are, you'll 
 meet a rag tag group of aliens who range from scientists to mercs. Each has its own unique back 
 story and quests linking them to the Mass Effect universe. You'll even get to develop a love interest 
 with a character or two depending on your gender. Later you'll have to make some tough decisions 
 regarding the outcome of your compatriots but that just makes it all the more compelling to follow 
 it through to the end. The villains in the game are unique and interesting and stand out against 
 the normal villain mold, both in visual style and motivations.
  The combat is by far some of the best ive seen in the action RPG genre. Its not turn based and 
 its not just button mashing. Its all real time and even has elements of a 3rd person shooter to 
 make it all the more intense when the fire fights break out. You'll have your tech moves, biotic 
 techniques which act like force abilities for those who played KOTOR, grenades and your gun play.
 
  Depending on if you do all the side quests or not you can get anywhere from 20-40 hours of game 
 time in a single play through. Side quests consist of surveying planets for raw materials to wiping 
 out enemy outposts. 
  I had only two major gripes about the game which were the consistent texture pop up and the mako 
 vehicle combat. Vehicle combat was very clunky and took a long time to get used to and while the 
 games visuals are nothing short of amazing, constantly seeing textures pop up during cut scenes 
 or game play was disappointing.
  So all in all an amazing experience worth multiple plays. Im am definitely glad i traded in my 
 Assassins Creed for this amazing experience. Heres hoping we dont have to wait too long to see 
 where Shepard goes next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldenpony
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Having just recently bought my 360, I wanted a game that would keep my interest, have good visual 
 appeal, and last more than a weekend. Well, Mass Effect did just that. 
  
  Where some games lack that catch you quality this one sure had that. The visuals are stunning, 
 the voice acting is top notch, and the story is there to keep you going. You can rush right through 
 the game and only play the main tasks, but there is so much more. There are those who just wanted 
 to get a play through and move on to the next game, sort of like notching your six shooter. Those 
 who did this missed out on a greatly expanded game. 
  
  The main story is original and fresh. Sure there have been other games about humans exploring the 
 galaxy and having to save it against an outside enemy, but this story is more. You play a human 
 named Sheppard. It is your task not only to save the galaxy, but also to prove that humans belong 
 in the galactic family. You start the game choosing your character. You can customize the appearance 
 right down to scars on your face. Seemingly minor choices at the start can actually lead to different 
 story lines down the road.
  
  Along the way you will gain experience as well as new team members. Some will be human, others 
 will be alien. Some of the human members resent the aliens and some of the aliens resent the humans 
 so you need to play politician as well. The team interaction is not as high as on some other RPG's, 
 but that does not take away from the game any. You can even develop emotional relationships with 
 team members, both human and alien.
  
  The game play itself is straight forward and easy to master. You can use regular weapons, guns 
 and grenades, and also biotic powers to take down enemies. Along the way you find items to upgrade 
 your weapons and earn points to upgrade skills. You can set your team to use their own powers as 
 they see fit or you can tell them which powers to use. Team members help you in other ways as well. 
 They allow you to open locked items, hack computers, and use their first aid kills to help.
  
  The story centers on a rouge Specter. Specters are a galactic special ops group. They are assigned 
 special tasks and allowed to use special weapons and powers to complete these tasks. You are promoted 
 to be the first human Specter and sent out to stop the rouge before he can destroy the galaxy. 
 Just playing the main story will take you to 4 systems and four main tasks. This will get you through 
 the game in as little as 8 hours. However, there is much more than that.
  
  The side quests of this game can pile up on you very quickly. If you keep taking them before you 
 finish one your list soon gets very long. You can spend hours just working on side quests before 
 you even start the main story arc of the game. Some of the side quests do seem a little boring 
 compared to others, but it is up to you if you want to complete them. Some of the game achievements 
 are based on you completing a good portion of the side quests, so if you are into your gamer score 
 you will need to complete a good portion of the side quests to get those points.
  
  The combat take place in real time. If you don't hit the fire button, then your player doesn't 
 fire. SO you have to stay on top of the situation. During combat you can switch weapons or use 
 your biotic powers, selecting these menus does pause combat. You can send your team mates to a 
 different location during combat or have them stay put while you head off into the fray. With different 
 weapons available you can choose how to approach combat. You can rush in with your shot gun or 
 sit back and pick off the bad guys with you sniper rifle. 
  
  Traveling around to different planets is done by your ship, the Normandy. You either land on the 
 planets and exit the ship or are airdropped to the planet in your MAKO, an armored vehicle. Some 
 planets are safe for humans while others can cause damage if you stay outside too long, so be careful. 
 
  
  Visually the game is great stunning colors, realistic weather effects, and eye catching creatures. 
 A couple of planets feature a blizzard and it is hard to get around in the blowing snow, just like 
 a real storm. 
  
  I enjoyed my first run through of the game very much. I know there are more things for me to do 
 when I go back through on a harder difficulty and I look forward to doing so. If you take your 
 time and work on completing every task you can spend an easy 40 hours on one play though. To me 
 that is getting a good amount of bang for your gaming dollar. Then add into the fact you can play 
 through as both a male or female character and your numbers of run through expands. It is well 
 worth the price and I am glad I chose it as my first game on the 360.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: delusionalnye
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  BioWare did an awesome job with this game. It takes a little getting used to, I found the game 
 mechanics to be frustrating at first, but I really started to enjoy the game after leaving the 
 Citadel. The combat quality seemed poor at first and I thought I would be disappointed (sniping 
 seemed near impossible) but as my experience increased and I learned the game play, it really became 
 fun. I love the battles now and can't put the game down. I just started playing through it a second 
 time to see how much my decisions affect the game. I am amazed at the amount of back story in the 
 game. By the end of the game, the in-game guide, the Codex, that is almost like an encyclopedia, 
 was filled with little bits of info discovered through the game. I highly recommend this game to 
 anyone who enjoys RPG's or shooters, Sci-Fi or action, it is one helluva good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo5514
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  When i fist saw this game i was like wtf??? i was like how are they going to make a shooter but 
 have rpg elements. but then i saw who was the company who was making it and then i knew it would 
 be good. i played kotor and that was one of my favorite games. anyway. this game has amazing graphics. 
 and the sound effects are great. Voice acting is so amazing its just so crisp ands clear. i love 
 how you can choose to be what path you want to be on. this game deserves a 10/10 this game is beautiful 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigEsmalls
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  I spent months and months tracking this game, all the while thinking that there was no way it was 
 going to be as good as my high hoped dreams. But when I turned on my 360 and started playing, I 
 was hooked. It's one of the most addicting games I've ever played... and I hate RPGs. The sound, 
 the graphics, the storyline, the conversational tools, voice acting... everything is stunning. 
 Controls work perfectly and, although there is some nagging framerate issues at times when there 
 are a ton of enemies on the screen, the game is technically sound. Planet exploration is a blast, 
 and I love the fact that when you land on a new planet or moon, some key points are given on your 
 radar, but its up to YOU to explore the terrain and find some cool little skirmishes and/or hidden 
 items. I've read the Gamespot review and was very disappointed. For one, they griped about the 
 controls once inside the Make (the all terrain vehicle used for exploration) more specifically, 
 they whined about the inability to aim the Mako's cannons and machine guns up or down, which is 
 LUDICROUS... the vehicles weapons work great, unless enemies are a wee bit too close. 
  Long story short, don't listen to Gamespot, just think... do you want to play a game that will 
 get better as it goes on rather than being bored by the 3rd hour? Do you want a game where you 
 actually make an emotional investment into character and plot development? And do you want to play 
 a game that is not only one of the best of this year, but maybe one of the best of its kind? Then 
 get some money together, go out, and buy Mass Effect, you'll thank me in the morning after you've 
 stayed up all night. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swanfox64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the closest that I have come to being in a great Sci Fi movie - you can create a 
 custom character with back-story that is used in the game play as well as customize the characters 
 head to look like you or whatever you think would make a great hero.
  
  The customization of the character is very similar to Oblivion but here, you see you character's 
 face a lot in cut scenes as in the third person shooting.
  
  The morality meter is similar to KOTOR but more mature with various gray areas for decisions - 
 also you can raise both your good and bad levels which are more believable.
  
  The graphics are very good - you have an option to use a film grain which takes away from the sharpness 
 but does make it seem like you are watch a video - this is very close the Final Fantasy movie quality.
 
  
  Sound is good although it can get in your head after many hours of game play - stick around for 
 the credits at the end to enjoy a really good song!
  
  The story line is lifted from many popular Sci Fi themes but in a good way - not a rip off way. 
 You have storylines based on Battlestar Galactica, Buck Rogers, Star Wars, Blade Runner, and Star 
 Trek, - it could be a good trivia game just finding the references.
  
  The language is Mature but not excessive - the ability to develop relationships with your team 
 is good and makes the interaction between missions fun.
  
  They do a great job of making you feel like you are part of a huge universe without making it seem 
 artificial. You are a hero but not everyone likes you.
  
  Some complaints which keep this from being a perfect 10 -
  The inventory system is not fun - 
 you end up with a lot of stuff and selling it to convert to credits or omni gel takes a time. To 
 make things believable - you manage your team's equipment at their lockers which again takes time 
 - or you can change equipment anytime during your missions which is not believable.
  
  The Mako can be hard to drive and you cannot upgrade it directly. It would be fun to add custom 
 armor - or guns, etc...
  
  It would be nice to be able to name your saved games easily - you can forget which save you want 
 if you have multiple ones on the same level.
  
  I played through using the sniper rifle a lot. My teammates - which you always have to bring along, 
 would not stay in cover mode. If you shoot one enemy at long range, they immediately think the 
 combat is over and run up to you - this messes up sniping a lot. Not a big issue but affected my 
 game style.
  
  Final thoughts:
  This game is addictive and the storyline lends itself to playing multiple times because your actions 
 really can affect how people work with you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: winduck07
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  I been playing a little Crackdown, Vegas Six and Gears. Finished 1000 gamerscore on COD4 so I was 
 all ready to rush, flashbang/nade, kill and kill, recover, reload and repeat.
  
  I started this game and I was waiting.
  A lot of dialogue and choices to pick from.
  I was 
 surprised because I was still in the "I talk with my bullets" mood.
  Not as frantic as far as combat goes and theres a lot of talking in this game, reminded me of one 
 my other favorites games, "Longest Journey" and its less-stellar sequel "Dreamfall."
  
  I think if your SOLIDLY into pure action games, this game might not be that appealing ... but since 
 I can go both ways, I think the storyline and dialogue is a nice change of pace from the action 
 games I was playing earlier.
  
  There are some things that taking getting use to but all games are like that. One I wish that all 
 games would do is allow custom mapping of the controller because I have to remember that Gears 
 layout is this way and the button layout is this way on Vegas and that way on COD, so it would 
 be nice if all games would allow players complete controller button customization.
  
  Anyway, back to the game, its good a different mellow change of pace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pimpmaster9000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Storytelling:
  
  9.75/10
  The best feature of the game - gripping and involving storyline makes ME feel like you are part 
 of a cinema epic.
  
  Graphics:
  
  8.5/10
  The main flaw of the game; occassional but nonetheless noticeable graphical stutters and jumps/glitches 
 start to bug after long periods of play.
  
  Sound:
  
  9.0/10
  Quality voiceovers make good listening and enhance the cinematic feel of the game. Only bugbear 
 is that there is little 'inspiration' in the musical soundtrack.
  
  Overall gameplay:
  
  9.3/10
  Only problems here are slightly questionable friendly AI and annoying limit on items 
 (only 150 can be carried even though there are 100's of upgrades for your equipment) . Otherwise 
 exciting and addictive gameplay throughout.
  
  My Final Score (not an average) :
  
  9.5/10
  Amazing and addictive RPG held only from perfection by small (but noticeable) graphical 
 glitches and so-so AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeevz_basic
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  This game deserve more then 8.5 in my opinion. Great graphics, insanely good story, Rainbow vegas 
 meets BioWare gameplay and alien flirting possibilities all in one game ;o)
  
  **Minor spoilers**
  Character creation was easy and painless. Just awesome to see a fairly similar 
 face as yours (mine) interacting with all the other characters ingame. There are so many characters 
 (NPCs) and different personalities that I found myself running back to see my favorite ones once 
 or twice while I stoppped by the Citadel (Homebase) . 
  
  The gameplay is fun and the learning curve ain't too steep. You dont need to be a Shooter expert 
 to have fun and the action can easily be paused while you figure out your next move. Plus, all 
 the different crew members... Soldiers you bring along have different talents you can use. Be it 
 heavy assault rifle or Jedi like force push, they have your back!
  
  I give this game a solid 10 for being what all new Action/RPG should strive for.
  
  -JiNnBoO
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RatTrap
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  I'll start by saying Mass Effect is the best game ive ever played.
  The Story is the best i've ever seen, well written, awsome voice acting on everyones part.
  
 
  First ill say the bad,
  Alot of people complain of getting stuck in the game on the geography, and or walls.. what ever 
 you name it, ive not had this problem, one time i got stuck I used the old "run in circles and 
 duck alot" and within like 5 seconds i was unstuck, nothing major.
  The spells are kind of limited, theres prolly 8-9 differnt types and all you can really do is upgrade 
 them, so using them can get kind of repetitive, however on this subject at the same time, i never 
 get tired of lifting my enemies in the air, then chucking em across the room.
  
  Next ill say the good.
  Its a great game! ive beat it once, and im doing quests and everything 
 i missed the first time around, this time ive bumped the level to Hardcore, and am using the Soldier 
 i created the first time, hes now like level 55, but its still hard as the monsters are now level 
 55 as well.
  
  I love the fact that theres fights in this game that take alot of thinking of where to place your 
 self, if you just run in you will die, (much like in gears of war) , You can decide if you want 
 to be nice, or mean, you like me, kind of split it right down the middle and get 50% of each.
 
  
  Ive yet to find a real complaint to be had about this game, at first it was the CS's can take to 
 long, then i learned you can skip them if you dont wanna see em or if ur playing through again, 
 have already seen em.
  
  The game offers alot of freedom, you can beat it very fast if you want, or if your like me, take 
 your time, do some quests, get better gear.. impress your romance, then go kill the baddies.
  
  
  
  All in all, I love this game, and if you like RPGS or action games its an AWSOME mix 
 of the 2 games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mez3999
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  Gamespot got it so so so so so so wrong this is the BEST GAME i have EVER played. If you have an 
 xbox 360 get this game if you dont have a 360 buy one so you can play this game.
  
  I can't believe some reviewers rated it below 9 this is the way all games should be. If you havent 
 played this game your missing out big time. Its the only game i have ever finished and then immediately 
 started from the start and played through again. There is so much to do, you can explore an entire 
 galaxy no other game even comes close to this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  When you look at this game like i did and say just a ordinary game until it loads 
  up and you find yourself immersed in a story which just keeps going alows you to choose the path 
 you want to follow. The game has some of the best graphics and art design it really makes it realistic. 
 When you make your character there is so many things you can do it is amazing. There also a system 
 in the gameplay which alows you to switch from realtime to turn based pretty much it has made it 
 so you will like both though so yeah it is amazing. The only complaint is small noticeable frame 
 rate issues at times but i loved this game and i totaly going out and buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coroner62
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This is the best RPG that I have played on a console I love the soundtrack the game play except 
 the equipment screen could have been better. I Love the storyline as well as acting and cut senes. 
 Weapons are cool as well as powers. And I like the fact that your teammates do kill the enemy and 
 not just shoot in the area. After you beeat the game you can start all over with the same avatar 
 and still keep the same lvl and continiue to lvl up. I just wish the storyline was longer. And 
 that there were more side missions because I want more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RipaX21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Before I get into the meat of the review, because I know a lot of you don't like reading, let me 
 just say that Mass Effect is an incredible game. It has almost everything you could ask for in 
 a game; exciting game play that includes guns and superpowers, in depth character creation and 
 interesting AI characters, good voice acting, excellent story telling, customization of your party 
 and equipment, and an entire galaxy of stars and planets to explore. I highly recommend playing 
 this game if you have the patience for an RPG.
  
  Visuals and Environments
  First off, the character models are outstanding and their expressions are believable. Most of the 
 environments look very good, the textures look nice and really make the different settings stand 
 out. Having said that, the textures often take a long time to pop in, and when I say along time 
 I'm talking about 5 to 10 seconds. Also, most of the more insignificant planets tend to just blend 
 together, they seem like the same planet with a different color mapping. The buildings on these 
 planets are also very similar, in fact they are identical buildings with different arrangements 
 of obstacles inside. My final gripe with most of the planets is that there is no vegetation anywhere 
 and all but one of the planets have no indigenous animals or any sort. Overall, you will be more 
 than pleased with aesthetics in this game.
  
  Gameplay
  The game splays very nice for the most part. The combat is fairly easy to pick up, you have 4 weapons 
 which you can pause battle to switch through and you also have an array of "Biotic" powers which 
 range from the ability to lift an enemy into the air and throw his to being able to disable enemy 
 weapons and create kinetic barriers. The difficulty ramps up nicely with 4 settings (3 to start 
 with and one needing to be unlocked) . The vehicle combat is not bad either, although it does have 
 its flaws. The Mako handles alright once you realize that you can steer with either of the joysticks 
 however, this does make moving and shooting a bit more difficult when enemies aren't directly in 
 front of you. The Mako also has the ability to jump about 10 feet into the air and while this may 
 sound stupid it definitely comes in handy when you need to dodge enemy rockets. 
  
  Aside from the combat there are also the character interactions and conversations which can also 
 be a lot of fun. Buying, selling, trading, learning about alien races or criminal activities, and 
 even threatening random civilians are all part of the game. You also unlock the abilities to charm 
 or intimidate other characters which can lead to alternative missions or resolutions.
  
  Loading screens aren't too frequent however the game quick loads often, usually when entering a 
 new area of auto saving, and it loads during the painstakingly long elevator rides. The elevators 
 are probably the most annoying part of the game, as you run into them quite often in most missions 
 and they do take far to long. However, most of the time you will hear something on the radio in 
 the elevator or your squad mates will be talking about something to try and make the elevator ride 
 a little more bearable.
  
  As for the story, it's epic and very gripping. You will be very interested in everything that is 
 going on, you will want to know why certain things are the way they are and why other things happen 
 the way they do. And if you search for the answers the game will give them to you and they are 
 all very believable. From beginning to end you will be completely emerged in the story and will 
 be very satisfied with the ending. This is one of the best video game stories to come by in a while, 
 and may be the best this generation.
  
  Audio
  As I said in the beginning, the voice acting is done very well, Bioware got a few big time actors 
 to help out on this one. The music in the game is mostly orchestrated with a few electronic tracks 
 thrown in and all of them do an excellent job at making you feel like blowing stuff up. And speaking 
 of blowing things up, the sound effects are also spot on. All of the guns have a satisfying boom 
 to make them feel powerful, the explosions are very well done, and the engines of the star ships, 
 especially when going through a mass relay, are incredibly powerful.
  
  My final opinion on this game: while it does have its share of flaws and drawbacks it is one of 
 the best games of this generation and probably my favorite game for the Xbox 360 so far. The fact 
 that it's going to be a trilogy just makes it all the more sweeter. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beedup91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  There are a few glitches here and there but what game doesn't? I believe this game was serverely 
 underrated by Gamespot, it revolutionizes the RPG genre. Everything from graphics to game play; 
 side quests to main quest; driving to combat, Mass Effect defines great, nay, it defines damn near 
 perfect. 
  
  The graphics beat every Xbox 360 game on the market at this very moment (hate it or love it you 
 CoD 4 fanboys) . I mean seriously, the graphics are SO good that it actually takes the xbox about 
 2 seconds to fully load the terrain. Did I say 2 seconds? Yes, I did, but you hardly notice it 
 as you progress through the game. I don't even consider the graphics loading a minor inconvenience 
 because once it's done loading, you will be filled with a surmountable amount of awe. No game beats 
 Mass Effect in graphics.
  
  Combat is absolutely revolutionary. If you consider Oblivion to have a unique fighting system then 
 you have not seen the greatness that Mass Effect's combat system has to offer. As a matter of fact, 
 Mass Effect's combat system excels greatness. Mass Effect amalgamates a perfect combination of 
 intensiveness, immersiveness, and tactical deliberateness. This game revolutionizes the very definition 
 of RPG combat.
  
  The main storyline is one of the most immersive story lines I have ever experienced in a game. 
 Bioware gave this game a simple story that has twists, turns, complication, and sophistication. 
 The story line is so immersive that it feels as if you're actually Commander Shepard in your own 
 sience fiction movie. You can choose to be good, bad, or neutral with each having multiple endings. 
 The choices you make in a certain point in the game determines what choices you can make in the 
 future and ultimately determines your ending. The game offers so much depth that it feels as if 
 you wouldn't even be able to completely finish it.
  
  Mass Effect has some of the best sound effects I have ever heard. Hearing a gun go off during battle 
 is like sex in the ears. Battle sounds are so admirable that I don't even know how to explain how 
 great they are. When I fought my first battle in Mass Effect, my jaw dropped with so much awe that 
 I was unable to pick it up off the floor; the sounds of battle are probably the closest you'll 
 ever want to get to battle without having to actually fight in war but the sounds of battle are 
 not the only sounds that are superb. All sounds from walking to driving are nearly perfect.
  
  I have played many computer RPG's in my time. Everything from Diablo to Neverwinter Nights 
 to Oblivion. Yet not a single one of those games comes close to the greatness that Bioware has 
 accomplished with Mass Effect. Do yourself a favor. Buy this game. Trust me, it's worth every penny 
 and worth every second of your time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -lThe_Doctorl-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  mass effect is the best rpg i have ever played a lot of that comes down to the story alone, i relay 
 felt for the characters like i never have in a game before it sucks you in and is really like a 
 drama in that respect. The combat is also great with all the usual weapons suck as assault pistol 
 shotgun and sniper but there is also things you can do with your mind a lot like spells in other 
 games, the only problem with the combat is the frame rates die in combat it is still playable but 
 very annoying. there are also a tone of side quest that you can do all that are great but you get 
 new ones every time you travel some were and it can get quite annoying. The little glitches in 
 the game do ad up ill list a few that i noticed, 1. one of my squad members kept getting stuck 
 under the car every time we got out 2. you can pause the action at anytime in a fire fight and 
 asses and give orders but sometimes when i did this the enemy's did not pause the kept shooting 
 me and this got very annoying 3. i completed the game on insane but never got the achievement. 
 over all great game the best story on 360 great combat and and leveling up but little glitches 
 stopped me from a perfect 10 but a must buy for rpg fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IamTakkun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  This game mixes in the greatest aspects of your fantasies of what a real Next-Gen RPG should be!
 
  
  As you travel through the vastness of space you discover uncharted worlds and plenty of mystery!
 
  
  Enough kowtowing, let's get into it!
  
  It starts of by allowing the user to either get right into the story as Commander John Shepard, 
 a colonist that has a military record that makes him the ultimate candidate for a special program 
 called the "Spectres", or you can simply create a completely different person to proceed with (male 
 or female) . Allowing you to make choices like this is carried all throughout the story! I won't 
 spoil anything, but let's just say the story keeps you on your toes until the last shot is fired 
 and you're drooling over a sequel ( !! ) . Plenty of allies that you can have board your ship and 
 fight with you allows a diverse story-telling system. Each character has a unique personality and 
 will react differently to each situation you are faced with therefore giving you too many reasons 
 to play through this game at least five time! This games earned a completely 10 outta 10 when it 
 came to the story-telling and literary illustrations through out this game!
  
  Another huge aspect of any RPG is the "fighting system". Now to call this a shooter would be to 
 call a champion breed hound a "dog"... This game doesn't fall short of any expectations when you're 
 out killing alien robots or rogue militant units! Every character you have along with you can arm 
 themselves with four different weapons that you can customize with different add-ons and TONS of 
 different ammunition! Even with a crappy pistol you can annihilate your foes with "techs" or "biotics" 
 which consist of moves ranging with "AI Hacking", which turns the tables by turning a synthetic 
 against his allies, to "Decryption", allowing you to open storage units to obtain powerful weapons! 
 The battle system doesn't ever get old, dull, or redundant due to the open ended battle tactics! 
 This game earned a solid 9.5 outta 10 for it's great captivating "battle system"!
  
  Graphics, sound quality, and voice overs are always a large part of your gaming experience even 
 if you don't realize it. This game brought the goods. I'm ashamed to say I'm not playing with HMDI 
 right now, but even with a terrible CRT I can see the time they put into this game. Graphically 
 this game has great detail on all surfaces and environments, especially the facial expressions 
 that each character display differently. 
  The soundtrack of most RPGs consist of orchestrated pieces that give an aura of majesty, but just 
 like this game, it's on a new level with the sound as well. Throughout the game you feel as if 
 you were watching a "I Forgot to Breath" action film! The epic tones are set almost entirely on 
 the music!
  This is just one of the first to display great voice-overs by famous people that adds to the experience 
 every minute. This game contains an all-star cast of voice-overs, some of which you may not recognize 
 until you met the cast, which is able to be do via XBL marketplace. 
  All these factors inspired me to grant this game an easy 9.5 outta 10 for aesthetics!
  
  This 
 game has FIVE different difficulties so no one is left behind fighting any sub-boss. Along with 
 that there are two major factors to be dealt with here... Whether to be the "badass" commander 
 that kills anyone in his path or the cool headed Shepard that will use diplomacy to solve impossible 
 disputes. With the Paragon vs. Renegade system you have thousands of options to dictate the action 
 throughout the story. Will you use this to rule the known galaxy or become the savior of the galactic 
 peace!? With these factors this game can't go without a 10 outta 10 for re-play value!
  
  
  Straight up... 
  This game wins game of the year for me. 
  
  9.5 / 10, without a doubt. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatcarbuncle
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect. For many months now we have spoken the name with awe and anticipation. Now it is finally 
 upon us and thankfully has created a storm of good reviews, as we knew it would. In essence, it 
 is a hugely deep role playing game, set in a sci-fi world over one hundred years from now. The 
 combat system, while not revolutionary, is still innovative, integrating biotic and tech powers 
 with the more conventional power of Trigger Happy.
  
  So, on the surface, ME is revolutionary, innovative, new, fantastic, flashy and all the rest. The 
 graphics are also something to comment on - they take it to a whole new level. However, despite 
 this games unavoidable awesomeness, there are problems. One, for instance, is that textures take 
 far too long to load sometimes, meaning that as you're looking at a character, their armour will 
 get more and more detailed, going from a red spandex suit to a suit of heavy armour, which can 
 be unfortunately quite jarring.
  
  Another thing is that, during conversation, you have the option to pull up your conversation choices 
 before the NPC has finished speaking. This can be useful, allowing you to select what you're going 
 to say before they finish or even skip straight to your dialogue if you choose, but sometimes the 
 game opens the interface a split second before you press the button to do so, resulting in you 
 not being able to read the choices and sometimes causing you to select and option you don't like.
 
  
  However, these small annoyances more than vanish in the light of the game's virtues. Despite GS' 
 review saying that vehicle controls are bad, I found that that the MAKO's turret fired up if i 
 wanted it to. 
  
  The story is well told and perfectly paced, just as KOTOR's was, and right up until just before 
 the end of the main missions you can go AWOL and do some side quests.
  
  Enemy AI was also good I thought. The normal Geth troopers tend to take some form of cover, while 
 the juggernauts and destroyers - the tougher Geth - tend to do an all-out assault, which can be 
 very effective, not least because of their masses of armour and health.
  
  Characters' backstories are interesting, but if you don't want to listen to Kaiden talk about his 
 bastard turian teacher you don't have to even approach him. The loot system is yet another good 
 aspect - Shepard automatically takes weapons, amour and upgrades from fallen opponents, while you 
 must hack into or open containers to get the goodies within!
  
  All in all, ME is a fantastic game, which fortunately only has a few small minor problems, which 
 I'm sure can be fixed with out creating new ones as long as EA leave Bioware to do their own thing 
 and not turn ME into a space soccer game. 5 says Mass Effect 2 will have about fifty minigames 
 and a tiny story after EA get their slimy mitts on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bermudabrian
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Having been a fan of BioWare since Baldur's Gate, I always have high expectations of their next 
 game. The lads from up North managed to pull it off again, and as always their latest project is 
 their greatest acheivement.
  
  Building upon their strong background of creating impressive, playable role playing games with 
 great stories, BioWare has upped the notch by incorporating intuitive FPS combat into this game. 
 
  
  Add to this the creation of a massive, immersive science fiction galaxy full of interesting and 
 varied alien races and all of the politics one my expect of such a community, BioWare has managed 
 to make the best game ever.
  
  To sum it all up very quickly: if Knights of the Old Republic and Halo had a baby, it would be 
 Mass Effect. But even beyond that, this isn't a melding or rehashing of old ideas; far from it, 
 Mass Effect feels fresh and inventive.
  
  Can't wait for the sequal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korpdawg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  The story is solid and very enjoyable. Its an amazing feeling when you first play this game, the 
 graphics are that amazing.
  
  Texture pop-ins occur pretty frequently but don't take anything away from the game (Its an RPG, 
 so its supposed to be about story) . 
  
  The game play is a pretty easy third-person-shooter with a mix of biotic (magic) powers. The battles 
 are balanced with no extreme jumps in difficulty. 
  
  The galaxy seems small because its hyped as a galaxy. There is usually one planet to explore in 
 each system of each cluster. i. e. One cluster may have 4 systems, each system will have one planet 
 to land on and complete quests.
  
  The end of the game is extremely satisfying with plenty of resolution and perfect set-up for the 
 sequel. 
  
  I got about 35 hours in on my first play-through and I did about 80% of it. You can get 2 play-throughs 
 easy just for the good/evil roles. Not to mention the male/female characters with good/evil for 
 both. 
  
  The interactive cut-scenes and amazing interaction with most characters are incredible and have 
 to be seen. This is a 9.5 as is but the few graphical errors in the game make it just short of 
 perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthRevan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  
  As the title of the review suggests I've played all the Bioware games on the Xbox. I loved the 
 first Knights of the Old Republic and while I enjoyed the second one, I felt that the plot was 
 very similar to the first one and the influence feature caused me to miss out on important interactions 
 with NPCs. Jade Empire had a nice story and the Asian mystical theme and real-time combat made 
 it interesting enough in its own rights.
  
  Just to let you know, I have played the entire game through and it took a little less than 50 hours. 
 I completed all the missions that were available.
  
  So, how does Mass Effect stack? Well, first of all, the universe that Bioware has created is extremely 
 well fleshed out. There are tons of alien races with a rich historical background along with a 
 political system resembling the United Nations and tons of other small details that help to make 
 you feel that you're in another universe. Bioware has created the stage for many games (and books 
 - the 1st one was excellent) to come and there's little doubt that it will compete with Star Wars 
 and Star Trek.
  
  Second, let's talk about visuals since this is the Bioware's first game on the X360 and we're all 
 expecting a jaw-dropping high-def experience. For the most part, the game's visuals are great. 
 The character models and emotions are easily the best ones ever in a videogame. I thought that 
 some of the textures on the environments could have been better and most of the indoor locations 
 on the planets are identical giving you a deja-vu feeling for the 20th time in a row. You'll use 
 a vehicle to drive from location to location on the surface of the planets and the geography and 
 light effects have to be seen to be believed. On one planet, I stepped on the gas of the vehicle 
 and jumped over a sand hill and I was rewarded with one of nicest scenes ever in a game as the 
 huge red swirling star came into view with my vehicle floating in the middle of it - it was very 
 reminiscent of the classic ET scene where he's riding on the bicycle with the moon behind him. 
 I've had many experiences playing games (e. g. laying dead with my team in Battlefield 2 when a 
 medic appears out of nowhere and revives us) but this is the one that will immediately come to 
 mind when I think of Mass Effect. There is no doubt that Bioware has created something special 
 here. But the game is not without its faults.
  
  The story is great but we've all come to expect that of Bioware. The combat is real-time and very 
 different from the other games - you cannot queue actions as in KOTOR. It does take a while to 
 get used to and I would recommend reading the combat tips on Gamespot's game guide. Grenades are 
 almost worthless and the characters on your party will not win any IQ contests. That being said, 
 the combat is enjoyable and it requires you to stop and think about your next move. 
  
  I should mention that I ran into some bugs with the game - one of my main party characters (Liara) 
 lost the "overload" ability and I've submitted the bug to Bioware. I also should have unlocked 
 2 extra achievements.
  
  Here's where this game could have been better. One of your early missions takes place on a space 
 station called the Citadel. On the Citadel, you'll meet characters and find most of the extra missions 
 which will require you to travel to different planets. Unfortunately, it's not easy to leave the 
 Citadel and complete that mission since it takes almost 10 minutes of clicking and waiting to get 
 to your ship and load the galactic map. What you'll end up doing instead is meeting most of the 
 characters, learning about all the extra missions, then leave the Citadel, complete the extra missions 
 and return to the Citadel to report your progress on all of them. It doesn't help that the extra 
 missions feel very similar and the indoor locations compound it by being totally identical. There's 
 little to no combat on the Citadel and there's nothing but combat on the extra missions. It really 
 feels as if the game isn't well balanced in terms of exploration and combat. Ideally, you'd meet 
 a character on the Citadel, hop on your ship, complete the mission, return to the Citadel and then 
 carry on. That would have been much more fun and kept things balanced. You will find yourself wishing 
 that the game designers had made the game shorter, more balanced and added more variety. 
  
  In conclusion, Mass Effect is an awesome game with a great story and universe that's marred 
 by some gameplay balance issues and bugs.
  
  I hope that Bioware will correct those. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linik0007
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  remember back when a little game called, starwars Knights of the old republic was released? yeah, 
 who doesnt, now, from the same creators comes, there next franchise, It follows a man/woman named 
 shepard, your goal is to stop Saren from destroying the galaxy, now, it sounds clished, but If 
 you were to follow the achual games story, you would know why I could mention so little, the story 
 is very deep, you pull up a CGI conversation then you do your weapon, but thats not nessesarly 
 a bad thing, every character is highly detailed and look like you can reach out and touch them, 
 apart from that, they also have excellent voice actors, you will notice a few minor bugs like when 
 you go into a new area it takes a bit for the proper texture to come up, and there is a few frame 
 rate problems, they are noticable, but considering how massive this game is, there is no wonder.
 
  
  This is a must pick up for any xbox 360 owner or for someone who wants to play a good rpg again, 
 I give mass effect a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BluntObject
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  Aside from a few glitches, Mass Effect-like its predecessors Gears of War and Oblivion-creates 
 a new and interesting twist on the ever evolving next generation game. 
  
  Oblivion, which was a game I reviewed some time ago, introduced me to the RPG concept. Before Oblivion 
 I was a FPS and race-type gamer. Now admittedly, there are some things about Mass Effect, as there 
 are with Oblivion, which takes away from the total package. With Oblivion it was the loading times. 
 With Mass Effect it tends to be slower frame rate glitches (once in a while, mind you) but more 
 importantly the lack of actual planetary exploration that I was expecting. 
  
  What I want to make clear it that these "glitches" are nothing but mere nitpicking on my part. 
 Overall, Mass Effect is one of the most incredible games yet to hit the market. As gamers we all 
 have our favorite genre of game  for me Gears of War still tends to be a favorite because it simply 
 fits my game play style  "controlled chaos". But Mass Effect has hit a new level by wrapping the 
 RPG-style of play with "controlled chaos". It's an amazing merger-like peanut butter and chocolate 
 or single malt scotch and water-that creates a highly addictive game that absorbs a player into 
 the world of Mass Effect.
  
  The line between cut-seen-graphics and game-play-graphics has been erased to create a realistic 
 world. A world that is so graphically immersive that when you have a chance to stop taking out 
 Geth, you actually find yourself wanting to just look around to take it all in. Now some out there 
 may say I'm "over stating" the graphics but I don't think so. I guess you will have to judge that. 
 
  
  I would say Mass Effect is a game to purchase for your library and one that has incredible re-playability. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nordick44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  Even with all the high anticipation surrounding this game, Mass Effect still sent everyone to the 
 edge of the universe and the edge of their seats. Many people have been waiting for BioWare to 
 come up with an RPG on the 360 for a few years, and now any future RPG will have to live up to 
 the fabulous experience that is Mass Effect.
  
  Mass Effect set a new standard in game developing that will be hard to top. Along with a fairly 
 developed customizable character selection, it is difficult to decide which character class to 
 choose. There are so many options and as it turns out many ways to play through the combat. The 
 combat itself is fairly challenging but there has been nothing like it. One can either go in guns 
 blazing as a soldier or coordinate attacks with the two other squad mates, as a tech or adept (Mass 
 effects "force powers") . It will make any player half way through want to play it all over again 
 just to see how different customizations in classes fight.
  
  The dialog and voice-overs are second to none. Some familiar voices will appear but it is easy 
 to forget as the game gets into the story. The story itself is spectacular. It takes the protagonist 
 through a well drawn out story following the antagonist, and finding clues along the way that set 
 an unremarkable game ending. Along with character selection there is also customization within 
 the story that will make the replay just as interesting. The main story as a whole will leave even 
 the most extreme gamer say "wow". 
  
  Although this game will satisfy all types of gamers, there are some issues within the game. There 
 are some slight technical problems such as a drop in frame rate and long load times, but they are 
 minor. The game play itself had little tribulations, the side mission were somewhat repetitive 
 and numerous. To complete the whole game, most of the time spent will be on side missions that 
 do not play any role in the main story. 
  
  Regardless of some minor issues, Mass Effect is a must play and replay. The troubles within the 
 game do keep it from possibly not receiving the game of the year; it has all the tools to become 
 one. 
  
  Overall score 9.6
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 99sephiroth9
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Best RPG ive played since KOTOR.
  
  the visuals are stunning.
  
  the gameplay is just, mint. Think, starwars meets good shooter, like gears of war.
  
  and the 
 story.... oh the story. What is there really to say, your a space marine who is soon turned into 
 a spectre, granting you access to pretty much anything, and you get to choose your whole good or 
 bad style of play.
  
  only problem I found was that it tried too hard to imerse you too quickly. 
  Like, you just start 
 off and shoot. It doesnt really discribe the menu's too much. 
  But the learning curve, is just right.
  
  And it being made by the exact same team as KOTOR, 
 you know your in for a really spectacular game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: person2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is beyond words, but an understatement would probably be "absolutely incredible!" My 
 bro thinks its just an immitation of KOTOR, and ive been getting really defensive about it; someone 
 should post the many things they have different from KOTOR. I haven't finished the story yet, but 
 im hooked on it. If you like shooters but not RPGs you wont like this game, if you like RPGs but 
 not shooters you wont like this game, but if you like both this game is perfect for you. I highly 
 recommend it. I also thought that it kinda threw you into the storyline a bit too fast, not enough 
 intro. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phayse
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a creative spin on the typical RPG today. The story line is long and will keep you 
 wanting more. What amazes me most is the amount of choices you can make. Everything from your squads 
 skills, to even how to insult someone!. The squad system in Mass Effect has to be the most creative 
 out there. You choose the skills you want them to learn, the armor and weapons they use, you can 
 even use there skills for them when you need too. The conversation system is absolutely amazing, 
 every time you have a chance to speak, there is at least 3-4 options on how to reply. The combat 
 system is no less than amazing. With many weapons to chose from for different situations, many 
 different weapon upgrades ect. The typical shoot-em-up combat never gets dull. And last but not 
 least, the difficult of the game is as expected, Easy is easy, hard is hard. The only thing i would 
 recommend is saving often, The autosave only saves after you have completed a large portion of 
 a level, like a checkpoint. So when you die you may have to re-do 10 minutes of hard gameplay.
 
  
  Mass Effect has to be one of the greatest games of the year, and is a definite must buy for any 
 xbox 360 owner. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: partytimekegs
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Let first off say that Mass Effect is a great game, and I've become quite addicted to it and the 
 story. However, a few things that really bother me about the game is the lack of exploration and 
 horrendous repetiveness. I'm really baffled about the score people are giving this game when the 
 lack of work into the game is so apparent. 
  
  Does anyone else realize every bunker, every ship, and every mining facility has the exact same 
 layout? Every world feels the same just with different colors. Not to mention, every little extra 
 thing you run into on those worlds when you DO happen to explore is just the same as the last. 
 
  
  Some extremely annoying things I must add is that fighting in the Mako is extremely frustrating. 
 Oh, and when you fight Biotics you'll most likely have the urge to crush your TV and 360 from the 
 horrible ability to get thrown down and easily raped by enemy fire.
  
  This game is merely a rental and should not have been released so early. It would've been an amazing 
 project if it could of delivered some kind of variety in the exploration and worlds. 
  
  I frequently find myself day dreaming about multiplayer capabilities and space travel. This game 
 would've been perfect if it had Space Combat and Exploration like Freelancer and incorporated the 
 landing and foot travel from Mass Effect. 
  
  To put it simply, the game leaves you wanting for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docprufessuh
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This is a really highly anticipated game and i think it lives up to the hype even with a few bugs 
 and stuff its a real great game.
  
  The Good 
  ========
  -Character customization is awesome and a lot of variety
  -You have a lot of RPG elements to 
 fool around with
  -The story is just damn awesome
  -The conversation system is great and you feel important making life-or-death decisions and the 
 story can change a little or a lot making for some replay value to go through it again making different 
 choices
  -This is probably one of the only games that can make you feel the guilty-ness of doing some thing 
 wrong or the proudness of doing something right
  -The combat on foot is great with a big variety of weapons and biotic powers
  -Just the beauty 
 of having a whole galaxy to explore is something amazing in itself
  -These side quests unlike most RPG games are really developed and not a waste of time
  
  The 
 Bad
  ======
  I hate to say it but a great game like this has some bad things about it well no game can be perfect.
 
  -First off the frame-rate drops constantly and is very annoying especially during battle
  -When you land on a new planet or load a saved game the textures load in weird. 
  -AI isn't always 
 that smart, I mean i had geth destroyers walk at me and letting me shoot them while they do nothing 
 back
  -Some glitching, like getting stuck in textures is annoying and once my mako flipped over and the 
 whole screen turned upside down
  
  Overall view
  =========
  
  This is a real awesome game that i think really anyone can enjoy with all the customization. Don't 
 be intimidated to get this game cause it sounds like I've said a lot about the bad. This should 
 be a console seller and all the bad things about this game are minor and you'll forgive with just 
 all the deep exploration of mass effect. If this game could have fixed it's balancing problems 
 a little it would've been pretty much perfect. This game will go down in history and will be talked 
 about for years to come especially with a sequel coming up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave_gene_pico
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect has to be one of the best roleplaying experiences that I've had since the first Knights 
 of the Old Republic.
  
  The game places you as a character with the name Commander Shepard - you select your gender and 
 first name, but your first name is never spoken. It begins with a covert pickup of an ancient artifact 
 on a prosperous human colony on the planet Eden Prime, and throws Shepard into an adventure of 
 stopping the Milky Way Galaxy from utter annhilation.
  
  In a nutshell, this game provides a deep and interesting roleplay experience. There are also many 
 worlds to explore and extracirrucular activities such as gambling, collecting minerals, miscellaneous 
 items, and there is even a tiny bit of dancing. You know a game is good if your character can save 
 the galaxy and lay down their dance moves in the same day.
  
  The graphics are stellar. The planets, solar systems, and star clusters are absolutely beautiful. 
 The characters look wonderful in this game, and there is a lot of eye candy. Although not the best 
 graphics I've ever seen, they are in no way second-rate.
  
  The sound is pretty good - there are very good sound effects, the soundtrack is very science-fiction-esque, 
 and the voice acting is not half bad. They have some excellent voice actors, and Keith David doing 
 the voice of Captain Anderson - Keith David is my favorite voice actor, so if he does a voice in 
 a game, I will probably play it. Although, some sounds are recycled and could get annoying to some 
 players.
  
  The game isn't way too difficult or very long at all. The difficulty level can be increased and 
 you will have some trouble, but if your character is a high level and has good equipment, you can 
 play through the lackeys, whereas boss fights or larger enemies pose more threats. I managed 25 
 hours after spending all my time completing the most sidequests I could, exploring all the worlds, 
 getting the Completionist Award, and then completing the main storyline. However, it has a lot 
 of replay value, depending on how you play.
  
  My only list of greivances is some rather ambiguous speaking choices - there seems to only be informational, 
 persuation, good, neutral, or hostile choices to speak towards people. I may want to say one thing 
 or do one thing, but some minor differences don't allow me. This is a minor issue, however, and 
 would only bother someone as precise and anal retentive as myself. I also wish the game was a lot 
 longer, and had more plot-changing choices which would increase the replay value tenfold. I found 
 myself wanting to explore more worlds, and I found a lot of the worlds rather linear.
  
  The combat is satisfying but can get repetitive. You can be tactical, using your squad to supress 
 the enemy or flank the enemy, or you can flat-out rush your foes.
  
  Overall, I loved this game, and I plan on replaying it over and over until I get totally sick of 
 it, or Mass Effect 2 is released. I only hope Bioware improves on their sequel, and does not make 
 a bad continuiation of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colmusterd28
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect the highly touted RPG/Action game from the makers of Star Wars: Knights of the Old 
 Republic delivers on what it promises... exploration of the milky way in the most genious way ever 
 concieved. You are the commander of the Normandy, John Shepard in a race against time, space and 
 galactic differences on a mission to stop the forces of the Geth and their partner, the Specter 
 Cerin.
  
  The game starts a bit slow in the action department but heavy on the dialog/ sidequests. You learn 
 a great deal about the game in the first few hours abourd the Citidel Space Station. As the game 
 continues, you are appointed to a very important role within the alliance and given command over 
 your ship. This is where Mass Effect opens up and becomes more action heavy. The combat is incredibly 
 deep as you can press the right bumper to pause and call up speacial "biotic" powers and pull the 
 left bumper to manage your guns. This creates the possibility of clearing out a room in hundreds 
 of different and inventive methods. To see it in action and controlling the actions of your mates 
 is very gratifying. As the characters progress, in RPG fashion you unlock stronger and more interesting 
 powers.
  
  The story is maybe the best ever in a game. If you like games for their story your going to be 
 extremely happy. If your the type that like to learn about the mythology of a story, if you can 
 appreciate amazing voice acting and true next gen acting sequences than you will be in heaven. 
 The fact is that you'll find yourself doing almost anything to keep the conversations going and 
 you'll be thinking about your decisions long after you've shut the game off. To put it simply, 
 in my 29 years on this planet I have never played a more immersive game with such an incredible, 
 easy to understand story, It's that good.
  
  Graphically the game shines bright and the conversation sequences flow together with accurate lip 
 movement 95% of the time. It's an impressive feat that raises the bar of expectations for games 
 to come. you will often marvel at the work that went in to the landscapes and information given 
 on each planet and system. 
  
  You'll read time and time again that this game suffers from low framerate issues. It happens from 
 time to time, maybe more than most games. Does it take away from the experience? no. Has it recieved 
 way to much press, absolutly. The framerates and pop-in that occurs is miniscule compared to the 
 overall feeling of this game. Thus it warent's no point deduction. Never once did I even think, 
 "arg those framerates" don't waste your time even listening to the negativity of this issue. It's 
 there, but it won't bother you in the least.
  
  In closing, I want to add that Mass Effect did the one thing that no game movie or T. V. show has 
 ever done before. It made me feel like an actual space explorer. Who, as a child, didn't want to 
 zap from one star to the next? Who didn't want to feel like they could explore uncharted lands 
 of different make-ups? I wasn't ready to get to live that dream through a game and maybe I didn't 
 but Mass Effect took me very close...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: almity_1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I've been following this game since it was announced and really looked forward to it, got it... 
 played about 2 hours and wasn't quite as good as I hoped, then I got into it a bit more and it 
 just blew me away. The graphics, soundtrack, gameplay, everything! Some reviews complain about 
 texture pop-ups... so what, most games nowadays have them. Or complaints about dieng too much which 
 basically means your not good enough, admittedally, ME takes quite a bit of experience for it to 
 be good. Then people complained about the Mako controles, I love the light weight feel of the Mako. 
 Or interface problems, I was just fine with them, or long loading times or slow framerate, my loadtimes 
 were short and I had no frame rate problems whatsoever. The stroys was great aswell, it also has 
 its flaws but nothing major. If there was ever a perfect game this would be a possible one. In 
 my opinion is in my top 5 games, which are Halo 3, GoW, Fable: TLC, FF7/8. I just thought it was 
 the best bits of RPG and Shooter or nicely rolled up into one. If you dont like games with a lot 
 of dialogue or cutscenes then this probably isnt the game for you, but i persoannly think it is 
 all nicely balanced out. Just amazing, I love this game. Just love to replay it over and over. 
 I would of given it a 9.8 but i went to the closest. No game ever deserves a ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adblinz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  The learning curve was very good. I also got lost a few times trying to find things but was able 
 to find where I was going without to much trouble. I am now playing my second time around as I 
 did the main mission to fast the first time. Found the main missions are very easy and short and 
 some of the extra missions are also to easy. The best part of the game and what sets it apart is 
 the Combat. It has some of the best combat of any game. They have taken the duck and cover from 
 Gears and also the ability to use bionics like BioShock.
  
  The story is short and often the non-main quests have little relevance to the main plot and even 
 though they are supposed to dictate how you can interact with characters I really didn't see it. 
 Which might mean it is very well done because it just falls into the background and is unnoticed. 
 But overall the story is nothing new and not really that intriguing. 
  
  I didn't have the same problems with the rover as they posted in Gamespot's review. I am glad I 
 got the game as it is a lot of fun to play. I wish there was a multiplayer ability as the combat 
 is the best part of the game. If it wasn't for the combat I would say wait for the game to go into 
 the bargain bin at Wal-mart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: js0823
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Storyline - 8.5
  
  The storyline is quite good. Personally I didn't really care about the story but if you are interested 
 in the story, this game does have an outlined storyline with incredible loads of details.
  
  Gameplay - 7.5
  
  Although not as action packed as Halo, it did a good job combining RPG 
 and shooting elements into one. I wouldn't say the vehicle battle is interesting though. The vehicle 
 battle can sometimes become quite annoying (most of the time I would get off the vehicle to fight 
 because 1. Vehicle can't shoot down which is understandable but annoying and 2. Kiling with vehicle 
 gives you less experience points for leveling up) .
  
  The planets. Yes the planets. If you thought this game was going to give you a huge universe where 
 you would be able to spend 100 hours exploring spaces and planets, you are wrong. There is no spaceship 
 in this game . Most planets can't be landed. Every planet looks the same (same texture, different 
 colors) . There is 1 city out of whole universe where you spend your time checking stuffs out. Every 
 layout of laboratory, outpost, camp, and hidden base on every planet that you go to (aside from 
 main mission) are exactly same. You have side quest to go to this planet's laboratory? Don't expect 
 anything special because it looks exactly same as the previous laboratory mission you went to. 
 First encounter with worm? Cool. 5th encounter with worm? Annoying.
  
  Aside from side missions which are incredibly repetitive and gives nothing to look at, the main 
 missions are well made. They are all unique and fun.
  
  Sound - 8.5
  
  Very nice sound overall. Only thing that bugged me was not being able to skip some of the narratives. 
 For example, I don't want to hear a shopkeeper saying some long line when I simply want to look 
 at his items, especially if he's the one that I go everytime to sell items I have for money.
  
  Graphics - 9.5
  
  Incredible graphics. Only thing that bugged me was occasional texture 
 that doesn't get loaded quickly enough, but apart from that the graphics are damn good, especially 
 their faces.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Very good game. I would recommend it to anyone that wants an action RPG. I wouldn't call it a game 
 that "speaks to science geek deep within me" though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: childofrock11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect has won my entire heart. Almost immediately after inserting the disc into my 360 I 
 was taken away. Where I was taken was an innovative, unique, and exciting world filled with adventure, 
 action, mystery, romance, and exploration.
  Mass Effect is a masterpiece put together by superb story telling, amazing characters and thought 
 provoking action. It is a game, that in my book, is as close to perfect as one can get. However, 
 it does have some flaws, but what game does not?
  First off lets talk about the surface. Graphic wise Mass Effect is at the top of the charts with 
 other great graphical games such as Gears of War and Bioshock. The detail can be mostly noticed 
 in characters which have various pieced armor, scars, facial hair, complex expressions and lip 
 syncing, etc. The gigantic worlds (which are numerous star systems and planets) are varied in their 
 detail and can sometimes start to look similar but the over all visuals are superb.
  Now let's talk about sound. The score is of classic sci-fi influence, using heavy synthesized keyboards 
 mixed with full orchestration. The music does a fantasic job of drawing you into the world and 
 making it as believable as possible and raising the tension scale when a fire fight breaks out 
 in a space station corridor.
  Next let's speak of gameplay. If you have played any of Biowares previous console games (Kotor, 
 Jade Empire) then you have experienced the majority of what the exploration portion of Mass Effect 
 is like. Changes from these previous titles or subtle but make all the difference however. For 
 the first time your character (Shepherd) has a full voice over. The emotions all of the characters 
 have are more realistic, thus making the story and the people in it more believable. Dialouge trees 
 play the biggest part of exploration and you can explore many branches causing the outcome of the 
 game to change, this alone will make you want to play the game multiple times.
  The other part of the gameplay is the action. This is arguably the weakest part of the game. The 
 action resembles a clunkier version of Gears of War in which you can press against walls to take 
 cover. Your weapons stay virtually the same ( assault rifle, shotgun, pistol, and sniper rifle) 
 but you can pick up various attachments that make upgrading your weapons really fun. The action 
 is of a slower pace in which you can pause the game allowing you to give separate orders to your 
 two party members. This allows for a more strategic experience which would be alot more fun if 
 the AI was a bit brighter. The game tends to stutter in heavy action sequences since it already 
 has a hard time running the game. This is easily overlooked considering how big the game is. Overall, 
 the action is ambitious. It doesn't quite reach its potential but with another game it should be 
 made right.
  
  This title will have you enthralled if you are looking for an immersive experience and an amazing 
 story line. If you are bent soleyly on action then this game is not for you for it is an rpg at 
 heart. I do believe however, that even those that aren't into games such as this would only sit 
 down and give it a try, they would be just as enthralled as the many that already are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earnan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  My expectations were high (deservedly so, I bought a 360 to play this!, and when that happens it's 
 hard for a game to live up to them. This one came close, luckily the issues were minor, and only 
 one was gameplay related. 
  
  The story took me a little while to get in to, and never quite had me in the "I must know what 
 happens next!" mode. The story was great, and on my second playthrough I've actually caught a couple 
 things that I hadn't the first time. I think a good deal of my not being totally immersed in the 
 story is that the side quests in space don't keep you in tune with the main story. While on planet, 
 the side missions fit in fairly well, but gallivanting all over space to collect XP took away a 
 little. Maybe it's just nostalgia, but KOTOR 2 did a better job with this, but didn't have as many 
 locations. 
  
  Dialogue was great, and flowed near flawlessly. The character models were very good, and once animators 
 figure out how to do realistic eyes games will reach that photo-realistic level. Watch a heated 
 conversation sometime, and just look at the person's eyes. There are lots of subtle motions that 
 are missing in games, and that's why they always seem off, no matter how good that models. 
  
  The combat is also very good, although to me I wanted a little more for my character to do. 
 Maybe it was my character choice, or my party choice, but enemies dropped a little too quickly 
 to my party before I could get rolling. Also, the camper in me wishes I would have made more use 
 of the sniper rifle. The radar on foot has such a limited range that when you see an enemy on it 
 they are too close for the rifle to be effective. I got used to it, and did find ways to use it 
 as I progressed.
  
  The vehicle also took some getting used to. Turns are particularly odd, but again you get used 
 to it. There also times that the turret didn't seem able to hit what I was aiming it at. A simple 
 change of color for the targeting reticule could have fixed that, as well as anything on the HUD 
 for the cooldown on the cannon.
  
  Here were my issues with the game. 
  
  Recycled maps. Playing through a half-dozen or so UNC quests will expose you to all the map types, 
 and after that they start to get old. The planet surfaces are understandably very similar, which 
 I have no problem with, but at least changing the gravity of the planets would have made them feel 
 different. The writers made a point of creating all the stats for planets, but aside from a limitation 
 on how long you can stay outside the vehicle on a few planets there is no difference fighting on 
 the moon and a 2G planet. Some type of indication of sytems you have visited would also have been 
 nice.
  
  Inventory/shop interface. For equipping your party, it works well enough, but there is only one 
 sorting method, which is by the item rating, i. e. Stinger II, Stinger IV, etc. The ability to sort 
 by weapon damage, for instance, would make life a little easier. Now, the lack of sorting is more 
 apparent when selling items. It becomes a matter of "Sell the lowest Roman Numerals." At least 
 when equipping items, they are broken up by item type. Selling itmes leaves you with a huge list 
 of everything you own. Not too much fun. 
  
  These minor things are annoying, but the game is still great, and I look forward to Mass Effect 
 2. Without giving a spoiler, the ending gives a sense of closure while leaving the sequel open. 
 And it was nice playing a game with a Western story, since so many RPGs come from Japan. It felt 
 like an action movie, complete with the requisite love scene! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: autoballer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  It plays like kotor but with better guns graphics and interface. The gameplay is decent, you cant 
 jump but you are able to jog/run. The missions are interesting and i find that i can stop playing 
 for a few days and still pick up the game and be reminded of what i was doing (often in gigantic 
 games like this if you quit for a while you have to restart to figure out what you're supposed 
 to do. I feel that this game could last me a few hundred hours at least. since i think i have 20 
 hours gone and only visited 3 planets. The vehicle drives like the warthog in halo when using the 
 right stick to steer, but if you move the left stick it gets really hard to control. It is much 
 more difficult to control characters than the preview videos showed. The detail of the characters 
 is really good you can see stubble on peoples faces, small details etc. The textures load after 
 the game starts which ruins it for me, it may have soemthing to do with using vga (levels and details 
 start like halo 2 did) . the interactions with other characters are very cool since you are able 
 to upgrade your ability to talk to others intimidating them or charming them to help. There are 
 a few glitches one where my character gets stuck near a wall, but with such a giant game a few 
 glitches are bound to pop up. Overall this still is my current favorite game to play, followed 
 by halo 3, then forza 2. I forgot to mention one thing save often, there are many autosaves but 
 the game is huge!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 184him
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing, the only true flaws that I could find were in the framerate and occassional 
 glitches with the game, as well as that some important battle happen right after a cutscene/conversation. 
 Then if you die, you need to redo the cutscene. These would drag any normal game down. However, 
 Mass Effect's mix of storytelling and action is an innovative and immersive mix. The story's area's 
 of gray are at times so powerful that you find emotions coming into the mix. You start to feel 
 ways that you haven't before in a game. You feel sad, frustrated, and angry (but not at the game) , 
 and happy as well. Overall, the game is awesome and I recommend it to anybody who likes a good, 
 well played out story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathiasX
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an epic Sci-Fi adventure game that puts you in the role of a hero named "Shepherd". 
 You take command of some of the greatest aliens and humans that have ever been in any game thus 
 far. Without risk of any spoilers i'll just tell you Mass Effect has the best storyline i've ever 
 seen in my twenty plus years of gaming. 
  
  You will be drawn in right from the get-go with the stunning graphics which have a film grain for 
 that added movie like effect (can be turned off through options if desired.) Mass Effects graphics 
 are beautiful and vibrant especially when exploring planets in your "moon-rover-esque vehicle". 
 
  
  This game is definetly a 9.0 in my book and I believe it has the best story we have ever heard 
 from in a game to date. M. E. takes a page from the books of Gears Of War and Knights Of The Old 
 Republic so if you've ever played either of these games, you will have a feel for this one. The 
 voice acting and lip synchronization is also top notch adding to the "movie-like" atmosphere in 
 this game. Although it only took me 14hrs to complete there are plenty of side missions to complete 
 for that extra added something and definetly adds to the replay value of this one. Buy this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  Man has always wondered whether there is intelligent life beyond the sea of stars in the sky. In 
 BioWare's latest blockbuster, Mass Effect, mankind is late to the intergalactic party. Alien races 
 have established a council that encompasses the best part of the Milky Way, and humanity is the 
 new kid on the block. After discovering ancient technology on planet Mars, humans got a jump start 
 that allowed them to travel time and space. The majority of the alien races are sceptical and envious 
 of man's rapid progress in the intergalactic community; it's up to you, Commander Sheppard, to 
 show them what mankind is made of (and save the universe along the way) .
  
  The most beautiful thing about Mass Effect is the way it melds together a strong story without 
 making your character feel like a mindless drone. Commander Sheppard is an integral part of the 
 story, but you're free to shape his (or her) personality and appearance as you see fit. Along with 
 defining physical features, the creation process tasks you with picking out a history and psychological 
 profile which will later influence how you interact with NPCs. Your Sheppard may be an Earth-born 
 war hero who made his name in a famous battle, or she might be a colonist with a ruthless reputation 
 of getting the job done at any cost. You can get lost in the epic story without feeling consigned 
 to being a member of the audience; the decisions you make carry weight throughout the game.
  
  Sheppard's skills and abilities influence the way you play the game, making class selection 
 very important. You can specialise in combat proficiency, technical skills, or biotic abilities 
 which provide differing gameplay experiences. The soldier will rely primarily on firepower and 
 endurance, whereas the sentinel uses the omni-tool, a multi-purpose hacking device, to wreak havoc 
 on your enemy's equipment. Biotics unleash the power of dark matter to bend physics to their will, 
 comparable to the traditional "mage" archetype in role-playing games. A further three hybrid classes 
 are available that merge the principles of these three core elements. Although taking a technical 
 character through the game can be fun, focusing more on combat or biotics is generally more enjoyable 
 and rewarding.
  
  During the introductory stages of the game, you'll spend most of your time on the Citadel, a thriving 
 space station packed full of different people for you to interact with. Soon after the initial 
 quests, Sheppard will have access to his or her own ship to commence the planet hopping quest. 
 The galaxy map aboard the Normandy, your trusty vessel, is your key to the world of Mass Effect. 
 You can visit a multitude of different star systems and planets, but after examining the map more 
 closely, the universe isn't quite as expansive as it looks. You can't actually land on and explore 
 every planet; some are there solely to add to the impressive lore of the Mass Effect world, whilst 
 others can be surveyed to discover natural resources like fuel and materials as part of a side-quest. 
 You can land on a large number of planets, but most of them feel similar. Besides the ones that 
 have a large influence on the story, a lot of the worlds are barren, repetitive, and undeveloped. 
 It fits with the context of exploring uncharted territory, but once you've touched down on a few 
 of them, you won't be too surprised by future excursions.
  
  Your trusty space buggy, the Mako, is deployed when visiting hostile or unexplored environments. 
 When you hit the surface, you can drive the Mako around and even use its turrets and cannons to 
 engage enemies in combat. These sequences are fun, but have some issues. Aiming your fire can be 
 tricky because the turret doesn't allow a lot of scope for vertical aiming. You can move the targeting 
 reticule, but unless you're on level ground, hitting your target can be troublesome. Considering 
 the frequency of rocky terrain, it's a bit of an annoyance that could easily have been fixed.
 
  
  Although uncharted environments are visually repetitive, Mass Effect looks fantastic wherever you 
 might be. Whether you're on the Citadel's futuristic architecture, Noveria's snow-capped mountain 
 peaks, or the engine room of the Normandy, you're in for a treat. The attention to detail is incredible, 
 although the frequent frame-rate stuttering is a problem. The constant stop-start nature of this 
 problem is quite jarring, and although it isn't severe enough to deter you from playing, it's undeniably 
 a blemish on an otherwise fantastic technical achievement. Fantastic environments would be nothing 
 without a high quality soundtrack to back it up, so it's a good thing that Mass Effect meets this 
 criterion. Dramatic compositions and epic themes play when they're needed, and nothing feels out 
 of place. Even the absence of music is used well whilst traversing uncharted planets.
  
  These frame-rate inconsistencies aren't a problem during conversation sequences, so you'll be able 
 to enjoy the fantastic character interactions in a smooth and flowing manner. In so many games, 
 characters are static and lifeless. In Mass Effect, every part of the face is used to create convincing 
 expressions and convey emotion. NPCs pace around if they are nervous and, where relevant, use hand 
 gestures to reinforce their points. It's as close a game has come to imitating human interaction, 
 and the voice acting contributes a lot to this. The script is very well written, and the actors 
 bring their characters to life in a way most other games can only dream of.
  
  When I say you interact with NPCs, you really do feel as though you're interacting thanks to the 
 conversation wheel. As you listen to what the other has to say, a wheel of responses allows you 
 to react as you see fit. It's a clever and intuitive way to conduct conversations, but it isn't 
 quite the revolution it was hyped up to be. It was intimated that the conversation wheel would 
 allow you to alter conversations dynamically, such as interrupting someone mid-sentence and demanding 
 information. While there are occasions such as this, it isn't as widespread as it was suggested.
 
  
  The manner in which you conduct yourself in conversation will contribute to either your paragon 
 or renegade meter. It's a breath of fresh air when compared to the morality systems of previous 
 BioWare games Knights of the Old Republic and Jade Empire; it's based more on the methods you use, 
 instead of the black-and-white measure of good-and-evil. Becoming a revered paragon or a feared 
 renegade will open further options on the conversation wheel, allowing you to charm or intimidate 
 depending on the path towards you are more inclined to. It will allow you to avoid unnecessary 
 bloodshed or blackmail someone for a greater reward; it all depends on the situation.
  
  You can even use your charm to woe a member of your squad, which will set off a romance sub-plot. 
 Whether you're looking to find a lover aboard the Normandy or not, each squad member has his or 
 her own skills and back-story. A lot of work has gone into the history and personality of your 
 six companions, and it's paid off. You'll get to know how they tick from speaking with them, and 
 in many cases, embark upon a quest directly related to said character. As compelling as they are, 
 these side-stories feel very isolated and mechanical compared to the rest of the game. The main 
 quest is flowing and organic, progressing at a natural pace. The squad-mate side quests very much 
 remind you that this is only a game; talk to squad member, advance the sub-plot, complete a major 
 quest, rinse & repeat.
  
  Character development, story progression, and audiovisual marvel may be the centrepiece of the 
 game, but there is a fairly deep combat system tucked away here. It splices the elements of third-person 
 shooting, RPG statistics, and light strategy. At first glance it looks like a third-person shooter, 
 but there are plenty of things for RPG veterans to micro-manage; your assault rifle's accuracy 
 decreases as you continuously fire, but the more you train with it, the slower your accuracy drops. 
 It's a good mix that will satisfy fans of both genres. The strategy comes into play with the way 
 you control your two AI squad mates. Activating their skills and changing their weapons is as easy 
 as holding a bumper button. The action freezes, allowing you to make your tactical decisions and 
 get straight back into the action when you're finished planning. You can also cover behind objects 
 and send your cohorts to a specific location via a marker, but neither of these is particularly 
 well implemented. Covering feels quite clunky and it's easier to strafe behind cover manually, 
 and the squad commands just don't feel as though they make a difference; the AI generally does 
 a good job of organising itself in combat.
  
  Besides some technical shortcomings and the odd game mechanic that needs fleshing out, this adventure 
 is a must-play for anyone with an Xbox 360. Forty hours of epic storytelling, intense combat, and 
 exotic locations await the average gamer; factor in different playing speeds and side-quests and 
 you have a game that can potentially last for double that. Mass Effect promised a lot, and on the 
 whole, it has delivered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paul51423
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  
  
  firstly whatever anyone says in a review abuot this game about the style or playability... nothing 
 has ever come close to the story in this game. I mean seriously you will care about the characters 
 you play as and at moments in the game thats goin to make you have some really tough desicions!!!!!
 
  
  the battleing is fluid especially later on in the game when you really begin to get your frag on. 
 the shotgun especially with some cryo rounds kicks some major geth arse!!
  
  the graphics speak for themselves they are truly amazin all tho sometimes i got the feeling that 
 the 360 couldnt completly handle it and had couple of seconds where the detail seemed to take longer 
 to load on screen. but nothing you really notice or care about when your running around on planet 
 using biotic powers which is cool.
  
  of course like everyone says the mako is a bit of a bitch but who cares u dont stay in it that 
 long and when you do it kicks arse with the machine gun and cannon.
  
  I cant wait for the nexxt one now because I want to kick some reaper ass. and the ending realli 
 realli realli left u like ' omg i want mass effect 2 now!!!'
  
  masterpiece (altho cos of the mako i cant possibly give it a 10 with out feeling some guilt lol) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocKtheCasbaH
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  On the whole I find Mass effect a major disapointment. There's far too much dialogue and far to 
 much boring running around and not enough action.
  
  I played for 3 hours on Friday night and it didn't hook me at all. So I gave it another 3 hours 
 on Saturday and it did nothing for me. Putting the bugs aside the core gameplay is just drawn out 
 and boring.
  
  Rent it first is my recommendation as this one is over hyped.
  
  I'll give it another go and if it_finally_becomes the immersive & addictive adventure it was meant 
 to be I'll come back and edit this review but based on my first 5-6 hours play I can't see it.
 
  
  [EDIT] I promised I would come back and report any changes and I have to say it has grown on me.
 
  
  I finally seem to have got the hook for this game. The dialogue is seeming less tedious (mainly 
 because I flick through it now but doesn't everyone?) and getting about seems less like running 
 from A to B but part of the overall experience. The action is getting more interesting as my biotic 
 abilities are developing although it seems a little too Scarce at the moment.
  
  Overall rating creeping up now from 6.5 to 7. Has potential to go further too.
  
  [UPDATE 2] 
 Ok so I've ran out of steam with it now so I thought before I trade it in maybe I've got the wrong 
 class? I went with the Vanguard which is a Soldier / Biotic hybrid and I'm more of a run and gun 
 guy so I've rerolled a Soldier and guess what... suddenly the game has transformed.
  
  The storyline is developing nicely, combat is no longer an exercise in frustration and the whole 
 tilt of it seems to have shifted for the better. So I'm 13 hours in on this new character and loving 
 every minute of it. It looks like I finally got hooked.
  
  Overall rating 9/10 Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsubtownerx
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  I haven't played a game like this in a very long time. In fact I haven't been this satisfied since 
 Fallout 2 first came out. When you first start off, you may find it a little difficult to get the 
 hang of the battle system, but once you have it under control, you'll find yourself having a blast 
 (literally) . The story in Mass Effect is just amazing, and if you add in all the side-quests, you'll 
 find yourself playing for hours. My first playthrough was a little over 50 hours. And believe me, 
 once you finish the game, you'll definitely be playing it again. And if you're an achievement whore 
 like I am, you'll be playing it again and again and again. Speaking of achievements, one of my 
 favorite things about the game ARE the achievements. Some of the unlocked achievements actually 
 make your character or future characters better. How cool is THAT!?
  
  The game is beautiful but as you know there are some technical issues. But believe me, they do 
 not ruin the game in any way what so ever, despite what some people have said. My only beef with 
 the game would have to be the inventory system. They don't stack up the duplicate items. It can 
 get a little annoying at times. Also, some planets will be frustrating as hell to explore because 
 on the unfriendly terrain. But the Mako is fun to drive around in once you get the hang of it, 
 even though some people have hated it. I also want to mention that the gamespot's review is not 
 valid and if you want a true professional, unbiased review, after playing the game I would say 
 that IGN would have the most accurate one.
  
  Now if Bethesda can take a few things from this game (dialogue) , Fallout 3 might actually kick 
 ass. *crossesfingers* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoe256
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty amazing and I'm really in to it, so yeah it lives upto the hype! 
  
  But there are a few annoying points, most noticeably is the ocassional lag, but I guess thats the 
 price you pay for amazing GFX. 
  
  Secondly is the jump in difficulty you go from shooting a few measly Geth to full on attacks, infiltrating 
 bases and such like, I'd use the GameSpot game walkthrough to help you climb up levels in the Citadel 
 so you have a chance on the other planets. I'm a casual gamer so I'm not very good at most games, 
 but I found this jump quite big! But you might not have any problems if you are, you know, good.
 
  
  And I read on the review that the game had good voice acting etc., which I've yet to hear due to 
 my 360 whirring away at top speed while I'm attempting to play!
  
  Overall, this game is top notch with a few little annoying bits in, but I'd still recommend it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneshotskye
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 3:47 am PT
Review:  Let's get one thing straight: In a lot of ways, Mass Effect is like other BioWare console ventures. 
 So if you liked playing through KOTOR or Jade Empire, chances are you'll immediately feel at home 
 with Commander Shepard and his (or her) ragtag team of alien soldiers. There's the old meter measuring 
 your good and evil deeds (this time cleverly named "Paragon" and "Renegade") and a slew of open-ended 
 missions that affect your moral standing. Do you calmly talk intergalactic terrorists out of assassinating 
 their hostage or do you egg them on by shooting one of the angry men in the foot? Do you talk sense 
 into an unstable man or throw him across the room with the best of your biotic abilities? End a 
 racketeering ring or profit from it? Help a family member uncover a lost love one or laugh in his 
 pitiful, grieving face?
  
  Okay, so the choices you make are fairly hyperbolic - you either become the reincarnate of Gandhi 
 or show up Skeletor as the supreme badass of the universe. Like Fable and other games, Mass Effect 
 is fairly heavy-handed when it comes to ethically-based decisions; in other words, the ambiguous 
 gray area is obliterated to make way for choices that either make you a saint or a human form of 
 the Devil. But even with the game giving you such extreme decisions like choosing between saving 
 alien orphans and eating them, Mass Effect is still fun to play. The gameplay is strikingly similar 
 to Knights of the Old Republic: Your character leads a three-man team across the universe, taking 
 on various sidequests and chasing after a nefarious evildoer who is bent on bringing an end to 
 humanity. You're given the aforementioned good/evil points based on your actions and skill points 
 for your battling, which can be spent leveling up your combat skill, adeptness in tech abilities, 
 or strengthening your magic-like biotic spells. Mass Effect introduces a new function to increase 
 interactivity in squad combat in that you can control both your comrades' abilities and strategic 
 location, thanks to a list of simple commands mapped onto your directional pad. Want them to take 
 cover with you? Press left on the directional pad. Want them to rush the enemy? Just tap up and 
 they're there. But don't expect to kick back and allow Ashley and Wrex to take care of your dirty 
 work; if you take the noncombatant approach, your allies will be Geth fodder in a matter of seconds.
 
  
  Note: Sacrificing party members to your enemies does not increase your renegade points.
  
  The sheer level of customization in the game is incredible. Not only do you have five different 
 types of weapons at your disposal (pistol, assault rifle, sniper rifle, shotgun, and grenade) , 
 but you can tailor each weapon through ammo and weapon upgrades. Stick these upgrades on to increase 
 weapon stability, or range of attack, or damage versus organics, mechanics - the point is, if you 
 want something tacked on to your sniper rifle to make it better in aspects X, Y, and Z then hey, 
 BioWare's got you covered. The same level of customization is available to your armor as well, 
 and I'm sure a few KOTOR fans will be impressed before they even begin their quest on Eden Prime. 
 You can select your character from either one of the two pre-made models - but seriously, where's 
 the fun in that? - or make one of your own. Anyone familiar with Western role-playing games knows 
 that he can outfit his character with whatever hair color and job class he wants (and both options 
 are at your disposal) , but additionally, you can choose the background for your character. Want 
 a war hero, whose good deeds are heralded across the galaxy? Not a problem. Want an orphan used 
 to fighting by any means necessary for survival? Believe it or not, it's an option as well. Whatever 
 option you settle upon, it will provide an impact in the game, as people will use these biographical 
 tidbits in conversation with you, with a "hey, weren't you the war hero/orphan/alien baby eater?" 
 that works to immerse you just a little bit deeper in this fictional universe.
  
  The graphics are amazing, and given the wide scope of the worlds you're traversing, you might not 
 expect this level of detail in the title. The backgrounds, although nice to look at (especially 
 within the Citadel) , tend to repeat themselves in building elements (I'm looking at you, pirate 
 hideouts) . Rather, the game really shines with its wide array of character models. The ensemble 
 - human beings, Elcor, Asari, Krogan, etcetera - all move uniquely and fluidly, and their faces 
 carry a high level of realism with every forehead crinkle and eyelid blink that covers a glossy 
 pupil. The voice acting further fleshes out each character, with a cast of well-known individuals 
 from the Hollywood circuit providing the audio clips for our soldiers. Everyone does a superb job 
 of breathing life into well-written script; they act and react realistically to the dire situations 
 the game throws at them, which ultimately allows the player to bond with the various fighters inhabiting 
 your ship, the Normandy.
  
  Of course, no game comes without its shortcomings, and Mass Effect has a few to speak of. Although 
 there are a fair share of side missions to indulge in, most of them follow the same format: travel 
 to Planet X, eliminate rebel threat on planet, return to the Citadel for your reward and another 
 mission that follows these same guidelines. Of course, there are a few missions that stray from 
 the tried-and-true formula - collection-based tasks and other assignments that force you to put 
 your conversation skills to use - but a vast majority just ask you to kill a rebel mercenary. You 
 can always return to the story, but be prepared to pay attention. Mass Effect provides players 
 with a vast universe to explore, complete with a set of customs for each species and a backlog 
 of politics that you quickly find yourself entangled in. Especially during the first few hours, 
 some people might feel overwhelmed by the sheer amount of information the game is flinging at you, 
 so that you might find yourself referencing your Codex to figure out who the hell Saren is, what 
 he wants with these Geth fellows, and why you should give a damn about them. Besides that, some 
 frustrations with Mako camera controls, and a couple frame rate issues, the game's pure genius.
 
  
  Look at spending a good forty hours immersed in Mass Effect's universe, and chances are, you'll 
 be glad you did. The game takes the idea of an interactive storybook experience and runs with it, 
 so that you can spend those precious hours learning about other species or, if being evil's your 
 thing, blowing them to smithereens. The choice is yours, and whether you choose the good or evil 
 route, you're guaranteed to have a fun time playing through BioWare's latest outing this holiday 
 season.
  
  
  Pros:
  - Top-of-the-line graphics that offer a more emotional gaming experience thanks to a wide range 
 of realistic facial expressions programmed in each character.
  - Very detailed universe with an extensive history, alien culture, and political scene that deserves 
 exploration on top of the elaborate story.
  - Well-written script is brought to life via the talented acting cast; additionally, the music 
 and sound effects are well executed.
  - High level of customization for your character, body armor, and weapons that allow gamers to 
 play a variety of ways: Blast your way through worlds as a soldier, or rely on your biotic abilities 
 as an Adept.
  - Game is on the lengthy side, taking upwards of forty hours to complete.
  
  Cons:
  - Side missions can become tedious, as you'll be spending most of your time running 
 from planet to planet and eliminating small enemy factions.
  - Maneuvering the Mako can become frustrating, as sometimes the camera dips beneath the vehicle. 
 Additionally, on cold planets, the crosshairs fade into the background and the gun is ineffective 
 against most enemies.
  - Story line is convoluted in the beginning of the game and takes time and patience to straighten 
 out what is going on.
  - Frame rate drops when you're leaving/entering a planet.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrclean2988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 2:36 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is, in all honesty, my "God From The Machine." Not in the literary sense, as the phrase 
 has come to mean, but literally near perfection in gaming form.
  
  Once again, I will break down my love for this game old-school, until Gamespot brings back the 
 5-way rating scheme:
  
  Gameplay: 9- Finally, someone has crafted an RPG with a real-time combat system that really does 
 balance all forms of fighting. So far I have played through as a Vanguard ( a mix of biotic and 
 gunplay) and a quarter as an Infiltrator (gun and tech combo) and both play very differently, but 
 equally effective. In addition, the combat feel sufficiently intense, with some very epic fights, 
 especially towards the end. The scope of the game is simply staggering. While I must call foul 
 on Bioware for leading us astray by telling us about "over twenty systems each with 5+ planets," 
 and then making only 1 planet per system landable, realistically, that actually fits with our current 
 understanding of the galaxy; that most planets are utterly useless and actually quite hostile, 
 so most explorers would ignore them anyway. My only complaint to this end is that it's size got 
 the better of it. The constant recycled formula of the Uncharted Worlds that always happened to 
 have a probe, and "anomaly" and a mission on them quickly got tiring. This could have been avoided 
 by having more story content, but what are you going to do?
  
  Sound: 9- This is always the aspect I grade hardest on, and sadly, Mass Effect failed to be perfect 
 in the sound stage. As with most games, the voice acting dragged it down, but only very slightly. 
 Nearly every voice actor in this game was flawless, with only a few that didn't follow through, 
 and came off deadpan. Despite an incredible soundtrack, and awesome sound effects, the fact that 
 there were far too many voices that irritated (including the male Shepard) as well as some pretty 
 lame writing at times, that Mass Effect gets a 9 here, too.
  
  Graphics: 10- Ever since Halo 3, I have been deathly afraid that game designers have begun to think 
 that all we want is shiny pretty things, and that they can throw out "innovation" and "improvement" 
 in exchange for "pretty" and "prettier." Not so, with Mass Effect. The game is, in every way, gorgeous. 
 Everyone's face shows a surprising amount of detail, every ship and station looks excellent, and 
 all of this is wrapped up in a well assembled package, that plays as good as it looks.
  
  Value: 10- This game speaks extremely well of what's to come. Not just for Mass Effect 2, but for 
 RPGs in general. if all future games can match this kind of depth and size, and still maintain 
 the solid gameplay and action, the coming years are going to be amazing. This game has revolutionized 
 the RPG genre, and definitely for the better.
  
  Tilt: 10- I have been following Mass Effect since its announcement 3 years ago. I have watched, 
 yearning, as it grew and changed year after long, long, year, until finally it was out, and playable, 
 and never have I had an RPG experience like it since the first Knights of the Old Republic. This 
 game is an instant classic that deserves all the good things said about it.
  
  I know I've gotten wordy, but bear with me, because I feel, for the sake of everyone who claims 
 I'm fanboying this, I'd better address ME's faults, minor though they may be.
  
  Simon Says: I agree, if you're like me, and you're a looter, you have to hack aver single locker 
 in the game. This means you'll be playing simon says about 80 billion times through the whole game. 
 So what? It takes three seconds, and provided you're not a complete and utter MORON you should 
 only fail this minigame if you're not paying attention.
  
  Elevators: Really? Elevators? You're actually going to complain about (let's REALLY think about 
 this one) ELEVATORS?? They last maybe 15 seconds at most. They're really just a loading screen, 
 they're not there because Bioware really loves vertical transportation, and they factor so little 
 into the game I can't believe someone would mention this as a fault. The fact you see them talked 
 about so much points further to my previous Halo 3 claim that gamers today have attention spans 
 that rival a gnat's
  
  Lack of story: Okay, we get it. An ancient machine race wiping out the galaxy isn't the most original 
 story line ever. But let's compare the story of another highly popular game, like, oh, i don't 
 know, Halo 3?
  
  [ An alliance of religiously minded aliens attack the fledgling human space colonies and one man, 
 a cybernetically enhanced supersoldier is the last great hope for humanity. Also... he's Jesus. 
 Kind of.]
  
  If you're not going to fault Halo for having a derivative story (aliens attack humans, humans fight 
 back) you can't fault Mass Effect for having a derivative story too. That's not to say it doesn't; 
 in fact, I agree, it's highly unoriginal. But when's the last time we saw a truly original story, 
 really (If you say "Bioshock" I will hurt you) ? The answer is, we haven't. Every story has already 
 been done to death; it has now come down to how we approach it. And in this case, Bioware has done 
 great. I especially loved the conflict of Saren's "lets try and serve the bad guys!" versus your 
 "Let's go down swinging" philosophy (which I wholeheartedly support) . 
  
  Okay, i need to shut up now. Mass Effect is great, and if the best thing it's naysayers can come 
 up with is Simon Says and Elevators, I think that speaks pretty well of it. The game is by no means 
 perfect, but it comes d_m_ close, and is a good harbinger of things to come. Some may say that 
 the good excuses the bad, but as a wiser man than I once said: A game that's supposed to be perfect 
 wouldn't need anything to excuse it." So Mass Effect is about as awesome as could be, and until 
 the next one comes out, will hold a special place in my heart. Now go and play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secher_nbiw
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is good, definately not great, and I thought gamespots 8.5 was generous. The story was 
 acceptable, nothing new or revolutionary, especially in a sci-fi RPG, although the writing was 
 better than the lamentable book. I failed to see the fuss that was made over the dialogue system, 
 as several times I found the dialogue options drastically misrepresent what was actually said. 
 And why does Shepard only say 'I have to go now" or "I'm leaving?" Why did he have a handful of 
 stock goodbyes that made ending a converstaion very choppy? The MAKO was poorly executed, driving 
 like the wheels were covered in crisco; several times, while idling, i saw it start to slide along 
 the ground. Why did they make it not able to roll? I thought it looked ridiculous sliding along 
 its nose for a while rather than rolling a few times and landing upright. Aiming the turret was 
 poorly done as well; aim more than about 30 degrees up and all you saw was a lovely view of the 
 undercarriage. There were several instances in which i wanted to look up at a moon or other celestial 
 body only to have the camera zoom under the MAKO. The interiors of mines/building were also ALL 
 the same; is this just laziness on Bioware's part? Trying to manage equipment became a chore, because 
 if you reached the 150 item limit while picking up new equipment, you had to convert something 
 into omin-gel (whatever that is) . Unfortuanately, you arent given the option to view what the new 
 items do, you just have to hope that you arent getting rid of something you could really use. If 
 you wanted to scroll through your gear and convert items into omnigel, the selecter always shot 
 to the top of the list, so you had to scroll all the way down to the bottom again if you wanted 
 to keep the stuff at the top of your list. The AI was no better than servicable; many times during 
 a fight one of my party members would refuse to stand behind the cover I told them too, and the 
 enemy AI just charged in, often as not. They rarely used tactics other than bum rushing me as soon 
 as they wree aware of us. While you are roaming the worlds on foot, there is virtually no interaction 
 between squad members that we remember from KOTOR and Jade empire. Everyone just ignores everyone 
 else, and as Shepard you are unable to even talk to them; you just get a stock reply of "we better 
 get moving" or something. I have seen none of the revolutionary things we were told to expect from 
 ME. Maybe the second installment will be better; I just hope EA dones completely screw the pooch 
 with this franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayersolo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  From my POV GameSpot's 8.5 is a disgrace on the company. Why is every critic freaking out about 
 this game but you? It's not because you're smarter than everyone else... it almost seems like you 
 wanted to give the "tough review". That's garbage. Why THIS game isn't an Editor's Choice will 
 forever be a blown opportunity.
  
  Any way that you look at this game, it is in fact the best combo of the greatest games that we've 
 ever seen. I've been playing it straight out for 5 days and I can promise you that it is the best 
 of Oblivion, Gears of War, and Knight of the Old Republic all rolled into one. This is a "forget 
 about your life" kind of game.
  
  I've been playing games from way back (i. e. BASICA) all the way through and I've never given a 
 game a 10. This game is a jaw-dropping 10. Reading the GS review... it seemed the reviewer's only 
 problem was with the MAKO... the MAKO's a blast as soon as you learn how to use it. Don't forget 
 to click the RS to zoom in and snipe.... otherwise it's a sick off-road tank.
  
  Why does everybody love this game except for Gamespot? I'm still shaking my head over that one. 
 Gamespot should recant, fire the reviewer... or at least pay for him to detox, and do your job. 
 We rely on you. You blew it this time, but we still love you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuck182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect isn't perfect, it has its problems (as do most games) , but as an overall gaming experience 
 this is excellent, in almost every area it excels, and in my opinion this is the best RPG in a 
 while, the best sci-fi RPG since the Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic games, and one of the 
 best RPGs ever made.
  I'll start with Mass Effect's problems. There aren't many, and they aren't huge. Firstly there's 
 the combat, it's not as bad as most people are saying, at times it can be incredibly fun, and at 
 other times it can be very frustrating, overall it's okay, but it does stand out compared to the 
 rest of the game. Even worse than the combat is the MAKO, again its okay, now and then it can be 
 fun, but most of the time it's boring and often unfair. This game is beautiful but there are frame-rate 
 issues a little too often, and way too often you see textures loading before your eyes, I've gone 
 through entire cut-scenes where every object looks like it had been textured five years ago. The 
 dialogue is this game is fantastic, but on your second play through and sometimes even on your 
 first, you realise at times it doesn't matter what you say, you get the same response, but this 
 is mostly nitpicking.
  Now we can get onto the good. As I said earlier, this game is beautiful; technically it's brilliant, 
 fantastic shadows, high detailed and awesomely textured objects, characters and environments; artistically 
 it's even better, I don't think I found a single room, building, character or object that wasn't 
 beautiful or brilliantly designed, you can tell a lot of hard work and love went into making this 
 game.
  The story is fantastic, as good as any other game, and a lot of fantastic movies (e. g. Star Wars) , 
 it's very well told with a mixture of game-play, dialogue and cut-scenes. The further you get through 
 the game the more it pulls you in, the more you want to know, when I got near to end, I couldn't 
 stop playing, I needed to see how it would end. Obviously the next games in the saga are already 
 looking promising, with a great foundation to build upon, and a great story to continue. The side 
 quests are also very good, every single one of them was fun to play and more complicated than first 
 appearing to be. The fact that you have a choice of how you act throughout the game, good, neutral 
 or evil adds a whole other level to the side quests and story, with multiple endings. The game 
 has a codex where you can find information about things such as ships, planets, characters etc. 
 And every one of the entries is written very well, with lots of sci-fi nonsense sounding perfectly 
 believable, you can tell a lot of work has gone into great a deep and realistic sci-fi universe 
 on par with Star Wars or Star Trek.
  The dialogue is good, amazing voice acting, and a brilliant new system for choosing how to respond 
 and ask questions in conversations, it's not a revolutionary as first seemed, but it is better 
 than any other system to date. All of the conversations in game flow perfectly, nothing said ever 
 seems out of place.
  The sound effects and music are brilliant; the overall game-play is fantastic. If you are a fan 
 of RPGs, you should play this game, if you are a fan of sci-fi, you should play this game, if you 
 are a fan of shooters, you may not enjoy this game as much as other shooters that are out there, 
 but this is definitely still worth playing. And for any serious gamer this game shouldn't be missed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arydholm04
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  First, if you loved Bioware's other games (i. e. Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic and Jade 
 Empire) than you will most certainly respect and enjoy their newest creation. 
  
  Overall Concept:
  The game has a great idea and gives you a lot of freedom to what you want and 
 when you want it. They have an idea of what they want you to do, but they don't force you to do 
 it exactly their ideal way. 
  
  Graphics: 
  The visuals in this game are real eye candy. From the characters to the environments everything 
 is superb in its own right. However, there is a slight flaw in the loading of the textures. When 
 you first load a saved game or land on a new planet, the game takes a few extra seconds to load 
 the surrounding textures and those on your characters. This is only a minor complaint, but it does 
 take a little bit away from the awe you feel when you first see every new planet.
  
  Sound: 
  The voice overs are amazing. I haven't heard this kind of talent in quite a while in 
 a game. The music is great and only towards the end of the game does the loading music get a little 
 repetitive. 
  
  Character Design and Squad Mates: 
  This game starts out your career allowing you great freedom in how you want to create your character 
 from race and gender to small details like facial construction. It doesn't give you the option 
 to change body mass or muscle/fat However, that isn't really much of a problem being that your 
 character, regardless of whether they are male or female, has a very attractive appearance. 
  The two humans you have on your team from the prologue mission of Eden Prime are complete opposites, 
 but are very useful in their own rights. Kaidan is a biotic user and can really help out against 
 multiple foes. Ashley is a strong and loyal soldier. As the game progresses you find a companion 
 from the majority of the races in the game. My personal favorite of the alien races is the Turian. 
 Garrus, the turian you encounter at the citadel, has a good mix of tech and soldier skills and 
 can be a great help in a fire fight as long as you tell him to take cover. The others include a 
 quarian named Tali who is your main tech user. She gives you the most ability to hack storage crates 
 and salvage debris on uncharted planets. Wrex is part of another alien race known as the krogans 
 who is my least favorite being that he is stubborn and only useful in close quarters combat. There 
 is also an Asari named Liara who is your alternative biotic user. She is very helpful and is probably 
 one of the smarter aliens that knows when to run for cover. 
  My only complaint about both the allied and opponent AI is that sometimes they can be quite stupid. 
 At times your squadmates will just constantly shoot at a wall and others times they just run headstrong 
 into the enemy's line of fire. The enemy AI is mostly intelligent, but from time to time they leave 
 cover and try to strong arm you which almost always fails with the exception of the Krogans who 
 can deal some major damage up close. 
  
  Locales: 
  The game has a lot of different planets to visit. Unfortunately, for the most part the story planets 
 are the main ones that are the most interesting. You can land on at least one planet from each 
 system with the others either giving you the option to survey them or just a small description 
 of why it wouldn't be smart to land on/visit that particular one. My only complaint is that the 
 vehicle you use to explore the uncharted planets has a rather large learning curve on how to use 
 it and it often ends up costing you your life. Overall though the land-able planets are worth at 
 least one visit and most of them have a side quest to complete on them. 
  
  Lasting Appeal: 
  The game is good for multiple play throughs. I liked playing through once as 
 a paragon and then a second time as a renegade. The two opposites made the experience feel completely 
 different even though the story is the same both times. It's also fun to play through a third time 
 with your favorite character and use all of your gear from the the first career as well as your 
 level and abilities. This makes for a good way to get some of the harder achievements and is well 
 worth the extra hours to beat it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thaculture
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Twenty-four hours into Mass Effect, I was faced with a choice. I could go on to the last planet 
 on my intergalactic adventure, or retrace my steps making sure I didn't miss anything. Like a crack 
 addict looking for his next fix, I chose the latter. 
  Mass Effect is one of those games that gets under your skin to the point where you're thinking 
 about the game even when you're not playing it. In the game you play as Commander Shepard, humanity's 
 ambassador to galactic society. Humanity is new to the galactic community, and many of the other 
 races are extremely distrustful of humanity's growing stature. As with other Bioware games such 
 as Knights of the Old Republic, Mass Effect has you running around spaceports, gathering information, 
 helping people who can't seem to help themselves, and of course, saving the universe in the process. 
 For the most part Mass Effect does this very well. The voice acting is topnotch, the story while 
 not original is entertaining, and the cast of characters you come across, many of whom join your 
 party, are all interesting in their own way. Take all that together with great visuals, a unique 
 musical score (Blade Runner anyone?) , and fast paced gameplay for an RPG and this is a game that 
 should be at the top of any gamer's wish list. Unfortunately, the game has some rather glaring 
 flaws. 
  First and foremost, Mass Effect has the worse item management I think I've ever seen in a game. 
 While upgrading weapons/armor, if you decide after scrolling through all the available upgrades 
 that you don't want what's in your inventory, there's no exit button to simply back out of the 
 menu. Instead you have to scroll all the way back up to what was previously selected or select 
 the "empty" option (also at the top of the list) . Furthermore, when shopping for new equipment 
 there's no way to tell how the items you can potentially purchase will affect your character's 
 stats. Another major flaw of the game has to do with how your party members interact with your 
 main character. Party members will react to your actions one moment, then be completely unfazed 
 another. This level of inconsistency is really jarring at times, and completely takes one out of 
 the experience. Finally, the game provides the player with the freedom to tackle each of the main 
 missions in any order they want but the story doesn't seem to adjust based on how you go about 
 your missions. So after gathering information from one mission, by the next mission your main character 
 acts as if he/she didn't just learn critical pieces of information from the previous mission. At 
 one point, I had the exact same conversation with a party member, and watched the exact same scene, 
 after completing two separate missions. A game of this caliber just shouldn't have those problems.
 
  Mass Effect is a great game. It sucks the player in, tells a gripping and emotional story, and 
 looks good doing it. Several flaws in the story and item management, however, keep it from being 
 truly spectacular. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect was a highly anticipated game on its release, and has had some large shoes to fill, 
 but luckily for fans of Bioware's works they have another Grade A product. It has a very detailed 
 story line, and excellent voice acting. Much like Knights of the Old Republic, and Jade Empire, 
 Mass Effect draws you into the world, and you won't want to stop playing until you beat the game. 
 And much like KOTOR and Jade Empire there are several endings to earn based upon your actions in 
 the missions.
  
  The graphics in Mass Effect are clearly top notch, the in game cut scenes for dialog are incredibly 
 detailed, and almost true to life. In no game before have the character models been so detailed 
 in their displays of emotion.
  
  When you're not admiring the detail during the interaction phases of the game, Mass Effect is a 
 decent action RPG, which plays like a 3rd person shooter. During the First play through I played 
 exactly like a 3rd person shooter, and the game was fairly difficult. The second play through I 
 utilized the squad powers, and my characters own biotic powers, and the game become "easier". 
 
  
  The game suffers from some performance issues, there is noticeable graphic "lag" on many of the 
 large environments, but the game is playable.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This game has very nice graphics for everyone who is into the look of the game. The feel of this 
 game is KOTOR with Gears of War which is a great combination. The guns in this game are awesome. 
 There are some bugs but nothing to bad that will make you stop playing. Story is interesting. The 
 customization in this game is very cool, so many choices that will make this game very fun. This 
 game is extremly long so if you want a shooter you may want to check out Kane and Lynch or Call 
 of Duty 4. This game has awesome characters so you might be like... WOW that guy looks so bad@ss! 
 I think this game is fun for anyone who like KOTOR 1 & 2. This is a must buy for any RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xShR3Dx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: All graphics in Mass Effect are CG quaility. But there is a drawback to that it actully 
 has alot of texture loading like halo 2 did but it is easily forgiven.
  
  Sound: Some of the best voice acting and orginal soundtracks on the market right now. The voice 
 acting really puts you in the game.
  
  Gameplay: Mass Effect really tryed to put a good 3rd person shooter and RPG mechanics to gather 
 and they really do succseed in doing so. The combat is really fun and intresting. The RPG part 
 is also very well done.
  
  Plot: Mass Effect is a video game that almost feels like an interactive movie.
  The story is 
 compelling and deep.
  
  Value: Mass Effect has hundreds of side quests and a ton of planets and ships to expolore make 
 this game last.
  
  Overall: Mass Effect is a game you will never forget it. Worth every penny.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galenti
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the dialogue system is pretty cool. It's not as good as it could have been, as sometimes it 
 can be TOO vague what you're going to say and how. And you can't interrupt people.
  
  Combat is pretty fun, the baddies react in entertaining ways when you kick their asses. Story is 
 cool and you get hang out with some cool characters.
  
  Ok, all the stuff now.
  
  Graphics, graphics range from passable to horrendous. The texture pop-in is so bad that often you 
 don't get the correct full res texture until a split second before it leaves the screen anyway. 
 We're talking about early PS2 level visuals here, for about 70% of the game.
  
  Driving is passable but boring. They should have taken a note from HL2 to see how to make driving 
 fun in a non-driving game.
  
  World exploration is the biggest ball dropped. They didn't just drop the ball, it fell through 
 the floor far into the ground. The worlds are, essentially, EXACTLY the same. The only real difference 
 is the texture map. That's it! It's just super bumpy/hilly landscape. A few different designs for 
 bases, a few as in 2 or 3. Once you've been to one world, you've been to them all.
  
  On that note, alot of the side quests are boring, especially the ones not initiated via character 
 interaction. You can get some fun ones, with neat twists, but there's alot of 'go to A, open box, 
 return to B'.
  
  RPG elements are lame. No item collecting, just weapon/armor gathering. Linear progression of weapon 
 and armor quality. Leveling up doesn't ever lead to any huge breakthroughs in ability. You just 
 do more damage and can take more damage.
  
  Overall, take the greatness that is KOTOR 1 or 2, cut it in half and you've got Mass Effect. You 
 get far smaller environments, and far fewer to explore, far fewer characters to interact with, 
 drastically stunted RPG components, and graphics that are most often WORSE that KOTOR because of 
 the texture problems.
  
  I never would have thought that Bioware would disappoint this much. But it's finally happened. 
 It's a damn shame.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GOWfreak
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  BioWare have truly outdone themselves on this outing with Mass Effect, a sci-fi RPG that is sure 
 to become a classic one day. The facial construction option is even better than in Elder Scrolls 
 IV: Oblivion, and allows for a truly unique looking main character. The decisions made throughout 
 the game to make your character a soldier of peace, or a dirty scoundrel give you the true feeling 
 of doing what you want to do. Although there are really 3 or 4 decisions you can make that will 
 change the outcome of the game, it's still shocking nonetheless.
  
  Mass Effect is a game that is not to be missed on any circumstance, if you play one Xbox 360 game 
 this year, make it this one. It is truly the best of 2007, and one of the best games I have EVER 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an incredible and addictive game. It really immerses you into the thick of it. Voice 
 acting is top notch and together with the life-like animations of the characters will really give 
 you the feel that you are talking to real people. So far I have clocked in 40 hours of game play. 
 I'm currently on my 2nd play through on my old Soldier character, you can start the game over with 
 any character you have finished the game with all the items, skills and weapons intact. On top 
 of that, I have a level 8 Adept character. This will give you an idea of the length of the game 
 and how you may play it. There are plenty of ways to handle certain situations, whether you choose 
 to side with someone or if you have to make life or death decisions. Mass Effect is also visually 
 pleasing, you can choose to have a grainy film effect or not. The only boring part, I have to admit, 
 is the vehicle game play which it is seriously flawed, Thrasher Maws are twice as annoying as you'll 
 often find your self running away from them then actually engaging in combat, they will sometimes 
 spawn right in front of you resulting in certain instant death. The vehicle turret has limited 
 elevation, and you'll often find that the shells don't hit where you aim. Other than that the game 
 is awesome. This is like Jade Empire x100.
  
  Overall, I absolutely love Mass Effect and recommend it for any hardcore RPG gamer, or a novice 
 to the whole RPG scene. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immemyself2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Mass Effect was a true BioWare classic with a rich universe full of believable races. I loved the 
 political intrigue both with the council of aliens, and the human dynamics amongst themselves. 
 I also felt the interactions between teams were very exciting at times, I began to get attached 
 to some and left others behind and not based on their skills but personalities which is rare in 
 a game for me. The team combat was very fun and challenging as long as you played on the right 
 difficulty level. The equipment was fun (although confusing at times) . The leveling system was 
 great for a few classes. 
  
  The Bad:
  
  Like everyone else, the vehicle was so boring and overused. The planets all looked the same with 
 different weather or colors. There was not enough variation in the universe of races, planets, 
 and planet life (in other words planets felt to empty) . Almost every time you did land on a planet 
 there were just hostiles to deal with, very rarely did you discover anything that didn't have to 
 do with war or battle (talk about hostile environment) . 
  
  Overview:
  Mass Effect took me on a journey that I don't think I could have ever anticipated. I was ready 
 for it to feel like a star wars knock off, especially using the same dynamics as past BioWare games 
 but it was truly unique in both story and challenge! 
  
  There was enough character development to pull you into their individual stories and you really 
 did feel like a normal guy who made choices that ended up making you a hero. The game play was 
 really searching to be a massive universal exploration game, but did fail in that. It felt like 
 a very contained galaxy with a few planets to search as opposed to the 20+ galaxies that were represented 
 with multiple planets that were just eye candy. 
  
  The story sometimes was too text driven (you found a pile of uranium so now you get so much money) 
 and some of the side quests were so annoying that I can't believe they were included. Its like 
 they had amazing writers on half the story and then their office workers did the rest. 
  
  The big picture is you can't get this entertained by most scifi movies out there, so its totally 
 worth it. Whether you are a RPG nut or a 3rd person shooter buff, this has the right mixture between 
 the two to keep you satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knut_The_Noob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  There were so many disapointing games this year. for example assasins creed: you've to do every 
 time the same thing look around kill one than again look around and kill people.
  Call of duty 4: unbelievable good this game but extremely short, for me it's not worth 70 or 60$.
 
  BUT Mass Effect it's better than you can believe, it's like kotor, only better graphic, better 
 story and no Star Wars (im no star wars fan *gg*) .
  and how the people talk oh man that looks so nice , the caracters are such deep everyone has his 
 own story, why he do this or that.
  But there's a thing. You won't like the beginning, because it's all so new but after playing an 
 hour it will grow on you. 
  So some words about the story, an alien named saren want to get some of i don't know how was the 
 name, and only you know that saren's bad and yeah you flew to one planet to the other to kill him, 
 the story hears like the star wars or star trek or anything else but it's ten times better you 
 have different endings you can make your own character and so on. i've played it through once and 
 i liked it so much that i play it again through. I haven't done that before, really, never.
  
  so what should i say,,,,,, ahhh i know, this is THE GAME OF THE YEAR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonziter1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  What can be said about perfection? I'll try and describe it in two words.... MASS EFFECT. This RPG 
 is the single best game of its genre that I have ever played. Oblivion was good, but this was incredible. 
 The acting was superb. The controls were a little tough for about..... oh say....20 minutes, but 
 then the fun began. 
  
  Some will say that the vehicle controls were difficult to learn, and they were, but other than 
 that trite complaint the game is spectacular. Beautiful soundtrack. This game makes Halo 3 look 
 like some back room project. Seriously. With all the hype of Halo 3 you would have thought it to 
 be AT LEAST as good as this. Nope. Not even close. 
  
  Sure they are two different styles of games, but halo 3 was, in my humble opinion, an over rated 
 piece of junk and I almost feel embarrassed comparing the two. 
  
  Having such a great cast of characters to choose from, great upgrades, and sweet action sequences. 
 My only complaint, if you could call it that, is that the economy / money system was almost pointless. 
 Omni Gel was worth way more and you found all the weapons you needed to win. I only hope they come 
 out with some expansion (s) for the game like in Oblivion. This game, in and of itself, makes owning 
 a 360 and all the complications associated with that, worth it. Truly.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tychoSIX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Need a break from ultra-linear games? Try Mass Effect. But be prepared for what feels like a less 
 than refined combat system. Controlling your weapons, squad mates, and vehicles takes more effort 
 than other games with similar mechanics. It's not a bad system, but it certainly doesn't take the 
 cake for the category.
  
  However, your superb amount of control over the story-line flow more than offsets this deficiency. 
 If and how you go about accomplishing a mission is completely up to you. Even better, the game 
 won't punish you for choosing the more brash dialogue options or using intimidate during a conversation 
 to get a few extra credits.
  
  The squad customization system is robust. As NPCs level up you invest points into various skills 
 and abilities to customize them to your play style. You may also notice that everyone in your roster, 
 not just the two active squad members, gain experience after each encounter so you won't need to 
 interchange members just to keep everyone at the same level.
  
  Nothing in particular about the graphics or audio stands out as particularly remarkable. Some of 
 the areas are a bit sparse but what do you expect in a universe of this size?
  
  On my scale anything above a six is worth playing.... I don't dish out 9/9.5/10 ratings to just 
 any game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmc741
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  A great game that has some great visuals. The voiceacting is hands-down the best I have ever heard 
 in a game.
  There are some framerate issues that occur at bad times that really take away from the game. I 
 was surprised how short the campaign is. If you follow the main mission (do what the Council orders 
 you to do) the game clocks in at about 8 hours. I thought it would be alot longer, so I was a bit 
 disappointed at that aspect. Hopefully the next installments will be longer.
  Apart from those issues, the story, graphics and gameplay are top notch. Definitley one of the 
 best games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshBagwell
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  When Bioware makes an rpg they really know how to tell a story so good you want to get to the cutscense 
 right away. I also like the multi-choice aspect of the game where you have many lines to choose 
 from so the game never plays the same twice.
  
  What i also like about M. E. is that the achievements require you to play the game 3 times. Like 
 what Dead Rising did.
  The suit change. Not all suits that have the same stats look the same. It makes you choose wheather 
 you want a cool looking suit with less stats or an ugly suit with great stats.
  
  They only flaw is the loading and saving of the game slows it down, but i have only run into that 
 when landing or on the citadel. These where none combat mind you. So that doesnt warent enough 
 to give it negative marks.
  Only when it lags in combat will i give it a low score.
  
  M. E. is easily ranked in my top 10 games. I'm not into rpg that much. So if i play an rpg game 
 and really like it. Well that says lots for that game. Dont look M. E. by.
  
  Everyone on my friendlist doesnt have it and i have been questioning why i have them on there when 
 they dont have a good game like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Because I can't think of any others that no one else has used. Mass Effect is one those games 
 that will be talked about for months because of its ambitious intentions. It's like the Ocarina 
 of Time for this generation of gaming. Each player can arrive at the same point, but how they get 
 there is another point entirely. It's these moments that make Mass Effect what it is. It's the 
 power to give the player absolute control on how they approach and respond to the game. Mass Effect 
 is incredibly deep, yet the depth is dependent on the player. All the information provided is only 
 there out of curiosity and not an necessity. It doesn't intrude the game at all, yet it adds to 
 the total believability of this amazing realised universe that Bioware, the makers of this and 
 KOTOR, created.
  
  Seeing how this game is pure sci-fi, you wouldn't be far wrong to say that the plot borrows heavily 
 off existing sci-fi stories, most noticeably Star Wars. Yet because it's told brilliantly it doesn't 
 matter. You play as Commander Sheppard, either male or female with a background history of your 
 choice, stopping an evil Spectre named Saren from destroying all known life in the Universe. Yeah, 
 predictable -- or so you think. Far be it from me to spoil it for you, let's just say that the 
 twists and turns the story takes is incredible and really keeps you engage, but not guessing.
 
  
  The actual gameplay is reminiscent of everyone's sudden fascination of games including a cover 
 system, probably made famous by Gears of War. At first, the combat looks and feels like that game. 
 Yet if you play it in that way you'll probably end up dying quite quickly. This is where the RPG 
 side comes into play. You have assign to roles, abilities and so on to your supporting characters 
 and yourself and take your time bringing down the enemy. It works really well and is fun. Just 
 like a true RPG, once you down an enemy you receive experience points and cash, for abilities and 
 items respectively. Depending on the class you picked at the beginning, you place talent points 
 into a bar and raise that skill to the next point to unlock new abilities or the shotgun talent 
 pool, for example.
  
  The conversation system is the most talked about feature of this game and it's easy to see why. 
 It's really easy to get a grip of things and you more or less have direct control on where the 
 conversation is going. It's worth mentioning that some options end up going to the same line of 
 dialogue anyway. It's fun and because of the interactivity it keeps these moments interesting and 
 compelling instead of dull and boring.
  
  The one thing I really hate and despise is the Mako. Some love it, some loathe it. I simply hate 
 it entirely and it almost ruined the game for me. The control is sensitive and the combat is simply 
 weak, and with no feature of upgrading it (which I find surprising, given the fact that you can 
 level everything else up --weapons etc) it hampers the entire experience. I hate taking down enemies, 
 I hate taking down the Thrasher Maws or what the heck they're called and I hate climbing mountains. 
 The camera doesn't help in anyway shape or form. It's not balanced, with a ridiculous long time 
 in healing the Mako, which by the way you can't defend yourself at all. It's just cumbersome and 
 is the weakest moment in the entire game, considering this could have been the greatest moment. 
 But fortunately everything else is fine, but that doesn't hide the fact that all uncharted planets 
 have to be explored by the poxy Mako and its insidious features.
  
  Mass Effect looks and sounds fabulous. The texture pop in plagues the game throughout much like 
 Halo 2, but that didn't stop people from playing it. The whole game wouldn't look out of place 
 from, well, Halo, but the execution and overall style is sweet enough to overlook this.
  
  The game is big, 100 hours easily for everything. 15-20 hours for the main story only.
  
  This 
 is definitely a game worth getting because it's big, bold and ambitious in terms of player driven 
 narrative. It's not wholly original and there are blemishes here and there, mainly graphic hiccups 
 and the evil Mako moments. But to overlook the whole quality of this package is a crying shame. 
 Now don't hurt me because of the overall score.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mullinmagic
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best role playing games out there, It takes a lot of getting into but has 
 great rewards for your efforts. To start i was put off this game by the obvious technical issues- 
 framerate issues, texture mapping issues but if overlooked this game could be classed as a masterpiece. 
 The dialog and animation is amazing, storyline is breathtaking, visuals are in its own class and 
 gameplay is satisfiying. As a shooter fan i was immersed in many fun battles and taken away with 
 how much fun an RPG can be as a shooter. Between 8-10 hours the story really starts to kick in 
 and just gets better from there. At first i was intimidated by such a complex game but overall 
 satisfied. Only gripe is a lack of guidence/tutorial in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 007ybse04
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is not an item fest RPGs like Diablo or Wow. ME is much like an action-adventure game 
 with RPG elements. Do not expect deep RPG style game from Mass Effect. Just Character Classes , 
 skills and improvement of every ability, even dialog options and your character's personal behaviour. 
 Your choices in the game affects game's future. This is very important. GFX are sometimes jaw dropping 
 , sometimes average. Grass, ground and rocks are very sharp and Bump-mapped. Character models are 
 impressive, some characters are very life-like. But not every character has the same jaw dropping 
 quality. Lightning is very solid , your laser rifle , the Sun and flame effects have very impressive 
 light games. As negative things, there are some loading hitch ups and texture popups. I didnt notice 
 any important bug other than those. With side missions , the game should last in 40 Hours.
  
  Finally i say , This game is definitely a MUST-BUY. First game of a legendary trilogy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7121984
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a great role playing game. It starts off by letting you choose to create a custom 
 character or use an already available character. But either way, the story will depend on the history 
 you have given to your character.
  
  My first impression on this game was this game is just simply amazing. The character details and 
 how they look when they talk was just amazingly beautiful. How your character interact with other 
 species is very realistic, you can almost feel that they are real. Visually, this is one of the 
 best looking games out there.
  
  While I have played this game for quite a while now (and by the way, I'm really enjoying it) , it 
 seems like it's just never gonna end. There are plenty of side quest to complete aside from the 
 main quest and it looks like it is just as fun completing them as finnishing the main quest. There 
 are a lot of planets to visit and each has its own facilities and places to explore.
  
  The voice acting in this game was very well executed. No doubt about it that this made the game 
 feel realistic and enjoyable aside from great graphics and gameplay.
  
  There are some glitches in this game that I heard but so far I have not encountered one. But these 
 glitches are unavoidalbe considering how big the number of places and people that you will meet. 
 Aside from those, you won't find any other problems that will hinder you from enjoying this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tskviper2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  ME has its flaws, no questions about it. 
  The side quests are boring repetitive and reuse the same basic structures with containers and furniture 
 being the only thing that change. 
  The MAKO (an all terrain vehicle with guns) feels like a helium filled balloon as it bounce around 
 the exploration maps, making those a boring and slow experience to go through. It was fun for the 
 first 10 maps but then the extremely uneven terrain (map designers apparently never heard about 
 erosion as all maps have far too much spike like rock formations pretty much everywhere) . By the 
 middle of the game I couldn't finish these quests fast enough but since some collection quests 
 require you to be thorough in your exploration I had to go through it.
  
  Also the game lacks models for armor and weapons as every type have the same model and some even 
 have the same texture. The models are nice it's only too few of them, there aren't even any unique 
 items as far as I know. And finding a weapon IX to replace my other weapon VIII doesn't have the 
 same gratifying feeling for me. 
  
  The inventory only allows you to have 150 items. If you are at the limit and pick up more you are 
 forced to destroy the new ones. Not a problem in itself, but since the inventory system in mission 
 always sort from the best to worst, you have to scroll through a long list to get rid of old garbage 
 and getting rid of upgrades is even more of a pain, as it requires you to scroll through the list 
 from the top for every item you delete, as it jumps to the top every time (thankfully it works 
 better at merchants listing the worst items first) . It wouldn't have hurt for there to be a filtering 
 system as well as inventory lists can be long and painfully slow to scroll trough.
  
  And now for my last complaint: the control scheme / UI. Most of the time the A button select and 
 B cancel or move back, but on the star map B exits the map and X is used to move back. In itself 
 its nothing but add to it a loading delay every time you enter or exit the map and a few accidental 
 exits and you start to get annoyed. And if you forget were to go, you are required to exit the 
 star map to access the journal and suffer through all that loading again.
  
  So finally I got the bad parts out of my system, on to the good:
  
  The story made this experience 
 great. The main quests with the locations and maps are interesting and fun with lots of interesting 
 content. I always looked forward to the next story quest and always feel like I achieved something 
 when finishing them.
  
  The battles are mostly fun and interesting although the first few fights are a bit hard until you 
 get the grips of it. It also helps when you finally get some new abilities to play with, but some 
 fights are (unnecessarily) hard. Also some enemies are annoying as they are too fast to track but 
 they are few enough to be manageable.
  
  The background information you get trough exploring and talking adds entries in the galactic codex 
 and gives plenty of interesting information about the universe and its inhabitants. 
  
  In short I really liked ME and if the entire game had been like the main quest chain it would have 
 gotten a 9.5 (I don't believe in perfection) but now I have to settle for 8.5. I only hope that 
 the flaws are due to resources being spent on fleshing out this new intellectual property and not 
 due to rushed or lacy developers.
  
  Now starts the wait for ME2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asskick_QTip
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  Damn i got this game when I finished Assassins Creed for the 3rd time and i love it, at first i 
 thought O MY GOD all those screens and options where am I going to start. But after a while i figured 
 it out and totally understand it. In the video review i heard the dude say there where a lotof 
 those giant worms jumping out of the ground when you're exploring a planet... Well so far (25 hours 
 of gamplay) i've only defeated 2 and only encountered 2 so he's totally wrong eh =D haha...
  
  The only downside of this game are the graphical glitches that occur often but after i little 
 while i just laughed about it and stopped thinking about it because if you think to much it ruins 
 the game...
  
  I give this one a 9 and it deserves it totally
  
  BTW.. THE ALIENS LOOK FRIKKIN ABNORMAL COOL EH =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  When I heard about Mass Effect, and heard Bioware was creating it. I needed it. Not wanted, but 
 needed it. I loved the KOTOR games and Jade Empire, and while Mass Effect might've not delivered 
 on every single promise leading up to the game release, the finished product is one that might 
 be the best game this gen.
  
  Graphics/Sound- Both immersive. The environments look stellar, and so do the haracter models, from 
 lighting to the looks on characters faces, the graphics are excellent. There is texture pop up 
 though, which is annoying, and is the only reason I cant give this game a perfect 10. The sound 
 is excellent. The voice overs are excellent, and the score is epic.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is excellent. The classes all work great, and its basically a hybrid of 
 SW KOTOR and a third person shooter with a mix of Deus Ex IW. There arent as many explorable planets 
 as promised int eh previews, and most of the planets are barren wastelands. But the main planets 
 are great. The side quests are all fun, just like in KOTOR and Jade Empire. There are so many things 
 to do. Driving the MAko is decent, despite some control difficulty.
  
  Value/Fun- This game is well worth 60 dollars. It can last anywhere from 20 to 40 hours, which 
 wasnt what was anticipated. I thought there would be a longer story, but the story is deep and 
 excellent. It definetly warrants multiple playthroughs. 
  
  Most of my complaints were minor nitpicky things, except the pop up textures, which an be annoying, 
 but I got used to them. If you enjoy rpgs, shooters, hybrids, or games made by Bioware, than Mass 
 Effect is the game you have been waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amphibiouskille
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Outstanding game; not sure when it was supposed to release, but if they had to delay release to 
 polish the product, it shows.
  
  Extremely polished product that makes me happy I purchased a "next-gen" system. The environments 
 are rich and full of detail, the character modeling is strong and doesn't suffer from the excessive 
 animation found in many of the 360 games right now.
  
  One of the best things about the graphics in the game is the facial modeling; the expressions that 
 the characters make throughout the game gives a good indication of what they are thinking, it's 
 one step closer to actually being able to interact with a movie.
  
  The strongest aspect of the game is the richly detailed plotline; while this game is a strong 3rd 
 person shooter, the RPG character development aspect along with a strong story really draw you 
 into an immersive experience.
  
  I have only been playing for a few days now, but it has put Assassin's Creed on the shelf in order 
 to get more playtime for this game... its a good thing that I am currently deployed because my wife 
 would probably make me throw the game away, its that addictive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King-Zetune
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  WEll this game is probably a game which has already made it to the history books. First of all, 
 story is always evolving and grabs onto you from the beggining, The story is also superbly written 
 and one of the best Scifi story I have ever seen. This game has some of the most gorgeous graphics 
 and visuals I have ever seen. The Gameplay is extremly revolutionary and has shooter and Rpg elements 
 in it. The value is superb because it lasts for about 60 hours of gamplay and exploration including 
 new difficulties to be achieved allong the way. This game does a great job on graphics, visuals, 
 facial apperance, replay value, story, gameplay and many many more things that this game realy 
 nails the way they have to been done. I reccomend this for EVERY GAMER OUT THEIR even if you need 
 to buy a 360 to play this masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxwallentine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game. the only big flaw i see in it is the autosave feature which isnt the 
 best. As kotr 1 AND 2 this game does not dissapoint. I has good combat features, like a mix of 
 kotr and gears of war combat. it is very good. rpg lovers, this is a must buy. Maybe it could have 
 had more abilities, check my forum to add any ideas. It is a great game with small flaws that wont 
 affect overall game play that much. just remember to save often. 
  
  check all my forums, interesting debates, there is at least one you will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 44_shepard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I started playing and didn't read the description of the classes. I couldn't use a machine 
 gun. needless to say this made me mad, but I didn't give up on the game. After I learned about 
 the powers vanguard began to grow on me and I became content with my choice. As I progress through 
 the game I became drawn to the story and great conversations. The combat feels like a simpler gears 
 of war combat system. This was not where the game shined, however, its shining moments were definitely 
 during the story. The story draws you in to a deep atmosphere of backstabbing and many gun fights. 
 I only have a few problems with the game. 1) no space battles. I mean a game in space should have 
 battles there too. 2) there weren't enough planets with cities on them. I got tired of going back 
 to the citadel just for a decent civilization. and 3) there are so very few planets you could go 
 to. This will be fixed by the down loadable content they said they would release. this game is 
 not perfect, in fact no game is. it is probably one of the best games of the year if not THE best. 
 I only covered a few of the game's great innovations. Just reiterating what you probably read in 
 another review seems a bit redundant. These are just a few of my thoughts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper_Wolf25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  9.8/10
  This game was very nearly the perfect video game
  the only 3 areas where it just missed was the length of the game (even doing all the side quests 
 only nets you around 30 hours, with about a 12 hour main story) , not enough autosaves (sometimes 
 i would forget to save it manually, and there is nothing more irritating than starting a planet 
 over after a random thrasher maw spits on you once) , and the MAKO combat (i mean come on, my pistol 
 does more damage than that wussy tank)
  now that the few bad points are out of the way, to the good points
  
  Top five reasons I love 
 Mass Effect
  *Incredible replayability - being able to assign a mastered skill to a new character and continue 
 playing with the same character is ridiculous amounts of replayability, not to mention the fact 
 that you can do all kinds of different choices and side quests, romances etc. (also unlockable 
 difficulty settings) also the wide differential between classes is thrown into the replay mix
 
  *Combat - a lot of people had bad things to say about the combat, but I personally loved it. It 
 was an awesome mix of run & gun tactics with slow paced, calculated tactical assaults. I could 
 not be much happier with the combat (and thank god you dont have to run around looking for dropped 
 ammo)
  *The Biotic/tech abilities - these added tons of fun to the combat system. on my adept using warp/barrier/lift/marksman 
 was the most fun combo ive ever seen. It led to me destroying any enemy who was not immune (it 
 obliterated easily on Normal)
  *The  choices - this was perhaps my favorite part of the 
 game. Developing friendships and loves with the characters of the game was an amazing part of the 
 gameplay. And using intimidation or charm was also incredibly fun. There was nothing more irritating 
 than not having a high enough charm/intimidate skill and missing out on added conversation (punching 
 the woman in the face was the greatest intimidate ever)
  *Last but not least: Virmire - this planet's action was the best part of the game, hands down. 
 Not only the fact that you had to make plenty of difficult choices (one especially important ) 
 but running into the... place and... killing things was awesome.
  
  Conclusion - awesome game, very few flaws, cannot wait for ME2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I know I did :) Twice, as a matter of fact.
  
  After all you have to go through together with the character you're playing, you can't help yourself 
 but feel proud for every accomplishment as Commander Sheppard.
  
  The game feels pretty solid, but not without bugs. On multiple occasions NPCs would end up stuck 
 in a wall or some other object and there's no way to kill them then, and they can't get out. Weird.
 
  
  The graphics is very nice and realistic. I think so far this game is the best in terms of facial 
 expressions of human characters: they can frown, smile, look worried or sad, and show pretty much 
 the whole range of emotions normal humans do. This is one of the things that struck me in the game, 
 and it also helps to associate yourself with your character, Commander Sheppard.
  
  I've played the game twice, with two different characters: a female Sheppard, and a male, both 
 with custom appearance. I must admit: playing as a female was rather weird, especially such a... 
 errr... gentle looking one :) She looks quite sexy, which does not prevent her from kicking some 
 major alien ass!
  
  A male Sheppard is also quite a loveable personage. After you've played as him for awhile, you 
 really start liking the guy. He was the first character I played, and I remember that weird sense 
 of proudness when he became the first human Spectre! BioWare have done a great job by creating 
 just the right atmosphere: music, camera angles, actions of other characters at the moment, everything 
 makes it feel like a really special moment. This is a completely cinematic quality work right here, 
 which is not very common in games.
  
  When the game was over, I really felt like loosing someone important, like a friend, whom I will 
 never see again. Never, until Mass Effect, have I felt anything like this to a fictional character.
 
  
  Now, enough emotions.
  
  A little bit of bashing is now in order :)
  
  Everywhere in the game it feels like there should be more to it, but it was left out. Cut out. 
 Perhaps they had to leave it out due to time constraints, maybe for some other reason, but whatever 
 that reason is, I think it made some parts of the game feel slightly empty. Take a look at E3 2005/2006 
 videos and you'll see a lot of footage that never made it into the game. Pity.
  
  Weapons and credits are also really strange concept in this game: you earn credits, which you can 
 only spend buying more weapons. You can only carry 150 items. You will also find a lot of items 
 scattered all over the galaxy - even in uncharted worlds, to my big surprise! And what you can 
 do with those weapons? You can convert them to omni-gel - some substance that can be used for various 
 things, such as repairing vehicles (well... vehicle, to be specific - just one) . Or you can sell 
 them and get some credits for it. What do you do with those credits? Why, buy more weapons, of 
 course! So the whole thing feels pointless and feels like there was initially something more to 
 it than just that.
  
  I really hope there will be some more content available soon, which would add more side missions 
 and, hopefully, some mode story line, to make the game perfect. It already is very good, but the 
 sense of rushed-outness had never left me during the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sub-ZeroJoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Mass effect since 11-20-07 and I can honestly say that it has been one of the 
 defining gaming moments of my life so far. Mass Effect is simply phenomenal!
  
  I can't understand the perspective of the Gamespot reviewer. He chooses to nitpick every small 
 thing and seems not to be aware of the monumental accomplishment the game represents as a whole. 
 And like many reviewers he thinks he makes himself sound smart or sophisticated when he says the 
 game is unoriginal and points out comparisons between it and other stories. But come on, that is 
 such a baseless attack! Of course there are some familiar elements in this game -- no game, movie 
 or book can be completely original. Star Wars, for example, is derivative of Japanese bushido, 
 westerns, earlier Sci-Fi stories, etc. and yet it is one of our most enduring Sci-Fi classics.
 
  
  I challenge the reviewer to give just one example of a piece of art that isn't derivative in at 
 least a few ways. Such a thing does not exist and even if something completely original could exist 
 we probably wouldn't enjoy it. It would be analogous to trying to get enjoyment from a piece of 
 music that uses no scale and has no key. We get enjoyment from those things that blend the familiar 
 with the new and unfamiliar in unique ways to create something that excites and moves us. And Mass 
 Effect certainly fits this description.
  
  So, except in cases of extreme derivation, I just find it annoying when a reviewer attacks something 
 for sharing obvious characteristics with other members of the genre, class or style to which that 
 thing belongs. Criticizing Mass Effect for having elements in common with other Sci-Fi stories 
 is moronic, since it is those very elements that identify it as a Sci-Fi and not some other genre. 
 A Sci-Fi without any Sci-Fi conventions would not be a Sci-Fi at all. As a life-long fan of Sci-Fi 
 I can honestly say that Mass Effect offers some truly unique twists and perspectives on the tried 
 and true Sci-Fi themes. And more importantly, the story is exceptionally good -- truly moving and 
 memorable. In fact, I would go so far as to say it is one of the very best game stories of all 
 time.
  
  What's truly shameful is that the competing Elder Scrolls 4 is far less original yet there wasn't 
 so much as a single mention of unoriginality in the Gamespot review of that game. They also didn't 
 seem to feel the need to nitpick that game to death the way they did with Mass Effect. The reviewer 
 even went out of his way to say "it's surprisingly difficult to find much fault with any of it".
 
  Oh really? If we applied the same nitpicking to ES4 as was applied to Mass Effect the list of 
 minor faults found in the former game would, by any objective standard, far outweigh those found 
 in the later. In fact, a large number of faults listed for Mass Effect are also found in Elder 
 Scrolls 4. Nevertheless, I think ES4 was an exceptional game and was deserving of the score given 
 to it. None of the small deficiencies ruined, or even significantly degraded the overall magnificent 
 experience that was Elder Scrolls 4. But giving ES4 a 9.6 while giving Mass Effect a 8.5 is inexplicable. 
 The Mass Effect experience is at least on par with that found in ES4 and in many ways surpasses 
 it.
  
  The presentation in Mass Effect is quite simply the most amazing I have ever seen in any game. 
 The graphics during exploration or combat are among the top tier of modern games -- somewhat better 
 than Gears of War, in my opinion. But during conversations... oh my... they are without compare in 
 video games -- not far behind pre-rendered CG films! The music too, is simply beautiful and helps 
 create the strong atmosphere of the game.
  
  The story hooked me right from the beginning and only gets better as it goes along. As I said before, 
 it is one of the best stories I have ever experienced in a game.
  
  I really enjoyed the leveling up and development of my character and party members. The game offers 
 a really nice collection of abilities, weapons, weapon upgrades, and armor. And exploring uncharted 
 worlds in the Mako or on foot is a blast.
  
  The combat is always exciting and offers nearly unlimited ways to combine your party's abilities. 
 It is as exciting as the combat found in Gears of War, but of course offers much more depth. I 
 can only guess that the few reviewers who had complaints about the combat simply don't understand 
 its possibilities. It is dynamic and real-time when you want it to be, but offers surprising depth 
 and strategy as well.
  
  The conversations in Mass Effect blow away anything else seen in an RPG. The AI characters in Elder 
 Scrolls 4 are stiff, un-emotive automatons by comparison. The characters in Mass Effect show emotion 
 and intent through gesture and facial expressions. And the lip-syncing, although not perfect, is 
 definitely a step up from anything we have seen in an RPG before. The conversation wheel really 
 does help to keep the conversations flowing and makes them more believable and engaging at the 
 same time. And now, our own character finally expresses him/herself through voiced dialogue, so 
 we can hear the whole conversation, not just half of it.
  
  There are so many great things to say about Mass Effect, I could just go on and on. But it is the 
 way all of these seemingly disparate elements come together that makes Mass Effect truly special. 
 The story, characters, conversations, presentation, combat, and exploration all weave together 
 to form one of the most astonishingly fun and engrossing experiences in the history of gaming. 
 To experience Mass Effect is to experience the pinnacle of interactive entertainment and should 
 be experienced by any and all who wish to see where this medium is going. Truly exciting stuff 
 indeed! Sorry for the long post but this game is simply amzing!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeGio7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Like I said this game is supposed to be good. From what I seen in the picture's it kind've remind's 
 me alittle bit like KOTOR. Like the choice's you make for instance can and will effect you and 
 other's around you. The story is one of the thing's that gaught my attention while I was reading 
 a copy of Gameinformer, and I read that little article about it and liked it it seemed like the 
 first time I played KOTOR in a way. The grapic's look great, the character's look terrific, but I 
 can't wait ti get this and that is an Xbox 360 too. Anyway This look's like another great game from 
 BioWare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSsw009b7359
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  In a simple one word answer YES.
  
  Anyone thats aware of Biowares legacy within the RPG genre wouldn't have doubted them for a second, 
 KOTOR and KOTOR 2 were arguably the best RPG's of their respective years and certainly amongst 
 the greatest Star Wars games ever made - indeed they both recieved mass critical acclaim even though 
 some sites note KOTOR 2 as unfinished.
  
  Mass Effect in my opinion though takes over where both those games left off in terms of mood, sure 
 theres no Star Wars themed world but if the characters walked around in cloaks wielding light sabres 
 you wouldn't be far off.
  
  The atmosphere, lofty ambition and character choices all trademarks of Bioware are all there. The 
 familiar choice between good and evil rears its head with characters which you want to trust but 
 know you shouldn't still there again much like KOTOR, the familiar racial tension between different 
 species, even the Citadel level.... one could be forgiven for thinking they were in Telos or one 
 of the Citadel levels on KOTOR/KOTOR 2.
  
  The major change is clearly the combat which is now realtime and plays out a little like an over 
 the shoulder TPS with you aiming, shooting, dodging etc and sometimes issueing commands to squad 
 members to outflank the clever and sometimes overly aggressive computer AI. This portion of the 
 game was a huge gamble but they pulled it off, don't expect Halo 3 or anything like that but for 
 the most part it works, you'll even find yourself engaging in vehicle battles in a moon buggy style 
 vehicle that gets dropped onto some of the more barren planets for you to explore.
  
  One thing which I must mention is the voice talent, several high profile celebs lent their vocals 
 to the game and that along with the immense choice of dialogue options, responses and quality of 
 writing really do stand out as top notch.
  
  In conclusion, I haven't finished the game yet (got caught up in the November games release madness) 
 but if your an RPG fan, fan of Bioware, KOTOR fan or even someone looking for an entry level, cinematic 
 roleplaying experience with next gen visuals then this title will surely satisfy all requirements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMaxWarden
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Bioware hit the nail on the head with a sledgehammer. This game is what an action RPG nerd dreams 
 of at night. The story and gameplay will make you forget all your obligations and appointments. 
 The visuals are spectacular, so much in fact that it may take up to five seconds for your Xbox 
 360 to grasp the godly might that is Mass Effect. For the current price of $69.99 for limited edition 
 and $59.99 for the regular version, you might even feel like your cheating Bioware out of all thier 
 hard work. In the end, this game more than lives up to the hype. That's why I give it a perfect 
 score of 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladinmatt5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of the most ambitious, innovative, and downright enjoyable games ever made. 
 It is a masterpiece of both art and form. Few games could hope to equal a tenth of what Mass Effect 
 achieves. It is a rare game that dares to be put down. You'll find yourself begging for just 5 
 more minutes... just one more quest.
  
  To give Mass Effect an 8.5 is an insult, both to games in general and to the gamers who love them. 
 This is not only one of the best games of the year, but truly one of the best of all time. Yes, 
 8.5 may be a great score, but it's not the score this game deserves.
  
  I would like to address some of the complaints that have been leveled...
  
  Exploration is 
 boring. - I'm not sure what you're expecting, but I found it exhilarating. You're never sure what 
 you might find. Landing is a blast, and it's awesome when you come across a hidden base. Survey's 
 are cool, as you find hidden artifacts and mineral deposits. Even the planet descriptions are great. 
 I especially loved the references to other sci fi classics like Forbidden Planet.
  
  The Mako sucks, it's hard to drive. - I personally never had any problem driving it, and had a 
 ton of fun trying to see how much airtime I could get by driving off a cliff and hitting the thrusters. 
 It defiantly wasn't any harder to drive than the warthog from Halo.
  
  Combat reeks... you only get 4 weapons! - I suppose if you go into this game expecting Halo RPG, 
 then yes you might be a bit disappointed. But that's never what it was intended to be. If you're 
 coming in expecting KOTOR real time, then you're going to be pleasantly surprised. Yes you only 
 get 4 weapon classes, but a number of new models are available throughout the game, and each is 
 upgradeable. I never felt wanting for more firepower.
  
  It's buggy, and has graphic twitches. - Here are some valid complaints, which I must concede to. 
 I desperately want to give this game a perfect 10, But these issues are to large to ignore. I've 
 crashed to dashboard on numerous occasions, and the texture reloads are a constant annoyance. These 
 should have been corrected before the game hit shelves.
  
  Do these problems break the game below a solid 9? Not a chance. I cannot fathom how Kevin Van Ord 
 can give this masterpiece of gaming a 8.5, while giving a turd like Assassin's Creed a 9. Were 
 kickbacks involved here? Yes everyone is entitled to their own opinion... but at the same time there 
 are consequences to go along with those opinions. When 90% of critics say Mass Effect is the best 
 game on the market, and that AC is nothing but flashy fluff you'd better have a good reason to 
 disagree. Gamespot doesn't, and they've just lost all credibility in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Xander
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect, hotly anticipated for the x360, like many x360 owners who are sci-fi and bioware fans, 
 I had pre-ordered mass effect long ago and was only all to happy to get stuck in.
  
  I was first greeted with an interesting character creation process where I was able to make the 
 character as close to my own look as possible, short of Eve's Online's Portrait system pretty much 
 the best system I've ever used, and the finished product after a good long time of careful tweaking 
 made me feel much more affinity to the character then the average avatar from this alone.
  
  In addition to the graphical trickery you had to make some important decisions on the nature 
 of your character, which made ye sit down and think for a while to make the right choice, again 
 simply being forced to so early on makes you feel closer to the character you play.
  
  Due to the name system where you get to choose the first name but not the surname your character 
 can feel yours name wise whilst still being addressable by all the npc's and cut-scenes in the 
 game. Some of the less favorable reviews on here and elsewhere are the ones trying to compare Mass 
 Effect to some genre or previous game as though there is something adequately comparable for a 
 evaluation.
  
  In my opinion Mass Effect is a new breed of game entirely it efficiently mixes some elements of 
 fps games with what is essentially a 3d rpg however this in turn is mixed in with a cinematic and 
 immersive interactive storyline together with sandbox environment on great scale indeed.
  
  The cool thing is most of the cut scenes if not all are rendered using the real-time engine, this 
 allows for your carefully sculpted and personalized character to be part of them further enhancing 
 your immersion. Few games have adequately combined parts of prior genres to produce a playable 
 let alone enjoyable game, but this game sinches it.
  
  In a relatively short time indeed the story line sucks you into it and you build early affinity 
 for the characters, the cut scenes are like little trips to the movies which tie the game together 
 and their content unlike many games one can bring to mind is believable well sculpted, well voice 
 acted, and essentially like seeing a good movie if taken together, one who's outcome is decided 
 by you)
  
  Whilst true the main storyline can't compare in length to the likes of Baldur's Gate if you evaluate 
 it as a rpg, bare in mind you won't mind as Baldur's Gate can't compare in immersion nor quality 
 of the storyline, and it will still bring you from 20-40 hours of fun, depending on weather you 
 explore or just rush.
  No doubt some busy bodies will do it faster still, but I wouldn't have wasted the fun of my thoroughly 
 completed playthrough if you payed me. And it will feel like watching a truly great movie mixed 
 with a fun computer game at the same time throughout all that time well worth its cost me thinks 
 many times over.
  
  The buggy is darn fun, and some of the vista's in game are brilliant and make you want to stare 
 at them for a while rather then move (especially the looking down on earth from the top of a hill 
 on the moon) . Many of the puzzle related challenges in game's (drawing from the likes of platform 
 adventurer games and possibly myst style games genre wise) are complemented by fantastic little 
 mini-games but once you work out what to do unlike the games from genres above you won't get stuck 
 on one or more level's due to an innane object you don't know you can move or manipulate lying 
 somewhere hidden in plane sight and throw your controller and quit for the day in disgust whilst 
 doing it, all of the positive sides but none of the negatives (unless your a masochist of course, 
 but i guess if your stupid enough everythings a challenge :p)
  
  The side-quests can keep you entertained for a good long while and are highly recommended if you 
 want to truly experience whats the game about, and that brings me to simple npc interaction it's 
 like oblivion only with voice chat , the choice of moral and immorale choices also makes one ponder 
 the outcome of your words, and gives you the opportunity to make decisions which affect your game, 
 not just the decisions themselves but how you make them.
  
  Ok onto combat, a brilliant system once you get to grips with it and with sculpting of character 
 types and those of the characters in your squad you can choose the advantages you want to play 
 with, personally my char was ultimately a shock-trooper soldier, my second squad member of choice 
 a solider and my 3rd a powerful biotic (and they both looked hot :)
  
  The item and modification system is also fun and appropriate and you'll never feel so happy when 
 near the end of the game all your favoured squad members and yourself sport top of the range armour 
 and weaponry which costs an arm and a leg... and an another arm to boot, carefully scraped together 
 from money accumulated over the whole gameplay.
  
  But you can choose any one of a number of combinations ultimately chosen from your own decisions 
 made earlier in the game on who you want with you, ok like any and all games there are some little 
 niggles which could be improved, for instance auto-save whilst usually working fine can in some 
 places be lax to say the least whilst having worked perfectly fine for you for most of a mission 
 at one point without warning cut out, leaving an untimely death to become one resulting in your 
 redoing portions, (hit x btw to skip a cut-scene portion to the dialogue) , easily fixed by regular 
 saving though and the auto-save does work reliably in many bits however, in some parts they prevent 
 you from saving, though ironically in a very simplistic way simply run back the level between one 
 room and another and you can save again... not exactly a feature which came out like it was designed.
 
  
  The only other gripe one could think of is traveling, I hope you like elevator music as unfortunately 
 travel through your own ship and planet's stations/ between level's whilst immersive enough will 
 involve elevators when going between sections, and they're all slow... the worse being the elevator 
 on your ship its a slow as hell for something that only has to move between 2 floors, i've been 
 at cruddy hotels with elevators that move 10x faster and that's in this century. It's an attempt 
 to give the game a time to pre-load the other section so you don't see the little loading icon 
 on screen like you do in some sections, but I think everyone who plays will agree we'd rather have 
 seen the loading screen its goes away quicker and is preferable to the elevator ride from hell.
 
  
  Lastly theres the default film-grain effect, essentialy by default in options the effect film-grain 
 is on I highly recommend you turn it on, it makes the game loook........ crap why they decided 
 to include this feature I do not know let alone why they turn it on by default so you don't even 
 know you can turn it off until you bury your head in the options in desperation for the obscured 
 look, again another innovative idea, (suddenly the game looks good once you turn it off) , but one 
 that simply didn't work... honestly these issues could have easily been identified by good play 
 testing, so blame the test team not the developers, its easy to have a good idea which just doesnt 
 work when the whole game comes together and should be easily fixed by the testing team.
  
  But I still give this game overall a 10 why, you will never find a game that doesn't have something 
 wrong with it and with so many games being rated 8-9 simply for being good games an epic game like 
 this one which should be remembered for all time and stand out from the masses for the vision of 
 the potential of cinematic gaming that it is, additionally this issues, aren't major gameplay issue's 
 there just minor side bits, which whilst annoying in their own right are drowned out entirely by 
 the brilliance of actually playing the game.
  
  My advise to you if you love gaming buy this game, if you love sci-fi buy this game, if you love 
 sci-fi movies buy this game, and frankly even if you don't usually like any of the above buy this 
 game, you won't regret it if you treat her right :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nocoolnamejim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Excellent story supplements an incredibly detailed and well fleshed out galaxy. Thrilling musical 
 score and an astonishing amount of top notch voice acting. Well written dialog and several actual 
 roleplaying decisions to make. Innovative gameplay hints at the future of both the rpg and shooter 
 genres. Beautiful looking main environments. Tons of places to explore. New Game+ option lets you 
 avoid starting completely over and adds replay value. Achievements actually give you stuff for 
 earning them.
  
  The Bad:
  Ratio of side/optional quests to main quests a bit too high. Character development of supporting 
 characters not quite as deep as previous Bioware games. Numerous minor technical glitches. Many 
 of the optional worlds look more or less the same. Could use more variance in the side quests.
 
  
  Mass Effect is one of the best games the rpg genre has seen in years. It is not without its faults, 
 but they are easily overlooked due to what an amazing achievement the game is. It is a game that 
 is greater than the sum of its parts. 
  
  You play the role of Commander Shepard, and can be either male or female. The first thing you do 
 is to choose your gender and background, and unlike with most games, these choices will have an 
 actual impact in the game. Certain quests will show up based on your choices of background, and 
 many characters that you meet in the game will reference your choices and adjust how they speak 
 to you accordingly.
  
  Mass Effect takes place in the Milky Way galaxy, where the discovery of remnants of a long extinct 
 race of a super advanced species called the Protheans has allowed humanity to be able to journey 
 beyond our solar system and have meaningful contact with alien races for the first time. Unlike 
 a lot of other games where humanity is always assumed to be the most important race in the galaxy, 
 in this one, we're the relative new folks in town. The entire galaxy has a political system and 
 structure already in place, and mankind is just now making their first impressions upon the other 
 alien races.
  
  You, as Commander Shepard, play the role of the first human Spectre, a special operations unit 
 who have an open mandate to safeguard galactic piece however you see fit. You answer directly and 
 exclusively to the Citadel Council, composed of a single representative of the three most important 
 races in the known galaxy. As the first human to be granted this honor, the eyes of a large portion 
 of the galaxy are upon you. The game revolves around your pursuit of a rogue Turian Spectre named 
 Saren, who is searching for a long lost Prothean relic that could be the key to either saving, 
 or destroying, all life in the galaxy. The story is one of the best in years and unfolds at whatever 
 pace you like since after the first couple of the hours of the game you're free to advance the 
 main storyline as fast or as slow as you like.
  
  The most impressive of Mass Effect's many strengths has to be the thought and imagination put into 
 developing the structure of the galaxy. The amount of detail in everything from the culture and 
 history of each of the many different alien races you encounter, to the various types of technologies 
 is a bit overwhelming at times. While it is sometimes obvious that a number of things were left 
 out of the final cut of the game, what was left in represents a huge amount of things to explore, 
 discover and do.
  
  The way the 360 Achievements are structured will give you added incentive to do that explorting 
 and go that extra mile to look in every nook and cranny in the game. In a innovative approach that 
 is sure to be copied by future games, Mass Effect actually rewards players who unlock achievements 
 by giving you additional in-game bonuses for doing so. 
  
  One significant difference between this game and previous Bioware games like Knights of the Old 
 Republic is that the you are allowed less freedom to choose between being good and evil. Instead, 
 a lot of choices revolve around being either lawful or chaotic. This introduces a greater degree 
 of shades of grey area morality into your decision making, because it allows for the possibility 
 that good ends can be achieved by evil means. Instead of being either good or evil, you are either 
 a Paragon or a Renegade, or something in-between. While not all these choices have a significant 
 impact on which of the several different endings you get, at least a couple of choices do have 
 far reaching impact.
  
  Graphically, Mass Effect shines, and in particular around the facial expressions, body language 
 and posture of your interactions with other people. Having realistic looking facial models is not 
 something that has been done very well in many games of the current generation, but Mass Effects 
 are amazing. Minor changes in facial expression show a surprising range of emotions in your interactions 
 with other characters in the game. A good example of this is when you first talk with Ashley Williams 
 on board your ship. If you're nice to her, you can see little hits of a smile on her face, a slight 
 change to how she holds her head up, and how her eyes look. This sort of attention to detail is 
 quite impressive and ensures that the actual role playing conversations in the game are one of 
 the highlights of the overall experience.
  
  To go along with these very lifelike people and aliens, Mass Effect presents some extremely impressive 
 cities, but at a cost. While the main locations that you visit as part of the central storyline 
 of the game are very well designed and visually splendid looking, the game suffers from a number 
 of minor, but aggravating, technical issues that mar the immersion factor to some degree. Texture 
 popping (when some textures load a couple of seconds after you come into an area instead of right 
 away) is frequent and can be a little silly looking. It can be jarring when a tree's shadow suddenly 
 appears out of nowhere when it wasn't there before. This is both humorous and an unfortunate reminder 
 that you're playing a video game and aren't really Commander Shepard.
  
  Load times happen a bit haphazardly and sometimes seemingly at random, and can be pretty lengthy. 
 Sometimes these are disguised as elevator rides or something similar, but often they occur right 
 in the middle of nowhere as you are walking from one side of an area to another. The game also 
 suffers from some inconsistent frame rates. It isn't bad enough that it will get you killed during 
 intense firefights, but it sure is annoying.
  
  These things are easy to overlook though because of the sheer number of things the game does well. 
 
  
  The musical score of the game is spot on. It reflects the mood of whatever you are currently doing 
 perfectly. When the game is being dramatic, the music rises to match. When nothing too terribly 
 important is going on, the music is unobtrusive and ambient. Perhaps best of all, the music and 
 the voices are well balanced. The music never gets so loud that it drowns out the voice acting 
 in the game. That's good, because the voice acting with superb across the board. Not a single line 
 sounds badly delivered. Given the sheer amount of spoken dialog, that may well be the greatest 
 accomplishment of the entire game.
  
  Since the game does have so much spoken dialog, it is a bit odd that more of it isn't done by your 
 party members. Unless you're on your ship visiting them, they don't talk a lot. One of the things 
 that has long characterized Bioware games it the interactions between the characters themselves. 
 In some of the official trailers posted on the game prior to release, it shows the supporting characters 
 talking to each other and arguing. It is therefore disappointing that they don't do so very often 
 in the game. With the exception of a couple of places here and there, they seldom talk with each 
 other, or comment on your actions for that matter. This is unfortunate because it does detract 
 from them seeming to be real people.
  
  Fortunately, the gameplay more than makes up for this. Unlike in previous Bioware games where you 
 don't really do much during combat, Mass Effect combat handles sort of like a shooter/rpg hybrid, 
 taking some of the best elements of both. While you are actively controlling how successful your 
 character is in combat rather than the result being determined by invisible dice rolls behind he 
 scenes, it is far too tactical for the combat to be purely that of a shooter. Proper use of rpg 
 style abilities and tactics is key to doing well in the combats of the game. Another rpg element 
 is that how good you are with various weapons depends on what class you selected at the beginning 
 of the game and how many points you've invested in which skill. Sure, you can try wielding an assault 
 rifle, but if you aren't the right class of character and if you haven't invested the proper amount 
 of points into using it then you won't do very well with that weapon.
  
  Overall, despite some technical shortcomings and obvious signs that some of the things that were 
 originally intended to be in the game ended up being left out, Mass Effect is a game that draws 
 you in and leaves you feeling satisfied at the end. It is the best rpg of the current generation 
 to date, a solid contender for Game of the Year, and should be a must buy for any fan of the genre 
 who owns a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrashMacKenzie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  As Nov. 20th finally arrived, I was practically salivating.
  
  I have been a huge fan of BioWare since I played Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. They are 
 by far the best American RPG developer.
  
  Ever since I first heard about their new sci-fi action RPG called Mass Effect, I have been anixously 
 awaiting it's release.
  
  Now that I have played through it twice, I'm not entirely sure how I feel about it. 
  
  On 
 one hand, the setting is great, the voice acting and facial animations are terrific, the combat 
 is fun and the story is a great example of space opera.
  
  Yet, at the same time, there are framerate issues, the main story is short by RPG standards, the 
 sidequests are barely worth doing and the exploration is boring.
  
  The things that Mass Effect does well, it does very well and the fact that it is only the first 
 in a trilogy means that there is more of this to come.
  
  Ultimately, the good does outweight the bad and this is a game that RPG and sci-fi fans alike won't 
 want to miss.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleanslate1982
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  I need to emphasize the "one of the best" claims in my heading. Easily top 10, possibly top 5. 
 It's top 5 in my opinion, but I'm not a big fan of War shooters like G. R. A. W. and Call of Duty. 
 From the games I've played on the 360, this is where I'd rank the game:
  1. TES IV: Oblivion
  2. Gears of War
  3. Mass Effect
  4. Assassin's Creed
  5. Dead Rising 
 (While not a masterpiece, I just found this game really fun. That's why it's here)
  I haven't played Bioshock or Halo 3 yet, so that's why they aren't on this list.
  
  Let's cut 
 the B. S. now and let me get straight to what you want to know. What rules about this game? I'll 
 try to leave this a little cut and dry, with some explaining if I deem it necessary.
  
  The Good:
  1. The Story - As far as video games go, 10/10. It couldn't be beat. Although some 
 things do seem to be cliche, like a hero who constantly "jumps before looking". If you catch my 
 drift. Listen to the first Council meeting and you'll know what I mean.
  2. Graphics - I'll give them a 9/10. What makes this game stand apart is the player models. They 
 are the most realistic to date, and they do the best job of synchrinizing a characters lips to 
 the words being said. The emotions are done pretty well, because you'll always know if you are 
 aggravating a NPC through their body language.
  3. Replay value - This game has a really good set of achievements. That mixed with multiple paths 
 (i. e. good or evil, who lives or dies, etc.) will give you reason to playthrough the game again. 
 It doesn't feel like a chore either. I'm going on a fourth playthrough, trying to finish up those 
 achievements and I'm still into the game as I was the day I got it. 10/10
  4. Shooting Controls - Aside from the sniper rifle, shooting is really simple and you can easily 
 hit the broad side of a barn if you needed to. This I'd give 8/10.
  5. Voice Acting - All in all, it was really good. Although, there are moments where a character 
 will knock you back with a little too much emotion then expected. 9/10.
  The Not So Bad:
  1. Constant loading slows down gameplay. What I mean is you'll be walking and all of a sudden you'll 
 see loading pop up, and your game will temporarily freeze.
  2. Thresher Maws - man are they annoying. Especially if they spring up right underneath you. You'll 
 be swearing for ten minutes about "Why didn't I save!?!".
  3. Mako gun controls - I'd rate them 4/10. If you aren't on flat land, you won't hit much. If you 
 are on flat land, you'll probably be fighting a Thresher Maw. That and it takes for ever inbetween 
 cannon shots. You also lose sight of your target a lot of times because the camara gets stuck behind 
 the Mako.
  4. Constant "Dirty Disk" Messages. This is a problem with the 360, but this game pulls this screen 
 a lot. I'm not the only one, but something in the system will muff up your disc, causing you to 
 buff the hell out of it just so it can be read.
  5. Teammate A. I. - You can adjust how they behave, either semi-independently or following your 
 every command. You let them act on their own, and they will constantly get into your line of fire. 
 They will also, on occasion, randomly change their weapons. That wouldn't be so bad, if they were 
 trained in the weapons that they usually swith to. They do do a good job of using there abilities 
 however, without you interfering.
  6. Powers - They are hard to use. Not because of button pushing, but because the animations can 
 be slow and the bad guys tend to run away and not get hit. Plus it takes forever for these powers 
 to recharge. I rarely used them, because the guns were more effective. Biotic and Tech powers are 
 meant to be complimentary, and unless you are on the harder difficulties, you really don't need 
 to use them.
  7. Auto Save - Rarely ever happens, and you can find yourself in a situation where you can die 
 in a blink of the eye. Save often, and swear less.
  The Ugly:
  1. Besides Citadel station, Noveria, Virmire, Feros, and the mission where you get the Asari; everything 
 looks completely the same. Each bunker has the same basic design, same for mineshafts, space cruisers, 
 civilian structures. It gets old entering the same building over and over again. It's actually 
 one of the few parts of the game I'd consider lazy. That's why I gave the graphics a 9/10. In fact, 
 I think it should knock it down to an 8/10. Still great, but definitely stopped the graphics from 
 being completely out of this world. Aside from that though, I still think the artwork is only second 
 to Gears of War, and possibly Assassin's Creed.
  2. Driving the Mako - You gun basically tells your Mako the general direction of forward. You have 
 your gun pointed right, and you push forward on the analog, and you will start turning right. Take 
 that with impossible to drive on terrain, and you'll have your fair share of frustration while 
 trying to get from point a to b, without getting stuck in between mountains.
  3. Repetitive Assignments (Side Quests) - This could get boring for some people. It's usually the 
 same thing over and over. You land with the Mako, drive over mountains, pick up some artifacts/salvage, 
 mine some minerals, and overtake a compound/facility/mine. Non-mission worlds, start to all look 
 the same after a while, and so do their assignments. Refer #1 of "The Ugly" to get what I mean, 
 because this is what it was directly in referrence to.
  
  
  I'm a firm believer that a game can be great, but be flawed all the same. I don't understand how 
 Gamespot can rate Two Worlds a 7 (which was a disappointing game) , Assassin's Creed a 9 (Which 
 was too short, linear, and repetitive) and give this game an 8.5. Especially without giving a reason 
 for why they graded how they graded. 
  
  Graphics: 8/10 (Player models stuck out, but lost points do to lack of creativity in the design 
 layout of various buildings on world you can explore)
  Sound: 9/10 (There are some poorly spoken lines in the heat of battle that dropped the score down 
 a point. Other then a few occassions, the sound and voice acting were perfect)
  Story:10/10
  Gameplay:6/10 (Loses points for for the glitches, Mako controls, DRE that I don't 
 get on other games, and terrible autosave feature)
  Replay:8/10 (IF it had multiplayer, it would be a ten)
  Reviewer's Tilt:9/10 (I had to take away 
 a point for all the driving in the Mako, that was the only thing that really wasn't that enjoyable)
 
  
  Overall: 8.33/10 or as you will see it as 8.5 after I round it up for scoring system gamespot currently 
 has.
  
  
  I'm not going to tell you to buy or rent. After reading my review, and you are still not sure, 
 than you should rent it and see for yourself. Because this is the game in a nutshell. 
  
  Just don't expect to get KOTOR, because this isn't KOTOR. It's something entirely different and 
 shouldn't be compared or judged to that game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: klusps
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  From the developers of KOTOR, Bioware has finally finished their big anticipated game, Mass Effect. 
 In the years 2183, mankind discovered the remains of an ancient space traveling civilizations. 
 The technology they found boosted the human race technology 200 years ahead of their time and that 
 made space traveling is possible for them. Your character will start out on a spaceship called 
 the Normandy. The rest of the story is up to you from there. From there you get to choose your 
 background story, gender, class, and your appearance to embark on your journey. You can of course 
 choose the main character John Sheppard, which is the character in the front of the box art. There 
 is a really depth face creation system and you can change everything from the type of hair, lips, 
 eye, cheeks, etc. You can also during the game, choose if you want to be a good hero, or a mean 
 tough hero. There is no options to be completely evil though as you always have to be a hero. 
 
  While creating your character you can choose variety of classes as I mentioned earlier, to start 
 off on your adventure. If you're a shooter fan you can choose the soldier class which focuses on 
 weapons. If you're into magic or stuff like that you can choose the Biotic, which lets you use 
 powers to lift your enemy up in the air. Each classes has their own unique advantages and disadvantages. 
 If I'm a Biotic I can use a pistol, but it just won't be that effective. When I'm a soldier I can't 
 lift enemies off, but I can shoot a really powerful beam off my gun which the Biotics can't do. 
 There are still many more classes like Techs which lets hack into enemy robots or overload their 
 shields.
  Unlike many RPG out there, this game is plays like a third-person shooter. There is actually cross 
 hair and you can to run around in real time shooting enemies down like a normal shooter. The RPG 
 part of the game is upgrading your character's states, customizing your weapon, exploring vast 
 lands, buying/selling from shops, visiting cities, and all those aspects found in most RPGs.
  There aren't that many different types of weapons, there are only the standard pistol, assault 
 rifle, sniper rifle, grenades, and shotgun. Throughout the whole game you'll be finding the same 
 type of gun, but a more stronger version of it. The cool part though is that you get to customize 
 them with special powers. I can add a equipment to add poison to my bullets or have a sniper rifle 
 with incinerator bullets. 
  Throughout the game you will be accompanied by your squad. You can only choose 2 out of 6 characters 
 to follow you throughout the game and change them when you exit your ship the Normandy. Each squad 
 member is capable to use their own power, depending on which class they're in. You can also change 
 their armor, customize their weapons, change their weapons or armor, and upgraded to their states. 
 
  The combat in this game can get very intense in this game. During a fire fight you can hold the 
 right bumper which immediately pauses the screen and open up a circle menu for you to select. In 
 this menu you can choose the powers or weapons you want to use or your squad mates to use. The 
 shooting is pretty solid and should appeal to shooter fans. The use of powers, healing, and supporting 
 your squads with your powers should appeal to RPG fans. 
  The main part of the game though is the really depth dialog system. During each conversations you 
 will be given multiple options of what to say to the characters you're speaking with. Each chose 
 you choose flow through the conversation nicely and smoothly. The dialog is just the best thing 
 in the game because of how well it is scripted and it sometimes feel like you're watching a movie. 
 There is usually something bad you can say or something good you can say. This is all then stack 
 up on this bar that is in your character menu. Paragon is based on all the good things you do and 
 Renegade is based on all the bad things you do. This will heavily effect the gameplay and ultimately 
 the story depending on what you do. There are some parts of the game that you need to make really 
 hard decisions that will have a major effect on the story and have some severe consequences that 
 will be further in the game. 
  If you been wondering if you can explore huge places then the answer is yes. There is tons of galaxies 
 and planets to explore. To explore planets you will be traveling around on a vehicle which can 
 be a little difficult to handle depending on the situation. There are also a handful of cities 
 to explore. One of my favorite city is the Citadal which is a huge metropolis to explore. There 
 are civilians who walks around the cities and talking to each other. The civilians can also provide 
 you with side quests. There is tons of place to explore in the city like a bar, shopping center, 
 a vast courtyard, and even a strip club. The disappointing thing for me is that the planets doesn't 
 look that much different from each other. Most of them seems like a dessert plain with a few ground 
 texture change, the weather, and the sky changes. 
  The graphics in this game is the best graphics I've seen on the 360. You can see everything from 
 the sweat on the characters and the wrinkles. The expressions in the character's faces are superb 
 and I haven't seen anything like it sense I first played Half Life 2. The texture on the environments 
 and objects are also really well done. The shiny surface of the cities floor and walls makes the 
 city looks really futuristic. There are also some vast objects in the game like a giant space ship 
 which looks really epic and excellently detailed. 
  The sound is also superb and really makes this game nearly perfect. The soundtrack is amazing and 
 it gives you that epic feel in some moments through the game. The intro music and the cutscene 
 is really epic and if you see it you just know you're in for a treat. The dialog is really well 
 done and the character voices fits each character very well. Again I haven't heard this good of 
 a dialog sense I first played Half Life 2. 
  The replay value should keep you busy for a long time. The main quest will probably take you around 
 15 hours if you go straight through, but there are still many side quest to do which will add many 
 hours to the game. If you're interested in achievements or want to see a different outcome in the 
 story then you can choose to play through the game again with the same character you started on 
 your previous file or start a brand new character. All of your states, weapons, equipments, and 
 powers will be carry on to your next playthrough and even your squad will too. For some of the 
 achievements you are require to start a brand new character because some achievements can only 
 be only achieve in certain classes.
  Overall this game is just amazing with just a few flaws which can be ignore. The story is one of 
 the best I've heard in a video game and the cinematic is really dramatic. The epic scope and feel 
 of the music and cinematic is something a gamer should experience. I would recommend this game 
 to anybody who like squad base games, RPGs, shooters, anybody who is looking for a long game, and 
 anybody who likes a good story. This is a game I'm crossing my fingers to be GOTY of 2007.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: born2bewild
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Simply Brilliant. Thats all there is to say.
  
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  (To 
 reach 100 word minimum)
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  (To 
 reach 100 word minimum)
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  (To 
 reach 100 word minimum)
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  (To reach 100 word minimum)
  
 
  (To reach 100 word minimum) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanjackson888
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 30, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Role playing games. My favorite genre of video game, from as early on as the great Ultima series 
 on PC through Final Fantasy on the Playstation's and onto Oblivion on the 360. Always loved them, 
 there's no other style of game that you can really lose yourself in for days if not months.
  
  So like the rest I was excited by Mass Effect. 23rd November arrived and my special edition 
 arrives in the post. 
  Things started off well, like any RPG it takes a good few hours to learn the characters and the 
 environment but Mass Effect makes this initial 'settling in' very enjoyable. Running about the 
 Citadel Space Station is a very pleasant experience. The stunning surroundings, the excellently 
 designed characters and the fantastic voice acting all set the scene for what feels like is going 
 to be a very enjoyable few months of gaming.
  Indeed the first weekend of play I managed a very respectful (if unsociable) 20 hours of play. 
 I was hooked.
  
  But....
  
  All of a sudden boredom set in. After completing a large amount of secondary missions and just 
 over half the main game my interest in the game started to dwindle. 
  Secondary missions are all too similar, fly to an unchartered world, investigate an abandoned post, 
 have a gunfight with rebels and move on to the next. 
  The main story is much the same except the missions are longer with a lot more (excellently acted) 
 dialogue. 
  The game soon gets far too repetitive for an RPG. Skill growth with your characters is very linear, 
 you simply add points to a fixed set of skills when you level up. Weapons are also poor, there 
 are only 4 weapons in the game and you simply get upgraded versions of them throughout the campaign. 
 
  
  There are some serious graphical bugs in the game as well. After each regular loading scene textures 
 fail to load immediately which leaves the game looking like an early 3DFX PC game. Not good on 
 the eye and unacceptable when we have such stunning looking games like Halo 3, Assassins Creed 
 and even Gears of War (still) . 
  
  I can't help but feel disappointed by this game. After the immense success of Oblivion and then 
 the let down of Two Worlds I was looking forward to Mass Effect to satisfy my RPG needs and after 
 20+ hours I feel this is a justified review. 
  
  Simply put, Mass Effect had great potential but ultimately winds up as a Mass Disappointment. Could 
 have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect does a lot of things really well. However, more than anything, the game uses stunning 
 attention to facial detail and amazing voice acting to create a world and experience much closer 
 to a real movie than gamers have ever seen. The communication system works wonderfully. By having 
 the player only choose the type of response, rather than the actual wording, the player is drawn 
 much deeper into each and every conversation.
  
  Whether you play the role of a paragon (good guy) or a renegade (bad guy) , the dialogue is excellent 
 and the voice acting is the best yet. I played through as both just to see all the great lines 
 the game offered for each character type and how the story changed and evolved.
  
  Mass Effect also is the first time a role playing game has used a third person shooter style of 
 combat. After playing the game, my only question was "why didn't anyone think of this before?" 
 The system does a great job of using RPG minded stats mixed w/ real time action for a very fun 
 and engaging style of role playing shoot outs. At many points in the game, I remember thinking 
 that some of the scenes would have been perfect for a Halo game, in terms of the action and the 
 design of the battles. Funny that an RPG ends up being the game to trump Halo 3 in the best sci 
 fi action department.
  
  The vehicle segments are fun if not a litttle uninspired. I never ran into any glitches but I've 
 heard that some end up getting restarted due to glitches with the mako.
  
  The story is deep and has some really satisfying twists and tense moments. The final battle is 
 epic and does a wonderful job of setting the stage for what could be some amazing sequals to come. 
 The game is very similar to KOTOR is many ways and fans of that series will be very happy with 
 what bioware has done with their newest title.
  
  Once again, Bioware sets the bar for console RPGs and shows us what true story telling is like 
 in the next generation of gaming.
  
  Game of the Year material all the way from start to finish in my book. If you liked KOTOR or sci 
 fi games, this will put a huge smile on your face. I can't wait to see what the second and third 
 game have in store for us! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ceil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  After playing the game for a few hours, and becoming so immersed into the story and action, I have 
 concluded it probably is one of the top 20 games I have played in the last few years. This game 
 has it all- action and role playing at its best. It reminds me a little of Halo on the action side 
 and the Star Wars series on the rp side. The voice acting is superior and the art work outstanding. 
 You really have to think about which way you want your character to go, paragon or renegade, since 
 each action has a different result. If you have anyone who loves gaming in your family, I would 
 suggest this to be put on a holiday list. I think the rating of the experts is way too low and 
 I would defintely say it should be at least around 9.5. However, I suggest that anyone purchasing 
 this game should also purchase or download the guide. There is quite alot to learn within the game, 
 and a guide is very useful. Once I finish being a soldier, I plan on trying a biotic character. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarkLikeADog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  Sure slowdown is a little funny, you get stuck on random stuff sometimes, random loadings without 
 it saying loading, and other minor issues. I am nearing 40 hours and i feel as though on my third 
 time going through it i will still enjoy this. I am level 55 and its still a wonderful game. The 
 level up and the enemy leveling up system works wonderfully here. As where Elder Scrolls had a 
 ridiculous system, this game is nothing short of a masterpiece. 
  
  If you are debating between this and halo 3 or some other big title this holiday season i would 
 recommend this game. While this game had a much shorter story i felt than KOTR, the original concepts 
 presented in Mass Effect were amazingly believable followed by many galaxies and side missions 
 to explore. The graphics stutter to load at times but it does not freeze. Although i wont ruin 
 the ending for anyone i think this game's ending is somewhat lacking but it is good to see a sequel 
 is in production. You can go through the game many times and say to yourself "Well damn i missed 
 that completely last time". The combat isn't as exciting and fluid as they had hoped but for whatever 
 reason it didn't matter. 
  
  The side missions and if you ever go to your friend's house or watch a friend play you will probably 
 find yourself saying on one play through "Why the hell did you do that" or in my case "You missed 
 the prototype Spectre weapons!?!" but nevertheless playing through it the second time allows you 
 to do what before you were unable to before. I thought at first when they said to play through 
 the game on hardcore it was going to be some stupid ass rip off where all the enemies were just 
 stronger but i found myself actually using the cover system and being much more strategic. 
  
  Id like to finish by saying i am once again disappointed with Gamespot simply because of their 
 lackluster review. They hope they will get more acknowledgment as a main stream group of reviewers 
 if they give big titles bad reviews. Games should be rated on the amount of fun had upon FINISHING 
 THE GAME not just screwing around for 30 minutes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: merzitar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  (Please note that this review is based on my first playthrough but my mind is not bound to change)
 
  
  Mass Effect for the Xbox 360 was a brilliant game, it was epic and it seems more like a film so 
 lets talk about Gameplay first.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  When watching the videos, I thought the combat was going to be pretty crap but when playing it, 
 I love the combat.
  Conversations are very interesting. You can choose what to say or what to do in conversations and 
 some things can change the gameplay or ending.
  
  When playing this, it seems like you are Commander Shepard and some things are hard to decide on 
 what to do. If you look at your status, you have 2 meters: Paragon & Renagade.
  basicly, that shows you if you are a nasty galaxy protector or a nice one (I was a nasty woman 
 ^_^)
  
  So I like the Gameplay as a whole, Combat and Conversations BUT...
  I was very disapointed in the length of the main story.
  My play time was 15-odd Hours and that 
 was including a few side questes though I didn't actually visit most of the clusters or planets 
 though, you cannot land on all Planets. I think they could've or should've made the main quest 
 longer but it was amazing and I liked the ending.
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are amazing.
  I've never seen graphics like Mass Effect. They are so good that at 
 some parts, it looks like FMV (CGI) but then you see your character so you can see that it is game 
 graphics.
  
  The only problem is there are alot of Texture Pop-up which spoils parts of the game but you can't 
 really blame them becuase it is still a very big game and the graphics are good.
  
  
  MUSIC AND SOUNDS:
  This game has a brilliant soundtrack. if it didn't have the soundtrack that 
 it has, then the game probably would'nt be as good.
  The sound effects are pretty good apart from a certain enemy:
  If you have head phones on (pretty 
 loud so that u can hear the talking) , the enemy's cry sort of hurts your hears as it screetches 
 but thats only at 1 part of the game.
  
  
  OTHER STUFF:
  Character customization is pretty good and it seems like whatever character you make, the voice 
 suits your character which must be hard to do (You can see some examples by going to Xbox. com, 
 Forums, Mass Effect)
  
  The story is very good and the way the open it for 'THE' Sequel is very good but I don't see how 
 they can make the sequel becuase I have chosen some stuff at the end so the only thign for them 
 to do for Mass Effect 2 is load up your game save but it don't save after the ending.
  
  I find it annoying that if you save the game right near the end boss, you can not do anymore side-quests, 
 however you can re-play game with your charcter at the level you where on, with all of your equipment 
 but you don't start with your Paragon or Renegade points.
  
  
  I think that is everything.
  Over all I love the game and the reason I have rated it 9.5 is becuase 
 of the length of the main quest, otherwise it would be a 10.
  This game is worth buying and I can't wait for Mass Effect 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice_man_1985
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  the true next gen adventure and graphics is here and ready to make you addict to it in a way that 
 you will never forget the experience of mass effect.
  at first you will wonder, how will one tiny human will respond to this huge huge world, well you 
 will see for your self when you progress threw the game and you will do many many things that you 
 can't imagine, you will lead, investigate, be a famous commander, drive a vehicle, chose what's 
 right and what's wrong, it's like combining shenmue with Star Wars Republic Commando but ten times 
 larger than shenmue's world, maybe you will not agree with me, but it's my point of view.
  what im trying to say is, if you like a lot of adventure and action RPG, then this what your looking 
 for
  
  the only con in mass effect is the squad, you can't relay on them very well, they will slow you 
 down a little bit and you will do the action most of the time, but this will not stop you from 
 buying the game, because it's a true masterpiece that you will never forget.
  
  go grab a copy now and you will never regret it, hell even the word regret is not right for mass 
 effect.
  
  if you checked my game collection, most of it are FPS and action adventure, so you will see for 
 your self that im not wrong for choosing this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stereoXhype
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  This game never really appealed to me, At first i found Sci-Fi games to be... "Nerdy" and dull 
 but... Oh hell i was so wrong, This game is simply the most Well Thought out game i've had since 
 Bioshock and I had a grim outlook on my 360 for it's low scoring game.. ex. The Outfit : (
  
  Anyway I would like to say that in every aspect of this game you will find it Original and 
 that's hard to come by in 07 when it is the year of gaming..
  And to start this review I have to warn you i might leak some details unintentionally... : (
  
 
  Graphics 9.8 / 10
  The reason it didn't got a 10 is the Texture Pop-Ups you'll run across them from time to time but 
 nothing REALLY Serious enough to make you loathe the game : ( anyway.... The Graphics are AMAZING 
 you'll be hard pressed to find any game to match up to it's Caliber
  
  Sound 8 / 10
  Well I Didn't like some BG Music but that's just me don't let my Personal Opinions Hinder you from 
 buying the game..
  
  Plot 10 / 10
  Seriously I have to say... at the end of the fame i almost said OMFG and I did say Curses during 
 playing the game because of the Storyline i mean OMFG it's amazing Bioware really worked their 
 ass off for this kind of story : (
  
  
  Gameplay 9 / 10
  I'm not new to the whole "Hey i have like... Infinite bullets" Kinda gameplay but this game like 
 has a codex to explain every little thing from why the bullets are infinite and WTH is Sovereign 
   There is like a 5 weapons where in all of them you'll wound up using from fragging geth with 
 an assault rifle to ... well Fragging them again with a Sniper   
  Overall 9.7 / 10
  This game is.. amazing in every aspect, form and shape the only reason it got a chipped score is 
 because of it becoming multi-platformed : (   Seriously this game was supposed to be for 360 gamers 
 and should only BE for 360 gamers with it being multi-platformed.. it kinda kills the flair and... 
 Exclusiveness of it all : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxximuss_545
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  To start off, the game really brings you in, right from the start. The immersive story and gameplay 
 leads you on. The graphics help bring you into the story, by feeling connected to the characters, 
 and every character is unique. Emotions and facial features atuned into this game make certain 
 choices hard to make. The soundtrack is excellent, and makes the game even more of an experience. 
 Create a character is more detailed this time around for bioware, which makes your own character 
 more unique, and makes you feel like it's your own. 
  
  Some glitches here and there: the graphics don't load right away, quite often actually. The vehicle 
 that has to be driven takes a while to get used to when in heated combat, but driving around is 
 still pretty fun.
  
  All in all if your into rpg's and shooters, or just want a good story to be told, then this is 
 a great game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmaul1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  I have updated my review due to some new info.
  The story is great, animation is great, 
  the character selection could be better.
  your character should be able to use or train in all 
 weapons and have the ability to also use the tech and biotics, it was pretty lame picking the soilder 
 and not be able to use and tech or biotics abilities and also if you pick a class that can use 
 tech or biotics they can only train in one maybe 2 weapons. perhaps they could of done something 
 where it may cost you more point to get the abilities if your class isn't proficient in them? it 
 was quite lame picking a middle of the road biotic and you can only train with the shotgun.
  
  Thanks to everyone who sent a message letting me know how to open doors or crates or salvage 
 equipment, the game did not explain it at all, that I could see. It is still quite lame that you 
 have to bring someone along to open the crates etc. you should be able to shoot them like in KOTOR 
 and maybe damage some stuff that is inside. or as I said above train in what ever weapon or abilities 
 you want with point restrictions that will cost you more if you are not proficiant in the weapon 
 or ability.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboy4687
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big fan of RPGs since 99% of them are turn-based. For the record, I despise turn-based 
 RPGs. The only other RPG I like is Jade Empire, which was developed by BioWare. So when I heard 
 Mass Effect was an action RPG, I developed high expectations for this game, and it did not disappoint.
 
  
  There are only a few negative things about Mass Effect. First and foremost, the frame-rate is horrible 
 at times. There are times when you're walking and it "lags" a little or the game loads for no particular 
 reason. Second, while the graphics are great, the recurring texture pop-ins get annoying. There 
 are times when you're talking to someone that the textures on their suit don't come in. Third, 
 while you get to discover uncharted worlds, they all look the same, Especially when you're doing 
 side quests and you have to go into bases. All the bases look the same inside and outside. These 
 are just minor flaws though. They don't take away from the experience of playing the game.
  
  Despite the minor flaws, Mass Effect is a great game. The story is great. What makes the story 
 great is the dialogue and the voice acting. If the dialogue and voice acting was horrible, then 
 Mass Effect would have been like a horrible sci-fi movie. The combat is really good. There is a 
 good mix of action and RPG elements. This is the first game I've played where the decisions you 
 made effected the outcome of certain events. 
  
  If you completed the side quests plus the main storyline, Mass Effect would probably take you 25-30 
 hours to complete. Every minute is worth it though. One of best games on the 360 by far. If you're 
 a RPG fan, then this game is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcoholhamster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  i wasn't that hot on the idea of this game when i first heard of it, but you should cast aside 
 any initial doubts you may have and give Mass Effect a go. it's evolutionary, not revolutionary, 
 but it is what we have come to expect from Bioware: quality.
  
  Story: somehow, Bioware managed to create a better and more believable universe than the Star Wars 
 EU, with only one game versus 30 odd years of material.
  The story is really good. it twists, it surprises, it satisfies. it's delivered really well, the 
 writing is excellent, and bits and pieces are revealed throughout: eg. you find out more or less 
 the same thing in two missions you can do at the same time, in any order, but you have to do both 
 to get the full picture and advance. extra, non essential, story is spread out through side missions 
 in a way that makes you want to check everything.
  
  Gameplay: there's a pretty sharp learning curve. it looks like it plays as a third person shooter, 
 but you cannot forget for a moment that it is also an RPG. you can; t just run and gun it, you have 
 to stop and think of what to do.
  
  visuals: stunning. obviously not the best you will see on the 'box, but that's because there is 
 simply so much to fit on one disc. the character models are the best i have ever seen..... some 
 look photo-realistic. the animation is superb, lip-syncing great, and the movements of the characters 
 look real, like a movie. this game really is a cinematic experience.
  a few downsides though.... it uses the Unreal 3 Engine.... and that means texture pops. it generally 
 happens in one section of the end game, or when you are in the airlock of the ship. they do look 
 yucky, because they are such a clash with the rest of the game. but if it is only one layer down 
 on the graphics, it is the kind of textures we'd have accepted a few years ago as standard.
  character creation is a delight. forget oblivion, you can make a male or female shepard that looks 
 really cool and unique.
  
  
  sound: the acting is good. very good. every character is a stand out. and Seth Green is the pilot, 
 he fits really well. he's underused, but he's really good. if you played KotOR, you'll also recognise 
 the voice of Kaidan as the same guy who did Carth.
  
  
  
  this game is, overall, brilliant. it's not often you get to say it, but Mass Effect is one my list 
 of all-time best games i have everr played, up there real high. i lost myself in it for hours...... 
 i played 22 hrs before i started the main quest, and to date, i have played 80-90 hours.
  that's two playthroughs....... and i will need at least two more.
  
  seriously, try this game. 
 don't rent it, buy it, or borrow it from a friend. or at least rent it to help your decision to 
 buy it.
  you will not be disappointed.
  
  GOTY, for sure. i'd give it 9.75, but i'm not allowed to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike_Foxx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  BioWare, the creative team behind Knights of the Old Republic and KOTOR2, may have topped their 
 fantastic Star Wars-themed duo of games. Sharing some the same aspects and ideas that made KOTOR 
 fantastic, there is plenty built on to make this game superb for anyone to pick up.
  
  In the 22nd century, mankind has ventured out beyond the stars, and into the world of extraterrestrial 
 beings. Of course, the irony is suddenly we're the backwards ones, literally millennia behind our 
 new 'allies.' Filling the combat boots of one Commander Shepard, you'll take to a collection of 
 worlds that can be accessed via your ship, the Normandy, and alien artifcats that will zip you 
 around the galaxy (think assisted light-speed jumps) .
  
  Of course, not everything in the near-distant future is pristine and pleasant. Pirates, slave traders, 
 mercenaries, rogues, and internal strife permeate these new worlds. In the middle somewhere is 
 your main quest, to track down a rogue agent who is looking to use alien artifacts to wipe out 
 the galaxy. Of coruse, like any good sandbox game, this storyline will start to feel ancillary 
 after a bit, and barely fleshes out a third of the potential storyline and quests there is to be 
 had.
  
  The worlds and characters you will meet are lush from a storyline perspective. Everyone has a backstory, 
 and almost everyone you can interact with will give you a sidequest. If you reach for being a 'completionist,' 
 the game can round out to between 40 and 50 hours, including all the side quest and main storyline.
 
  
  Anyone who has played KOTOR with probably be instantly familiar with the battle system. HUD menus 
 are very intuitive and to the point. Sub menus can be confusing at first, but are easy to get used 
 to; the lack of a 'master' item menu is probably the one complaint with the menus. Items have to 
 be viewed by category of weapon, armor, etc., rather than having one menu to peruse them all.
 
  
  In addition to firearms combat are also biotics. Comparable to force powers or 'magic,' from other 
 RPGs, there are offensive and defensive powers, and come in a wide range. From being able to knock 
 down an enemy, short out their shields, or set up a barriar for yourself, there's plenty to do 
 with those if you want to play as a class that can use biotics; not all can. Soldier, for example, 
 can't use any but a few basics ones, and cannot equip a biotic amp. But they can level in all four 
 of the firearms for the game, and get basic biotics relating to ranged combat, and are the only 
 class to equip heavy armor. There are plenty of classes to suit any style of play. Character appearance, 
 gender, background, and first name are also fully customizable. So no two playthroughs need ever 
 be the same.
  
  The main weak point of combat ends up being the vehicle portions. Your ATV, the "Mako," has a turret-mounted 
 anti-personnel gun and an anti-armor cannon, and a pair of jump-thrusters that can give you about 
 2 seconds of air time, or a little 'jump' to get over little hills and whatnot.. The vehicle itself 
 controls like an errant monkey on crack. The slighest twitch of the analog stick will send it careening 
 off in that direction. The camera also never feels 'straight,' so you're constantly trying to correct, 
 and then recorrect, your heading. It just makes for a headache. Fortunately, it cannot be flipped, 
 sparing you quite a lot of cursing and controller tossing. There are some rather deep spots that 
 have the potential to ensnare the ATV, but there's always the option to just return to your frigate 
 and reland. Trying to make it work in a fight, though, is another story. Enemies have to be pretty 
 on on-level with you for the guns to hit. Often you may find yourself doing the fights on-foot 
 against enemies where the cannon is not completely neccessary.
  
  Mass Effects' greatest strength is also its greatest weakness. There are easily over 20 systems 
 to visit, and just as many worlds to land on. But many of the worlds are distinctly lacking in 
 individuality. Most are just rock, with some random color thrown in, and then rock crags and mountains 
 placed in various locations. No trees, grass blades, etc. to flesh out the environment. With so 
 many worlds to render, and on average spending 15-20 minutes on each, with no reason to revisit, 
 it's understandable why there would be little attention paid to the environment. But it is noticable. 
 
  
  The main quest locations have quite a bit more detail to them; varied environments, better texture 
 mapping, etc. But the sidequest locales feel very cut-and-paste. Most of the space stations and 
 outposts will have a definite sense of deja-vu to them. The environments and characters can also 
 suffer from texture lag, but usually for no more than five seconds or so. And being one of the 
 most impressive looking games of this type to date, and given its scope and bredth, it's a forgivable 
 bug. 
  
  Of course, last but not least, is the game's dialogue tree. Every conversation in this game is 
 fully voiced, including the main character. Every conversation can be controlled by the player 
 for the main character's reactions. Your reactions can have an impact on everything from what kind 
 of reward is obtained to what sorts of quests you get from a character. Dialogue trees are massively 
 branching, but can sometimes feel contrived, since a lot of the times they end up taking you to 
 the same place, just with different words. But aside from that, the conversations alone are ineresting 
 enough to play through again just to see the other responses in a dialogue.
  
  Tiny glitches and control issues aside, Mass Effect is a solid game, and one worth every penny 
 to purchase. It's enthralling, submersive, and addicting. You'll definitely want to see all it 
 has to offer, and then see it over and over.
  
  Overview:
  _________
  
  Pros:
  
  +Wildly immersive game
  +40+ hours RPG/shooter hybrid
  +Intuitive battle system blended seamlessly 
 to an RPG-style level system
  +Dialogue system keeps the conversations interesting, and completely controllable.
  
  Cons:
 
  
  -Lacklustre environments
  -Control issues at certain points in the game, particularly vehicles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jural
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Overview:
  Graphics: 8/10 | Sound: 8/10 | CGI / Cut scenes: 9/10
  Controls: 9/10 | Story: 10/10
  
  Graphics: Mass Effect looks beautiful, it is on the ut3 engine 
 so thats a given. Armor, faces, expressions are rendered excellent. Mass Effect does suffer from 
 the ut3 texture load, Gears of War had it but it's far worst in Mass Effect. There are some frame 
 rate issues on and off. Even though it suffers from pop-in textures and frame rates here and there 
 all in all you really forget about that while your playing as your surrounding suck you in. The 
 worst thing about the graphics is your initial startup of the game... you'll notice quickly that 
 for some reason the game is very grainy. I don't know who's ingenious idea it was to have "Film 
 Grade" as automatically on but damn, if your like me your gonna want to jump to the options and 
 kill that quickly.
  
  Sound: The sound is fine, I don't think I remember anything that was amazing or anything that was 
 bad... so that could be a good thing.
  
  CGI / Cut scenes: I'm always glad when a game utilizes the engine for rendering it's cut scenes, 
 something about getting highly polished pre-rendered crap that makes me question the amount of 
 time placed in a game if there wasting it on CGI.
  
  Controls: If you've played a shooter on any platform you've got the basics, nothing overly difficult. 
 3rd person over the shoulder is nice, and I'm glad they added a cover system, really a cover system 
 should be mandatory in any game now a days. Simple squad based controls that feel somewhat tacked 
 on, would have been nice to have control over each party member. The weapon and ability switch 
 is pretty simple and not very difficult to use. I know some people have said they've had troubles 
 with the menu system, myself I though it was one of the nicer functioning menus I've used in a 
 console game, especially where there's a lot of equipment and gear power ups to flip through. I 
 thought the menu was pretty common sense. The vehicle defiantly seems like a add-on at the last 
 minute, they could have done better with it.
  
  Story: Standard save the universe story, but what game is not. Overall the story is really well 
 written, I can defiantly see how the story would turn off a lot of gamers that are not heavy into 
 rpgs or scifi as it is long and depending on how you play the game even longer. if your going to 
 skip through the story you'll most likely be lost on where to go and what to do next. The depth 
 of the story is what really makes this game for me.
  
  Overall this is a great game, if you're into rpg's, scifi and shooters this is a game to get. There's 
 a lot you can choose to do making the game that much more. I'm on my second run now, taking my 
 time and planet hopping... fun as hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost_loy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Okay at first I thought the game would be boring, I didn't think it would live up to the hype. 
 however as soon as I started kicking Geth Ass I was hooked. And I must admit it is fun to be a 
 renegade! From the Great graphics to the incredibly fun game play this game has it all. Good Soundtrack, 
 Good Voice Acting, Great Story, And best yet it made me think! I had to make decisions I'm not 
 used to making in a video game, and I loved It! I can not understand why anyone would choose not 
 to get this game. This is indeed a true classic, And a great adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamehead8
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  This is a game i have no idea where to begin on how awesome it is!!!!! At first its slow but once 
 u get upgrades to ur weapons and armor and more worlds open up for ur to rampage thru, thats the 
 beauty of this game and the part i like most about it. This is one of the few games i rly dont 
 care about achievements and just want to play the game to play the game. just a few complaints 
 1) sumtimes the characters faces mess up and it looks bad but its a minor issue 2) its a tad short 
 but im sure w/ the downloadable content it will make the experience even better 3) and its kinda 
 easy once u become good at it, but im just playing on the easiest difficulty lvl so dont think 
 that insane is easy for a second 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade233
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I just finished this game clocking in at just over 20 hours at the default difficulty. I probable 
 did about half the side quests. I have to say my opinion on this game started at around a 9. A 
 few hours in it went to 8.5 and then around the 10 hour mark went up to a 9.5. The final 3 missions 
 knocked this game out of the park for me. 
  
  The story is absolutely amazing. Not only the best in any videogame I have played but what happens 
 during the game rivals many great science fiction novels. It is all about quality from the sound, 
 voice acting, production values and gamesplay. By the end of the game this has become my favorite 
 Bioware game yet... and that says a lot. 
  
  Like was said before on many reviews the combat takes some time to get used to and the frame rate 
 takes a hit every once in a while. It was noticeable to me for only a couple hours midway thru 
 the game and then seemed to dissapate. It could be I got used to it but I believe it actually went 
 away later in the game.
  
  Bottom line I am already looking forward to beating this game on the next two difficulty levels 
 and being a renegade next time thru. This is a MUST buy for anyone who has enjoyed any of the past 
 bioware titles and any fan of the science fiction genre or action games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  One of the best action RPG games i'll ever played. When you played this game, you feel like playing 
 Oblivion games but in space timeline. The graphics was great, gameplay was good, storyline is interesting, 
 but the weakness are just the game frame rate and interface issues. You know, the framerate will 
 going down when the enemies come in a great number, besides when you activate the power of your 
 ally in option (gameplay) , the frame rate will going down too when your ally oftenly using their 
 power to defeat enemies. In other hand, the game textures also always popup late when the players 
 travel from one place to other place. All this interface and frame rate issues may cause freezing 
 in the game and sometimes make the disc failure to read, result to you must restart the game during 
 playing. This does not make sense for any games that are build to the consoles requirement. In 
 othe words, very annoying. So for users outhere, comment from me, rent first, buy later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wassabi21
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Outstanding graphics, sound FX, music, and voice acting are just a small portion of what makes 
 mass effect 'tick'. Although its not too unique in its 'save the galaxy' theme, it does an outstanding 
 job of standing out from the crowd of mediocrity. The gameplay is fairly lengthy, and once you 
 get into it, you can't stop till you've seen it through. Twist after twist comes flying at you, 
 and without a doubt is one of the most re playable games Bioware has made. Although its not 100%. 
 Some geometry issues come into affect, such as collision which results in getting stuck. As well, 
 there is an over abundance of texture pop ins, which don't do much except for take away from the 
 experience, but when a game is this shiny (for the most part) , it really stands out. Bioware once 
 again proves they are horrible at balancing a game out in the end, and when they have the potential 
 to make a good game great, they come up short. Because of that, Mass Effect feels like it needs 
 another month or so in testing, but unfortunately, unless a major patch comes out, I doubt it will 
 improve much. Not that it needs to though. Its still a ridiculously good game, even for bioware. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChuckNorris82
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I think this game definatly takes the cake on the best of 07. Its is a terrific RPG and 3rd person 
 shooter. This is, without doubt, the greatest and most well put together game i've ever played. 
 The graphics are simply amazing, and the combat system is genius! Had a great and well put together 
 story line, that made me feel like i was in the game. And the way the characters have their own 
 voice, and diffrent feelings and emotions was outstanding!!! It truly felt like i was Commander 
 Shepard. Bioware really out-did there selves on this game. It's the best game they have created 
 yet!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01garada
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best i hav played, and should not be missed by anybody, you are starring 
 in your own movie blockbuster with all the special effects and great action scenes. The characters 
 you meet in this game you'll never forget as well as some great bag guys, which you will need to 
 take down. The Combat system is reele fun using weapons with the biotic powers combined with some 
 tech abilites make for a more intense action packed gameplay experience unlike no other. This is 
 a game you will not forget and i recommend you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Temtamperu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Upon buying my 360 2 months ago I have since racked up a nice collection of games some really good 
 (like oblivion and Halo) and some that well suck (Bioshock and the terrible 2 worlds) But this 
 game beats all down in most ways. Not all ways but most.
  To start the game looks amazing, the basic game play video should be enough to make any video game 
 fan want to mug there own granny on pension day to get. Graphically superb except on some of the 
 levels where they hide bad textures with poor visibility and lighting effects. but the physics 
 is really fun so they can get away with most stuff, with that, but I get ahead of myself. for graphics 
 I would say its up there with the best.
  The story is quite good and it does pay homage to Star trek they even have a guy in the red suit 
 in the prologue which I found terribly classy. the bad guy is interesting but there is not a lot 
 of him, having also completed the game on medium, he went down pretty easy, I found his chump B# 
 actually harder.
  The combat is surreal especially when you level up to a point where you blast folk a long way of 
 with my personal fav in the game, the shotgun. and the no bullets just alump of metal is a really 
 cool idea. although cooldown can be a pain in the later levels.
  The special powers are really cool too taking full advantage of the physics engine, I like the 
 singularity although I didnt have that as I went for Weapons and powers. Which served well but 
 you got to make sure you bring a tech on every level, I found going back to the ship because I 
 went for gun power rather than Tech a bit of a pain.
  All in all its a great game I wish the mako wasn't in it as its a pain to drive and not very well 
 protected, I died mostly in this getting stuck in walls and then being pounded by rockets.
  Really well fleshed out galaxy although some levels are a bit small but these are mostly side missions.
 
  Really looking forward to a second outing with Cmdr. Shepard in the future.
  
  too the loo!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JosemlopesBFly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the RPG's that I will actually finish, I had KOTOR but I didn't like the fight and 
 the way that I talked.
  But Mass Effect changes all !
  It is a new way to play RPG's that works well, I don't like allot of RPG's, I am more of a shoting 
 guy, and Mass Effect works fine in both situations.
  
  The cut-scenes are great, you can say what you chose quickly, withou taking ages. 
  
  And the 
 action is like GRAW, slower but I enjoy it allot.
  
  The story sucks you in, like all Bioware's games.
  
  Well, I don't have allot of time, so this 
 is my quick review.
  
  Ass: JosemlopesBFly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robdpremier
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect Is a Must Experience Game! It Not only raises the bar, It puts it almost impossibly 
 out of reach for future titles! There is something for Everyone! Anyone who truly enjoys Greatness 
 will Love Mass Effect! 
  Anyone who has ever read one of my opinions is farmiliar with my Consistent Introduction! "You 
 Know what types of games YOU Like, etc...!" Yeah, yeah, yeah. All that stuff! Well, it's true! 
 Only You do know!!
  OK. The game! Not since Jade Empire have I EVER felt SO Connect to a game in the 20+ Years I've 
 enjoyed them! I quite literally booted up the game picked my Jaw up off the floor after witnessing 
 the Graphical Masterpiece that is Mass Effect! Folks, M E is right up with or Better than BioShock 
 in this department! The way M E looks can be best described as an interactive cut scene! Yes, it's 
 That good!
  On to the story. Those farmiliar with KOTOR or Jade Empire should already expect nothing less than 
 full immersion! Mass Effect MORE than Delivers on this expectation! You are NOT simply cycling 
 through dialogue trees! You actually become emotionally invested in your characters' lives! Every 
 decision you make will surely be carefully thought out! You will, after all, be choosing how your 
 Experience Evolves!!
  The Gameplay is incredible! You are able to pretty impressively customize your Male or Female character 
 with a lot of freedom! The Action/RPG element is awesome. You notice this right away, for example, 
 as you are aiming your shot, nowhere near a sniper yet! Your aim steadily improves as you level 
 up. The cover mechanic, a la GOW, is also well implemented. Everything about the gameplay feels 
 complete. The level of action is perfect. You never feel like the balance gets lost any one of 
 the Genre, which is rare these days and very cool!
  The voice actors All deliver a wonderful performance! The sound effects are also up to expectations. 
 Well balanced. No performance intrudes on another. 
  As good as Mass Effect is, It is Nearly Perfect!, it does have a couple of minor issues. The ONLY 
 one I even feel is worth mentioning is not being able to skip previously viewed CG scenes. I for 
 one do NOT enjoy having to view the same thing, No matter how beautiful, over and over again when 
 stuck at a certain area! 
  All in all I feel Mass Effect is THE shining star in a Holiday lineup filled with a few Very Good 
 Sequels, some Big disappointments and a few other Original IPs which are almost in its league!! 
 Again, if you know what you like no need to wait!! Get Mass Effect and start enjoying Greatness 
 Today!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zkureeman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  I dont get i. Mass effect is worth at very least 9.5. i dont understand... its the best game i 
 have probably ever played, maybe even beating halo 3. It sucks you in and i played it 8 hours straight 
 the day i got it, barely scratching the surface. I hate all RPGs as a general rule but this one 
 changes everything. Its like a cross between gears of war and star wars. Conversations are brilliantly 
 executed with so much dialogue and diferent outcomes. The graphics are gorgeous but i have to admit 
 that it does have plenty pop in straight after loading and can take up to 10 seconds to get back 
 to normal. Music is great and this game is taking me ages to complete. The gameplay brings back 
 memories of gears of war. You have to take cover almost at all times and pop out and fire like 
 in gears of war. the weapon modding is incrediably deep and so is upgrading your biotics (powers) . 
 By the looks of things i wont be completing it for along time and i will definetly be playing it 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven28256
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  I'll be honest right here, I loved this game. I had started up a second play through, but I have 
 decided against it. I think I'll wait until my memory of what happened in the game gets a bit foggy. 
 Anyway, I am going to break things down here and talk about each.
  
  Gameplay: I actually found the combat to be sorta clunky at first, but quickly got used to it. 
 After you get the hang of things the combat starts to feel natural. Not only is the combat great 
 as far as RPGs go, but it is actually pretty good by third person shooter standards as well. But 
 don't try to play the game like a typical run and gun shooter. It is more akin to a slower paced 
 tactical shooter. The only real gripe I have about combat is that the cover system is pretty awkward. 
 They should have mapped it to a button like in Gears instead of the left thumbstick. You will find 
 yourself accidentally moving out of cover a lot because you moved the thumbstick too much.
  
  Some people would complain about the lack of weapons. The only types of weapons in the game 
 are assault rifles, pistols, shotguns, and sniper rifles. Also, the differences between new weapons 
 you get are only the stats. There are only three or so different designs for each weapon category, 
 and the only cosmetic difference between most guns in the same category are color. So you run into 
 situations where the sniper rifle you just picked up is identical to the one you have equipped 
 except that it is blue instead of white. And apparently, weapons that are blue kick much more ass 
 than a white one. Anyway, I think people should remember here that this is an RPG, not a shooter. 
 Your character needs to learn how to use certain guns and most classes only have one or two guns 
 they specialize in. That is, an Infiltrator has Sniper Rifle and Pistol skill trees, meaning they 
 are untrained in Assault Rifles and Shotguns. If your character is untrained in that weapon then 
 it is better to just ignore it. This isn't a shooter where everyone automatically knows how to 
 use every weapon. If you don't have a Sniper Rifle skill tree or don't have many points devoted 
 to the Sniper Rifle skill tree then it is nearly impossible to get accurate shots because the scope 
 is bouncing around a lot. As you put points into that skill tree then your sniper rifle gets much 
 more steady when you look down the scope. So in this sense it would be stupid to have dozens of 
 categories of weapons like in a standard shooter.
  
  There are also numerous upgrades for your weapons and armor. Most weapons have two upgrade slots. 
 One for general performance upgrades, such as some sort of stabilizer for increased accuracy, and 
 an ammo upgrade, such as anti-personal rounds that increase the gun's damage against organic targets. 
 In addition, you have grenade upgrades that give your grenades extra effects.
  
  Then we have the exploration mechanic. Each cluster has several systems, and each system usually 
 has one planet that you can land on. At which point you use a vehicle called the M35 Mako, a six 
 wheeled infantry fighting vehicle that is much like modern USMC IFVs such as the AAV or upcoming 
 EFV. Using the Mako you can explore the planets and it is equipped with a cannon and machine gun 
 for fighting the occasional enemies. Some people have complained about the Mako being the worst 
 part of the game, but I personally liked it. My complaint here isn't the Mako itself, but the planets. 
 They are all the same, and the parts you can explore are all the same size. All the planets have 
 two or three mineral deposits to survey (For a side quest and some extra cash and XP) , one Debris 
 Site that contains some items, and two or three "Anomalies" that contain various artifacts for 
 different quests. Some planets have mine shafts or research labs, but they are all identical as 
 well. These sites are usually for side quests. Each planet has almost the same basic terrain, the 
 only differences being the color of the sky and terrain. You also sometimes stumble upon drifting 
 frigates that hold side quests, but these are identical to each other too.
  
  Sound: While the sound effects themselves are good, the voice acting is where Mass Effect's sound 
 design really stands out. This game has some of the best voice acting I have heard in a game this 
 year, easily up there with Call of Duty 4. The actors do a great job of conveying the character's 
 emotions during conversations. The voice acting is so well done that you can understand how that 
 character FEELS by the tone of voice the actor uses. Few RPGs really capture voice acting as good 
 as Mass Effect has. The dialogue is good and never seems like it was forced. For the most part 
 it sounds very natural. You never hear lines that sound like the actor was over acting too much.
 
  
  Graphics: While Mass Effect isn't the best looking game out there, it comes close. Unfortunately, 
 the animation during conversations isn't always quite as good as the voice acting, but that is 
 forgivable. Especially since the facial detail is excellent. Some of the facial expressions are 
 up there with Half-Life 2's. During conversations the characters will often times tilt their head 
 or give off other forms of body language to further convey their feelings. As I said earlier, sometimes 
 the animations seem a bit off, but I am just being nit-picky here. For the most part it is good. 
 But here we also run into some of Mass Effect's glitches. For one, there is A LOT of texture pop-ups. 
 You will see cutscenes where the textures take several seconds to load. Or looking at your inventory 
 will often result in a character with muddy textures for a few seconds before the details load. 
 The game also has quite a bit of framerate issues, but nothing that will result in you getting 
 killed because of a momentary hiccup in a battle.
  
  And finally, I saved the best part of Mass Effect for last: The story. Quite simply, if the gameplay 
 doesn't keep you until the end then the story will. It is full of well done twists and turns and 
 ends on a very good note. This is the best way to handle the ending of a story. The game's ending 
 wraps up a lot of the loose ends, but keeps the game wide open for a sequel. It reminds me of the 
 ending of the original Star Wars: You are left with some questions, but for the most part the franchise 
 could end here and you wouldn't mind too much because it was a good ending. BioWare did a great 
 job making a complex universe with interesting races and loads of backstory you can take the time 
 to learn if you so choose. For anyone who likes to story, I strongly suggest the prequel novel 
 Revelations. It gives more insight into Anderson and Saren, as well as more backstory details that 
 the Codex leaves out.
  
  The story is your typical "chase the villain and save the universe" deal, but BioWare spices things 
 up enough to make every aspect of the story feel fresh. The game has loads of politics and even 
 raises issues we have in our own world. It brings to light issues like racism in an intelligent 
 way. Humanity isn't very popular in the galaxy, even among the Council races, who are our allies. 
 Yet in the end, everyone tries to put their disputes aside to help each other and stand united. 
 We could learn something of the crew of the Normandy, a crew who has put their racial differences 
 aside to work together. To a lesser extent the game even brings to light religion and the dangers 
 of true AI and genetic engineering, as well as corporate greed and corruption. It is all there 
 if you look deep enough.
  
  Which brings me to my next point: The game handles the blurring of morality better than most out 
 there. There are times where you must make hard choices that, even though they don't always have 
 a huge impact on the overall story, they still make you question right and wrong. You encounter 
 situations where you have two choices and they both seem right and just in their own ways because 
 of how they are presented. Should this disgusting scumbag of a criminal deserve to die for his 
 terrible crimes, or should he rot in prison instead? Sometimes, your choices even determine who 
 lives and dies, including some of your party members. I will leave it at that so as not to spoil 
 anything.
  
  The characters are also some of the best I have seen in an RPG in a while. I had a hard time deciding 
 who to use in my party because I liked them all so much. I even felt emotional attachment to the 
 characters I never really used. One of the musts in this game is to talk to your team between missions. 
 You will learn that each character has an elaborate story to them and are always more than meets 
 the eye. For example, your first impression of Wrex would be a cold, heartless mercenary, the typical 
 "all brawn, no brains" power character. But talking to him revels a deep character that is not 
 only far more clever than he appears, but also has deep emotional torment about certain subjects. 
 He also delivers some funny one liners. Another amazing thing is that each character has flaws. 
 Not too many RPGs have characters with major flaws like Mass Effect does. Many RPGs never really 
 dig too deeply into negative traits of the heroes and instead make them out to be faultless gods 
 of sorts. For example, as you will quickly find out Ashley has a major inferiority complex. She 
 always pushes herself harder because she feels the strain to be better than she is. I won't tell 
 you why, you will figure it out soon enough. Then we have Garrus, a turian C-Sec (Think a type 
 of police/security officer) who loves doing the right thing and helping people but hates all the 
 rules and regulations of being a police officer. He feels that they just get in the way, making 
 him a very hot-headed character who can lose his cool easily if regulations are getting in the 
 way of his goal.
  
  Now we have the one problem I have with the characters: Most of the development is between you 
 and them. The characters never really interact with each other outside of a few elevator conversations. 
 I would have liked to see more relationships between the individual characters. The elevator scenes 
 only provide you with a brief bit of three lines of dialogue between two characters, giving just 
 a quick look at how they feel about one another. From these I can gather that Garrus and Wrex share 
 a belief in bending rules and regulations to meet their goal, and that they have a mutual respect 
 for one another, but that is it.
  
  Then we have the main villain, Saren. A pet peeve of mine are villains who suck (I wrote a whole 
 editorial about it) and fortunately, in Saren we have a deep villain who has been added to my list 
 of great gaming villains. This is because Saren is much more than what you originally think of 
 him. Later on, you learn of Saren's REAL motives and then start to feel sympathy for him. I won't 
 get into any spoilers, but just trust me, Saren is a lot deeper than he originally seems. It is 
 just a shame that he doesn't get more screen time in the game. He isn't quite the best villain 
 in gaming, but he is still very good.
  
  Also, Mass Effect is the first game where the Achievements are worth getting even if you aren't 
 an Achievement whore. Many of the Achievements actually have in-game effects. Getting the Assault 
 Rifle Expert Achievement (150 kills with an assault rifle) gives you the ability to add the Assault 
 Rifle skill tree to any character class. Getting the Power Gamer Achievement (Reach level 50) increases 
 the level cap to 60. I think this is brilliant and would love to see more games that use this. 
 It gives you more reason to get the Achievements beyond some bragging rights.
  
  So that is it. Overall, I feel Mass Effect is a 9.5 out of 10. I think the few flaws in the game 
 are just enough to keep it away from a perfect 10. If you can only buy one RPG this year, make 
 it Mass Effect. If you don't own a 360, get one. Mass Effect can keep you busy for a while. It 
 took me a little over 40 hours my first play through and I didn't even explore everything the game 
 offers, though I did hit about 99% of it. You will want to go through several times to see the 
 other options you can choose and to try different parties or maybe even different romance subplots. 
 Just do yourself a favor and buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echmyr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  Let me preface this by saying that had I never played KOTOR that this would be one of if not THE 
 best game I ever played. But having played KOTOR (and being a huge Star Wars fan) ....
  
  First the good. The graphics in the game are great, that's for sure. The digital actors are certainly 
 interesting. The facial expressions, some very subtle, can really influence my reaction to them 
 (I love the look Ashley gives my character every time I talk to her, somewhere between a smirk 
 and a flirt) . Tali also seems to be extremely expressive. So much so that I decided to romance 
 her first instead of Ashley (she'll be in a different play through) .
  
  The main story to date is pretty good, but it is strange to her your crew tell you that your getting 
 close to Saren when you have only completed a couple of mail quests.
  
  Combat is, at least for me, really hard. I died over and over again on the first boss battle and 
 just could not seem to get by it. It took me a long time to figure out how to use my squad effectively 
 (don't let them use powers actively, defense only or you will find when you need them they are 
 recharging) .
  
  The conversation system is really interesting, but I have found that there are times it does not 
 seem to matter what you pick. There are also times I pick one of the short responses and what is 
 said just seem wrong for the choice I picked.
  
  I do think that the depth of characters in Mass Effect does not live up to the depth they had in 
 KOTOR. It more matches the depth of KOTOR 2 (which was also a great game, but was not KOTOR) . If 
 there is one thing I really want for ME2 it is that, really deep characters and a more emotional 
 and engaging main story line. I have not found myself lost in the story like I had been with KOTOR.
 
  
  All in all it is not as good as KOTOR but is better than KOTOR 2. If I could I would give it a 
 9.75, but 9.5 is the closet I can get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 932
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  It sure is a game of year (Want to say something els, but that just seem to fit somebody here, 
 so I don't) .
  
  A few things need a BIG FIX! but they don't kill the game though.
  
  A nice 8,5 to Bioware's Mass Effect:
  
  * Great graphic, fell's almost like watching a movie
 
  * Sound, Music & Voice acting is well performed
  * Character's and Story is hitting just the right spot. The best one from Bioware's so far.
  
 * Your crew are fun and interesting, and hav always a surprise for you about there life (if you 
 want to hear it)
  
  Want to give it at 10, but when you look at some of the small issues (and some other things I most 
 not say here) :
  
  * Vehicle navigation is the worst
  * Combat's could be better
  * A bunch of annoying interface and delay issues
  * The romance don't really do anything different 
 about the stroy. It feel more like something they just cast in to the game just to give it some 
 extra. you see it about 2 - 3 times, but thats it. it's just there... 4/10 for that lame plot
 
  
  Ind The End:
  
  The game play as a lot of things to offer. So if you love PRG and have Xbox 360, then this is a 
 game you most try! You will have MANY hours of great story and nice graphic.
  
  I will for sure get the PC version when it comes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redefinehuman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  8.5 is HARSH for a game of such high a caliber as Mass Effect. Sure there are issues, but KOTOR 
 had a few issues! The combat seems to the most under fire in reviews, yeah it has it's flaws; yeah 
 your group really enjoys friendly fire. That was the most annoying aspect I came across in my travels 
 through the Traverse. The other being the familiar buildings and structures duplicated on various 
 planets, but oh well. The customizing and Mako are all done quite well, Mako turret firing takes 
 some practice, but when you get the hang of it, it is time to bump up the difficulty level to Hardcore 
 because it becomes rather easy. The triumph of this game is in the detail of the story and the 
 acting. This is the most realistic acting I have seen in a game, it rivals many films of late. 
 The story feels real, it does a great job of making every moment feel urgent and important, even 
 the busywork assignments do not feel out of place. I was struck with a sense of being in the Halo 
 universe as an RPG, I wonder if I am the only one. Bioware has something in their games, and I 
 am not sure what it is but, they do it right, and Mass Effect is one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake7882
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Over the 2+ years that the 360 has been out there have been many great games, Oblivion, Bioshock, 
 Saints Row, The Darkness, Assasins Creed, Gears of War, FEAR and Splinter Cell Double Agent, and 
 even some of the good but not great games have kept me in awe, Prey, Quake 4, Stranglehold, and 
 Kameo to name a few. But not until this game have I been so immeresed in a game and not since Gears 
 of War and Oblivion have I had the urge to go right back in to the game. I just now beat it btw. 
 There is so much great in this game that the few issues it has don't phaze it at all. Now lets 
 go into details.
  Story:10/10
  I won't go into many details as I don't want to give anything away but Bioware is known for doing 
 great stories and this is no exception infact this is their best story ever in my humble opinion. 
 Intriguing characters and lots of twists and turns really keep you guessing and really pulls you 
 in.
  Graphics:10/10
  THe graphics are top notch and really take advantage of the 360's capabilities. There are a few 
 hangups with the framerate from time to time simply because the enviornements are so immense. Also 
 when loading a save it takes a minute for the framrate to stabalize but that doesn't detract from 
 how wonderfull and beautifull the enviornments are. The character animation and detail is amazing 
 aswell. Once you get into the game it is easy to get over the few minor framerate hiccups. Overall 
 the graphics are 10/10.
  Sound:10/10
  First I must say the music in this is groundbreaking and just as good if not better than John WIlliams 
 famous Star Wars music. The music is dramatic at the right places sad when it needs to be and really 
 picks up when the misssions go to hell so to speak. THe best in game music I have ever heard. The 
 voice acting is top notch and you will recognise many of the voices from other Bioware games and 
 many others not to mention a few big name stars. Marina SIrtis (Councelor Troi From Star Trek: 
 The Next Generation) and Lance Henriksen (The Terminator, Aliens) . 
  Gameplay:10/10
  This is where you will seee some say that the gameplay is iffy from time to time. I disagree. The 
 AI can be a bit rough but no matter how tough your character is one mistake can still cost you. 
 The team mates you pick also make a huge difference as to how hard or easy some battles are. The 
 combat takes some getting used to however as it is nothing like what you'd expect from playing 
 KOTOR or other Bioware RPGS. The combat is real time and not based on a d20 system like the KOTOR 
 games are. You target the enemies and the chance to hit them depends on how good a shot you are 
 not if you get a good or bad roll. Once you get used to the mechanics it is quite fun. The vehical 
 combat can be a bit tough to get used to and the vehicals can be a pain in the ass from time to 
 time but still quite fun. All the teammates you get during the game can help out in many situations 
 and is quite fun deciding who to take where just make sure to save frequently because if you pick 
 the wrong team you could end up reqretting it. The gameplay is great and very fun to play.
  I can not find any flaws with this game it is perfect in my opinion and can't wait for part 2. 
 I highly recommend this game to anyone who loves a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFluffo
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  First Things first... The Story was great, i loved it. Also the re-playability and extra missions 
 of the game give it a huge replay value. Also the graphics were really good. I highly recommend 
 this game to any RPG/Third person Shooter fan. However this is more of a Third person Shooter that 
 you can level up in and buy weapons as opposed to a full blown RPG. While I loved the third person 
 shooter side of the game the RPG element felt as if it was "tacked on". Leveling up is extremely 
 easy and you will see yourself move from level to level very fast. Focusing on the main story only 
 will only take about 8-10 hours on the first play through and it is easy to finish the game at 
 level 35-40.
  
  The RPG element was a nice touch overall, it added a little something extra to the gameplay. However 
 buying items in the game is almost completely useless. I did not buy a single weapon or armor from 
 any shopkeeper until the end where you can unlock the "spectre class" items. Only being able to 
 afford level 2-3 items when you can easily find level 4-5 items is a bit ridiculous.
  
  Also playing on normal the first time through the game was pretty easy. I choose the standard soldier 
 as my class and specialized in shotguns. I found that my shotgun could always take down enemies 
 in 1-2 shots even from several yards away. I personally did not like the biotic powers and found 
 them to be rather dull compared to rushing in with the old shotgun.
  
  The game also allows you to pick 2 other people to accompany you. Needless to say having the other 
 people with you was remarkably easy to control and micro. The time stop to select a skill was a 
 nice feature to give you some time to think in the heat of battle for the perfect plan. They were 
 also quite useful even when you weren't micro'ing them and they could at least kill the enemies.
 
  
  However alot of the features that were in the earlier trailers is missing such as telling you teammates 
 the battle plan and have them execute it. Also the game is alot smaller than it looks. When i first 
 saw trailers i thought the game was gonna be huge like a smaller scale EVE Online. However you 
 could only land on a handful of planets, also you could land on the moon but not earth? Thats kind 
 of weird. Anyway, the game definitely has some bugs and quirks. 
  
  One of the most annoying bugs is when your teammates get stuck on attack and refuse to follow commands 
 such as "Get Back" and "Find cover". Instead they will stand out in the open and shoot. Another 
 mild annoyance is the texturing where it loads a low resolution version of the texture then it 
 will update the texture once it loads the high res version, not much of a problem but its kind 
 of annoying when your stuck with low res texture for about 10 seconds. 
  
  ELEVATORS ELEVATORS ELEVATORS!!! Whatever you do do not use the elevators if you dont need to. 
 The elevator is used as a transition to the next area as it loads the next area you are forced 
 to listen to a radio announcement or your 2 squad members chit chat about something pointless. 
 These load times have ranged from 30-60 seconds for me.
  
  One of the features that should have been added into not only this game but almost every game: 
 Co-op. Whether it be Online, LAN, or local, This would have been a great addition to this game.
 
  
  Overall It is a solid Third-person shooter with decent RPG elements. I say this is a must buy for 
 fans of the genre however i recommend getting Oblivion before this for its far more expansive RPG 
 elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RivalBattousai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Words cant describe what mass effect is. When explaining it to my co-workers at gamestop and my 
 friends i say its a lot like Star WArs Knights of the Old Republic meets Gears of War. The combat 
 system is outstanding and probly the best part of the game. I love how your character has powers 
 and throwing and lifting your enemies in the air is just awesome. Its also very tacticle so you 
 cant just run-in gun, alas Gears of War. 
  Bioware used the Unreal 3 engine which made the graphics some of the best. The downside is the 
 texture issues when loading just like in gears. i guess the unreal 3 engine had one minor flaw. 
 I really liked the way you can upgrade your weapons and all the different armor. At first you start 
 out with crapy guns but as you level up you are able to buy or find guns and upgrades that are 
 stronger and better.
  The one problem in the game is the aiming system. When you're in the Mako you really cant aim that 
 well with it. The cross hair is hard to see at times but if you know what you are doing then you 
 should be ok. The strength of this game has to be its story. Bioware made a completely differnent 
 story with this game. the worlds are unbeliveable. coming up with all of those names for the planets 
 and clusters must have taken a lot of hard work. Mass Effect isnt just a game, its a piece of art. 
 To me Bioware accomplished what they wanted to do, make a game into a work of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serb_Dogg
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Basically aside from a few technical glitches this game is actually the greatest game to ever have 
 been created. I can't describe it but if you are one who loves a good story you will absolutely 
 have no chance of being able to put this game down once you have started to play it.
  Textures do load slowly at times and you'd think that in the future they would have had faster 
 elevators (play it and you will know what i mean)
  I truly believe a game has become a masterpiece when you can go through 5+ minutes of dialog and 
 think to yourself afterwards, "WOW! that was intense!"
  Even more so the game will test your emotions, you morality, and your very fiber that make you 
 who you are.
  If this were a book it would win some sort of award. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenGun
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, BioWare has done it again. The story for Mass Effect is in one word, brilliant. 
 
  
  From beginning to end you feel like you are playing a movie (and that's saying something because 
 developers have been trying to do that for years) . The story itself is somewhat short, probably 
 about 12 hours of content but you'll be playing it for much longer than that your first go.
  
  A few technical glitches bring the overall effect of the game but despite its sometimes frustrating 
 glitches and a few dropped frame-rates, an excellent game. This is the first time I've actually 
 enjoyed the beginning and end of the story, usually it gets diluted towards the end but it just 
 gets better and better. The only downside to this is that about half-way if you decide to get some 
 side quests under your belt, they're very repetitive. Some have a pretty good background and you'll 
 want to explore that particular mission because you actually WANT to know what happened to a lost 
 crew, a missing civilization, etc.
  
  This game is to be played in spurts... 10 hours or so for the first part you must put aside because 
 it's soooo immersive. And the last 3-4 hours you'll want to play pretty must straight as well.
 
  
  
  The Pros:
  - Story driven. Somewhat linear but the choices along the way will want you to try different paths 
 over and over.
  - Combat (after you get the hang of it) is actually quite enjoyable even if it was a bit of an 
 afterthought.
  - Voice acting. Wow. Makes the story come to life.
  - (Citadel) Side quests are actually fun, you won't want to leave the station until you've completed 
 the majority of them.
  - You can really ROLE PLAY your character! (You want to be a bad ass, do it. Or if you just want 
 to be a cool-headed soldier it feels like they're two completely different people just how you 
 go through conversations) .
  - Conversations are fun, intuitive and you won't want to skip through them.
  
  The Cons:
 
  - Graphical and technical glitches needed a bit more polishing before release. Sometimes (only 
 happened once for me) your character will be completely stuck even though the game is not frozen.
 
  - The Normandy wasn't as fun to walk around as we were led to believe it would be.
  - The Mako (the land-vehicle) is awful. Makes exploring planets a bit of a chore sometimes rather 
 than an adventure.
  - No combat tutorial. (Depending on which path you take after the Citadel, you could be frustrated 
 for hours trying to beat one part) .
  - Bad autosave feature. You'll get used to it later in the game but save often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjonsilver
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  OMG! I am thankful to god that this game was made. I am a strict game reviewer so I would rarely 
 ever give out a ten. But when there is no other adventure game quite like this then hello 10! The 
 game is simply an awe to look at and play. How BioWare created a game like this is beond me. The 
 graphics look incredible as I came to expect. It drops some serious frame rate while in combat 
 though. But it's not like your always shootin' a bunch of dudes all the time like in Gears of War. 
 Usually you are exploring as much as this game has to offer, and it is a hell of a lot. Expect 
 at least 20 hours of campaign at the least. If you like to explore then it'll probabaly take you 
 30 or more hours to complete. You can explore many different planets with a totaly different look 
 to most of them. It's to bad you can't land on more planets. Many of them you just read the description. 
 But I hear BioWare might make more planets to land on in the future for downloadable content. Moving 
 on; the voice acting is absolutely incredibly realistic and is most likely the best besides BioShock. 
 The voice acting is so good in this game it makes you feel like you're really Commander Shepard 
 Captain of the Normandy.
  I could go on and on about the game but I don't feel like typing anymore. So just go and buy it. 
 Trust me yuo'll love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swr1ght
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Wow...8.5 Gamespot? It's rare that I find myself rating a game so much higher than you guys. But 
 this game deserves better than an 8.5. Not that I am saying that it is perfect. There are problems. 
 NPCs do get caught on the surroundings quite a bit. The frame rate does slow down. And there is 
 lag in the draw rate (which sometimes gets mistaken for frame rate, but these are not actually 
 the same thing) in many situations (change armor to see what I am talking about) . Finally, would 
 it have hurt them to create more than one derelict ship? Or more than one isolated science facility? 
 My theory is that there AI which was probably originally designed strictly for an RPG gets a little 
 confused, so they had to create very limited amounts of enclosed spaces. But really, that is just 
 nit-picking faults in a nearly perfect game.
  
  Oh, and Penny-Arcade is right, those elevators are ridiculous (I think that there is some little 
 dude with a hand crank at the top winching you up) . Load times suck. But you can blame M$oft for 
 that one... wish all 360's had to have hard drives.
  
  In spite of all that, this game deserves a 9.5. The above are the reasons that knocked it off of 
 the illustrious and unobtainable 10.0 perch.
  
  Why is it good?
  
  Immersive Story. Great Characters. Amazing graphics. Spectacular soundtrack. Excellent dialog. 
 Fun gameplay. Repeat play is pretty much a must. Oh... and interspecies... extracurricular activities...
 
  
  And I end this review a little game guide bashing here. In the guide the writer mentions that he 
 only went to the Citadel twice. Big faux pas. After each major storyline quest there are new Assignments 
 spawning at the Citadel. Our gamespot guide was basically admitting that he didn't play most of 
 the side quests. Tsk... tsk... Well, maybe they underscored the game by a point because they just 
 didn't have time to enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cappadocia
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect has exceeded my expectations in almost every way. The graphics are top notch, the combat 
 is hugely enjoyable after you get to grips with it, but the jewel in the crown is the best story 
 i've experienced in a computer game. It's a real rollercoaster of emotions, and if you allow it 
 to suck you in you'll experienced pride, horror, joy and sadness from a game. 
  
  At certain points in the game you have to make decisions so difficult they shouldn't belong in 
 a game - i can't figure out how they're going to make a sequel work for everyone, unless those 
 decisions have less of an impact than you might think. The only way to know is to play it through 
 again (and probably again!) . Single player RPG's are my favourite type of game, but i never manage 
 a second play through because i get so bored of skipping text i've already read before. But with 
 Mass Effect it's more like watching your favourite movie again; more of a pleasure to replay than 
 a chore. Even better, because i've got a completely new character, the conversations have been 
 subtley different, meaning it feels more like my first play through than my second.
  
  If i'm honest, there are some issues. The texture load delay baffles me - sometimes they cut to 
 a scene so briefly that the textures don't have time to load at all before it goes back again. 
 Why is it still in the final game? It doesn't affect the experience at all though, and often reminds 
 you what every other game looks like before loading the hyper-realistic graphics.
  The combat, at first, seems boring, then frustratingly hard and sometimes chaotic. But when you 
 get to grips with it and level up, it's perfectly balanced. You just need a little bit of patience.
 
  
  I have also noticed a lot of reviewers complaining about the vehicle combat - well i can't see 
 the problem. I admit, it's not the best, but it's far from bad! In my first play through i had 
 to fight a Thresher Maul 3 times, and vehicular combat against the geth is actually quite fun.
 
  
  The issues people have focussed on with Mass Effect are easily forgiveable. In a weird way, they 
 actually give me some relief, because Mass Effect is so near to perfection, without these issues 
 you wouldn't be able to class it as a computer game at all!
  
  The biggest problem is that it's not enough!! I want a sequel now, don't worry about trying to 
 improve anything, just let us know what happens next. I want 10 more main questline planets, and 
 triple the size of the citidel at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thirtydeadfoxes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying i play a lot of RPG'S.
  
  Knights of the old republic, Final Fantasy, The Witcher...... All game's i've loved to death, and 
 of course, played to death!
  
  Mass Effect has been a game i've been looking forward to for a while, i liked the idea of choosing 
 a squad and giving them powers and taking over the universe.
  
  Fair enough, the game didn't work out quite that way, but i found a game that in some ways, surpassed 
 my expectations. For one thing, the combat was a lot better than i thought. I thought i'd have 
 to constantly pause and give orders, i thought my squad members would get in the way... but luckily 
 none of this happened. It was a great combination of fast paced action, and choosing just the right 
 moment to launch a bio power, or hit assassination and turn the battle in your favour. Overall, 
 i thought combat was one of the games major pluses.
  
  Another plus, is the incredible voice acting and the way the conversation flows so well. Also the 
 storyline is so engaging, it actually makes you want to keep playing. The one thing i found with 
 KOTR was there was too much dialog and i found myself clicking through the conversations just to 
 get to some more action. Another good thing about ME? The ending. No spoilers so dont worry, but 
 i just found that with KOTOR, the ending was dictated by your last choice, and i didn't like that. 
 The line between good and evil is so vague in ME, that the ending doesnt mean your good or evil, 
 just you have different ways of dealing with situations.
  
  There is a bad side of course. The side quests can get repetitive, and when your in a vechile, 
 it's basically just instant ownage, no geth can kill you, only the wurms pose any problems and 
 their easy enough to deal with once you've got them. Also, the controls of the vehchiles are ridiculous. 
 Sometimes up is reverse, sometimes it is go forward... also theres no sense of textural detail 
 when in it, all terrain causes you to go the same speed, even climbing up a massive hill.
  
  But that aside, i feel this game is a true triumph and would well reccomend it to any owner 
 of a 360. And you get to see Ashley's hot pixalated butt if you play it right :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeo10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant and immersing. Best game i have played all year and i have played em all: Portal, Halo 
 3, CoD 4, Crysis and Bioshock. 
  
  I finished after 33 hours and 20 minutes and i loved every minute. No single player game has ever 
 held my attention like this, it has amazed me. Gameplay being split between Squad management, inventory 
 management, scanning systems, the MAKO and combat i found paced extremely good. And using the force 
 *cough* biotic powers you just feel so badass lifting guys in the air and blasting them away. Story 
 was great and i can't wait until some DLC comes along and then Mass Effect 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankeyser
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this is in no way a bad game. It is a very good game that I enjoyed playing 
 through but the whole time I was thinking man why did they not delay this game and polish it up 
 some.
  The bad:
  Horrible AI, horrible frame rate, texture pop in, horrible collision detection, did I mention horrible 
 AI? I did? Let me mention it again because that is how bad it is.
  the mako!
  The AI in this game is abymsmal. Once you have a desent shield and the barrier skill all you need 
 is the specter shotty and you can run and gun everyone in a level. The AI just stands there. If 
 you cirlce strafe them They will never hit you (with bullets the occasional force... i mean biotic 
 power will knock you down)
  The frame rate is random. Durning many battles I never had a problem. But then walking through 
 a hallway and turning would drag the frame rate down? What is going on there? Does biowarehave 
 a debug department?
  Texture pop in does not bother me too much, it happens very often though so I want to mention it.
 
  Did I mention bad AI again? If the Enemy Ai is bad just wait to you see your squad preform. I 
 actually watched my team attack a box over and over again... When the last enemy was above us snipping. 
 I ran up and shotgunned the last enemy in the back as my team desicrated that box till it wished 
 it was never made. I really love when you tell your team to move somewhere and they say they can't, 
 when it is a huge open space... or when your team blocks you in a corner and it takes you two or 
 three times to get them to move away from you so you can get into cover.
  The mako... I don't even want to talk about it... because it is that lame... stupid hot air filled 
 balloon tank that can't aim down... screw you...
  Ugh! Glad I got that out of the way.
  The good:
  Great graphics, great sound, great story, great game play mechanics and the talking 
 sequences are great!
  This game is gorgeous (although a bit repetative when it comes to any under ground mission expect 
 to see the same thing over and over again, who knew the enterior of every planet looks the same?) 
 the outside enviroments are very different. I suggest always getting out of your mako and walking 
 around on plaents. It is the only way to truley admire them. In the mako you will fill you are 
 always on the same mountian filled world with different textures. But hope out of your mako for 
 some ground level veiwing and the worls look amazing. Especially worlds with snow or water. The 
 aprticle effects and textures look bland in the mako but great on foot. So ditch the mako whenever 
 possible. It is junk anyway unless you have to trek long distances.
  The music in the game is wonderfully orchestrated and always has that sapce opera epic feel to 
 it!
  The story is AAAA when it comes to game stories. You will be hard pressed to find a story this 
 good in any other game of 2007. It is nothing new mind you, same old galaxy is in peril and you 
 are the only one that can save it lone wolf (with how dumb the AI is you are a lone wolf) story. 
 But it is told so well you can't help but get caught up in it.
  The gameplay is very well implemented. (depending on your class, two of the classes i regaurd as 
 pointless as they deal no real damage) the gun play feels akin to GRAW with some kotor thrown in. 
 the battles are fast and furious. I have read alot of people talk about taking your time or dying. 
 My first play through i died maybe 7 times playing the game just like I would graw or gears. the 
 only powers i used were barrier and lift. i just love lifting enemies and shooting at there helpless 
 bodies.
  This game can be played as a run and gun shooter, or a more of a trun based stratagey rpg depending 
 on your play style (and character class.) That is one thing i love so much about it.
  I have had the most fun playing as the soilder and the vangaurd due to them being the more combat 
 focused classes.
  The conversation wheel is a ton of fun to play with. It is he reason i played through the game 
 a second time on hardcore. After i had my charm and intemadate full i started my second play through. 
 One of the best upgrades i have got was actaully on the first level (eden prime) it is only attainable 
 if you are mazed out in one of these stats. i love that bioware thought to add things like this 
 so that when you play through a second time you get some new and improved items.
  Most likley your second play through is going to be easier (even on higher difficulties) you know 
 your class well and you know what to expect and when to expect it. I suggest using crappier weapons 
 to add to the challenge. 
  I highly suggest if you like using pistols and dont plan on sniping often (it is rare you have 
 a good oppertunity to do it anyway) to max out your pistol. You will get upgrades later on that 
 let you fire around 30 shots without it over heating and it will be so accurate you will wonder 
 why there is even a sniper rifle. I take snipers out of there towers with my pistol.
  If there was one thing I would change (other than the performace issues and mako) about this game 
 it would be to add some sort of mulitplayer. i see a ton of potential in team based groups with 
 different classes being used for different game types. If i could change two i would extend the 
 story a bit. Even with side missions ( i did everyone i got and got the completionist achievment) 
 the game only clocked in at 26 hours for me. It was a great 26 hours! and i am replaying it multiple 
 times, it just went by so fast i cant wait for the sequal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeLashmutt1980
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  This review is going to be short and sweet. 
  
  There is some glitchy movement in the characters during the dialog scenes but it doesn't really 
 effect the game, just the visuals. 
  
  Picking your dialog can also be a little ambiguous at times to. I found myself unsure which response 
 would result in me being cruel or straight forward. 
  
  There is something missing from the fight sequences. Not sure what it is but the action/gun fights 
 seems a little... "less than they could be" maneuverable.
  
  The voice acting is fantastic.
  
  The storyline is wonderful and keeps delivering the entire 
 game.
  
  The upgrade inventory and menu functions are a little complicated at first but you eventually get 
 the hang of it. 
  
  some light puzzles make for a fun change of pace. 
  
  Strippers in Chora's Den? Seriously? someone at Bio liked the strip club idea in Vice City a little 
 too much!
  
  the world/environment itself is a little too much like Halo3 with a dash of Ultimate Alliance. 
 It still works though.
  
  Finally, The sound. It is great. Its like an action thriller sound track inspired by 80's sci-fi 
 but like nothing you've heard yet. One of my favorite aspects of this game.
  
  Bottomline: Believe the hype. It is a lot of fun. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockmanneo12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  So many people out there believe that their money shouldn't be wasted on single player only games, 
 but multi player ones like Halo and Gears of War. Games that can be played over and over, some 
 with different concepts like Guitar Hero being multi but not in a FPS sort like the most popular 
 games.
  
  I myself had a similar view, I'd rather spend my money on games I could play with friends online 
 but BioWare had proved itself before. I'm not talking about Bioshock either. BioWare was behind 
 the wonderful "Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic 1 & 2" games that gave us the choice to do 
 what we wanted in the Galaxy. Of course Mass Effect Brings that meaning to a new level. Such as 
 actually exploring the surface of unexplored planets of systems in our Galaxy. 
  
  Mass Effect has become the RPG of the future. Aside from a few bugs. I won't lye, FPS sometimes 
 lags when a lot is going on and often you'll experience glitches in the game that could damper 
 your progress. Other than these Graphics bugs the game is fun, addicting, and pleasureful. 
  
  The Combat mechanics are enough to make you want more aside from all the choices and outcomes 
 you can experience on multiple play throughs. I wanted to review the game before but it wasn't 
 till now after the 5'th time beating the game I was able to take time out of playing it to type 
 a review.
  
  For me I just wanted to keep playing but as different classes with different attitudes to see what 
 different out comes I could have. I'm and nothing less than pleased with this game. I can only 
 hope there is a sequel in production that will continue the story. If your not a real RPG gamer 
 that isn't a reason to not play this, there is more than enough action for gamers of all kinds 
 including wonderful "Movie Like" gameplay. 
  
  Personal Note: Gotta love Seth Green being apart of this wonderful game. Namely my Pilot. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Bioware has hit a home run with its Space Age RPG called, Mass Effect. A politically charged Storyline 
 with Real time Combat, this is probably going to end up in everyones christmas stockings this year.
 
  
  Story starts you out as a Space Marine, a member of the alliance military, The main quest is very 
 good, but it is pretty bad in the way its pretty short, but thats only if you concentrate on the 
 main quest, and not do the side quests, there are a good number of side quests you can embark on 
 which are both easy and exciting, taking down criminals, investigating unknown regions of the universe.
 
  
  The combat is somewhat like Gears of War if you do think about it, it is fast and fun, and there 
 is some considerable tactical elements to consider, you can issue commands using the radial interface 
 they provide you with, but its alot more fun to let them do that themselves personally, and its 
 alot more fun to cut down people with strong guns then to spend your time in the menus micromanaging 
 your teammates. You do get a hand full of weapons at your disposal, the weapons that you want are 
 probably going to be at the C-SEC academy, there are a ton of weapons in the game, but most of 
 them are just different variations of the weapons you are already given in the game, its not necessarily 
 a bad thing, cause its the feel of the weapons that really give you the rush, the Assault Rifle 
 does seem to get you through most of the battles, but the shotgun is very useful in close quarters, 
 the only 2 guns I personally thought were very useless were probably the pistol, and the sniper 
 rifle, the pistol is very weak at its early stages, but even then, it lacks punch, the sniper isn't 
 very steady which actually ends up in alot of missed shots cause Shepard won't keep his hand steady, 
 it would've helped to give the sniper a bipod of sorts, or at least give Shepard the option to 
 prone, but since you spend probably most of your time in the frontlines, the shotgun and assault 
 rifle really do the job.
  
  Characters in Mass Effect are probably the best of Bioware, when you really get to know your crew, 
 it feels like you really are a commander, and you actually do care what happens to your crew, in 
 the event that they die, or do something great, Ashley Williams, Tali, Dr. Liara T'soni, and Wrex 
 are probably the most interesting of the bunch, Kaiden does not talk to you unless you create a 
 female commander. All of which have a very good backstory, Ashley was probably the one character 
 that dragged me into the story since her backstory is pretty long, and because its like you really 
 are talking to a live person when you get to know her, or possibly any of your crew members.
  
  In Mass Effect, the combat is fun, but when you get your teammates, thats when the action gets 
 heated up, you get 6 squad members with you, but 2 of which can accompany you on missions, it is 
 hard to pick who you want to come with you on these missions, but I found that the most effective 
 in combat were Ashley Williams, the Combat Specialist, and Tali, the machinist who specializes 
 in Tech Abilities which come handy in later scenario's since for the most part, you spend your 
 time unlocking storage lockers, weapon lockers, logs, and crashed probes, some of which give you 
 special side missions which you can embark on for extra experience.
  Thing about the combat is that the AI is a bit suspect, sometimes your teammates won't follow you 
 into battle, they will just stand there, that usually makes you reload from your last save, it 
 gets annoying, but you will soon adapt to it, the enemy AI is good, but there biotic powers seem 
 to hit you dead on, which is kinda weird, but nothing bad in which cases.
  
  The universe in Mass effect is beautiful to explore, reading up on these planets is also interesting, 
 it sucked me right into the game cause I always liked studying space, galaxies, and this really 
 gave me a sense of what it would be like to be on a space ship, just staring out into the beauties 
 of space. There are not many planets that you can land on, but on the ones you can, you get deployed 
 onto with a Mako, an equivalent to the M2 Bradley that our special forces use today, it isn't the 
 best part about the game since the vehicle is almost impossible to maneuver in, its very hard to 
 move backwards, since they think you are trying to go forward, and if you stare backwards, you 
 have to press forward to go back. Perhaps the most annoying thing about the vehicle, is that balls 
 of energy that the geth colossus throw at you, are very slow, Theoretically the Mako should be 
 able to dodge it, but most of the time, it thinks you are trying to turn around if you are facing 
 side ways, and pressing in left on the left thumbstick. With that aside, landing and exploring 
 the planets is a treat on its own, since they are expansive, and they always have some sort of 
 little surprise on flatlands for you when you travel on them. Thresher maws are probably another 
 annoying thing about the Mako, its impossible to defeat the beast in one play through, since sometimes 
 you will explode because the Thresher Maws spawned right under your Mako, its annoying, but combat 
 in the Mako is even worse, since you can't aim down, even though your crosshair is saying otherwords, 
 resulting in alot of missed hits. A weird thing that Bioware added is the inclusion of Omni-Gel, 
 its a weird addition that bypassed anything that needs decryption, it doesn't get in the way of 
 the gameplay, but I personally thought it was a weird thing that they added.
  
  Biotics in the game are basically magic or force powers in other words, they are fun to pull, but 
 at the same time, you have guns that you can deal with to, its used in the defensive way usually, 
 to sort of push them away, or destroy there guns, I personally didn't care for them since I run-and-gunned 
 most of the game, both ways are satisfying, but if you want the achievements, then I recommend 
 that you use the biotics as much as possible.
  
  Graphically, the game looks stunning, Environments are very interesting to explore, Artistically 
 its FANTASTIC, aliens look believable, they animate superbly, they are really expressive, bump 
 mapping is very well done, and the character models are very detailed, high poly counts all around. 
 Guns look very space age, some actually have unnecessary details on it, but then again, anything 
 is possible in 2183. if there is anything bad about this games visuals is that the framerate gets 
 hammered at the worst possible moments, usually when you equip radioactive, or polonium round, 
 and mow through enemy ranks, than the framerate drops like a drunk guy at a party. The framerate 
 is not a problem, it does run smooth at times, but it doesn't bother you in the game, the game 
 is so much fun that sometimes you just ignore the whole thing and just keep on playing.
  
  A must have if you like RPG's in general, if you hated RPG's in the past, this might be the one 
 game that might tip you over the fence into getting an RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  At first glance and trying out the first 30 minutes of Mass effect, I couldn't help but be a little 
 skeptical on if this game was to truly play out as well as it had the potential for. Well, I can 
 save the nerds some relief, this is a strong contender for game of the year, bioware has outdone 
 itself (Again... and again) .
  
  The World of Mass Effect: Around 2148 or so, Humans stumbled upon Prothean technology, a race that 
 had apparently been wiped out about 50,000 years ago (though they won't find that out for a while) . 
 They gain access to new technology using mass effect, allowing abilities to travel extremely far 
 distances in a short time, a. k. a. Light speed+.
  
  Fast forwarding to the present (of the game beginning) , your mission as a marine will have you investigate, 
 obtain, and bring back a newly discovered prothean beacon. Welcome to Eden Prime. The rest of the 
 story does not dissapoint at all. Although you could tag on the "Oh it's star trek again lawl" 
 idea, look at Halo for instance. Take the story of starcraft, and tag on a weapon of galactic destruction 
 that the protoss worship.
  
  How saving the world plays: Although you may hiss at first at how the structure of combat is, it 
 just takes some learning to get used to - It Also depends on what class you decide to take. A soldier 
 will lean more towards combat, with a few bonus abilities available to start with, a much more 
 traditional GoW gameplay. 
  
  An engineer combines tech abilities with super pistol action - An example of a great engineer ability 
 is Overload, eliminating a large amount of shield power with a little explosive damage. All these 
 abilities come with a cooldown fyi. Finally an adept will have Biotic powers, using mass effect 
 to affect (ha ha.... = ( ) the environment, and more specifically, the enemies around you. It's essentially 
 psychic powers, lift your enemies, throw them around, create black holes to fling around your enemies 
 from a good distance, etc.
  
  Talking Time: As far as the world outside of combat goes... Wheel! Of! Talking! Bioware goes one 
 step farther from Elder scrolls conversations and allows a nicer variety of choices, which can 
 greatly affect the outcome (s) of the game. A good example, without giving away anything, is there 
 are at least a couple instances where your choices will determine if substantially important people 
 will live or die. Even minor differences in who's with your team can change the conversations that 
 go on - During a certain boss battle fight, both before and after, the events are "expanded" if 
 that character is in your party - and no, I won't say who.
  
  The ber Audio: Brilliant voice acting, on par with Elder Scrolls Oblivion, including even the 
 voice acting of Seth Green. It's astounding work, with the exception of a certain boss before you 
 fight them (You know who I; m talking about if you played this.) The music is stellar when it does 
 go on. I sear during Virmire, I heard the music that plays for terrans in starcraft.... Hmm. 
 
  
  A facial makeover: At first seeing the graphical beauty of the environments, you will say wow several 
 times. After seeing some of the modifications for realism for the charaacters in this game, you 
 will be shocked and amazed. It does not dissapoint. I've nothing else to say about that, just take 
 a look.
  
  
  The Bottom Line: Get this game if you are one of the following: A nerd, you own an xbox 360, you 
 like to kill people, you are human. Good hunting.
  
  
  What made this less than a 10: Side quests could've been a little more story-driven and interesting (although 
 some are) . That's where oblivion wholeheartedly succeeded... Strange when you enjoy the side quests 
 more than the main game itself. Just little things like that you'll spot that make you want a little 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: operationivy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  The way you travel around the city seems highly reminiscent of KOTOR, but the level designs seem 
 like a mix between Halo and KOTOR. The voice acting is great, which is good because you're talking 
 for a vast portion of the game. Dialouge is crucial to your success, and it's awesome that you're 
 rewarded for just talking to various people in experience and exp in Paragon or Renegade. (The 
 slightly altered equivalent to the light and dark side.) Rather than in KOTOR where Light and Dark 
 counterbalance one another you can build both paragon and renegade without penalizing whichever 
 you neglect. I just bought it yesterday, and I'd be playing it right now, but my Roomie is playing 
 Super Mario Galaxy. 
  
  Infiltrator level 6, get off me. 
  
  I have dreams off killing the dreams.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: commandstation
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  In a nutshell (Rating 10 out of 10) :
  To give you an idea of what this game is like, Mass Effect is a combination of a movie with interactive 
 action and RTS qualities. To classify this game, I would call it a sci-fi thriller. To reflect 
 upon the plot and the characters, I would have to say it's sort of a combination of Babylon 5, 
 Star Wars, Firefly, 1999, and 2001/2010 Space Odyssey. But the story is unique and thrilling.
 
  
  Graphics (Rating 10 out of 10) :
  Two words: Holy Sh**! The colors and variation is massive and gorgeous. The environments onworld 
 and offworld are breathtaking. If you remember the sci-fi concept art of the 70's and 80's, it 
 like that with brilliance. Gamer Review websites have criticized the framerate of Mass Effect in 
 certain spots - but there is an explaination. The size and scope of the game is so massive that 
 XBOX has trouble managing all of this in memory. If the game needs to load something during gameplay 
 (it never loads ( (slows down) ) in combat or any situation) let off your controller. It may take 
 3 seconds and that's it. After 3 hours of game play you may get lag. You'll need to save the game 
 and restart. Memory is not handled well on a game this size (with PC/Mac/or anyother platform with 
 the exception of UNIX) . You can't blame BioWare.
  
  Audio Music and Voice (Rating 10 out of 10) :
  The music is a bit of a throw back to the 80's 
 in synthized music. I kept thinking about how this music is loosely similar to John Carpender's 
 movies. But the music is beautiful and appropriate. The voice acting is top notch. The actors are 
 instantly known when you hear them speak and they are really into their roles.
  
  Gameplay (Rating 10 out of 10) : 
  Gameplay is smooth and easy to understand. The only difficulty 
 is taking in how to upgrade/use weapons, armor, biotics, and tech. After about 2 hours I was completely 
 comfortable with Mass Effect. Don't worry, you'll gradually be worked into using these. Once you 
 get the hang of it, the gameplay is superior. 
  
  Overall - this game is a revolution! Yes - it has been compared to Knights of the Old Republic 
 ... but that's like comparing a Chevy to Fomula One racing car. Both are cars, but you'll agree, 
 that both are seriously different! 
  
  Warning: There is a nude scene with the Commander and one of his crew. Not recommended for young 
 eyes!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMorris101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  When you play Mass Effect you need to rethink a few things 
  
  1. Even though it acts like a 3rd person shooter at times it should not be approached like one. 
 You will die lots if you do.
  2. You must like a plot in your games.
  3. You must be willing to set some time aside to play and enjoy!
  4. Don't rush it.
  
  This 
 game has an amazing story, great graphics and sound and yes the combat works very well as long 
 as you take note of my point 1.
  
  In a world were many developers are taking the easy route of creating shallow multiplayer games, 
 it is nice to see developers taking the time to create something as big and deep as this. I am 
 looking forward to seeing the other 2 parts of this story.
  
  The only negative thing I can say is that the graphics chop and stutter sometimes and I would have 
 liked even more side missions (I am greedy I know) .
  
  This game is a must buy. Vote with your cash and buy it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: USAFA2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  As you may have already heard, the game throws you right into it KOTOR style w/o much of a pre-gameplay 
 tutorial and teaches you on the fly. However, unlike KOTOR, it isn't that helpful because the game 
 doesn't pause before going into combat like KOTOR, so figuring out how to fight at first is extremely 
 hard. The controls behave much looser than that of GRAW (another OTS, over-the-shoulder, 3rd person 
 shooter, though not RPG) and its frustrating because you just don't have the precision to aim that 
 you would want.
  
  And I'm not gonna lie, every time I was in combat for the first few hours I was extremely frustrated 
 that I had plopped out $86 for the Limited Edition version with overnight shipping from Gamestop 
 (and thank you Gamestop for getting it to me at 11:30 AM on launch day!! Much faster than if I 
 had waited to go to the store) . However the graphics, music, and massive-seeming scale of the game 
 kept me going. Now don't get me wrong, I wasn't dying a lot, but I don't think a game should have 
 you barely surviving each fight because your character isn't leveled.
  
  During this time of combat-duress, the rest of the elements of the game kept me going. I loved 
 KOTOR (I and II) , and having a world like that, but without the annoying subtitles for dialogue 
 AND your character actually talks back!! How sweet is that?? Even Oblivion can't give that to you 
 (granted its b/c of the massive amount of characters you can create and not b/c of anything lacking 
 ability wise, and I love Oblivion too haha) . It just helps to immerse you into the game and you 
 never feel disconnected.
  
  Speaking of which, a lot of people are ragging on the texture popping. But let me ask you, do you 
 want to be able to make a sandwich between each map or would you rather never be disconnected from 
 the game, minus space travel and some planet explorations, and hear the hilarious elevator commentary? 
 The reason for the texture popping is load times, and I will gladly have some textures pop in here 
 and there after I've already come into the level rather than wait.
  
  Plus, the graphics are absolutely mind-blowing, so texture popping or high load times are a must. 
 The film grain effect makes dialogue absolutely astounding and extremely cinematic like. Especially 
 because by pressing A to select an option, your character will automatically chime in at the right 
 point, potentially creating a seamless transition between characters. And the environments look 
 beautiful as well. Later on in the game as you go exploring you'll come across a number of different 
 planets and all of them just blow you away with their detail (esp. the earth-like planets) . Some 
 NPCs in the game aren't as well done as your character or party, however they still look awesome. 
 And your character looks the best out of everyone. Now let me say that all of this is in HD and 
 playing it on a non-HD TV i noticed the text becomes slightly harder to read, but overall the game 
 still looks great, though there is a noticeable difference.
  
  However the one thing that remains constant between HD and non-HD is the sound. This game has the 
 most amazing sound track I have ever heard in a game. Perfectly cued dramatic music cuts in at 
 just the right time to send you deeper into the story. The sound effects are clear and crisp and 
 the voice acting is by far the best in any game to date. I have yet to come across a repeat voice 
 (and with over 200+ actors I might never find one) .
  
  The combat. As I said earlier, at first it is frustrating and hard. But one you level up and start 
 to gain skills you can use, it becomes better and your squad means more. At first its best to just 
 send your squad in and snipe away from a distance with the pistol or sniper. But as you level up, 
 so does your team (KOTOR style, so everyone levels even if you don't have them) , so they also gain 
 skills. By the end of the game, by the time you get one shot off, the enemy your facing is dead 
 b/c your teammates help out a lot, even on veteran. I admit, I thought the squad sucked at first, 
 but again it grows on you.
  
  The scope of the game isn't as big as I had originally thought, with only about 2 systems in each 
 cluster on average and I have yet to find a system with more than 1 landable planet. However its 
 still huge and will take you hours to visit every single planet and survey everything in the game. 
 And on the replay, it might be tedious to do everything again. But the fact that you can replay 
 the game w/ your ending character stats makes it pretty fun as well, especially on the harder difficulties.
 
  
  Overall Mass Effect is a great game. It starts out weak, but thats because of the uniqueness of 
 the combat system and the heavy reliance on skills in order to make it smoother. However as you 
 play more, combat gets easier as you adapt to it and level up, plus the story starts to deepen. 
 The graphics are the best to date for an RPG as well as the sound (both music and everything else) .
 
  
  If you picked Mass Effect up and didn't like it, stick it out awhile, get past level 20 and see 
 how you like it. And if you get bored, you're probably not doing the main quest, because the side 
 stuff is a bit tedious, however the main quest is solid. If ever the saying "don't judge a book 
 by its cover" applies, it never fit better than here, because hiding underneath a unique combat 
 system and deep story lies the best RPG from Bioware yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickstar28
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  Reviews for this game has been mixed, it's always good but only sometimes great in the reviews. 
 Fans who have been looking forward to the game and assumed that it was going to be 10/10 before 
 it had even been released are probably dissapointed from the review scores.
  I personally was looking forward, and expected great things, but Edge's 7/10 and gamespots 8.5 
 made feel a little deflated. Edge can be harsh at times but always justifiably so. 
  Regardless, I've got the game, am 6 hours in and am very much enjoying the game. The sort of shooters 
 I enjoy are: Half life, Thief, halo, deus ex, graw and splinter cell. I'm not a big roll playing 
 fan, and totally couldn't get into knights of the old republic mainly because of the 'point and 
 click' combat. Equally tho, I love games like Deus Ex , Bioshock and Zelda which have RPG elements. 
 
  The best way to sum up the gameplay of Mass Effect is that it's an RPG which is trying to be a 
 shooter. The best thing is that it pulls it off, the combat is similar to gears of war and halo. 
 It's from the 'cover and fire' school of shooting and it works smoothly without glitch. Its comparisons 
 to halo are in its art style, vehicle combat and weapon balace. So with this visceral combat aproach 
 to the RPG I am satisfied with the action and it keeps me entertained and just makes the absorbing 
 universe seem smooth. I just simply thought that the fact you couldn't actually swing your lightsaber 
 in Knights was so off-putting I didn't want to play the rest of the game.
  I can't be bothered to write anymore haha. 
  Basically it has some faults but when you weigh 
 them up next to how much the game achieves in it's looks, story, scope, scale, intelligence it 
 comes out like a massive achievement, it's the most impressive game I've played and the most ambitious. 
 Well done Bioware. In Mass Effect 2 you can improve on the glitches ADD MORE SAVE POINTS!!! and 
 tidy up the combat and vehicle controls. OK? OK!!!!? YOU FKin HEAR ME? YEAH?!? lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murisaki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  In Mass Effect you take control of Commander Shepard, one of the hardest men in the galaxy as he 
 tries to hunt down the rouge spectre Saren before he unleashes chaos throughout the galaxy. Developed 
 by BioWare, Mass Effect is an RPG like none-other, incorporating amazing storytelling with gun 
 combat, movie-like interactions and a whole galaxy to explore, Mass Effect is one of the hottest 
 360 games this year.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  + Combat is fun and rewarding, with a great variety of skills and weapons to choose from.
  + 
 Conversation wheel is a fantastic addition.
  + Great variety of classes.
  + Skill wheel is easy to use and doesn't hurt the flow of battles.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  + Amazing 
 character models and motion capture.
  + Superb art direction.
  + Each planet has it's own distinctive look.
  - Frame rate and texture pop-up come up frequently.
 
  
  SOUND:
  + Believeable voice performances throughout.
  + 80's Sci-Fi soundtrack sounds perfect.
  + Great sound effects.
  - Some sounds tend to sound 
 a little bit quiet.
  
  VALUE:
  + Lots of sub-missions and galaxies to explore.
  + Key points in story demand replays for different outcomes.
  + 45 achievements reward multiple 
 playthroughs with different actions.
  + Future downloadable content.
  + Stat-building helps add extra variety.
  + Fantastic story with many memorable moments.
  - 
 Some interface problems.
  - Main story feels a bit short.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT:
  There just aren't enough games like Mass Effect, which only makes this game all the more incredible. 
 Every detail of the game screams out quality, from the story, to the characters and the voice-acting 
 that carries it, Mass Effect really feels like a Sci-Fi movie, except you decide everything. It's 
 depth like this that tends to miss other games, but BioWare really hit it with this gem. It may 
 have a few little problems, but aside from them, this is one hell of an adventure, and any fan 
 of BioWare's work or Sci-Fi in general owes their live to play this game. Potential Game of the 
 Year? In my book, yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronid76
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  Look i could go into a long review pointing out all the little flaws this game has but seriously 
 .... come on.... this game is frigging amazing how it only got an 8.5 is crazy. If you are into rpgs 
 this is a MUST have not only are the characters and npcs super cool but most importantly its just 
 mad fun to play, i spent 8 hours straight the other day on it and only reason i stopped is because 
 my girlfriend was freaking out on me. GO BUY THIS GAME NOW!!!! support those dudes at bioware so 
 they can make mass effect 2.
  
  (Wrex ftw) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supertoast_GT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a very unique experience. It combines third person shooting, an RPG leveling and 
 stats system with a deep, moving storyline. Although it has some bugs, it really sets the bar for 
 a next-gen RPG.
  
  In Mass Effect, you play the role of a commander in humanity's alliance military. Your race has 
 recently joined a council consisting of multiple alien races. (Think of it as the United Nations 
 here.) There goal is to retain peace and balance among the races thrououtght the Milky Way galaxy. 
 You are given the ultimate position of your race. You are a Spectre, sent to face a seemingly small 
 threat of a rouge spectre. Little do you know, a greater threat looms that threatens every sentient 
 being in the galaxy. A machine race called the geth, seeks to destroy everything. Your job as a 
 spectre, is to do whatever it takes to save the galaxy.
  
  The graphics are truly next generation. Facial features radiate pure emotion like never seen in 
 gaming. Expressions like, anger, rejection, and love, are crystal clear. You can see the sadness 
 and joy in th eyes. Draw distances seem never ending. The environments can look amazing. A personal 
 favorite of mine, is the view from the citadel, and seeing the earth from the moon. There are a 
 lot of framerate problems though. It never seems to stay steady for long. Areas with extreme weather 
 hazards tend to lower it considerably. Also, textures and bump mapping tend to load in slowly. 
 (Think Halo 2 cutscenes times 10.) But here, the goods outweigh the bads.
  
  The sound, and voice acting are completely flawless, and really pull you into the game. An all-star 
 cast really added to the experience. Deep booming explosions are always a good thing. And the soundtrack 
 is amazing. (Not surprising coming from BioWare,) I had to get the soundtrack after I heard the 
 romance theme nuff' said.
  
  The story is amazing, and moving. When you add a romance plot of your choice, it shines even brighter. 
 I did a whole extra play through for it Exploring, and reading about uncharted worlds is quite 
 amazing. Mass Effect is truly Sci-fi.
  
  The gameplay is just as good. Shooting and covering feel nice. And Biotic powers and talents add 
 a nice twist. Solid controls, and animations follow suit. There are some problems tough. Handling 
 the Mako (Roaver vehicle) is a bit strange, and it can't seem to handle shooting enemies above, 
 or below it, and it can get stuck in geometry, forcing a reload.
  
  
  Overall, a very impressive package, The main issue I have with it though, is that you have to load 
 a previous save after beating the game. You can't continue on. In that sense, it sucks you in, 
 and spits you out. The game can freeze during a loading screen now and then, and as a result, could 
 have used some more polish and testing. But don't let this stop you from entering the vast and 
 amazing universe of Mass Effect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  I went into this game with high expectations and for the most part all of them were met. If you've 
 played any of Bioware's games you know what ME is like, but this time its a rich and colorful space 
 adventure that will suck you in.
  
  The Graphics are top notch, and realy well done, the only downer is textures from time to time 
 load slower than the game and you'll see them pop into all there glory seconds after the load screen 
 has ended. This isn't a huge problem but it can get annoying if you over analyse it.
  
  Sound is great, all the voice acting is well done and helps to weave a great story. Sadly the only 
 downer here is the music was a little spartan. Often times areas didn't have the music you'd expect 
 to draw you into the moment, this was quite apperent in many of the games side missions.
  
  The game has a ton of content, I'm actualy in my second run right now. The downer with all this 
 is, that while it has a ton of content much of it is "cut and paste" bases or locations. Many of 
 the unexplored planets feel the same, and you'll run into three types of buildings, the bunker 
 like structure, the underground facility and the mine shaft. This can be forgiven because the rest 
 of the game has a wonderful story but after playing it for more than 40 hours you begin to see 
 how much these structures were used. The upside is that ME2 is bound to have more details, as now 
 they have a pre-built engine to use and don't need to spend as much time on that stuff.
  
  Overall the game is great and deserves any Xbox fans time. If you like RPGs your covered, if you 
 like Shooters your covered and if you just like a well done game your also covered. The game has 
 a little somthing for everyone and the fact that you create your character and guide there every 
 action realy gives you a sence of strong attachment to the game universe.
  
  If your thinking about buying it but arn't sure, I say go out and get it you won't be dissapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohalo3
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  The pros:
  
  Great storyline
  Great Voice acting
  Powers are friggin sweet
  You can be nice or really piss people off for something to do
  Really detailed graphics
  Lots 
 of weapon, armor, and character customization
  Combat is good for the most part
  You get to make lots of decisions that effect the outcome of the game
  Seth Green plays as your 
 ship's pilot --how sweet is that?!
  
  The cons:
  
  Driving the vehicle can be really annoying, especially when trying to change directions.
  The 
 combat can start to get annoying from time to time
  Bosses are pretty easy on normal mode
  
  Overall:
  Awesome game, fully worth the sixty bucks. After you have beaten it, all you want 
 to do is pick up the controller and make a new character so you can explore what you missed the 
 first time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PCHolt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I'm surprised at the meager 8.5 score given by GameSpot. Usually their reviews are right on the 
 money for what I would rate a game. The game isn't perfect (thus my 9.5 score) but its minor flaws 
 with graphics, inventory management and savegame mechanics are so overshadowed by the pure fun 
 of the game-play and story that you hardly even notice them.
  
  The side quests sometimes seem to pull you away from the main story line, but I have not yet found 
 each one to be unique and fun in its own way. They never seem to feel cheap or useless, and will 
 help you level up your characters and gather better loot for the battles ahead.
  
  Combat is whatever you want to make of it. You can micromanage all your special powers by continually 
 pausing and targeting enemies using detailed stategy or play it like a 3rd person shooter in simular 
 fashion to Gears of War. So far I've played my character to level 16 on normal difficulty, but 
 if the combat ever starts to seem to unchallenging, you can adjust the combat and targeting difficulty 
 to make it more of a challenge.
  
  I have been a dedicated PC gamer for years and this game was one of a select few that made me purchase 
 a console system. More games like this - instead of your typical console run-and-gun games, and 
 I think there will be even more PC-to-Console converts like myself. Great job on this one BioWare! 
 Keep the great games coming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donkey-Warrior
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  An amazing master piece, with a few flaws that do nothing to hide the beauty and quaility that 
 Bioware has crafted!!!!!!
  
  A must play for anyone who owns an Xbox 360, and by far the greatest RPG to date. From the score 
 and voice acting, to the heart racing and emotional drvien sequences that scatter this game, it 
 is by far my most cherished game. It has flaws that can often be frustrating (combat) , but they 
 still cannot hinder the experience the game has to offer.
  
  Being a fan of video games and sci-fi, this game took my breath away and continues to do so as 
 I play along!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f5lesnar2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Bioware knows RPG's, they've done amazing with titles like Knights of the Old Republic and Jade 
 Empire. Mass Effect has been in production for some time and is one of the most anticipated games 
 ever. For the most part Mass Effect accomplishes what it sets out to do. In standard RPG fashion 
 you play a character charged with the task of saving the galaxy. From the get go you can play through 
 the game extremely different every time, you can choose from male or female, 3 different psychcological 
 and military backgrounds, and 6 different classes. What sets Mass Effect apart from any other RPG 
 is it's level of character interaction, like previous Bioware titles you can choose what your character 
 says and does. Thankfully your decisions actually have a potential consequence, including your 
 party size, how you go about missions, and the ending. When it comes down to combat, Mass Effect 
 is an interesting beast. It plays and feels like a shooter, but you need to remember the RPG elements. 
 While its so easy to play the game like Gears of War, you'll certainly be killed unless you start 
 to incorporate your biotic (magic) and tech abilities. While the story and combat are top notch, 
 the game is by no means perfect. Most of the problems lie in the technical aspect, textures sometimes 
 fail to load at the proper times. The game will randomly throw in load times and the auto-save 
 is less than reliable. On one occasion I've had a character model not appear in a cutscene, which 
 is odd when the other character interacts with them. However considering the how rich the rest 
 of the game is its easy to overlook a few flaws, hopefully Bioware can release a patch to fix it 
 though. It would appear Bioware has plans for downloadable content as the main menu has a link 
 for a page showing what you have, which as of now if none of course. With a confirmed trilogy planned, 
 Mass Effect has a huge reputation to already live up to, hopefully they are up to the challenge. 
 But for now Mass Effect is simply one of the best games on the XBox360, and all other consoles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xile2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Simply the best game released so far for the 360. A solid Cover System, talent/weapon balancing, 
 and a great storyline, an dialogue system that makes you recognize the emotions of the people you're 
 talking to people. look's simply amazing on my Standard-Def TV and i can't wait unitl i can have 
 a crack at with my dads 60 inch plasma in FT Mac. If you want to blow through the story go ahead, 
 its not that long. but if you can take the time to do side quests, survey and explore planets, 
 and generally fool around you will be rewarded.
  
  The game has excellent tension in important scenes. (warning spoiler ahead) on Virmire you learn 
 of a cure that the antagonist, Saren, is making to cure the Krogan Genophage. You and your Salarian 
 allies have to destroy the facility and the cure with it. this makes the Krogan, Wrex, understandably 
 angry. in the tense dialogue you and Wrex pull guns on eadh other. you have several options to 
 try and calm him down. if the conversation doesn't work, you or a crew member ends up shooting 
 Wrex before he shoots you.
  
  Not to mention -- ahem -- relations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spencdiamonds
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  This is a masterpiece I have not seen a game this good since 1998 when half-life was realeased. 
 There is such a masive story that you are put into but what most companys do not do is let the 
 player choose what to say. I got to choose! What my choices did effected the game THE Player himself 
 what you make him as what people you help everything is intertwined you make life or death situations 
 in a game that sucks you in. I must say even though in is perfect there is no such word for somthing 
 in existince this game is good with massive replay value and hours upon hours of one gameplay will 
 keep you in it and wanting to play it. The only single problem I had was some monor glitches when 
 I would be stuck and be forced to restart other than that the gameplay grahics everything was well 
 done. I play mostly shooters and being an RPG turned me away from it but in the end you will not 
 see a game that is actually this good in my years to come.
  If you dont like this then so be it BUT for the people who actually like games and stuff alike 
 this is the game that you must get its beyond comprehention I cannot even say how good this is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMontana1004
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Stunning graphics, good start to a soon to be classic series, one of the most immersive 
 games you will ever play, one of the most epic storylines you will ever come across (it sent chills 
 down my spine from start to finish) , great character customization, plenty of backstory, revolutionary 
 dialogue which immerses you even more, fun, challenging, and addictive combat, a soundtrack that 
 is almost as beautiful as Halo's, and the ever-changing storyline that gives more freedom in a 
 game than you would ever expect.
  
  The Bad: Technical difficulties can be annoying (they are pretty rare/unnoticeable so no worries) , 
 inventory needs some improvements as it can be very annoying when clearing it out, exploring uncharted 
 planets can get a bit repetitive, main quest could have been longer, side quests are good but need 
 some modifications, and you are unable to go back and get things you missed after you complete 
 the main story (although you can start over and get all of your inventory, money, and stats back) .
 
  
  Short and sweet. Mass Effect is a true masterpiece shouldn't be overlooked by ANY gamer. It is 
 a thrill ride from beginning to end with plot twists, many "holy ****" moments, breathtaking sights, 
 sexy aliens, badass crew members (Wrex is one hell of a soldier) , a changing storyline that will 
 often have you saying "was that really the right thing to do", etc. etc. etc. Now that you have 
 read my short little review, you MUST go get this game NOW! You will be hooked! I swear by this 
 game that you will not be disappointed! Don't let the GS review sway you away from this incredible 
 experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vendetta_89
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I am generally a FPS gamer. To me. theres no better feeling that a video game can provide then 
 shooting a virtual gun at a virtual assailant. Thats why I am so blown away that I absolutely love 
 Mass Effect. I had seen early footage of the game and thought it looked good but didn't really 
 know the extent of the greatness of this game till I played it for myself.
  
  First off let me say that this game has the best story out of any game ever made. Its so engrossing, 
 so multi-faceted that I that the only other game that I can compare it to is KOTOR (another BioWare 
 game lol) and even then its just way better. 
  
  The dialog is also incredible. You really feel like you are talking to another person and not just 
 going through lines of text. The voice overs are great as well and add to the conversations perfectly. 
 The actual sound effects are solid too and the score, while weird, is original and cool.
  
  The graphics in the game are some of the best around. There are technical issues like frame rate 
 issues and while Ive heard of other, more significant problems, I haven't encountered them.
  
  The gameplay is what makes this game shine. It ca be accurately described as a hybrid of third 
 person shooting with heavy RPG elements (It is an RPG after all) Everything comes off fantastically 
 and only does more to immerse you into the world.
  
  So, should you buy Mass Effect? Yes. Is it better then the Gamespot review score. Hell yes. Mass 
 Effect is probably the best RPG of the year, or any year and should be played by anyone that has 
 an interest in games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuffinPunk
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I'll just come out and say it now. This is truly the greatest most immersive game I have ever played. 
 If you have any doubts about it don't worry because what makes it great destroys its cons. This 
 is first and RPG. So expect lots of leveling up, earned experience, new abilities and major collecting 
 and upgrading. Combat is Real time with the ability to pause time by using a power or weapons select 
 menu. This lets you choose who's using what, doing what, to whom you choose. So if you want Teammate 
 X to use a biotics attack on enemy Y, then you use this menu which is extremely easy and helpful. 
 You could go all real time and map a power to the RB but you'll want to use this since it makes 
 everything better, and gives you complete control over your whole squad. Now dialogue is always 
 a huge part of Bioware games and Mass Effect is no different. Actually you'll probably talk a lot 
 more in this game then any other since it's so well done. Instead of skipping paragraphs you'll 
 listen intently. The Facial animations, especially on aliens such as the salarians, are purely 
 amazing. There's also a lot to do. I mean a lot! Aside from the single player story, the meat of 
 your time can be spent on side quests or as they call them, assignments. These force you to travel 
 to the different planets spread across the galaxy. and You'll be addicted to them. Even going to 
 a random planet just to look around and find some loot is fun. I just want to mention that I haven't 
 beat the game yet nor have I explored all the planets. The time spent playing is not reflective 
 of the longevity of the game which is much longer for sure. Bioware knows what there doing and 
 all I can say is keep it coming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  http://www. projectcoe. com/microsoft/games/mass_effect. html? var1=sc3
  
  Stories are awesome. It doesn't matter if they're in a game, a book, a movie, etc. It's always 
 been intriguing to bear witness to the imaginations and creativity of script writers, especially 
 in the gaming medium, but there's a problem. Open-ended plots have existed for far longer than 
 most realize, however, it's unfortunate that it's yet to be taken to the next level. In other words, 
 in this day and age, we've yet to reach a point where gamers can say, "Yeah, that's the new standard 
 for decision-driven stories." Well, things have changed, and we're now in a console generation 
 that allows software makers to enrich our lives with virtual interactions that we've never seen. 
 Perhaps it's no surprise that a RPG is responsible for the latest evolution in story telling.
 
  
  Mass Effect from BioWare (KOTOR/Jade Empire) does have a main tale that can't be dramatically changed, 
 but it's how it develops that grants the player a huge degree of influence. Before the latest 360 
 RPG begins, you must bring the main character, Commander Shepard, to life. If you want a more personalized 
 experience, it's highly encouraged to build from your profile from scratch: encompassing your face, 
 backstory, combat specialty and all. If you tend to be impatient or just don't care about customization, 
 you can have ME generate a character for you. Now I'm not going to go into any details on the general 
 story, if you want to know, just take a quick gander at our preview.
  
  It's the choose your adventure style of Mass Effect that's so appealing, and it's done through 
 the extremely impressive conversation system. BioWare has rather made it famous through their past 
 games mentioned earlier, but what they've managed to achieve here is absolutely amazing. While 
 your ability to shape NPC attitudes and the plot as a whole doesn't come every time you speak to 
 someone, most characters that allow you to press A to Talk carry significant weight. What blows 
 my mind is how BioWare really made humanity in the game morewell, human-like, by allowing for 
 shades of grey in how you interact with whoever you do. Commander Shepard is accompanied by two 
 meters, Paragon and Renegade, and depending on a combination of your actions and diplomacy (or 
 lack thereof) , how humankind is perceived can change for better or worse. Also, based on your Charm 
 and Intimidate skills, at some point in the adventure you can gain access to up to six possible 
 responses to something that an NPC says. Usually they range from Renegade-driven, neutral and Paragon-style, 
 but what I thought to be really interesting is how all the responses you can choose aren't longer 
 than three words. That means during your first playthrough at least, you won't have a clue as to 
 what Shepard will really say. Were it not for character interaction, Mass Effect would be just 
 another 360 shooter, because let's face it, even BioShock has formidable RPG elements.
  
  That actually leads into what I'm covering next beautifully, the Mass Effect presentation. Building 
 on the momentum of discussing player-influenced plot, I want to point out how successful BioWare 
 was in taking open-ended stories to the next level in another area. Every conversation in this 
 interactive masterpiece feels incredibly meaningful, even those that aren't necessarily main plot-driven. 
 Why? Because the emotion absolutely raptures you. Whatever BioWare did to make the faces of NPCs 
 alone have so much inspiring expression, I applaud them for. If you've ever wondered what it might 
 be like to see an insanely life-like exchange between two characters in a next-generation RPG, 
 do not pass up Mass Effect. Every wrinkle, every brow, every blemish, no matter what is on a character's 
 face, it is manipulated in such a way to convey the most immersive relationships I've ever seen. 
 Regarding more of the aesthetic side, ME has more to like than not. Most of the character models 
 are designed well, and all the major plot environments have been given the treatment. Heck, even 
 the umpteen planets that span over 15 different galactic systems don't look shabby at all despite 
 the notion that BioWare didn't want to make them all breath-taking. It's just strange that only 
 handful of them can actually be explored.
  
  What puzzles COE is how the game suffers so much from technical issues. The framerate is incredibly 
 unstable, jittering even when you're just running around aimlessly. I've even encountered a couple 
 bugs that break the playability completely, along with at least three instances in which Mass Effect 
 froze to a standstill for twenty seconds or more. For most other games, these issues would destroy 
 the experience, and while it's hardly acceptable, somehow ME is still a great game. It's just disappointing 
 because these drawbacks interrupt the flow of the game sometimes, and it's annoying. At least these 
 development mistakes are made up for in part by the pretty special effects and other little visual 
 goodies. I mean, this is a sci-fi RPG, so of course we shouldn't expect anything less. Awesome 
 gun battles, visual transformations when equipping new gear, and smile-inducing, bloom-enhanced 
 Biotic powers, it's all here, and plenty welcome. Mass Effect looks great, even if it's not the 
 best eye candy on Microsoft's console, and runs well enough to still be a blast.
  
  When you consider gameplay, it's in this department that gamers may be potentially overwhelmed. 
 I'll as might as well make mention that completing the core quest for Commander Shepard and crew 
 isn't exceptionally time-consuming, as it could really be blown through in about 12 to 15 hours. 
 It's everything else that Mass Effect offers that keeps you coming back. The side missions are 
 quite plentiful, and it's comforting that none of them ever feel inconsequential, even the fetch 
 quests, which thankfully there aren't too many of. It's just cool that these NPC-assigned tasks 
 usually have one of two results. One can be further development in how Shepard and humanity is 
 viewed, and the other is actual effect on plot. It's even neat how sometimes when you're in an 
 elevator on the Citadel, the P. A. system relays a few statements surrounding specific things you've 
 done in the game, sort of serving as galactic news.
  
  More important are the combat and special abilities systems. Now in my case as a hardcore gamer, 
 I forced myself to play on Casual (Easy) difficulty during my first playthrough because I was plain 
 sucking. Apparently my lack of experience with previous BioWare titles left me in the dark in terms 
 of how I should make the most out of my character and crew in battle. I was dying left and right, 
 and utterly sick of it, almost considering throwing in the towel. Well, I didn't let that best 
 me, as I completed one file on Casual, and now I'm a several hours into my second adventure on 
 Normal, and I'm doing much better. I wanted to mention that in the case you would run into the 
 same frustrations I was. It doesn't make Mass Effect bad, and hopefully people see through that. 
 Anyway, in terms of how the game plays, it's very straightforward once you understand it. Mass 
 Effect encourages being tactical with your team by issuing orders on the directional pad, but it's 
 really never worth it. Most of the time your mates are surprisingly smart enough to perform effectively, 
 and while there are intelligence problems with things like shooting a partner who just casually 
 walks right into your line of fire, more often than not, they are helpful.
  
  When you disregard orders, ME is a typical third-person shooter, which is absolutely fine, because 
 it functions as we've come to be used to by now. Of course if that was it, there'd be repetition 
 problems, but because of the upgrade and Biotic features, that's hardly the case. With the former, 
 all weapons and armor come with installation slots for gear that makes you more capable in battle, 
 you just have to be aware of it early on or you may be running around with barebones equipment 
 for the first few hours like I was. Biotics is just a fancy word that replaces magic, but these 
 skills distinguish from the RPG stereotype because you aren't dealing out fireballs or devastating 
 winds. The special abilities in Mass Effect are catered more to improving your stance in gun fights. 
 Whether that's the telekinetic Lift that affects one enemy, the area-influencing Warp, or passive 
 abilities that boost the tact of your trigger finger. Shooting and weapon selection (both on the 
 fly or within the equipment wheel that can be brought up) are handled by the right trigger and 
 bumper, and Biotics are handled by the other side of the controller. This also helps Mass Effect 
 in regards to value. Since the six different combat classes vary in what weapons and Biotics you 
 can use, it's safe to say that anyone who plays ME six times wouldn't witness the same adventure 
 they did previously. Finally, with the exploration that takes place due to either random whims 
 or side missions, a majority of the time it's done with the MAKO, the trusty Mass Effect planetary 
 terrain buggy. Brandish with a chain gun, rocket launcher and vertical jet thrusters, the vehicle 
 is BioWare's transportation trademark for ME, next to the Normandy (your space vessel) , and it's 
 usually fun to control. It is possible to become stuck on in-game objects with the six-wheeled 
 contraption, but it's too uncommon to whine about. Plus, when you can completely own on-foot enemies 
 who are dumb enough to expose themselves with a nice rocket, how can you not smile? Folks, if you've 
 been looking for a next-generation title that truly thrives on variety, again, do not pass up Mass 
 Effect.
  
  Last but certainly not least is the almost perfect audio delivery. The voice work is astonishing, 
 as every character has unique, convincing vocals that makes ME feel like an interactive movie at 
 times. The tone, the emotion, the voice variance, it's all incredibly well-done. You should remember 
 my saying that every conversation in Mass Effect is meaningful, and I seriously wasn't kidding. 
 To top it off, BioWare scored some celebrities for some of the character dialogue. Seth Green (Robot 
 Chicken) is none other than Joker, the Normandy's sarcastic bastard of a pilot, and James Earl 
 Jones (Verizon Wireless/Darth Vader) takes care of Captain Anderson, the CO of the Normandy before 
 you take over. Every word, every utter, every grunt, it all sounds spectacular, and I would love 
 it no matter how many times it passes through my ears. The same goes for the sound effects, which 
 emphasizes the action and chaos of every battle, no matter what you're using or where you are. 
 As for the music, it all understandably has a sci-fi feel to it. If you're familiar with the Metroid 
 games or Star Wars movies, you would feel right at home. It's a shame that it took the ending credits 
 for me to hear a theme that really grabbed my attention, but that doesn't mean any of the rest 
 of the composition is sub-par. Hardly, it just means that the effort put into it suits the game 
 well-enough, just not necessarily to make it memorable. Were it not for this, I would've had no 
 problem scoring this part with the coveted 10.
  
  It would seem that my lack of exposure to KOTOR or Jade Empire had minimal bearing on my enjoyment 
 of BioWare's newest release. Even with the technical (framerate and runtime) issues, there is simply 
 too much in Mass Effect that appeases what is a more than likely starving 360 RPG crowd. BioWare 
 also proves to us that you don't need anime-style graphics, creature summons, pretty spells and 
 swords to enjoy a good role player. Heck, if you happened to be one of the few hundred thousand 
 members of the now defunct Earth & Beyond, there's plenty here to help you reminisce, which I certainly 
 have. It's discouraging that we now really only have Eternal Sonata and this to be proud of when 
 it comes to 360 RPGs, but it's ever more encouraging that we have Mass Effect to show all developers 
 that the genre can succeed on a very western-oriented console. Regardless of your BioWare affiliation, 
 look into this if you enjoy action RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morpheus_phd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  I agree, its not a easy game to play if you seek the primary fun. In Biowares games you need 
 to be patient. Like Kotor saga, Mass Effect its a worthy candidate to be include on the restrict 
 group of "art games". Yes we can decompose the game on the graphics, sound, gameplay, longevity 
 issues and criticize or not those points one by one but for me its a error, Mass Effect its a 
 masterpiece when you look to the big picture.
  So if you dream to be part on a epic movie game, you must have it.
  If you are a hard FPS lover 
 maybe its best to avoid this game unless you really want to know new worlds.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boney614
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  mass effect puts a whole new meaning in videogames. Not only does it revolutionize next gen graphics, 
 gameplay, but it sets new standards to what is expected from any upcoming games.
  
  The graphics are absolutely incredable. Sometimes it feels as if you are watching a movie as all 
 of the characters show expression on their faces; wether it is a smile or a frown, or if it is 
 the anger in their eyes to the kindness of their hearts. Characters move and look like they really 
 do exist.
  
  The enviroments are very detailed and create a very good mood to what the place is supposed to 
 feel like. for example, a planet in the game called Eden Prime is described to you by some crew 
 members as a very peaceful and relaxing human colony. When you land on the planet, just looking 
 at the peaceful sunset or sunrise (I don't know which) casting light across the land creating a 
 peacful mood. Looking at the trees casting shadows and the fields with natural rock formation shows 
 that it is a peaceful planet. (besides the gunfire from geth drones and geth themseves) All of the 
 eviroments throughout the game have the same amount of detail and set the proper mood.
  
  The gameplay is a mix of RPG (role playing game) and a third person shooter. I will tell you right 
 now that i'm not a big fan at all with both types, but I decided to try the game out and I just 
 love this game. I am hooked and cannot stop playing. 
  You travel the galaxy with your squad and before each mission you choose who you want in your squad. (you 
 can choose 2 other squad mates except for the early missions when they are chosen for you)
  You and your squad mates are fully upgradable from the weapons and armor, to your ammunition and 
 biotic powers. (biotic powers are force like powers but nothing like star wars) There are a couple 
 of quirks with the menu system when upgrading you weapons but it is nothing that will leave a lasting 
 effect, after playing his game for a bit you can easily overlook it.
  During the game you travel on foot or in a vehicle called the mako as you unravel Saren's ultimate 
 plans. (Saren is the main baddie, that's all i'm telling you) The vehicle combat is fun and works 
 well but it is much more enjoyable to take down the geth on foot with you and your squads lead 
 bullets and biotic powers.
  On top of the main quest their are plenty of NPC's or non player characters whom need your help. 
 You will be given a task from them and when you complete it, just return to them and you gain experience 
 points and money.
  These side quest range from talking to a person for them to "set things right" or you have to find 
 evidence for somthing that npc needs. Some side quests will have you traveling to planets not inhabbited 
 by humans. There is always plenty to do and it is always fun to do it because the exploration never 
 ceases to get old.
  
  Finally, it is the story of Mass Effect that tops off this game. The story is full, and rich and 
 is never dull. When you think you have figured things out, a plot twist is thrown at you. It is 
 absolutely brilliant. Characters throughout the game have a background that if you choose to you 
 can learn about and is explained very well. Not any videogame before this one has had a story with 
 such depth. It brings you into the game and throughout the game the player desides what he or she 
 wants to say during conversations. your choices you make have an impact on how the game unfolds, 
 literally. there are multiple endings to the game so your choices do impact the gameplay.
  
  All in all, awesome graphics, right on target gameplay, and a fulfilling story just puts you 
 in a state of awe. you can't possibly ask for more because everything is done so well. This game 
 is what developers for future games need to look upon when developing games because I now ecpect 
 this type of quality in all games.
  
  YOU WILL NOT BE DISAPPOINTED WITH THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chirico_Cuvie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I'll make it short and sweet. Everything in this game looks like it was designed in the 80s. I 
 would draw vehicles, weapons, aliens, and buildings very similar to this; as well as enjoy similar 
 works at the time. It's like something from my childhood, but an engrossing story in a cutting-edge 
 game only possible today. If you like tech synth music, Syd Mead, and great sci-fi, you'll love 
 this game.
  
  After playing games for thirty years, and having only a few be considered my favorite of all time, 
 this is now my number one; unseating System Shock 2 and Panzer Dragoon Saga.
  
  The biggest problem in the game is the inventory management. It has no categorical or quality filters; 
 in fact, it is a big, long list that puts everything from ammo to armors in it with nothing to 
 divide them. It's amazing a game so deep would have such a weak inventory mechanic. 
  
  The review by Gamespot has some issues I did not see, and one in particular is flat-out wrong. 
 The Mako has a first-person view for the gun and it can fire higher and lower than the plane of 
 the vehicle. The problem is when you are not in that view. It's by no means the issue the reviewer 
 made it out to be, as are many of the other issues. It's not a perfect game, but it certainly deserves 
 the respect of a 9-9.5.
  
  If you own a 360 and you like sci-fi, pick this game up. I'll add that I despised KOTOR, but this 
 game is everything I wanted that one to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krapsrocks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a KOTR with a deeper story line, more planets and better action you will 
 love this game. For me it was like watching a movie but getting to choose what happened. There 
 are a few glitches, but I think that people made too much of a fuss about it. For one, it lagged 
 a few times but it's like 3-4 seconds of glitch, every once in a blue moon. 
  
  To me it seems, this shows what good in depth gaming can accomplish. What I don't understand is 
 that this groundbreaking game got a lower rating than command and conquer. That game was fun, but 
 not really ground breaking. 
  
  
  This is a must have for xbox 360 gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thew13
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  Have been awaiting this game since it was announced with much hope. KOTOR was so good and after 
 Obsidian dissappointed me with KOTOR 2, I was looking forward to Bioware's next game. (Ii enjoyed 
 Jade Empire, but ME seems closer to where KOTOR 2 should/could have been) Well anyway so far I 
 am not disappointed at all. Although I have really only had one day to play, 13 hours with some 
 breaks has me a good bit into the game. I'm hooked - i just wish I had more free time. Between, 
 Halo 3, Orange Box and this game I'm good fro months.
  More details to follow after I complete one go-through of this great game
  
  Finished the game 
 (as a paragon) and my original feelings are the same - if not more so. story was just great - it 
 has a definitive ending, but allows room for the sequels to grow.. Now just have to play at least 
 one more time - this time as a renegade just to see how different it may or may not be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kem198
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a great looking and incredibly ambitious RPG that takes the genre to new and exciting 
 heights. While technically a bit flawed due to some odd texture issues and the presence of the 
 world's slowest elevators, there is still plenty of good in Mass Effect to make it a must have 
 title. 
  
  If you are tired of games were you just shoot everything that moves, and you are going to puke 
 the next time you see a dwarf with the last name ending in "hammer" this might be the RPG for you.
 
  
  Great graphics, a good story, solid voice acting and one of the best soundtracks in years all add 
 up to one hell of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomer86
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an awe inspiring game. Yes the main quest is not that long. It is no where near 
 as big as oblivion.... but thats ok. Content will most likely be added and the side quests are interesting 
 enough. What makes Mass Effect special is three simple things...
  1. Challenging gameplay = save often....
  2. Amazing graphics 
  3. Excellent Story = The story 
 pulls you in and supplants you into the "outer traverse"
  ***This is almost all I have ever needed from a game...
  This game is an escape from the mundane. 
 Of course it could have been better. More gore.... longer and deeper... whatever!
  ***This is still one of the best games out to date and should be at least nominated for game of 
 the year.
  "It's like reading a wonderful science fiction novel... but you actually get to shoot people and 
 bang hot alien chicks!"
  -A win win situation...
  --holler 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emalfe12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  It takes a lot for me to review a game I think the last game I reviewed was possibly Burnout? So 
 I guess this has been a long time coming. Mass Effect it seems, has cast a spell on me. When I 
 play games the deciding factor for whether or not it is instilled in my mind for years to come 
 is a compelling story. Being a film student story has always seemed to be the reason I've stayed 
 with video games and Mass Effect delivers this in two-fold. It grabs you right at the beginning 
 and doesn't let you go. There is no exposition other then a 2 minute introduction and then you 
 get thrown right into the world. The character creation itself even has an impact on the story 
 determining whether you're a space colonist or Earth born, a war hero or the last man alive of 
 your troop. Your space crew actually reacts to these decisions with earnest, apologizing for talking 
 about their families when you're orphan and other subtle things. Which brings me to another achievement, 
 subtleties. Never have the subtle touches in a game made the biggest impact. Such things as the 
 ridges in your crew mate Wrex's face to the explosion of goo you get when shooting a particular 
 tentacle-plant-mind control monster the game looks beautiful... when you give it time to load. The 
 only draw back to the graphics in fact is that the texturing and some of the graphics on the characters 
 take an extra second more then everything else to load. Though it's a small problem it's very noticeable 
 and can be sometimes annoying. But one small hitch doesn't ruin the game just makes you find beauty 
 in the things that don't need to load. 
  
  The gameplay in Mass Effect is pretty deep, mixing gunplay and "magic" in the form of tech and 
 biotecs usage. At the beginning of the game choosing your class can mean life or death for the 
 rest of the game, effectively choosing your so called "destiny". You can choose to use just weaponry, 
 Tech abilities or biotecs. Tech is like attack magic causing weapons to be sabotage and blow up 
 or overloading an enemy and make them explode. When you use tech abilities one thing you have to 
 prepare for is a lot of explosions. Biotecs are like defensive magic throwing people around and 
 stopping them in their tracks. So biotecs are pretty much like force powers. The combat can run 
 a little bit slow but strategy is the name of the game, trust me if you dont take cover, strategize 
 and use your abilities you'll die very quickly and very often. Combining attacks can lead to several 
 wow moments like lifting a geth's cover then using overload to blow him up is the definition of 
 satisfaction. The battles never fail to surprise.
  
  Mass Effect is filled with things to do, clocking in at about 15 hours for the main quest and 40 
 hours overall, you are never left to your own devices. The subquests are so well integrated into 
 the game that sometimes you dont know whether your on the main story path or on another subquest. 
 But that's the beauty of Mass Effect, you don't care cause you are so sucked into it. And that 
 is why Mass Effect is great, you don't care what you are doing as long as you get to play and see 
 it to the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvandingo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Ive been waiting for this game for ages but after the let downs of Pro Evo and the TEDIOUS Assassins 
 Creed i was starting to get worried.
  I was a massive fan of Knights of the Old Republic and im pleased to inform others that Mass Effect 
 delivers on every level.
  Obviously it looks better than Eva Longoria in a thong, but so did Assassins Creed and that was 
 about as fun as having your feet nailed to an extremely large lemon.
  Great looks don't always deliver.
  Here Bioware have used this gorgeous canvas to tell a compelling, 
 immersive story. Which WILL destroy relationships and cost people jobs. Hours fly by unnoticed 
 while playing mass effect as you try to complete the sub-plots and main story driven missions.
 
  The thing that most worried me before playing was how the battle mechanic would work.
  But it does work very ,very well. It might be a bit to "stop-start" for hardcore shoot-em-up fans, as 
 you pause the action to select weapons and abilities. However i found the system engaging.
  Just buy it , it a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantanner3
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  To be concise, the flaws on mass effect are very forgivable considering the content and immersion 
 that one experiences in this expansive game. A fair amount of texture pop-ins does not detract 
 from the experience unless you are an extremely fussy gamer.
  
  When Mass Effect is running smoothly, it is a beautiful game, showing you the possibilities of 
 HD gaming and sure the 360 lags on the details sometimes but no game or console is perfect.
  Enjoy mass effect for the right reasons - its gameplay features and depth of its characters and 
 plot. If you're a 'has to be perfect' FPS fan, this is not your game but for RPG lovers, and especially 
 fans of KOTOR, there are no reasons that should prevent you from playing, enjoying and then re-playing 
 this game thanks to its multiple endings and consequential actions.
  
  BUY IT. ENJOY IT.
  
  
  on a side note....
  How pathetic have we all become to let a small amount of technical 
 glitches ruin an entire 40 hour game for you?
  When Kotor was released for the xbox, nobody complained about the lack of graphical prowess or 
 the fact that you got stuck on scenery occasionally. Nobody complained for all those years wherein 
 characters' hair would be solid and clip into walls. So just HAVE FUN and quit whining every time 
 a texture takes 4 seconds to load.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Hey
  
  Before i start, i would like to get a few pointers clear:
  1) If you don't like my OPINION on ANY game, don't send me hate mails
  2) I have the right to 
 express my opinion
  I have said this, because people have got 4 of my review banned because they didn't agree (halo 
 3 and gears of war were 2 of them) , and as a result i got a wave of hate mail.
  
  Ok, now to the review.
  
  Mass Effect is personally my most anticipated game of the year. And 
 as a gamer i love it, but as a reviewer, i cant just say everything i like, and claim its perfect, 
 when i no for sure its not... but it is dam close by the way.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Outstanding. The environments are detailed, the character models are well animated from walking 
 around to real like eye movement to express emotions. The enemies are varied, for the most part 
 look fantastic and the effects fit in perfectly with the settings. However, there are a few minor 
 problems. There is some texture pop ins, and for those who don't no what that is, it means that 
 every now and then it goes from low rez to high rez, if you ever played Halo 2, or Gears of War, 
 you will no what i mean. This doesn't really stop the game looking fantastic, it merely makes it 
 look worse than it really is, for a short moment. There is also a few lag issues, although not 
 often, they are noticeable, but defiantly don't ruin the overall experience...... like two worlds 
 (DON'T BUY TWO WORLDS) .
  
  SOUND
  
  The voice acting is amazing, everything is voice acted, and it never sounds like an actor is being 
 to dramatic, or that he/she is bored. The musical score is awesome, especially on the cut scenes 
 where it adds a epic sense of urgency to the game. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Mass Effect is a 3rd person action RPG that is way more of a RPG that a action game. It perfectly 
 combines the two genres into a game that is fun and exciting to play having both the amazing story 
 and in depth character development of a RPG, and the intense fire fights and action of a 3rd person 
 shooter. Mass Effect has 3 pure classes, the Adept, Soldier and the engineer, but also has 3 Hybrids, 
 which are the sentinel, infiltrator and the vanguard. This gives you a large selection of characters 
 to choose from, as each one plays differently, which i was surprised at, considering i was expecting 
 hybrids to be to similar to the pures. You get to have 6 team mates through out the game, but can 
 only have 2 with you at a time, which means the game team interface never gets to complicated, 
 and you can pick and choose who you want without penalty as everyone levels up at the same time 
 to avoid weak characters and such. There are 2 extreme ways of playing mass effect, and thats being 
 a Paragon (good) or a renegade (evil) . Depending on your actions depends on how the game ends, and 
 how people react to you. Personally i liked playing paragon, because i got attached to my characters 
 in a way that i couldn't force my self to be evil to them. I no this sounds sad, but the games 
 story and character development is so powerful i couldn't help it. The story is amazing. It has 
 twists and turns from the word go, you have to make many 'heart breaking' desicions part way through 
 that can really make you think "Oh my god, i cant believe they made me do that!" combine this with 
 some great battles thanks to the awesome battle system, you have a great game. However, it is rather 
 short, well when i say short, i mean its as short as you want it to be having hundreds of side 
 quests and considering you will almost force your self to play the game atleast twice through due 
 to it being so great and you wanting to change some of the choices you made (which do change the 
 game alot) you will be spending atleast 40 hours or so on this game. And with the added addition 
 of being able to 'reuse' a character once you finish the game (which means using your character 
 from the start with all her talent points back, same level, all items etc) , this game is near endless.
 
  
  OVERALL
  
  Fantastic game thats worth buying, and although it has some issues, these don't make the game any 
 less amazing and i recommend you buying it.
  
  9.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eLLiptiX
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: KOTOR was a game i played many times over just to play through all the different combat 
 classes. What also set it aside was it's unique storytelling abilities. Being able to choose between 
 the light or dark side and immersing yourself in either was extremely fun to me. 
  
  When I heard about this game coming out I wasn't to sure what to think. I was excited to be sure, 
 but I really liked the Star Wars aspect of the dialogue. After playing it, I can understand why 
 they chose to move away from the Star Wars universe. This game has too many artistic and erotic 
 options to it that I think if they gave it a Star Wars title, kids would be immediately attracted 
 to it, and beleive me... this game has a very... "mature" aspect of the sci-fi genre. More on that 
 later.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  
  The visuals in this game are pretty nice. I know I gave Halo 3's graphics a lower rating, but that 
 was only because I didn't feel that they improved on anything. True Halo had a lot more to offer 
 in visuals. My point is, BioWare has really come a long way from KOTOR and it shows in this game. 
 I only give it a high ranking because for such a huge universe, the developers really put in a 
 lot of effort. That alone deserves a high rating. Bungie really didn't develop anything new. Remember? 
 "Don't fix it if it ain't broken" Wasn't necessarily broken, but it sure as hell wasn't fixed.
 
  
  Sound: 8.0
  
  I kid you not when I say the soundtrack sounds almost identical to Blade Runner. It was comical 
 even, but in a way, it really fit the atmosphere. Yea.. I'll admit it.. the cheesy 80's-esque synthesizer 
 music really added. Actually makes me want to download it just for the sheer pleasure of saying 
 I own an antique piece of art.. (joking) . What gives the sound such a boost is the voice acting. 
 I didn't find one hint of bland dialogue in anyone's voice. Truley top notch again considering 
 the size of the game. I mean just the conversation structure, and imagining what it must have took 
 to complete it is amazing to me. Not to mention, Bioware incorporated Seth Green into the fray. 
 I know.. some may say "So what?".. I say he really adds. Plus there are other recognizable voices 
 in the cast. Such as Captain Anderson.. who you may have heard as the voice of the Arbeiter from 
 Halo.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  Yea that's right.. perfect score here. I didn't pay any attention to the glithces BioWare forgot 
 to smooth out.. by the time the credits stopped rolling I was ready for another go through the 
 entire game again. Unlike BioWare's previous turn-based RPG's.. this one throws you in the action, 
 and you get the initiative. Perfect call for a game like this. I think i may be in love with the 
 complexity of the combat system.. so many different ways to dispose of them boogers... mindblowing 
 really.
  
  Here's where I suppose I'll continue my mentioning of the "mature content".
  Everyone knows the big controversy with this game, and it doesn't help to ignore it. Yeah... there's 
 sex.. kinda. Not very visible, but enough to raise the eyebrows of parents. Hell.. I might even 
 be convinced that the adult nature of this game was a key selling point for some gamers. Can't 
 say I blame them because you can see the amount of attention this game is getting on any google 
 search. Smart marketing if you ask me.
  And yea.. I won't lie.. I became curious about the game's content. Even played through the first 
 time as a female (whom i am proud to say was perfectly forged by my gamer fingers.. ahem*) because 
 I was curious about this "lesbian romance sub-plot". I won't spoil anything.. but I will definately 
 give kudos to the developers on this aspect. If you're looking for hardcore stuff.. check elsewhere.. 
 and besides, if it were any more risque, I think the developers would have a hard time trying to 
 keep the gamers attention. 
  
  Appropriately introduced and executed. 
  
  Value: 9.0
  
  Ah the ultimate question..... "is it worth my well earned 60 bucks?" I'll tell you right now 
 if you want to fork out the dough just to create a pimp or a whore and watch em do the nasty... 
 keep it in your pants. It's interesting, but ultimately the most soft-core you could probably get 
 these days.
  
  Besides, there is so much more to this game that wasting all your time and money solely for that 
 reason is not only sad, but kinda pathetic.
  
  The story by itself is.. rather short. I recommend not jumping from one main story plot to the 
 next. Otherwise, before you know it... the credits appear. This is probably what pissed me off 
 the most about the game. But you can't really get too upset because.. it has an AWESOME story. 
 Fortunately, this is a trilogy so we will see more goodness in the future. 
  
  I actually paid 40 bucks with my employee discount, but that doesn't mean I wouldn't pay full price. 
 Just like a favorite movie of mine, this game has a good spot on my shelf, and I will enjoy playing 
 it over and over again for many years. Hell.. I even play the original KOTOR from time to time.
 
  
  Don't miss out on this one people.. 
  ~Elliptix 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greenbolt1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  As usual Bioware did it again, great game. loved their games like Torment planescape etc....
  Sometimes bit hard too choose which party members, as you go down from your spacecraft and don, t 
 know what too except.
  Only downside so far is riding with the buggy called Mako. i have difficulties with controlling 
 it , bounces around like a barrel.
  For the rest a classy great game. Nice news this is first part from a trilogy :)
  Let the other 
 parts come as fast as possible if the quality stays ofc. The storyline so far is nice and smooth 
 going about the different races etc...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ugloaf
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Over all an excellent game with everything you need to make a game great. But theres a few set 
 backs!!! The game lasts maybe 15 hours and thats if you lolly gag. The visuals never seem to load 
 on time and the vehicles nay vehicle is wonky if not broken. Theres an up side. Many gamers with 
 a dieing urge to play 
  a knights of the old republic similar game will find themselves drawn to the addictive game play 
 and ridiculously open ended story. 2007 has been an outstanding year in the gaming community and 
 this title is by far over the bar as far as what you would expect from game like this. The halo 
 2 graphic delays and short story cannot hold this title back. I expect a sequel sometime soon. 
 Maybe it's already in production. buy it for the love of Pete 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyatkinson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit I was a little confused and frustrated with Mass Effect at first.
  It does take a little bit of a learning curve. If you stick with it though this is one hell of 
 a ride. Mass Effect has to be one of the best games ever made.
  I don't say that lightly. It really is that good. If you like RPGs and you like Sci Fi you absolutely 
 must get this game. This is not really a game it is more a living breathing universe. This is what 
 game companies should be making instead of selling out and making one MMO after another. I refuse 
 to buy any of them.
  I miss the old school RPG. Thank you Bioware for a great RPG.
  
  Update. I still love this game but I went back and played the kotor games.
  They are better than 
 mass effect. I am changing my review to reflect this.
  Sorry Bioware. Truth is truth. Kotor kicks ME's butt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendlyCrono
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  What makes this game stand above other games this year, especially RPGs, is its immersiveness. 
 You get to know and care about all the characters in the game which makes you want to keep playing 
 the game. The design, quality, and voice acting add sooo much to the immersiveness.
  
  
  Gameplay - 9.2/10
  Combat is fun. You only get 4 weapons (pistol, shotgun, assault rifle, and 
 sniper rifle) , but you can upgrade them. The biotics and techs are fun to use. The shooting is 
 similar to Gears of War, for a reference. Although here you don't have to hide, peek out, shoot, 
 and hide. It's more fast-paced here too.
  
  
  Graphics - 9.9
  The technical graphics are some of the best ever. The models are ultra realistic and the designs 
 of every object immerse you deeply into the world. Though there are some glitches, though minor, 
 but do not hinder the game one bit. There is some minor slowdown if there are a lot of people on 
 the screen and when an area is loaded, it takes a couple seconds for the full detail to show up. 
 This takes NOTHING away from the fun factor of the game.
  
  
  Sound - 10/10
  Every sound effect is spot on. The music has some of the best, if not THE best, scores of any game. 
 Music adds a lot to the immersiveness, and here, its perfect
  
  
  Value - 9.5/10
  The main storyline is short (about 12 hours) , but there a ton of side quests to do. They are as 
 engaging as the storyline. You will always want to know more about everyone you meet. When you 
 beat the game, you will want to immediately play it again as a different class because you can 
 have a whole different experience. Events change depending on your actions. Also, there's a New 
 Game + feature.
  
  Total - 9.5
  This is the RPG 360 fans have been waiting for since Oblivion. I would give it a 9.7, but GameSpot's 
 new rating system sucks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: M_Kroll
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  BioWare continues to deliver on its knack for making absolutely immersive titles that put you right 
 in the story, keeping you thinking about the plot even while you're not playing the game. Truly 
 addictive and creative, Mass Effect delivers on action, suspense, romance, and tongue-in-cheek 
 stereotypes.
  
  This is a must-own title for anyone that's played and liked Knights of the Old Republic (I or II) 
 or Jade Empire. Create and customize your character and explore the universe as you and your party 
 take on an evil power bent on the destruction of humanity (and its allies) in a story set far in 
 the future. The storytelling is better than most science fiction movies, and the plot keeps you 
 wondering as to what will happen next. 
  
  The ability to solve problems in many different ways, while sliding you relatively toward good 
 and evil (and in turn altering how others perceive and interact with you based on your actions 
 and reputation) continues in this great game. 
  
  If you like put-you-in-the-action RPG titles and science fiction movies, run, don't walk to the 
 store and pick up a copy of Mass Effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayprez4u
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I was both nervous and excited when I first booted up Mass Effect. I had high hopes for the game 
 and was very much afraid I had expected too much from developer Bioware. However, my fears were 
 quickly washed away as I became immersed in the peculiar and wonderful world of Mass Effect.
  
  I will start with the good. Mass Effect delivers a cinematic story experience that rivals many 
 top level movies. You play as Commander Shepard, an Alliance officer assigned to track down a rogue 
 soldier. From this one sentence synopsis of the basic plot, you may think that the story sounds 
 cliche, but the story takes several twists and turns that make the entire experience unbelievably 
 amazing. The voice acting is nearly flawless, and features many famous actors such as Keith David 
 and Seth Green. The game takes a serious tone in the dialogue, though a few of the lines are humorous 
 and provide needed comic relief.
  
  The Unreal Engine 3 once again proves itself in the cutting edge visuals featured in Mass Effect. 
 Character models are spot-on, possibly the best I have ever seen, and lighting is executed to perfection. 
 Realistic eye movement and natural facial expressions are defining aspects of Mass Effect, and 
 coupled with the diverse and colorful environments offer a very detailed and pretty game.
  
  The sound in Mass Effect is arguably one of the most polished features in the game. The score 
 consists of a broad range of genres, from ambient electronica to orchestral sounds to quiet piano, 
 and each song feels like it was specifically made for each part of the story. The roaring blasts 
 from the Assault Rifle and the "Pop" of the Sniper Rifle are very well done and make combat even 
 more fun.
  
  As great as Mass Effect may sound, it is not completely flawless. There are the occasional texture 
 loads that may bother the picky gamer and framerates momentarily slow when there is a lot of action. 
 A few of the lines seem out of place in the near-perfect script, and there are a few glitches that 
 can take you out of the experience. 
  
  Combat is very entertaining and lets the player direct two unique squadmates in real time. The 
 AI performs effectively most of the time, however you will often find your squadmates shooting 
 at the walls your enemy hides behind. I utilized this minor bug and turned it into a "Covering 
 Fire" tactic, where my squad would keep the enemy pinned behind their cover and I relocated to 
 a more favourable position. 
  
  In conclusion, Mass Effect gave me an amazing experience and offered something I have never seen 
 in a video game before: the capacity to feel for the characters and care for the plot. There were 
 many times I had to put the controller down and think about what choice to make or what to do. 
 On one occasion, (and players will know which choice this is) I felt incredibly guilty and sad. 
 Despite minor glitches, Mass Effect has risen to the status of my favorite game. 
  
  My score: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: motownboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Let me first rant about how far off an 8.5 is for this game. I don't know what Gamespot was smoking 
 when they gave this game that score, but they've lost all credibility with me. Is this game perfect? 
 Hell no. But this is flat out one of the most engrossing experiences I've had as a video gamer. 
 You immediately get immersed in the world and find it hard to pull yourself out. This game isn't 
 Oblivion: it's more focused on the storyline and you won't have the unlimited freedom. However, 
 if you're realistic and compare it to the unique Bioware designs, you'll realize how amazing this 
 game is.
  
  First, the problems. Mako combat is a major issue, as it's often impossible to know exactly where 
 your shots are going based on your angle to the target. Many times you're better off farther away 
 from your target. The uncharted worlds are also not amazing. There's usually a sideplot involving 
 a building or two, and then a little exploring for artifacts, and that's about it. Not to mention 
 that the worlds seem really small. They need to expand them for future installments. And less a 
 complaint than an observation: the interruption system is hit or miss. A lot of times the NPCs 
 voices fade out rather than stop. If you use the X button at the end of sentences when they're 
 taking a breath, it usually turns out fine. When it works though, it's an awesome feeling.
  
  The positives: Fun combat. I enjoyed playing with different classes and focusing on different 
 aspects. Just want to run in and shoot? For me, my party members were more or less sufficient. 
 I prefer to be a little more controlling, and this game works well with that. The biotics are an 
 absolute treat to see and use, and once you get the hang of everything, your squad will be moving 
 around like a cohesive unit. The depth is also outstanding. They don't skirt around much in ME. 
 Go to the Codex and you'll be stunned with how much depth is in this world. Backgrounds on everything 
 are available. It makes you appreciate the work that went into this. The storyline is also very 
 good, as is expected from a Bioware game. The voice-acting is probably the best I've ever heard, 
 as even the lowliest NPCs have a unique sound to them that makes them easy to distinguish from 
 others. The game also makes you feel like you're in a movie with the visuals and sound effects. 
 It's dangerously addictive all-around. 
  
  Only a few things keep this game from a perfect score, and I imagine that they'll be remedied in 
 the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xburlingtonw
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  man this game powns. all i can say. i love how it plays. the game play reminds me allot of Gears 
 which is good cuz i hate halo. yes halo blows people. this game tho is awesome. i love how if u 
 do side quests u unlock planets that u can go to, they aren't there from the start. makes it cool 
 and gives u reason to go and talk to people. also the graphics are AMAZING! people complain about 
 the grain filter.. umm urn it off tis in the options, lol. io prefer to play with it on, makes 
 it look more realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerGuru101
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Hey, Mass Effect has been out for about a week now. I've just finished a playthrough myself. I'd 
 say it's worth another go. It's that good... well, most of it is. If I could just give my first 
 playthrough a rating out of 10, I'd probably give it a 9.2. It had more potential in some ways. 
 Now, it's set a new bar for interactive storytelling, and so when I give it a 9.2/10, I'm saying 
 that Mass Effect fulfilled about 92% of its potential. I'm not comparing Halo 3 and Mass Effect, 
 for instance, on the same scale. I would give Halo 3 about a 9.2/10 as well, but comparitively, 
 Mass Effect was a better game overall. Mass Effect's shining feature is its brilliant storyline; 
 it's certainly one of the best sci-fi tales ever told. Better than Star Wars, better than Star 
 Trek, better than Halo no doubt. And so, while I'd like to say that Halo's storyline was just as 
 good, I can't. Halo 3's story was a disaster, not because it was bad, but because it came accross 
 like Star Wars Episode III did when I first saw it. Halo 3 had SO much potential; that story arc 
 could have ended with a bang. But it didn't; instead, the "epic" feeling was lost (I felt like 
 I was the only character who actually gave a damn about humanity) and the whole Convenant backstory 
 dissappeared completely. It was just... too dry. Good gameplay no doubt, though. Mass Effect's storyline 
 eats Halo's for breakfast of course, and leaves me wanting more. Personally, I thought the main 
 plotline was going to be longer than it ended up being. It took me about 15 hours or so to complete. 
 But all 15 hours were absolutely superb. Sure, there were bugs here and there that could have and 
 should have been fixed. But you feel like a God with or without those frame-rate chugs and the 
 like. The whole experience combines to form the most epic interactive tale that has ever tread 
 the world of gaming. Mass Effect will go down in videogame lore as one of the best games ever made. 
 Pick up a copy, especially if you're a RPG and/or Bioware fan. It deserves to sell a hell of a 
 lot of copies. I can't imagine all the work it took to make this extraordinary title. So, there 
 you have it, folks... Bioware did it again. -GamerGuru101
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ukillwegrill
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far , THE BEST GAME ,i have played on a next gen console
  it even beats oblivion albeit only margenly.
  
  First of all the graphics are outstanding with 
 the best facial animation to date the backsettings are amazing helping u to always feel immersed.
 
  
  The gameplay is Possibly the biggest revolution to the RPG genre since............. well since 
 ever i can only describe it as ghost recon super uber advance warfighter, RPG style it takes a keen 
 tactical mind and super role playing ethics to 100% the game on the harder settings.
  
  The sounds as u would expect from a company like BioWare are very good.
  
  The Main story itself 
 is very compelling although some may say its quite short it took me 15 hours on normal setting 
 although the bulk of the game is in the optional "side" quest which can take up to 30 hours to 
 do them all
  its also benificial to do so as it shows much more of the story opens new paths and character background 
 and also can change the ending of the game.
  
  Also BioWare promises signifacant DLC to double the play time
  
  Despite my 10/10 score this 
 game is not perfect.
  it has mior technical problems such as the framrate droppin sometimes and the occasional graphic 
 hiccup but these dont affect the play.
  Also some of the planets are very shallow to the point were its an ifornation screen but then u 
 realise that landing on a planet made of gas wouldnt b the smartest idea
  
  *EDIT* THE MAKO SUCKS
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitargodjake
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are some of the best, the game play is just great, and the voice acting is one of 
 the best. It as the best story ever with a lot of twist and turns. The character customization 
 is awesome, and there is a lot to do. You can do a lot of commands to your team. All your weapons 
 and equipment is upgredable. The shooting in the game is hard at first but after a while you wil 
 get how to use the equipment. The best character in the game is Wrex. He will kind of remind you 
 Bobba Fett, because he is a bounty hunter, and he will do anything to get his job done. Mass Effect 
 is worth the 60 bucks if you are looking for a perfect RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twinbladeace
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Im going to start this review plain and simple than go in depth because a paragraph is as far as 
 most people are going.
  
  If you like any of these things than seriously consider this game:
  Sci-Fi
  More of the role 
 playing aspect of RPGs (ive spent more time talking than in combat wich is still very intense)
 
  Well put together and realistic world with very belivable events and characters
  Aliance developing games-i. e. Fable
  More tacticle shooters (this is a push but I found the 3PS 
 is quite enjoyable and forces use of everything around you)
  Great Games
  
  CORE REVIEW:
  Graphics:
  Stunningly renderd water, buildings, character modles, guns, geth 
 and anything in the game for that matter. 
  Lighting was intense and added a very realistic feel - playing this on an LCD projector I felt 
 as if I was in the game the whole time
  9/10
  
  Sound:
  Deverse and plentifull-voice acting is pretty much the best you are going to see and everything 
 sounds very crisp and clean-an easy 10 here
  10/10
  
  Gameplay:
  RPG/3PS elements
  Knowone but bioware i belive could pull this off as well as into making a reliable RPG with guns 
 and the ability to use them in the same way you would in a regular shooter (Mind you, you WILL 
 DIE even on the lowest difficulty just using them) one of the best meshes ive ever seen-very realistic 
 and makes you wish all the startrek games were like this was
  10/10
  
  This game is amazing through and through-gives any sci-fi lover a warm fuzzy feeling inside and 
 deserves a 9.6 out of 10 but the new rating system WILL NOT LET YOU DO THAT so it gets an 9.5 outta 
 10 because im never going to give a game (on a review at least) a 10.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost2499
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  I bought mass effect thinking it would be a good game but i did not think it would end up being 
 one of my favorite games of all time. Personally i am not that much of a fan of RPG's but Mass 
 Effect changed my mind entirley. The story is by far the best i have ever seen in a videogame before 
 and i actually started to care about the characters and what would happen to them. The combat is 
 also very fun and the biotics are really fun to watch and use. The different classes allow people 
 to play the game the way they like it. Overall Mass effect is awsome and everyone should try it.
 
  
  
  
  Pros: Awsome story and characters, fun combat, Superb graphics
  
  Cons: Minor but frequent glitchs, vehicle controls are a little wonky 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallikop
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect, while a fantastic game in its own right, isn't everything it could have been. It's 
 rare that a game can captivate me enough to care for the characters and sit on the edge of my seat 
 waiting for what's around the next corner. In itself this is a true achievement in a day where 
 most games feel rushed to get out the door before a holiday season or to meet a quarterly deadline. 
 This achievement leaves me wanting the next chapter in this epic tale, and makes me ache for a 
 Mass Effect with more polish and a sense of completeness.
  
  Without introducing any spoilers, the storyline surrounds Commander Shepherd, an elite soldier 
 representing the human race to the known civilized galaxy. As Shepherd you're on a quest to save 
 humanity, or more accurately the galaxy. The breadth of this mission is a grand, ambitious undertaking 
 that almost lives up to a novel or movie of such proportion. However, barren planets and repetitive 
 outposts take away from a story of this magnitude.
  
  The graphics themselves are a site to behold on the capital city of the galaxy. On the flip side, 
 the numerous unique worlds you visit seem empty. Each individual world has the almost feel of completeness. 
 You'll spend a majority of your time visiting numerous barren planets searching for materials, 
 a downed space probe, or hunting down mercenaries. In itself this is quite fun if it wasn't for 
 the MAKO, your all terrain transport vehicle. The MAKO drives terribly and sports a tank-like turret 
 that can only shoot about 10 degrees off a level plain. This leaves you spending more time trying 
 to level the MAKO to get a shot off and jumping rockets then you do actually fighting. The MAKO 
 aside, the planets sorely need more fauna and flora to flesh out the otherwise beautiful scenery. 
 Slow, problematic texture loading and ugly textures also help to take away from the realism this 
 game otherwise presents.
  
  The character interaction with your party and other NPCs you'll meet along the way is truly where 
 this game shines. The voice synchronization and voice acting is easily the best in any game to 
 date. As Shepherd you're presented with a number of responses to each fork in the conversation. 
 You can select the standard good, bad, or in-between responses mixed with a few obvious plot changing 
 responses. Each response is more of a cliffnotes version of what Shepherd will respond with and 
 each are equally well voice acted no matter which path you chose. On the downside some characters 
 could do with a great deal more conversation and next time around I'd truly like to see the characters 
 interact more.
  
  I look forward to the next chapter in this epic story, hopefully BioWare corrects the few things 
 wrong in this otherwise fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whocares9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect has a story that can hook most people. At first the game may not appeal to some but 
 if given a chance this game really starts to shine. The game has a main story that isn't that long 
 but there are a few side quests that you can dive into. I was a but disappointed with the free 
 roaming as the planets are mainly covered by pointless space. Many planets you can not travel to 
 either. The original videos of the game really made me think that an entire large space was going 
 to be explorable but it fell short in that department. The combat system isn't the greatest thing 
 ever but will be familiar to previous game from bioware such as KOTOR. The leveling system does 
 work well and can be fun. There are actual tachnical issues in this game even though it is a console 
 game. The game clearly pushed everything out of the 360 that is possible as dips below 30 frames 
 per a second are not uncommon and the pop in textures can be frustrating to look at. All in all 
 this is a good RPG though and is worth the play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SicBMX84
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  I just want to say is I love this game. I play this game 4 days and all day, because I was off 
 form work and I have to say OMG this game is every thing I was thinking it was going to be. I really 
 haven't got done with the game yet because I keep on starting over because I just don't want to 
 get done with the game. There so many things you can do in the games and going to different worlds 
 are great. There are some sent backs but you get uesd to them. If you like RPG and shooters this 
 game for you. I LOVE IT, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameseldar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect as a whole is a great game. I enjoyed almost everything about the game. It is evident 
 that Bioware put a lot of time into this project, and it really shows. However, the item looting, 
 equipping, and management is a real hassle. The organization of the items in your inventory makes 
 it hard to figure out what to keep and what to sell. The auto save system is awkward. The game 
 will auto save only at certain points and not at important ones, like right before a big fight. 
 These are only minor frustrations and they don't detract from the over all experience of the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Judge312
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The story telling is compelling. The graphics look amazing. The few flaws with design are overshadowed 
 by the overall greatness. This games begs you to continually explore the outer reaches of space. 
 You find yourself gripped by every little plot point whether it be a mission or an assignment. 
 Bioware has made another instant classic that every xbox 360 owner should have.
  
  They have done a good job of mixing in third person shooter elements with classic RPG character 
 development. The machanics are not as easy to pick up as they are in Oblivion, but once you get 
 the hang of it, it is a delight to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Argh -- The longer I play Mass Effect there more I wish this game was released on PC first. There's 
 the obvious and unfortunate framerate issues that can spoil the otherwise beautifully conceived 
 graphics. The game often dips into 20 frames per second even when there isnt any combat happening. 
 Then there's the distracting graphic draw-in. Everytime you load from a save, there will be several 
 seconds while the textures are drawn onto everything. A PC of reasonable speed should clear up 
 these issues so those who are willing to wait for a PC version, might want to consider waiting. 
 
  
  Mass Effect has a great sci-fi story that unfolds over time, some great alien races, and the overall 
 look and atmosphere is a 10 out of 10. Unfortunately there are aspects of the core gameplay that 
 are frankly mediocre. The planet-side missions using the "Mako" vehicle should have never seen 
 the light of day. The planets one visits are largely featureless, except for the craggy mountains 
 that appear on every planet. The controls and camera viewpoint on the vehicle will annoy you and 
 then there's the "thrasher" sandworm creature that can appear at anytime and "instakill" you. This 
 whole aspect of the game needs a major overhaul. Sure you can grimace while you try to steer the 
 Mako over a mountaintop and it wont go any further because only at that point does the game decide 
 the mountain is too steep, but is any of this actually fun? No. There were several points in the 
 game when I was dreading having to drive the Mako. 
  
  One of the things most game reviewers dont mention but irked me when I played is that one cannot 
 completely control your team-mates during combat, as one could with Knights of the Republic. You 
 can try to tell them where to stand but that doesnt work very well in practice. So they tend to 
 die alot or get in your way. KOTOR really had a better combat interface. It doesnt help matters 
 that the AI for both your team and the enemy needs a major patch. As it is, the AI all around is 
 mostly braindead. For folks like myself who like the tactical challenge of combat, Mass Effect 
 really stumbles in this regard. 
  
  If it werent for the superior look and generally great story-telling of Mass Effect, the game would 
 get a 7 from me. However because of the great cinematic presentation, the game gets an 8.5. Sorry 
 BioWare, but I'm not so sure I'll be pre-buying the sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: willb311
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  After nearly 9 months of delays I 've finally got my hands on Mass Effect. Probably for about a 
 year now I've been anticipating this game over Bioshock, Assassins Creed, Call of Duty 4, and Halo 
 3. And how do I feel after playing around 50% of the finished product? Mildly dissapointed but 
 mainly satisified beyond any other title to date. Let me begin with the bad so that I can conclude 
 with leaving you still interested to play. The only thing wrong with Mass Effect is the combat, 
 but really it just needs a little polish. Enemy AI seems to always come running at me and sometimes 
 it will keep running when it hits my squad members. Forgivable. Sometimes my squad doesnt always 
 do precisely what I wish the would. Believable, I mean were not telepathically linked. When Mass 
 Effect 2 is released ( I would guess by late 2009 to early 2010) The game will be so freaking polished 
 it will set the standard for all games. Wait and see. Bioware, I feel is very consientious and 
 I feel it will take notice of any shortcomings Mass Effect has in Mass Effect 2 and 3. Oh man but 
 thats going to be a while. However in the mean time, Despite minor grievances with Mass Effect, 
 it still delivers the most compelling story and with out a doubt the best production of and game 
 I have ever played or seen. The artistry that was put into development for this game has no rival. 
 The level of eploration and vastness can only be compared to Elder Scrolls 4 Oblivion. And the 
 music is just right. I was born in 1981 and during that time synthesizers were very popular, I 
 know why now . The give the music such an atmosphere that for be will forever parallel with space 
 travel. I really love this game so much, I can forgive its insignificant shortcomings for its vast 
 and plentiful achievements, like the bar-setting character models. I know there are a lot of very 
 shallow gamers out there that will attempt to compare this game with Halo 3 or Bioshock . First 
 off, those two games are FPS and really are in a league of their own, at least a genre of their 
 own. So for all you boobs out there that compare Mass Effect to Bioshock or the overrated Halo 
 franchise, first realize that your trying to compare two things that completely inappropriate to 
 compare. Its all a matter of opinion anyway. Mass Effect has had a Massive Effect on how I will 
 judge games from now on , and also what I will expect from games as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigfella411
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Where to begin, there have been many good points about this game and many that have left me so 
 frustrated that I can't stop the string of obscenities coming from my mouth, or using all my will 
 power to throw my controller through the screen.
  
  First lets get the bad out of the way. One of the first things you will notice is that the game 
 tends to start playing before your graphics have fully loaded. This kind of thing was rampant in 
 Halo 2 and and to a lesser extent Halo 3, but still something that will annoy you, but does not 
 affect your game play.
  Autosave is not very reliable, at some points it will be saving every 5 minutes, this is usually 
 when you are on the citadel, if you are in situations with combat the autosave does not kick in, 
 so remember to save. There have been numerous times when I have lost a lot of ground because I 
 forgot to save, but this can also be attributed to user error, so you can live with it. 
  The few boss battles I have done have left little room for strategy or freedom to find alternate 
 ways to finish them. Mainly they have been kill boss as fast as possible or get swarmed by adds. 
 This type of boss fight only works in MMO's IMO. This feature will have you replaying most boss 
 fights and having to relive most conversations and cut scenes. Small tip to help here most conversations 
 can be skipped by hitting X.
  The last and probably the biggest buzz kill for me is the completely retarded AI you have to deal 
 with. They will stand in front of you so you can't shoot, if they have people running up and beating 
 on them they will just stand there and take it, even if you try to tell them to rally to you, or 
 give them a place to go, or tell them to take cover. They have cost me boss fights, had one issue 
 where I had some knocked on the ground from a biotic power, I move in for the kill, and my team 
 swarms me, gets in the way of the target, and just stand there and didn't do anything. This has 
 been the biggest draw back to the game, and is IMO the ultimate factor in keeping it out of the 
 higher scores.
  
  Now for the good. First off you will notice the graphics are just amazing (after they have finished 
 loading) . Most games will be hard to pressed to beat them, as you can see a good arrange of emotions 
 on the faces of people you encounter. 
  The character customization allows you to create a very distinct face, the only thing that would 
 be missing is altering other facets of the character. When I am making a character I like to mess 
 with physique, muscle tone, height and weight to truly make a character my own. But this system 
 is passable.
  Wide selection of weapons and armor in the game to choose from, however most items you will find 
 as store prices are a little over the top, but luckily the game offers plenty a crate, weapons 
 caches, safes, and other items that you can loot to obtain new equipment.
  You will be hard pressed to find better voice acting in games. With big name celebrities like Seth 
 Green adding their voices to the game truly makes you care for the characters. You are given six 
 classes to choose from and later in the game receive specialized classes. The story is very engaging, 
 and makes you care about what is happening in the galaxy and what is happening in your characters 
 life, whichever walk of life you choose for them. This final feat with the story is what makes 
 this game something special and when you are past the annoying and frustrating parts of the game 
 you can truly enjoy. My only recommendation is don't play this game when you are stressed otherwise 
 the flaws will overshadow everything good this game does 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxwesxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  I've played through the came only once and am working my way through again as two additional and 
 different character types. I'm still learning a lot about the game so keep that in mind as you 
 read this.
  
  Very very very reminiscent of the engine behind KOTOR but significantly upgraded, particularly 
 with the dialog interaction, ship navigation map and overall graphics. There are many fun things 
 in this dynamic and exciting universe. The story is strong and well conceived. The characters are 
 by and large fully realized with personal histories and personal agendas that play out in fun and 
 interesting ways. I love the story telling aspects of the game. 
  
  Other fun things -- the character creation routine at the start of the game provides lots of flexibilty 
 and the choices here really do affect the game experience (unlike some other games) . Another fun 
 thing, in dialog, you can select your reply even before your NPC has finished speaking making the 
 dialog seamless. Music is well done too!
  
  The fight game play has gotten some criticism and I have to agree with those comments and reviews. 
 It's not as strong as it could be / should be given the length of development time. The "wheel 
 of powers" is a bit lame in my opinion. Would really like to be able to cue up powers and hot button 
 them into play. Tutorial is very basic and gets the job done, but it would be fun to have some 
 training in the use of the various powers similar to Jedi training in KOTOR. 
  
  The side quests are entertaining and the universe is somewhat open, however the game really steers 
 you into the main story arc and at times that feels a bit limiting. On the other hand, I really 
 like the story arc so I didn't really mind this and I also realize to create a completely open 
 universe where you more or less stumble upon the main quest has to be a daunting undertaking. I 
 haven't seen any game do it better than Oblivion which has many many opportunities for side quests 
 and adventures that will keep you busy for hours and hours before you wander back to the main quest. 
 Hope to see more of that style in future releases.
  
  Still, the game is too short. I suppose I feel that way because I enjoyed myself so much and I 
 didn't want the game to end. I heard someone else say they felt it was very short compared to KOTOR. 
 I honestly don't remember how many worlds we visited in Knights, so its a little hard for me to 
 really say, but it sure did feel like the entire Mass Effect adventure was over quickly. 
  
  The lag time in loads and other minor technical critiques are true but I did not find them 
 to be all that much of an issue. I think its good we set the bar high for these games but, for 
 me, this was not as huge a deal as some of the reviewers have made it out to be. 
  
  This game holds much promise for downloadable content and expansion. I'm really looking forward 
 to that. It is also my understanding that Bioware envisions this as a trilogy and they did a great 
 job of wrapping up this storyline, yet leaving some things unresolved so that the wait for the 
 next game is all the more tantalizing. 
  
  For the folks at Bioware -- CONGRATULATIONS! Thanks for making such a fun game. Thanks also for 
 putting story first!! If you could take another look at the controls for fighting that might be 
 a fun change for the next game. Hope you are all resting after this major release but don't rest 
 too long. More more more....
  
  Peace-
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MastarrLee
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I like a lot of fans of KOTOR and other Bioware games I couldn't wait 
 for Mass Effect to arrive, and after month after month of delays I was patient and waited for the 
 Bioware people to get the polish on and deliver a new and exciting Sci Fi adventure never before 
 seen in a game or TV and Movies, But unfortunately they failed I'm talking Star Wars Episode 1 
 failure here folks, first lets go to the game play it's OK but could have been better if I could 
 master more weapons, If I choose to be a Biotic or Tech I can't master a Sniper Rifle even after 
 I become a Spectre? what kind of logic is that? if the Spectres are suppose to be these intergalactic 
 super Agents or Soldiers I think I ought to be able to master any weapons and armors. Now the story 
 like the Star Wars movies for me it fell flat I'm sorry I have seen and heard all of this before, 
 you know "Super human is mans only hope for survival in hostile galaxy full of bad Aliens" despite 
 the fact that it is humans who seem to be colonizing the galaxy and exploiting it's resources for 
 profit the most! and the dialogue which was suppose to be new an innovative was just terrible and 
 repetitive and I could do without the background dialogue between squad members especially Ashley 
 Williams anti alien rants and her female Rambo act got tired fast! so much so I was actually wishing 
 I could play as Saren... the equipment menu is especially aggravating mainly because when you reach 
 the 150 item limit you are forced to breakdown those items into omni-gel even if those are some 
 really valuable Items. what I also did not like when your on missions you have to bring along a 
 tech almost all of the time so you can open up crashed probes and locked crates if your not a tech 
 yourself or be able to use omni-gel if your decryption skill is not high enough, the character 
 models are pretty good however the background characters seem to stiff and small but the Krogan 
 looked ridiculous like a cross between Dex from Star Wars episode 2 and the Big Daddies from Bio 
 Shock I mean the guys head is enormous so much so his arms are to short to even reach above his 
 own head! The planet Missions while driving the Mako is a little frustrating especially while trying 
 to take down a Thresher Maw, trying to drive and shoot while moving with no lock on was a problem, 
 but the missions are a fun part of the game using different weapons for the different enemies in 
 the game is nice I especially enjoyed using Tungsten rounds on the Geth and Shredders on organics, 
 thats why this game could have been fine as a 3PS or FPS since the story was so awful. I hope the 
 next 2 games in this series these issues get fixed. So all in all after finishing the game I just 
 don't see the best RPG of the year or all the 9 and 10 scores this game received, because if these 
 gameplay flaws were in any other game they would never have received so high of praise! and is 
 it better than Oblivion? not hardly!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrQuak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  As i said in the title, I believe that this is one of the best games I have ever played.
  
  The graphics are just plane beautiful, the faces in this game are perhaps the most natural and 
 realistic ever made. The aliens are superbly designed, and the models of them - especially the 
 Krogan (giant angry looking toads) - are excellent.
  
  However the game has a couple of problems. The first is that most of the places you go are generally 
 human colonies (this is explained in the storyline - but it is still a little disappointing) . Secondly 
 the side quests, though numerous and generally relatively deep and fun - least some of the larger 
 ones - don't have as great an impact on the galaxy as I would like - though this probably has a 
 lot to do with the fact that this will be a trilogy. However it would have been nice to get something 
 similar to the fallout/arcanum endings - telling you what happened to all the people you helped, 
 etc.
  
  Now the worst element in the game is, simply, the combat. The enemy AI is fairly good - very rarely 
 will they sit in the open and just shoot at you (though sometimes in you flank them they don't 
 seem to notice) - however your Ally AI is pretty poor - too often they take your cover, or just 
 run out and get shot. 
  
  What makes it worse is that it is not possible to take direct control over them - you can tell 
 them where and how to use their abilities, but you can't tell them where to stand and who to shoot. 
 NB that you can in theory tell them where to stand, but it just gives them a general area, and 
 you can't separate your two allies. There is also a problem in that if your main character can 
 not take damage, the fights will be very difficult. In other words your main character almost needs 
 to be a soldier, or one of the soldier cross classes. 
  
  
  
  In most other games this problem with the combat would limit the game to being average - or even 
 unplayable - but the rest of the game is so strong, that this is just an inconvenience.
  
  IMO if they bring this game out on the PC, and fix the combat in there (even just making it a bit 
 more like KOTOR, in that you can switch your main char) then this would be the game of the decade 
 across all genres. 
  
  However as it is, on the XBox 360, it is merely the rpg of the decade (and perhaps the best game 
 on the 360) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wgerard
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  
  After spending a significant chunk of time with Mass Effect, I am pleased to say it delivers - 
 though I find some of the criticisms of the game valid.
  
  At the outset, I must say that this game reminds me quite a bit of KOTOR (as opposed to say, Neverwinter 
 or Jade Empire) . Not only the space opera angle, but also the game mechanics and even game issues 
 are remarkably similar. No accident, of course. And its definitely a good thing (from my perspective) . 
 
  
  On the plus side, I continue to be impressed by the visuals, sound, and (for the most part) voice 
 acting. This game is very immersive, and, unlike most other RPGs I have played, I don't feel impatient 
 when speaking with NPCs. The party members' backgounds are interesting, and the dialogue system, 
 I feel, works great. The game world is well developed and compelling (and I expect nothing less 
 from Bioware) . 
  
  Also, contrary to the suggestion of some reviewers, I really like the combat system (but then again, 
 I was a huge fan of KOTOR, and the two systems are quite similar, with the addition of cover here) . 
 To its critics - you may not have noticed, but this is not an FPS. 
  
  However, three annoyances. The first one is only a nitpick - the inventory systems could be better 
 organized (this was an issue with KOTOR, as well) - although it only becomes a problem later on, 
 when you have accumulated loads of weapons, armors, and upgrades. This can be handled somewhat 
 by keeping your, and your party members' inventories updated with the latest weapons and upgrades 
 and by selling the rest. 
  
  The second issue is slightly more substantive: combat in the Mako is fairly unsatisfying. Aside 
 from the impossibility of shooting at targets below you (which has been mentioned by reviewers) , 
 the difficulty scales poorly with combat on foot (especially thresher maws) . I've also managed 
 to get the Mako stuck in weird spots - such as vertically on a bridge in Noveria, which required 
 a reload of the game. It strikes me that winning battles against thresher maws, turrets, or geth 
 armatures and the like comes down to a strategy bordering on an exploit - you have to strafe around 
 constantly. If you don't, these battles become very difficult (on difficulties harder than normal, 
 at least) . 
  
  The third is my most serious gripe - load screens and stutters. Elevators, load stutters, delays 
 with doors, etc. Almost all RPGs suffer from this - it is hardly unique to Mass Effect. But here, 
 it does detract from what is otherwise a very immersive experience. Regarding the stutters, this 
 primarily seems to happen when fighting a lot of enemies or when moving very quickly through large 
 levels. 
  
  Overall, though, I am very pleased, and can easily recommend the game to any fan of RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leesius
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  well this game is well worth the wait 2 years to be precise but it's finally here i'm engrossed 
 in the story which i find so far to be intrigueing. in a sense it's a run of the mill rpg u but 
 upgrades for weapons likewise sell them upgrde your characters the reason i ilke this so much is 
 because it's a sci fi epic if this was'nt sci fi i would'nt have liked it as much. there is enough 
 in the game to keep you interested for hours on end on the down side do not expect anything the 
 like of oblivion that game was never ending hence why they probably called it oblivion. the gameplay 
 controls are set just right although i do find myself pressing b instead of x to zoom out of the 
 galaxy map but duh me. i've been playin the game for almost 16 hrs i just had to turn it off in 
 case the 360 blew that should give you an idea of how addictive this game is. what more can i say 
 the graphics are'nt as crisp as i thought they would be but it's the facial animations where they 
 put the time into. if your after a sci fi epic you can't go wrong with this but just don't expect 
 another oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Bioware has of course created console based RPGs before, with Knights of the Old Republic (KOTOR) 
 and Jade Empire both being successful franchises that were later ported to the PC. And while KOTOR 
 had the complexity of an AD&D game (it used the D20 system, which is from Wizards of the Coasts, 
 the makers of AD&D) , Jade Empire went the complete opposite direction, with little character development 
 and simplistic combat.
  
  Both games have tremendous stories and robust questing, and so does Mass Effect, but otherwise 
 you'll find Mass Effect's character development and combat systems to be somewhere in between the 
 two extremes of the previous console RPGs. 
  
  While you can customize your entire party in Mass Effect, including equipment, upgrades, and abilities, 
 it has been streamlined is a manner that provides for exciting quests and combat but does not in 
 any way overwhelm you. And whereas in Jade Empire character development had little effect on game 
 play, in Mass Effect it has a tremendous effect and allows you to role play as you want to.
  
  For the main character, Commander Shepard, you can of course choose gender and class, but for 
 all party members you are given talent points as you level up that allow you to increase their 
 combat, technical, and biotic abilities, as well as increase their health. The bars used to spend 
 talent points not only show you where you are at with that particular talent but also allow you 
 to unlock abilities. This is how to learn new biotic attacks, open up heavier armor and more powerful 
 weapons, and how you customize class specific attributes.
  
  Equipment customization is very similar to KOTOR (Jade Empire had almost equipment no customization 
 whatsoever) , and although it still requires a fair amount of micromanagement, Bioware has made 
 strides to ease the burden somewhat. Now you can compare one piece of equipment to another, automatically 
 move upgrades when swapping out equipment, and you can even automatically get rid of unwanted equipment 
 and turn it into a substance used for various activities like hacking or repairing your MAKO vehicle.
 
  
  Which brings us to exploration and combat. Exploration has that Starflight (an old EA game that 
 I played on the Amiga back in the 80's) kind of feel but is far more streamlined. You have a map 
 that you can zoom in and out of to see various star systems. From there you can read descriptions 
 of planets, land on them or just survey them. When you survey a planet you usually gain an item 
 or some clue, but when you land on a planet you are either dropped in your MAKO, a Warthog (from 
 Halo) type vehicle and you can use to traverse the surface, or your ship, the Normandy, lands at 
 a port and you travel through the space station on foot.
  
  In the MAKO you can drive just about anywhere. This vehicle is the definition of off-road, and 
 although it is challenging to drive in a straight line, you cannot destroy it by crashing or landing 
 too hard. It has jump jets that allow you to perform jumps or to avoid gun fire, and it has a powerful 
 cannon and machine guns. Combat takes time to get used to in the MAKO, but overall it's fun and 
 not overly difficult. Unlike personal combat, here it is always in real-time and is pretty visceral 
 and fulfilling.
  
  You can leave the MAKO at any time, although on some planets that can be a bad idea if you stay 
 out too long and the atmosphere is deadly. But it's very slick to go from driving to exploring 
 or fighting on foot, as you sometimes will, since you can leave the MAKO and immediately begin 
 exploring and fighting enemies.
  
  Personal combat, as I mentioned before, is pausable and plays out in real-time. You are basically 
 playing a third person action game, as you aim your pistols and rifles and fire, and there's no 
 waiting for roll dies in order to see the action unfold. You can use cover, give basic orders to 
 your party (two party members will always travel with you) , and you can pause the game to change 
 weapons or to use abilities.
  
  The screen used to select weapons show all three party members at once and the four different weapon 
 types available. The user interface does a great job of telling you whether a given weapon is suitable 
 for a particular party member or not, which helps you to choose wisely. Also, leveling up your 
 party in particular weapons and armor can have a huge effect on combat, and when combined with 
 rather intelligent AI, makes for compelling gun fights.
  
  When selecting abilities, much like the weapon selection screen, you are given the abilities for 
 all three party members, and if a party member is busy or unavailable (unconscious) , you are told 
 that too. Abilities take effect immediately and can be quite devastating. Want to take an enemy 
 out of the action? Pause the game, point at the enemy, and choose Lift. Unpause the game and watch 
 the enemy lift into the air. Now you can shoot him or her or just watch them fall to the ground!
 
  
  Being able to pause, give orders, and use cover allows for a very tactical game, one that is fast 
 paced, challenging and exciting. Don't worry about it being too hard though. Although you might 
 have to do a particular fight over and over again, like any good game you figure out tactics and 
 push your way through it in a way that teaches you good game play and lets you learn the system.
 
  
  And since Mass Effect doesn't use an overly complex set of abilities, you are never left wondering 
 how/why/when you should use them. This means you unlock abilities as you go, grow stronger and 
 better, and you master a system that is rewarding and fun.
  
  Last but not least is the revised dialog system. I say "revised" because it is similar to dialog 
 systems in previous Bioware RPGs but again, it's streamlined and faster paced. Here you select 
 the gist of what you want to say, and you choose it in the manner you want to say it, and you also 
 decide if you want to continue talking or end the conversation quickly. By "manner" I mean you 
 can choose to be considerate and kind or mean-spirited and direct. This affects whether you are 
 Paragon or Renegade, which combined with the Charm and Intimidate abilities, helps to unlock dialog 
 options and steer the game play.
  
  Quests are generally of very high quality and are plentiful. You will enjoy wandering around, talking 
 to NPCs, getting or solving quests, fighting, and leveling your characters. Your party feels free 
 to chime in when you are conversing with NPCs, which makes the game feel more alive and dynamic.
 
  Since all conversations are fully voiced with outstanding voice acting, the game has a very cinematic 
 feel. 
  
  The graphics engine, which is absolutely gorgeous, makes for an atmospheric game that dazzles with 
 beauty and subtlety. Some enemies are frightening, which means you will often be startled or alarmed, 
 which in turn makes for cinematic game play that invokes fear and helps earn the game its M rating. 
 
  
  The game's rating, which is based mostly off of mature themed quests, some mature language (nothing 
 most kids don't hear on the school yard already) , as well as blood and some gory scenes, is appropriate 
 but you don't have a game here that uses the F word or has wanton killing. It's not appropriate 
 for children but I have no problem letting my eleven year old see bits and pieces of it.
  
  When you combine robust character development with a user interface very similar to that in KOTOR, 
 although far more polished and now housed in an absolutely gorgeous graphics engine, and you throw 
 in compelling pausable real-time combat (a staple of Bioware's RPGs although significantly different 
 in this release) and a streamlined dialog system, you have what can only be considered the best 
 RPG to have ever come out of Bioware.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cuchulainn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  Alright; I have been waiting quite some time for Mass Effect, when it came out the 8.5 rating surprised 
 me. Being how anxious I was for this game I sallied forth regardless of Gamespot's rating. Eight 
 hours later I still found myself playing Mass Effect and decided that this is easily one of my 
 favorite games of all time. Yeah the autosave isn't the best, the elevator rides are a little too 
 long, your allies aren't too smart and the inventory can be cumbersome; but wait until you see 
 everything else!
  
  First the bad:
  Autosave  Not too helpful but you can manually save almost whenever you want.
  Elevator ride 
  Even though they're a little long it still feels immersive and just wait until you see the world 
 that is loaded (I do enjoy the news reports and NPC dialogue) .
  Dumb Allies  If you help manage them like a leader is supposed to then it isn't much of an issue.
 
  Inventory  I'm rather anal with my inventories so this can be annoying, but considering how amazing 
 everything else is who cares!?
  
  Now the good:
  Immersion  You really feel like Commander Shepard is a worthy avatar and that your decisions matter. 
 It isn't just about choosing the good option all through the game, some situations make you want 
 to be a Paragon and others make you want to go renegade. Exploring galaxies is an awesome feeling, 
 I especially liked driving my Mako on Earth's moon and looking up at Earth.
  Story  Absolutely top notch.
  Gameplay & Character building  Some reviews said that the fighting 
 gameplay felt awkward but I can honestly say that it felt quite intuitive to me. As to character 
 building this is one of the few games where the differences between the classes make sense and 
 don't just feel gimped to provide the differentiation. I started out as an infiltrator and (I must 
 have the lockpick option) although I missed the assault rifles mastering pistols and sniping just 
 made sense.
  Roleplaying  You really can make your Commander Shepard into what you like, play him/her as you 
 wish and have a unique gameplay experience that suits your style and choices.
  Graphics  The best I have ever seen, next-gen graphics haven't left much of a mark on me until 
 now.
  
  Overall this is easily one of the best games I have ever played and more that worth the wait. Yes 
 some things aren't perfect but the game as a whole is so incredible that concern over the flaws 
 really does amount to excessive nit-picking.
  
  P. S. I often find my opinion of games aligned with Gamespot's reviews but they really underrated 
 this one!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleperez75
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game is really good. Being a PhD in engineering, I have enjoyed the all the technical insights 
 in the game. They really spent a lot of time doing their research in order to include all the explanations 
 of planets, weapon and ships physics and even all the fiction science sounds believable. In my 
 expert opinion, this is a very good work in terms of technical data.
  
  The game play is fantastic. I love the on feet battles; including the way you can use all yours 
 skills. Again giving you a pretty good explanation for the skills and how they work, which although 
 they could be impossible to perform in real live, they manage to give you a nice explanation for 
 the phenomenon. You can hide behind objects the same way you do in Gears of War. The only think 
 I'm not very impressed is that all the weapons of the same kind (sniper, shotgun, pistol, assault 
 rifle) have the same shape and only their colors change, plus they don't look very futuristic. 
 You can manage to improve the skills of your team so your abilities supplement each other. In my 
 case I have a genius in decryption and electronics to open vessels, lockers and stuff like that, 
 and I'm a vanguard myself, the third character is change usually depending in what enemy I expect 
 to find. For example if I expect the geths I bring with me an engineer or soldier, if I'm fighting 
 organic life forms I prefer to bring an biotic or the soldier.
  
  I still don't understand all the fuss about the Mako. I realize that the game is not all about 
 driving a car, but rather that the car is a way of transport. In addition, I feel that they did 
 a pretty good job with the Mako and it accomplish its purpose.
  
  The plot is excellent. At this point of the review I feel that I'm repeating all the other reviews 
 but the truth is that the game is this amazing. In my opinion the plot is amazing. It really makes 
 you read everything and participate in the conversation.
  
  Side quests are interesting and not too hard to finish. Different from other RPG games where you 
 need to go there find a stick, then go to that other very far place and find a ball, then go to 
 an even farther town to find two guys and then give the stick and the ball to them so they can 
 play baseball, but before that you need to find an ancient manuscript in and old forgotten ruin 
 7 miles deep so the can read it and learn the game. The side quests are nice and simple involving 
 a lot of talking sometimes and you can survey and learn about planets while you do them.
  
  In conclusion, this game is very fun, and is going to give you a lot of hours of entertaining game 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwinches
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Incredible visuals and voice acting, implemented well as to add to the the immersive environment 
 of the game... not just eye/ear candy. The best dialogue system by far ever implemented, it takes 
 a while just to get over the amazement of how beautiful the dialogue portions look and sound. Very 
 similar to Knights/Jade Empire style although much better combat interface.. no longer point and 
 click. A fantastic game, best console RPG i've ever played. Only complaint is shortness of main 
 plot... i've done several of the side quests and have reached the end game (haven't completed) 
 in less than 20 hours. All xbox 360 owners should get this game... it's as pretty (perhaps moreso) 
 as Halo 3 and has the substance of Knights of the Old Republic. Great game hopefully sequel will 
 be just as good but longer main story quest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix73nj
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is quite simply my favorite game ever made. Here's why:
  
  1) Epic, this game is just epic in every way shape and form.
  2) Combat is a fine blend of Gears 
 of War style gun and cover, with the 
  ability to pause and select "force like powers" and issue commands
  to your party mates. On Veteran 
 level every combat was an all engrossing
  firefight hybrid of the best of gears of war meets KOTR variety. Once you 
  get the hang of fighting 
 the game becomes super immersive and
  a total blast in the action sequences.
  3) SCI FI IS BACK AND IN A BIG WAY! woot... So g-damn sick of WWII and
  LOTR Orkishdwarvenelves.... 
 thank goodness Santa finally brought me
  that startship I've wanted since I was 12. Lucky for me it came with one
  of the best space opra's 
 I've seen since I was 5 (Starwars: New Hope) .
  Im totaly psyched there's 2 more coming!!!!
  4) Unparelleled cinimatic quality... Just when I thought that Assasin's Creed
  was pushing the 
 envelope of cinimatic game play... The dialogue, plot 
  and acting in Mass Effect raises the bar 3 times higher.
  
  Things I completely disagree with 
 from other reviews:
  
  The mako is a pleasure to drive. It's not a warthog, it's not a SUV, it's not a tank. It's a futuristic 
 ground vehicle meant for EVA's on hostile planetary surfaces. It's got a mass effect generator 
 that reduces it's relative mass in it and it's got jump jets. It handles exactly as it should. 
 It has a first person swap mode for fine aiming. I found myself REALLY enjoying the little rover 
 and completely disgusted with other reviews of it.
  
  I really really hope there's some new content out for this soon on XBL, as I'll never make it till 
 the sequal... this game is fine! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhatSeeJay
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  Let us get the bad parts out of the way first to really highlight how good this game really is.
 
  
  Saving; Fair enough no quick save, but the autosaves are terrible, they initiate at awquard times 
 and they don't even do it often enough to actually be of any use. If killed and have forgotten 
 to manually save you are most likely in need of redoing up to half an hour of game play.
  
  Graphics; The poor box has a rough time handling the huge areas and the intense fights. The framerate 
 drop happens often enough to compare the 360 to a PC with slightly too low hardware.
  
  Learning Curve; There is none. You are thrown into the game without any proper tutorial and you 
 more or less have to experience trial and error as Mass Effect is very different from KOTOR game 
 play wise.
  
  So.. why is this relevant? Well.. usually these problems would get most games on the market blammed. 
 This is not the fact for Mass Effect.
  
  This game is so deep and it completely sucks you in.
  You are actually so deeply involved in 
 this game that the above problems becomes more of a case of some Piss in Mississippi..
  
  The ability to create your own character more detailed compared to the previous Bioware games makes 
 it even more appealing. You get a strong feeling of actually becoming a part of this world.
  
  And what a world.. or should I say galaxy..!
  A galaxy with multiple planet systems, all 
 harboring a minimum of five planets. All visitable by the player.
  
  To me this game is nothing but a piece of art!
  You get sucked in and when you manage to catch 
 a breath you have lost over 10 hours into pure ownage. Pardon my language..
  
  And what can I say.. aliens have NEVER looked this good before... and they all work for Shepard. 
 For my Shepard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilbeRKugeL
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  This game is simply one of the best game i have played in years. Graphics are top notch, so is 
 the gameplay and storyline. Have some issues with the vehicle controls, but overall this game is 
 a must have. It feels like watching a movie, where you are the main character. 
  The level of customizations available is close to any RPG out there, and you got the best of a 
 tactical shooter. Just put some multiplayer random coop maps, and you got yourself a dream game 
 :) . 
  
  In all, i have been waiting for a loooong time to see this game, and all i can say is : Bioware, 
 thank you.
  
  Thanks for reading :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  Okay, first up this is not KOTOR 3 its more than that.
  Released from the constraints of the Star Wars licence Bioware have produced a game worthy of being 
 called Next-Gen, Mass Effect is one very cool game.
  Yes there is some texture pop up, even on some of the more basic screens, such as when you equip 
 your squad for a mission, but it doesn't detract from the gameplay.
  The screen will also freeze momentarily as more data is loaded as you run around the larger locations, 
 such as the Citadel, but again this doesn't detract from the gameplay.
  And I have never been hit by a Thresher Mew that erupted from the planet surface directly under 
 my vehicle but then I've only ever seen 1 of these and I have landed on around 20 planets I certainly 
 don't avoid flat surfaces on planets just in case this happens.
  It can be a little slow moving, Shepard seems to have the slowest running speed of any character 
 I've ever come across, but again this doesn't detract any from the game.
  Conversations are spectacular, the detail on the characters themselves is staggering (when it all 
 kicks in) and the new conversation system is simple to use, sometimes the next line is the same 
 regardless of what action/tone you choose but these are few and far between.
  Combat is a different matter, taking the form of a third person squad shooter, which doesn't always 
 work, when instructing other members of your team the action ought to switch to their viewpoint 
 to give you a little more help in deciding what would be the best course of action for them at 
 that moment its one thing to tell Wrex to use a biotic power on a certain enemy but with little 
 idea of his exact location of health status, the action you choose could lead to him taking a serious 
 hit and being out of action for the next few minutes.
  There are more side quests and tasks than you can shake a stick at, far too many to be able to 
 complete in one play through, but this is the sort of game that you will want to play over and 
 over, to try different team members in different situations, to try a different tact and I for 
 one cannot wait.
  It has its faults, but these are small fry, and when you consider the size and depth of the game 
 can be overlooked easily, the fanboys will use them to try and beat the game to death with they 
 will fail its only jealousy that they can't play this masterpiece of Next-Gen software.
  Enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie1980
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  Usually when a video game recieves as much hype as Mass Effect did i 
  worry, games built around hype are usually a dissapointment, theres no other way looking at it. 
 Mass Effect is without question worthy to all the hype it was given, this game is a marvel, its 
 like what spiderman is to comics, or Steven Spielberg is to movies, its really that good. From 
 everything to the character design options to the intense firefighting, to the characters, to the 
 sheer size of the universe you explore bioware hit the mark, not only is this best looking video 
 game in history so far, with character facial expressions that look ridiculously realsitic it also 
 has which in my opionon is the best RPG story line in a game. The game impressed me in all fronts, 
 and having completed it 4 times now and every time doing things differently thanks to the clever 
 character personality development throughout the game i can honesty say this is a true classic 
 which will keep yo uengaged from the start. The first time you see Shepard (the main character you 
 control) walking through the ship you know this game is gona be special.
  
  The only critisism i have for the game is the repetitive side missions but since the rest of the 
 game more and makes up for it i do not worry about that to much, if u want a remarkable RPG with 
 a involving storyline and deep driven characters inventive talent system, easy to play hard to 
 master gameplay i suggest you purchise this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heistenfaust
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:00 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this simple.
  
  The good:
  
  -Terrific storyline that will keep you engaged the length of the game, It's probably the best this 
 year. And it doesn't rely on shocking twists to keep you playing, which seems rare these days.
 
  - Sound. Every line of dialog is expertly delivered by a great cast. The soundtrack is also very 
 good, it blends cool techno with sweeping orchestral pieces and fits the setting like a glove.
 
  - Graphics. Framerate issues aside this is one of the best looking on the 360, coming very close 
 to Gears of war. Facial animations are above almost everything seen in games.
  - Gameplay. The shooting is very fun and is blended with deep RPG mechanics to make one very fun 
 game. The conversation wheel is innovative and easy to use: you'll find that you're having just 
 as much fun talking to people as you are shooting.
  - Value. Mass Effect features many choices that will alter the way the game plays out. The game 
 features enough replay value to merit multiple playthroughs.
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Length: Mass Effect is relatively short for an RPG, especially a Bioware-made one. My first playthrough 
 took me about 24 hours. Thats exceptional for a game these days but i can't help but express dissapointment 
 when Bioware's KOTOR would take over 40 hours to beat.
  - Pop-in. Mass Effect has alot of pop in. Sometimes it'll load fine but most of the time, whether 
 you load a save or a new area it'll take about 10 seconds for all the textures to load. This wouldn't 
 be too much of a problem if it didn't affect the cut scenes as well, because they're all really 
 well choreographed but its hard to watch when there's no textures.
  
  Overall Mass Effect is a must buy for anybody who was a fan of KOTOR or Jade empire. The technical 
 issues aren't nearly enough to ruin the experience you'll have while playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellcanwait
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  Im very impressed with ME, the gameplay, graphix and story is fantastic.
  
  The GS review is based on faulty assumptions, the reviewer claims that the turret on marko cant 
 move up or down.... its controlled by the right stick and it moves up & down just fine thank you.
 
  
  Unlike the GS reviewer, I think all the elements of ME are strong.
  
  Vehicle based fighting is fast and frantic, while the tps part demands a more tactical aproach.
 
  
  This is, in my opinoin the best game to come out this christmas.
  If you own a 360 then you got to have mass Effect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: s-wut
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  I have played fallout 1 &2 , Elderscrolls series, Gears of War, Star trek games, Star wars games, 
 all of the Halo series, and i must say. This game has got it all. The developers and artist who 
 brought this masterpiece together have to be proud to create something so "epic" (no thet to be 
 cliche, but it deserves "epic") . Aside from some minor bog downs and the odd clunky but acceptable 
 load time. The game is perfect. It accomplishes everything it means to. Some heavy art went into 
 the creation of this game and anyone who gave this game less than a 9 is not truely appreciative 
 of the amount of creativiity and innovation it requires to make a game world, or any other piece 
 of art to come together like that. 
  
  A true sense of exploration and the feeling of undescribable adventure is very apperent. The combat 
 is tactical enough that it gives you the sense that you are still playing a game. But the cutscenes 
 are so realistic its like a film. Gameplay is smooth and gunfights are exhilerating. Driving is 
 great fun when you get the hang of it, when you realize the controls were designed with a learning 
 curve that pays off to learn. Its a pain in the ass if you dont have the patience, but if thats 
 the case you might say that about everything in the game because it has its slow moments. When 
 the gameplay bogs the story goes all out. Mindboggling detail and background and nothing to complain 
 about in any aspect.
  
  The best thing is the story. Which I beliieve to be the most crucial aspect to most games in parallel 
 with gameplay .It is like a 25 hour movie that you cant stop watching once you start. I was blown 
 away by the level of detail and background of the universe, and the shear mind boggling amount 
 of beautiully acted out dialog. Perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skuijs
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  First of all let me say that i finished mass effect yesterday and planning to start over again 
 today the game is that damn good.
  Mass effect lets you play as Commander Shepard an Alliance soldier who is send to save the galaxy.
 
  The galaxy your saving might be the best galaxy since star wars in my view every race and detail 
 you can look up and read about a real nice treat for us sci-fi geeks.
  The gameplay is fun the graphics and voice acting is so good you'll actually think your with them 
 in the conversation.
  This game is a must buy for xbox360 users.
  If you have the money run to get it right NOW ! 
  
  A galaxy is depending on you 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KMRB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect has all of the great qualities of an epic space drama RPG along with all of the essential 
 first person shooter qualities combined along with. The review should be broken down first by its 
 technical pros and cons.
  
  Technical Pros:
  Excellent graphics, lighting, and texture. Great voice performances. Great gameplay. Great control 
 (minus the MAKO) . Great camera. Great story. Great replay value.
  
  Technical Cons:
  Framerate is clunky. Graphic load times is long and awkward. Shadows are somewhat strange (you 
 get this kind of airbrush shadow that isn't a complete shadow) .
  
  Now on to the general review:
  
  Mass Effect's negatives are far surpassed by its gripping 
 story that makes you very attached to the characters that you progress alongside. The remarkable 
 ability of BioWare's development of the characters and your ability to connect with them is impressive. 
 Although most significant conversations occur on the Normandy with your crew, the substance and 
 the focus on creating friendships and relationships is so strong that it makes it difficult not 
 to feel some sort of attachment to what happens to your team.
  
  I personally went through most of the story and received the "completionist" achievement - which 
 indicated that I went through the majority of the game. I felt extremely satisfied after completing 
 the game. I did not complete all side missions but I did find that most were interesting and, though 
 not entirely action-packed, were well designed in how they tied into NPCs and their need for help 
 in a large galactic setting. 
  
  I was actually surprised that my romance was with Liara because I had been certain that Ashley 
 would be the one I would end up with - so I was a little taken aback when that occurred - not that 
 that's a bad thing - I was a little let down but kudos once again to BioWare because that's what 
 a game in this day and age should make you do: feel some sort of emotion. 
  
  The ending was a topper for me: Not since Legend of Zelda when I was a 5 year old boy have I had 
 such a sense of accomplishment after completing a game to see our protagonist rise from the rubble 
 to stand victoriously as his teammates looked on in amazement.
  
  The ending was something out of Star Wars and Battlestar Galactica combined. As the Alliance ships 
 moved into position and began to unleash hell onto the Sovereign I could almost hear the Battlestar 
 Galactica music play - the scene almost looked like in Revenge of the Sith when the Republic ships 
 are attacking the Droid Army at the beginning.
  
  The sad part was only when I realized that the ride was over - luckily, I began again with my weapons, 
 armor, powers and all to continue again to see if maybe this time around I could get that relationship 
 with Ashley kindled the right way... 
  
  This was truly a masterpiece and I urge everyone to purchase this game - be open, don't be such 
 a hyped-up player who needs endless fast movement on the screen at the point of suffering from 
 epilepsy for the game to be classified as "GREAT". You should take in this game as an unfolding 
 space saga that is beyond gaming and is truly inspirational. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  there are some games that make you to grow up in gaming and challenge your strength in every single 
 action; this game is that ones;
  when you start it ,this is the game that take you and play you; your character is the same in real 
 world and in this game; your way of talking, acting, and driving take place az the same in this game;
 
  the game-play is just right; not easy nor hard; a rookie can do it and a hardcore too; but for a 
 real gamer there are so many more; this element lonely make you to play;
  story is strong and sharp; strike you when you do not except; that is like a sci-fi novel from a 
 great author; this element make his job so good too;
  graphic is so great, so; the sky ,the planets, space and th stars far away, you and you friends design, depth 
 of field, little things, rocks, the sands, machines, bots, and most likely sun; every things is attractive;
 
  the music; when it starts, it will take you to sky, a empty, beautiful sky that there are you and 
 your own in it; you and your own wishes, and wills of gaming music; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  This is just... The best RPG ever. I've never played an RPG that I truly liked until Mass Effect. 
 It combines my two favorite things: Team-based shooting, and extremely interesting plots.
  The graphics are really funky, in the way that they have to shift from low detail to high detail 
 in the middle of the game, like in Gears of War. They're still good, though only some environments 
 are nice to look at, usually only because of their vastness and overall amount of detail. Close-up 
 environments and indoor environments are usually really ugly, sometimes just lazily made.
  Everything animates amazingly. Foreheads realistically crease and smooth back out without any visual 
 problem whatsoever. Every bit of dialogue is at ground-level. The camera will zoom in on the speakers 
 in a movie-like fashion. ALL character dialogue is spoken aloud. Hardly any reading must be done. 
 You don't even need subtitles! Even some of the information located on the Codex doesn't need to 
 be read, and reading what needs to be isn't at all necessary since everything in the game is usually 
 well-explained through spoken dialogue.
  I can't get enough of the dialogue. I try to get as much as possible without having to redo a conversation. 
 The voice actors are amazing. It's so friggin' awesome, I dunno' how to say it. Never have I played 
 a game with so many spoken lines, and spoken very well, no less!
  The plot is amazing. Primary missions are all full of interesting plot-related content, and even 
 side-missions, which sometimes vaguely relate to the plot but usually go off on their own, feel 
 like they're really important. Not many side missions feel pointless. Hardly a single one left 
 me feeling like it was ONLY for winning items. A lot of cool stuff happens in side quests, such 
 as an attempt to negotiate with a hostage-taking terrorist. It's really impressive.
  Sadly, the gameplay in sidequests is terribly repetitive, with the only incentive for me being 
 the plot and the sometimes interesting action. It all centers around visiting empty planets and 
 driving around in the annoying APC which magically defies gravity, which it absolutely needs to 
 do because tons of mountain-climbing must be done on EVERY planet. There's, like, no plant life 
 on these generic planets, either. Grass is sometimes present, though.
  What really sucks is these big planet missions always involve the player having to enter some kind 
 of building, or picking up something that's lying around. He can never just take over an enemy 
 base that's ABOVE ground. Everyone's also extremely unaware of his presence no matter what.
  The combat in the game is all right. Depending on which class you choose defines which of the four 
 weapons you can PROPERLY use for the rest of the game, which really sucks. If you choose a class 
 that can't train in sniping, you can never zoom in with the sniper rifle. Yeah, that makes sense, 
 right?
  Everything lacks punch and enemies take a lot of bullets to kill. There's also no reason to buy 
 anything because everything the player ever needs comes in overly abundant amounts lying around 
 in containers that usually must be hacked. The hacking system is simple but unforgiving. You'd 
 think enemies would use all the nice stuff they have access to. It really sucks how there's a 150 
 item limit, because the player finds loads of items everywhere and it's a pain getting rid of them 
 without a store nearby.
  The combat is supposed to be squad-based, but you're strictly limited to two teammates and there's 
 never really reason to make them do anything other than follow the player. It's fun how the combat 
 is a genuine third-person shooter with teammates and some team-based tactics, though. My favorite 
 kind of gameplay is real-time team-based shooters (or sometimes real-time team-based hack-and-slashers) , 
 so it's nice that the amazing plot comes with fun gameplay.
  The player chooses which weapon his teammates hold and what powers they use, though they'll also 
 automatically use their powers if the player lets them. The same menus that choose the player's 
 weapons/powers are the same menus that control the teammates' weapons/powers.
  The auto-aim system is misleading because enemies will be high-lighted, but the game won't actually 
 auto-aim at them just because they are. There's a cover system that I actually found useful, even 
 though the game would probably do just fine without it. Some people find it to be annoying, but 
 I like it. Makes the game feel more tactical, especially, which is good since there's hardly anything 
 to be said about epic battles, or battles that involve anyone but the player and his two teammates 
 against everyone else.
  Anyway, though the combat is hardly the hardcore stuff you'd find in other games, it still has 
 lots of amazing moments and cool powers and other things that make it great when there's no story-telling 
 going on. I loves me some real-time team-based shootin'!
  The game includes a lot of racism between species. This actually makes the game a lot more interesting, 
 and it pretty much never feels like the racism is tossed in randomly for no reason. Still, every 
 species calls everyone from a different species by their species' name rather than "sir" or "madame". 
 I'd get offended if I was a Turian and every human I ever saw who didn't know my name called me 
 "Turian" instead of "Mister". The rude species-calling is pretty much how it goes in every sci-fi 
 universal epic ever, though. Every character of every species is also always ready to explain away 
 every single aspect of their species, even when they have no particular reason to do so. Much like 
 humans with their different races and countries, everyone takes credit for everything that their 
 ancestors did.
  The character creation system is amazing. It'd be nice if more games had such in-depth character 
 creation. It's nice to have such customizeability because you have to look at your character 24/7, 
 whether it be whilst walking around or in conversations. Not only can the player customize the 
 appearance of the character, but they can even choose whether to be a man or a woman. The reason 
 that's so impressive is that they have a load of dialogue for the main character, so they had two 
 different voice actors do all of it. They play their parts perfectly. Gender affects little in 
 the game, especially because either gender can hook up with the blue-skinned alien chick.
  The best thing about conversations is the player involvement. The player can be either nice, indifferent, 
 or rude. The player is ultimately a goodguy, but he can be either really nice or a huge jerk. It's 
 pretty awesome. Some decisions will allow for more dialogue than others. Both decisions will have 
 the same dialogue, but one just might have more.
  Sometimes, two decisions will have the exact-same dialogue, which seems kind of lame. Sometimes, 
 a decision won't accurately point out what the player actually says. I often said things I didn't 
 want to say because the choices I had were misleading. Sometimes, they only let you say one thing, 
 even if it's in a nice or mean way. Most negotiation sequences end just one way, no matter what 
 the player says. I let the game choose my skills for me because I don't want to go through the 
 trouble of leveling up when I get enough trouble out of trying to manage the squad's equipment. 
 This resulted in a lot of conversation choices being completely greyed out, usually choices that 
 I REALLY wanted, but had no chance to select because the game wouldn't let me. There are two skills 
 that affect conversation: Charm and Intimidation. If you don't have high skills in them, you can't 
 select their correspondig dialogue choices, which was really annoying until I just decided to level 
 up myself until I completely filled up charm and intimidation, which the automatic level up system 
 refused to do. That finally allowed me to choose dialogue that I often desired, though I couldn't 
 go back in time and fix the previous choices I made. In one situation, I had to help a guy get 
 his wife's dead body back from the military. I HAD to! They wouldn't let me finish the side quest 
 without it because my charm and intimidation weren't high enough to do anything else. Pretty lame.
 
  Framerate can be really bad, too!
  Y'know, I found it very interesting that the player couldn't choose his species, and he gets six 
 squadmates which don't actually include all of the species that I thought it would. Many armors 
 are species-specific, which basically means they'll usually only apply to one character. If the 
 player could choose his species, the plot would have to be completely different and would be a 
 lot weaker, so it's for the best that the player has to be a human. I wouldn't choose another species, 
 anyway.
  The thing that sucks the most about the game- or, the only thing that sucks about the game- is 
 the lack of multiplayer. The game leaves little room for multiplayer, unlike other games like Oblivion 
 or STALKER that have no multiplayer for the "adventure mode", but they could've still had some 
 limited multiplayer. Basically, player one would do everything, and player two and three could 
 manually control the squadmates in battle. It wouldn't be any good for XBOX Live, but it could 
 still be useful for a little bit of in-house multiplayer.
  Squadmates lose a lot of their plot importance once they're added into the player's squad. They 
 still talk a lot whenever possible, but they take a backseat to the dialogue whenever the player 
 can choose who he has with him. Sometimes, the character he brings along can actually determine 
 just how much plot or character development he gets, which is all by chance. The player can actually 
 refuse people into his squad and apparently, according to this "Sci vs Fi" thing I watched, must 
 choose between two squadmates' lives. This makes me wonder if the player ever has to have any squadmates 
 at all, since he can deny entry for most of them and, since one apparently dies later, can kill 
 off the only one that's forced into his party. I dunno' if he actually can deny entry, but it's 
 always a choice the player is given in dialogue, even though I never select it.
  The game is absolutely perfect if you're playing by yourself and you have tons of time, but if 
 you want to play with others, it's not the way to go.
  
  I don't know where I'm going with this, so I'll give a quick rundown of what I love.
  Great character 
 creation system allows the customization of both appearance and gender.
  Combat system, though weak, is more fun than most RPGs, especially because it's a team-based shooter 
 with lots of cool super-powers.
  Dialogue choices, though sometimes one-sided, add a lot of involvement in the game's countless, 
 wonderful plot sequences and interesting conversations.
  Amazing plot with lots of spoken dialogue by great voice actors. The game contains a lot of meaningful 
 stuff and a lot of depth, and sometimes it feels like if the player DIDN'T know about how the socities 
 of every species worked, the game just wouldn't be as good. The game takes the player to all manner 
 of places that it sometimes seems like he'll never go, or has the player do things that seem like 
 they'll never be done at first.
  Side quests are the best side quests of any RPG in existance, even if they're not always that fun 
 to do. Every side quest ends feeling like it had a purpose.
  Even though the game is a big time-waster, I've never felt that it was ever actually a waste of 
 my spare time. The game lasts forever and everything in the game is really interesting and feels 
 important to do. Why talk to people when you can play Mass Effect?
  No multiplayer of any sort. ... That doesn't count as something I love. I HATE THAT. Still, the 
 single player is really great.
  
  To restate, if you're in a situation where you can or want to play a game by yourself and have 
 tons of hours to kill, PLAY THIS GAME. If you don't have tons of hours to kill and would only have 
 an hour or so to play it every day or every OTHER day, BUY THIS GAME. It's worth playing multiple 
 times through because all of the crazy things that can happen. The game also lasts an eternity. 
 It's one amazing DVD.
  
  
  
  
  I lazily added this game to my Gamefly rental list, and when it was being sent to me, I expected 
 it to suck and even moreso expected to send it back right away. However, the day after Gamefly 
 sent it (it didn't get to the house, yet) , I saw "Sci vs Fi" on the sci-fi channel, which is an 
 hour-long special about Mass Effect. It made me actually look forward to the game's arrival, and 
 the game itself was far better than I had expected or hoped for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjbcfc
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  I really don't understand Gamespots score of a pathetic 8.5 for this truly outstanding game. The 
 texture popups, MAKO controls and interface issues don't really affect the game that much (surely 
 these reasons can't be enough for the GS reviewer to give an 8.5!!!!) .
  
  The conversation and combat wheels are a treat to use and all the characters in game are believable 
 due to the exquisite graphics, stunningly written dialogue and award winning voice talent.
  
  The story so far, 20 hours in, is compelling and it makes you want to keep going which is something 
 you sort of expect as standard nowadays for a Bioware game.
  
  Combat is nearly impossible if you ignore the combat wheel and go in guns blazing but when you 
 take your time and make wise decisions then you can pull off some great moves and victories which 
 are highly rewarding.
  
  Of course there are a few things that slightly, yes only 'slightly', annoyed me. The autosave feature 
 is very infrequent (I went about 3 hours game time without a single autosave, imagine how annoying 
 that would have been if I'd died and not manually saved the game myself) . Also the classes you 
 choose kind of annoyed me for two reasons, firstly there is no option to create a custom class 
 and secondly there is no 'trial period' where you can change your class after a while e. g. like 
 Oblivion has. These two problems can result in you being stuck with some rubbish talents that you 
 never use.
  
  However this game, although far from perfect due to slight hick ups, is simply an astonishing game 
 that would normally warrant a 9.5 however when you take into consideration the fact that Bioware 
 have basically created a whole new universe with an insanely rich amount of deep detail bumps its 
 score up to a 10. Well done Bioware, can't wait for ME 2 and KOTOR III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2mysterious
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  this is a 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  good game the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the he 
 the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawnsmysis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I won't lie. I was excited for this game since I first saw the E3 06 trailer.
  
  When I first fired up this game my heart was beating, I was ready for the best game I had ever 
 played. And I tell you it IS! From the second you create your Shep to when you make your first 
 conversation decision, you feel like you are part of the best Sci-Fi game EVER!
  
  The conversation system is the greatest in a game, BARR NONE! The whole time (one of the best moments 
 when I put together a speech for the crew of the Normandy) I really felt like no matter what I 
 was thinking the game could convey it exactly like I wanted. 
  
  Now for the combat. It starts out slow and stays that way for a while, but then it gets good. After 
 you get used to all the little quirks, the combat feels natural and smooth. Everything is extremely 
 non-linear. After almost every encounter my mind is filled with possibilities. What if I used throw 
 instead of stasis? What if I thew a grenade instead of ran up and punched?
  
  In short this game is about the best game I have ever played and the minor glitches just don't 
 feel bigger than the dust mite living in your carpet right now.
  
  I can't give this game a 10 because no game is perfect and it could be a little longer and the 
 load times can be long at times, but this is as close to perfect as you can get.
  
  If you own an Xbox 360 you owe it to yourself to buy this game. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpie125
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that it was very hard to pick a single classification for this review. 
 Of all the praise ones, I would readily say it deserves all of them. 
  
  Mass Effect is the game I think I've waited the longest for and the best I have played in my very 
 short gaming history. What separates this from titles like Halo 2 and 3 is that it delivers. (Or 
 perhaps I was just too caught up in Halo 3's hype to get overly excited about Mass Effect, making 
 it *that* much greater) . 
  
  When it was announced, I was instantly hooked. I had just finished playing KoTOR 1 and 2 (I know, 
 not by BioWare... but it's in the same vein) and if there's only one genre I had to live with, 
 it was sci-fi. So, Mass Effect!
  
  The story is quite good, very rich and believable. I can't compare it to the Halo Universe (because 
 I'm a sucker for those novels and the entire backstory) , but BioWare doesn't fail to story-tell. 
 About the length of the game, some might say it's too short. I remember spending maybe fifty hours 
 playing KoTOR on the first run, and I completed the main storyline of Mass Effect today in almost 
 eighteen hours ending at a level 40 character (with a lot of minor and few major sidequests done, 
 however) . But this was on casual and I was playing as the soldier class... and towards the end, 
 I was quite powerful. I just started a new profile as a female Vanguard on the second difficulty, 
 so we'll see how this turns up.
  
  I won't spoil anything (that's for you to find out) , but just know that if you plan to spend 60 
 bucks on this, you won't be disappointed with the story at all. On another note, the space battle 
 sequence at the end is the one that Halo 3 should've had, but it's too late now. It belongs to 
 BioWare's greatness.
  
  The graphics are just great. All the scenery, character models, level designs and everything. People 
 have complained about pop-in textures, but Gears of War had it. Less than Mass Effect, yeah, but 
 it was a much smaller game. It's hard to really believe a game could pull of Mass Effect's scope 
 and have perfect everything. And what's there is phenomenal already. Don't mind the graphical glitches. 
 You'll be happier this way.
  
  Perhaps the thing I liked most about character creation was the restraints. With the options there 
 to choose, they all fit in proportionately, so it's hard to go wrong... unlike Oblivion, where 
 it's not hard to accidentally create a face so deformed you couldn't stand to play the entire game 
 with and instantly restart before you even get started. In Mass Effect, your face ends up looking 
 as good as everyone else's, like it could have been the official character face for "Shepard". 
 
  
  The sound is good all around. KoTOR was always centered around dialogue, and Mass Effect continues 
 this tradition. And now, you've got a voice for your character. The conversation sounds as fluid 
 as you can get with a video game, and both male and female Shepards are well done. There's less 
 non-essential character dialogue than in KoTOR, but in Knights, you'd usually hear the same line 
 repeated through three people in a row. Maybe it's better like this. 
  
  The Mass Effect score is fitting, maybe a little too much electronic/techno for my tastes, but 
 the grander scenes feature something out of Stargate Atlantis or some such. But as far as video 
 game scores go, they're getting better and better, and Mass Effect's is way up there. 
  
  The gameplay handles like KoTOR, running around level with a lot of corridors, talking to NPCs... 
 and the third person combat works quite well. For your average RPG fan, it might take a getting 
 used to, but I just finished with Kane and Lynch the weekend before so I had no problems. Combat 
 is simply great, and the Mako is not all that bad. After you get the hang of driving (after the 
 first driving mission) , you don't need to fight the controls. If you hold down the left trigger, 
 it handles exactly like a warthog. Without, it handles like a scorpion tank. Driving a vehicle 
 in Far Cry Instincts is twice as hard as the Mako. And no, the turret is not only good for ground-level 
 enemies like Mr. VanOord says. It's very effective.
  
  Buy this game if you have a 360 and liked KoTOR. Get off the fence, right this minute. The AI might 
 be a little dumb (stuck beside a ramp, behind a desk...) and there's no use denying the pop-ins 
 and framerate hitches, but the good far outweighs the bad. I don't see how this game could get 
 less than a nine, unless you're very picky about small things you really shouldn't care about. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayfi33
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  First things first - gamespot 8.5? HAHAHAHA! Someone was blackmailing that guy I swear. You know 
 a 10 when you play one. And this is a 10. On to the review. 
  
  I played my 1st of what will probably be at least 3 playthroughs of Mass effect for thirty four 
 hours over a five day span and i would have played more had i not needed to eat and sleep. Once 
 you put in the disc and create your character it is off you go into the most believable and enjoyable 
 sci-fi adventure that i can remember. There are too many things that are great to name them all. 
 the dialog system, which you think might be a tedious and annoying bridge between mission and side-quest 
 was anything but boring. the dialog system rocks and adds a whole new dimension to video games: 
 real decisions that affect the outcome of the game. Without spoiling anything, i will say there 
 are at least 5 major parts of the game where i spent many minutes agonizing over what choice to 
 make. I have never been put in that position by a game and it is nothing short of miraculous that 
 Bioware achieved this kind of immersion. There are so many ways to take a conversation and steer 
 the mood that i will be going back to play the opposite way just to see the varied results that 
 will follow. The story really hits home and when you feel as though you are making an impact in 
 this amazing tale, it makes the experience all the more special. Yes, games can be special.
  
  The graphics are sweet as can be (once you remove the film grain in the options menu - but 
 if you like it then go with it) . there is the occasional loading time and texture or filmrate shimmer 
 but it is nothing, i repreat nothing that will stick in your mind as you inch closer to the next 
 enemy base, or try and decide which one of your squad members awesome powers to use next. 
  
  The combat system lends itself perfectly to however you decide you want to fight. you can pause 
 mid combat and study the situation, making the most out of each of your powers, and that of your 
 team. Or you can leave the pause ability alone and go guns/biotics/techs blazing into the fray. 
 regardless of how you do it, you will be met with challenging and memorable battles. some tough, 
 some very tough. All enjoyable and fun due to the interesting combat dynamic. you can spend hours, 
 yes hours, just listening to the info you get from the galactic codex. and by doing this, which 
 i recommend from time to time, really enriches the experience and goes to show how much attention 
 was given to detail. 
  
  You can upgrade everything from your armor, to your biotic implant which affects how often you 
 can use your powers, to your weapons, to your ammo type. they are all over the galaxy and can be 
 found, hacked into, or bought depending on how you play the game. Mass Effect rewards the adventurer 
 with some nice hidden upgrades throughout the planets and i encourage you to explore. If nothing 
 else you will see more of the game, and that is a good thing. 
  
  The charatcers are carefully crafted and all of your squad mates bring something unique to the 
 table. I found myself using the Quarian, Tali', more and more as the game progressed, her tech 
 abilities are a lot of fun to watch. All it took was seeing her use AI hacking on a geth to make 
 him turn and fire on his comrades to have me sold on the value of good tech skills. Wrex is hilarious 
 at times and Ashley is easy to fall for. I plan on using Garrus, the turian, and Kaiden, the sentinel, 
 more on my next playthrough. you find yourself bonding with certain teammates, another rarity that 
 i found surprising in a video game. leveling up your squad as you level up is a great addition 
 to this game and it really makes you feel like you are shaping things. In a game built on freedom 
 of choice, the leveling system might seem obvious, but it could have easily been overlooked and 
 it wasnt. Each point you spend matters as it should. 
  
  In summation i cant think of a reason not to buy this game. There isnt any. the story is incredible 
 and the ending is awesome and moving. Multiple playthroughs is assured. As good a game as i have 
 ever played and havent felt this way about a game since Oblivion. Play Mass Effect, you will remember 
 it forever. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danieljmoore
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe Game Spot gave it 8.5..... Wake up! It is not the best game ever created, but it 
 sure has allot more to offer than 99% of the others.. Geeezz the only problem I have is Game spots 
 review. Its a great game over all. So all of you who say they hate it, apparently dont like RPGs..... sorry 
 everything cant be HALO..... Mass Effect is not that type, it has more class.
  There is no doubt that Mass Effect has some flaws, like the auto save feature, and minor glitches 
 here and there. But the story is thick and well thought out. Not only that, but it draws you in 
 and makes you want to make (right & wrong) choices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: why9090909090
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Mass Effect about 3 days ago and this game is hands down, a true masterpiece. Following 
 the same gameplay as KOTOR, it lives up to its potential and masters it. The Graphics of this game 
 are amazing besides the few flaws where the graphics glitch out, (happens in gears of war) but 
 besides that they are stellar with amazing dialogue even though there are some awkward moments 
 when people tlak to each other. Other then that the story and gameplay is intense and will keep 
 yuo begging for more. The combat system is basic yet incredibly exciting and difficult if you don't 
 know what you're doing. 
  
  Mass Effect will keep you playing for a longgg time to come due to the fact that you can start 
 new stories with different types of Characters to get a different feel for the storyline. Without 
 a doubt, this is one of the best games i've ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Bioware had done it again. Their past three games, KotOR, KotOR II and Jade Empire, made a huge 
 impact on the RPG genre. Okay, maybe not Final Fantasy calibur, but an impact none the less. Offering 
 stand out gameplay, a fascinating story, and strong character interaction. KotOR, KotOR II and 
 JE recieved great reviews and praise, but it also had it's problems. Occasional camera awkwardness, 
 graphical hiccups, and other minor problems made appearances. However, none of those dampened the 
 greatness of the game. Now Bioware is going for a 4-of-a-kind streak. With a new console and and 
 new technology, does their quality and legacy continue? 
  
  
  Lets start with the obvious. 
 This game is beautiful and easy to look at. The art direction is unique and the texture and lighting 
 really help to create the mood and atmosphere. The great character designs and facial expressions 
 are second to none, and will actually make you question if you are playing a game or watching a 
 major Hollywood production. Bioware's dedication to detail is startling, and it is like this everywhere 
 in the game. However there are a few flaws. First off, you will notice that the frame rate will 
 drop. The reason for this is acceptable, because there is rarely a loading screen. The game is 
 streaming everything right off the disk, which is why the disk is spinning so fast in the disk 
 tray of your 360. The second thing is that your custom created character can look kinda funny. 
 But none of this detracts from the look. What's cool are the little touches that Bioware puts into 
 everything. When you holster/unholster your weapon, the weapon of choice will evolve. Take the 
 Assault Rifle located on your right shoulder. When you unholster it, the stock will pop up, handle 
 will pop down, the chamber will pop out, and the barrel with eject out. When you holster it, it 
 folds back up to compact status on your back. Shooting water projects realistic sprouting of water, 
 bullets kick up dirt and dent metal and so much more. Again the attention to detail. 
  
  
  As far as the story goes, you 
 play as Commander Shepard, with whatever background you chose to pick (there are 3) . You command 
 the Normandy along with a full crew to help you along your travels. One day, a distress beacon 
 on Eden Prime calls you to duty, unlike any you seen before. The beacon is a Patheon beacon, which 
 holds some unknown power. Upon landing on Eden Prime, which is supposed to be a utopia is in rubble 
 and destruction looms in the horizon. You meet Ashley Williams, the last survivor of her platoon, 
 who states that the Geth (robot forces) are behind the loss of her team. Wonder were the Serian 
 (alien) Spectre who joined your team for this mission has gone, you start looking for them. Come 
 to find out, the specter is murdered in cold blood by one of his kind named Saron. Saron activates 
 the beacon and jets out of dodge. Leaving the bombs he and the Geth activated for the Shepard and 
 the crew to be blown sky-high. Upon deactivating the boms you notice that the beacon is active, 
 and Shepard gets zapped by it. Bewildered by the effects of the beacon and your main lead dead, 
 you are on the heels of Saron to find out what is doings and future plans are. By the way, THAT's 
 THE FIRST HALF HOUR! What goes on after this gets much bigger. 
  
  
  Onto the side order to the main 
 course meal, the gameplay. First things first, this is not Halo, not even the same league, so stop 
 complaining if it isn't as good! Halo is a FPS and this is a 3rd person Action RPG. Now that I 
 got that out of the way, I can continue. If Gears of War's action met KotOR's powers and way of 
 story telling, their baby would be born as Mass Effect. The main departure for Bioware is that 
 the action is now in real-time, with no pausing for turns. The only pausing comes for selecting 
 a weapon or tech power. Having to pause for selecting a weapon feels a little weird in this type 
 of fast paced action, but whatever. I can, however, see pausing for selecting a power because there 
 a many different ones. Your guns are basic, using different variations of a sniper rifle, pistol, 
 assault rifle, and shotgun. Your powers do much more of what your bullets can't, and include lift 
 (spinning your target in the air while you and/or your teammates riddle them with bullets) , barrier 
 (putting up a temporary shield) , throw (self-explanatory) , and many many more. The previously mentioned 
 Gears of War cover system transitions well into the game. You have plenty of cover to put your 
 back up against. You even have a sprint and crouch-sprint (known in game as storming) , and believe 
 me, it comes in handy from getting to cover point to cover point. As for the dialogue system, I 
 feel as it is a minigame in itself. You have the Conversation Wheel, as Bioware calls it, and this 
 is the story-shaper. What you say to characters will comeback to either help or haunt you. Remember 
 that character you punched a while back? Well his brother is here for payback. Or remember that 
 guy you pulled gun on, well the jokes on you by his gang. Things like this actually happen, and 
 talking your way out can sometimes help. There are generally 3 options, with the top being your 
 goodie two shoes way, the middle being neutral, and the bottom being your butthead of the galaxy. 
 All of this comes into play, and is a blast from beginning to end. The only flaws here are the 
 squad commands can be jarring to use and your teammates will occasionally get stuck on environmental 
 foliage. Your teammates are often not the smartest bunch in combat, but they get the job done.
 
  
  
  The sound rounds this package out nicely, and with a bang. Every line of dialog is spoken and can 
 really boggle the mind. But it really is better than reading everything, which really became tiring 
 back in the days of PSOne Final Fantasies. This is a prime example of how far sound has come. Guns 
 sound powerful, the dialog is engaging, the background noises are seamless, the music is catchy 
 and original, and every voice in the game is distinct. How they fit everything on a regular DVD 
 disk is unknown. 
  
  
  It doesn't matter what type of gamer you are, you will be sure to find something to love in Mass 
 Effect. You have some problems here and there, but none detract from the engrossing story or the 
 addicting gameplay. You could easily play through this game a few times, and still find out something 
 new. This is a huge world, and is meant to be played through more than one. There is even an achievement 
 for those who complete it twice. Bioware is tempting you on that regard. This is a rare crowd pleaser 
 that anyone can love, providing you have the time to let this game suck from you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scotyman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  So I went in to get Assassins Creed and had other things on my mind, like my Dad just having triple 
 by-pass and I had two hours to go 150 miles and see him. When I get there I saw the game guide 
 laying on the counter and said "Doesn't that come out in a couple days?" They saidMidnight." 
 So I traded in my games and reserved it, Came back at midnight, Dad was doing fine by the way and 
 still heavily sedated. I picked it up and began playing. Right off you can tell the same people 
 who made KOTOR but not the same old repachaged and put under another name! The combat was really 
 exciting not just button pushing this game uses tactics on your tush! I didn't even use the special 
 abilities for a couple of hours!!!!! Then as things started getting more complex the options that 
 are available became almost overwhelming biotic, tech, Combat, grenades? (Save your grenades.) 
 I've played with the special abilities and combat team instructions but if you want you can just 
 shoot'em all. The character selection is an important part if the game as well if you can pick 
 a skill set that is close to what you like then there is no problem but lots of fun, fun, fun! 
 This is a game as addicting as Oblivion and the ability to select the same character on harder 
 levels to play again or create a new one well you can see the possibilities. If you want a game 
 that you will still be talking about in the nursing home when you retire get this one your adrenal 
 glands will thank you ( Not so much if you have a weak heart though.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdmiller4life
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Before I go and rave about this game, I figured I should talk about the things that make this game 
 stray away from a perfect ten rating. Also, it should be known that I beat the game on normal difficulty 
 as a soldier without too many side quests. Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion and KOTOR were my main comparisons 
 to this game as I was thinking about the review.
  
  Length: Depending on the difficulty, the main quest could take anywhere from 10-20 hours. That's 
 just not cutting it anymore for an RPG. No matter how pretty Mass Effect is, it seems lean at times. 
 KOTOR I believe was over twenty hours and Oblivion... well with all the add-on packs and exploring 
 I played Oblivion for six months. Not straight, of course, but when you beat a very highly-touted 
 game within a week it's disappointing.
  
  Too large: If you remember, KOTOR had four or five planets that you spent a solid or five hours 
 on. Oblivion's world was self-contained and was fully explorable. In Mass Effect, there are about 
 twenty or so planets which you can land on and complete a side quest. If you've just recieved the 
 Normandy and do a side quest, chances are you won't spend over an hour on the planet. If you and 
 your squad are high-level, there's a better chance that you're going to spend maybe a half hour 
 on the planet. You'll probably spend more time driving around the planet avoiding thresher maw's 
 then actual fighting. The missions themselves are bulit up to be large and exciting but are disappointing. 
 The "ghost ship" mission was built up to be rather thrilling and then ended very flat. It's almost 
 as Bioware said "okay, who can write up the quickest side quest?"
  
  Too pretty: If you're reading this review still, you maybe thinking "why is he bitching about the 
 scope of the game and the graphics?" The game has huge frame rate issues, and no matter what kind 
 of 360 you have the console has to catch up. For example, my console struggled through the introduction 
 of the Citadel sequence. Every five or so seconds the console seemed like it had to take a breath 
 to load the next five seconds. Sure, my system's almost two years old and has been sent in to be 
 fixed once, but I would definitely sacrifice graphics for performance at times.
  
  Learning curve: if you've played Assassin's Creed, the mix-mash of buttons in Mass Effect will 
 be equally confusing. You get a short tutorial in the first mission and that's it. No tutorials 
 on biotic or tech powers. New players will probably have some problems with the "wheels." However, 
 when you finally learn the controls, watch out.
  
  Now, onto the pros of the game! Mass Effect is easily the best RPG ever released for the 360 and 
 can be mentioned as a possible 'best game for the 360, period.' The production value for this game 
 is exceptionally high (and it suffers as a result with the frame rate) . The game has a great feel 
 to it and when you accomplish things in the game, you truly feel that you're making a difference 
 in this universe. 
  
  The story in the game is a great piece of science fiction and I don't think I've seen any better 
 piece of sci-fi (movie, TV, miniseries) since "Serenity." It's that good. The voice acting is spot 
 on, and this is accentuated by the inflection of the character's voices and the emotion as well 
 as their body language. Never have a played a game that has this much emotion in its' characters. 
 While questioned at first, the romance plots are believable and fun to get involved with. And, 
 of course, there's the character creation. Spend enough time doing it and you'll end up with a 
 close to mirror image of your face in the game. There's nothing like seeing your mug as the main 
 character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerfan1993
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Everyone, throw away your Gears of War, trash you Halo 3, and incinerate your Pong cartridges, 
 we have a new champion! Mass Effect is defintly, the best game on the market this christmas, why 
 you may ask? BECAUSE ITS FREAKING AWESOME! It combines shooting and RPG elements flawlessly, the 
 story is a gem, and there is a hugenormous galaxy for you to explore, so what are you waiting for? 
 GO BUY IT NOW! But i guess i should explain to why this is the best game ever, so without further 
 ado, my review.
  
  The first part of this gem of a game i would like to address, is that the graphics are absolutley 
 stunning. But since this game does push the boundaries of the 360 hardware, it does take a few 
 seconds after the game has loaded to fully load up the graphics, which is okay, since that is just 
 a very minor fault in the endless sea of love that is Mass Effect. In fact, the graphics are so 
 good, that someone who just glanced at the screen without knowing what it was would think it was 
 a CG movie. They are THAT good.
  
  But let's get on to what really matters, the gameplay. The gameplay is your basic third-person 
 shooter with an RPG twist, which makes it all the more fun. There are six classes in the game, 
 and three skill sets (Soldier, Tech, and Biotic) , There are three classes that focus specifically 
 on these skill sets, and three that are combinations of the three. I chose Infiltraitor, which 
 is a combination of soldier and tech. It allowed me to use the sniper rifle and pistol, but i couldnt 
 use the asualt rifles or shotguns, which was okay, because my tech powers allowed me to mess with 
 enemies weapons and shields, which made them vulnerable to my attacks. Perfect combo if you ask 
 me. But the shooting mechanics could be better though, like their is no auto targeting system in 
 the game, which could prove to be a hassle to the lazier gamers, but for me i didnt mind because 
 the camera moves at a perfect speed.
  
  The sound in the game is terrible... oh wait, it is the opposite of terrible, it is wonderful! 
 The voice acting couldnt be better. All the characters lips move with what they are saying, and 
 as an added bonus, Seth Green is your pilot!
  
  My only major thing i have against this game is that there arent enough boss fights, from my 25 
 hour escapade through this game, i believe i only fought in four boss fights. But who should care, 
 when the rest of the game is so great?
  
  My final thoughts on Mass Effect can be summarized in on word: Perfect. I would reccommend this 
 game to anyone that likes shooting games or RPG games, and since both of those genres take up the 
 majority of the market, i would reccommend this game for people who like playing games.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Oh, and the sex scene is not bad either =p! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rot_Kopfsalt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Bioware are the Kings of RPGs there is no doubt but is this offering as good as KOTOR and Jade 
 Empire? The answer is simply yes. Mass Effect combines action packed gunplay wiv immersive conversations. 
 Wat other game makes u want 2 go in2 a conversation.
  
  Admittedly Mass Effect has its flaws, the Mako combat is shocking and you often find urself getting 
 out and taking everything on on foot. Also texture popping can get extremely annoying and sometimes 
 characters remain basic for ages before u start seeing them the way they were intended.
  
  This aside the mass effect universe is extremely well thought out and very deep. In fact its the 
 most impressive sci fi universe since star wars and will b an instant cult classic. there is no 
 way u can't b drawn in by the species and vehicles which r 2 the taste of every RPG fan. Voice 
 acting is the best ever and the soundtrack is gr8.
  
  Mass effect is not for everyone as it requires a lot of patience and some tactical thought but 
 if u want an interactive sci fi film, or a new universe 2 explore, or a new RPG, look no further.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengefulwill
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  q w e r t y u i o p a s d f g h j j k l z x c v b n m q w e r t y u i o p a s d f g h j j k l z 
 x c v b n m q w e r t y u i o p a s d f g h j j k l z x c v b n m q w e r t y u i o p a s d f g 
 h j j k l z x c v b n m q w e r t y uq w e r t y u i o p a s d f g h j j k l z x c v b n m i o 
 p a s d f g h j j k l z x c v b n m 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazymoose99
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  While its a fun game, with a deep story, the defects make it to annoying to play. Walking around 
 in cities (or anywhere for that matter) gets to be sluggish and annoying when you have to go back 
 and forth form place, to place. The load times I can deal with however I don't know who suggested 
 that their should be all those damn elevators, but whoever did they should receive a firm blow 
 to their lovely's. The frame rate dropping every ten seconds can also get very annoying. Combat 
 is alright, but it isn't spectacular, and their aren't as many abilities as one would like. It 
 can also get annoying when you forget to save for ten minutes and out of the blue a rocket launcher 
 hits you when you don't expect it, thus forcing you redo those last ten minutes (which in part 
 is my fault, but come on you don't expect me to save every 10 minutes do you?) The universe isn't 
 as spectacular as they promised it either. It seems that really only 30% of all the planets are 
 explorable, and only 50/% of those have something interesting for you to do on them. Theirs also 
 no space combat, which makes me a sad panda, and the only vehicular combat really stinks. Half 
 the time you'll survive a blow from a rocket and the other half you won't. Finally, the acting. 
 Everyone said it was so great, which it is, but the faces look like your talking to a mentally 
 handicapped person half the time. One of their eyes will slouch down, or they won't move their 
 teeth, or they'll do stiff body maneuvers. All and all, it was a game they tried to make good, 
 and for fans of KOTOR you will like it, but the flaws are just to many : (. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kupatange
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is so good, that it will blow ur mind away, seriously. it is comparable to the star wars 
 game jedi: knight of the old republic. except 10X better. How? Its in the future, new guns, customizable 
 stuff and WAYY more. Its not that hard either, but the 3rd person gets a bit "upset" with you sometimes. 
 My freinds also thought it was fun. Although there is online play (doesnt need one, but ppl have 
 different opinions) , the variety in the game makes u choose decisions. u can tell why its rank 
 1 on all games right now, lol. 1345 ppl playing it right now. 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haloferret
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  I'll start off with the cons.
  
  Combat takes a bit before you figure out how to play it. It's similar to GRAW or Rainbow Six: Vegas. 
 Once you get used to that, combat is pretty fun. Sometimes the textures show up a bit late, but 
 it's not to serious. 
  
  And that's all I could think of that was bad.
  
  The dialouge trees are good, and sometimes there really is no good/bad answer. There were many 
 times where I couldn't decide what to do. And your choices really do have consequences, to the 
 death of a party member to the fate of the galaxy. 
  
  The main quest is quite good and the storyline flows pretty well with no obvious gaps. It isn't 
 that long, but the quality makes up for it. The side quests are plentiful and fun. Doing them will 
 lengthen the game time considerably. 
  
  Overall Mass Effect is one of the best games since Kotor. Go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PureRevenge
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  This game was amazing in almost every way. Its definatly the best RPG out this whole year. If you 
 loved Two Worlds or Oblivion this is obviously the game for you. I don't know why this game got 
 such a bad review it was amazing. Please don't listen to Gamespots review. (No offense Gamespot) 
 Im just saying that I bought this game and played it for 4 hours straight then went to take a piss, 
 then did even more. It is AMAZING! This game had so many great features, It did had some little 
 tiny laggs or glitches every once in a little while, but even those doesnt hold it down for a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MudPie210
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  When I first put the disk into my Xbox 360, I knew I was going for a wild ride. I had been watching 
 every step of Mass Effects development from about a year ago and lets just say I was really excited 
 to play it. Now that I have the game and have played through it one and a half times I can say 
 that it most definitely holds up to the hype. 
  
  From trying to take down the synthetic army of geth, to cruising around on an uncharted world; 
 from preventing the maniacal Turian, named Saren, from destroying the galaxy, to helping a drug 
 addict go straight; I was completely immersed in the universe of Mass Effect every second of the 
 game. It is almost as if you are actually in this universe.
  
  The character creation system, the third-person combat, equipment upgrading and customization, 
 being completely immersed in every conversation you have, the seemingly endless number of uncharted 
 worlds to explore in the Milky Way galaxy... this game is awesome.
  
  So if you like role-playing games, if you like third-person shooters, if you even like to play 
 video games at all, you have to check out Mass Effect for the Xbox 360. It is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcain3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  For starters, this is easily one of the best looking 360 games around, everything is just pulished 
 to a point where even a bush looks amazing. This added to the characters animation makes them seem 
 life-like. The sound and dialogue is near perfection, where the score sounds like a soundtrack 
 for a epic action movie. The dialogue is well written and for the greater part works. The stroy 
 is oringal yet there are things of which have been used in others. Now for the few flaws. The driving 
 in this game is its weakest point, although it is similar to the driving in Halo, it just seems 
 looser and harder to get used to. Another is how they use maps to select your powers and weapons, 
 its new yet just doesn't seem to work as well as hoped, also sometime when you go into a menu or 
 a new game, the graphics seem to need to load from basic model to their detail. Overall this is 
 a great role-playing game which I would recomanded to anyone even though it has flaws. It deserves 
 a...9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TastyLarry
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  OH MY GOD!!!!!!! The best game of the year is here. And right before X-mas. I love this game and 
 let me say why, i'm addicted.. First, the story is on the grandest scale imaginable, with some of 
 the most original alien races i've ever seen in a game, movie or otherwise. Not only do they brush 
 on the same level as Star Wars, they took it farther and made the Human race the last ones to join 
 the intergalactic revolution. Cool idea. And then theres the game engine used to make the award 
 winning KOTOR games, still in fine use today, is a smooth running engine. The graphics are enough 
 alone to make me want to keep playing, but that is only the begining of the "Best Game Experience 
 Ever". Saren Will DIE!!! Long live the Alliance!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinoy_pride
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  This games is one of the best rpg games released ,
  I must say that it's not better than oblivion but the same level
  of fun to me (not sure about 
 you guys) . This game is completely 
  out of this world!!!! lol i mean look at the conversations, it looks like
  you are actually in 
 the game and c'mon, look at the graphics on HD!!!
  Im am just speechless about this game, just so briliant and it is a must buy game so if you are 
 an RPG fan, you MUST get this game because
  you are missing out on a best game EVER!!!! lol and its a definitely 
  one of the best games 
 I've played since oblivion, saints row, two worlds,
  vegas and juiced 2. hehehehe, But if you are a FPS fan, try it anyway
  because it has a intense 
 battles. hehehehe. nice work BIOWARE!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haloman1200
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  Oblivion in Space..... Ever had that dream about the perfect video game. Well with Mass Effect 
 this becomes reality. Imagine Oblivion and Gears of War becoming one in a single awesome game. 
 Well thats about a summary of what mass effect offers you/ Hours of game play and addictiveness 
 makes sure that this is an excellent title. Words cant actually describe this game. Its a game 
 u have to go and experience on your own. Oh yes then there is the drop dead great visuals... Its 
 awesome. The voice acting is 5-star Hollywood quality and really draws you into the game. The only 
 bad thing about Mass Effect is the vehicle control, which can feel a little clumsy at times. But 
 on the most part a great game chose your side makes for a lot of different outcomes can really 
 make you think about want to say this game truly deserves game of the year if you haven't played 
 it do it now!
  
  Commander Shepard Out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankduijm
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2007 2:29 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting a long time for this one, but I have to say I would have gladly waited for another 
 6 months if Bioware took the effort to fix or get rid of ME's technical and game play problems 
 and annoyances. These include: 
  
   graphical imperfections (frame rate and texture problems mostly) ;
   the somewhat clumsy, limited, 
 impractical, and, at first, difficult (squad-based) combat;
   the poor AI, which applies to both team members and enemies;
   the horrible Mako combat (they 
 should've gotten rid of that altogether) ;
   the fact that the mini side quests on distant planets which miraculously all share the exact 
 same base interior (!) ;
   the stupid trasher maws ;
   the fact that you're not able to control other party members. (Though that is just a result from 
 Bioware's approach to the game, which you either like or dislike. I myself, as a hardcore RPG fan, 
 haven't made up my mind yet. But, I rather have a turn based combat system that works like in KotOR, 
 than a real-time combat system that is as poor as it is in ME.)
  
  But, the fact that ME has lots of problems and shortcomings doesn't mean that it isn't worth your 
 wile. The beautiful graphics, surroundings (the citadel!) and music, the great dialogues and voice 
 acting, the terrific story telling, the cool quests make certainly make it a great experience for 
 anyone who liked other RPG's. In my opinion, had Bioware identified above mentioned problems and 
 opted to work another 6 months on them, they could have made a truly epic game and set the standard 
 for action RPG's yet again. 
  
  I truly hope Bioware is able and willing to keep working on the game and fix some of the most annoying 
 problems by releasing patches and other updates via XBOX Live, but right now, these problems prevent 
 the game from reaching its full potential leave the player with feelings of disappointment. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeycj7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  this game looks great the idea behind it was great but it lacks i think in enviorments for example 
 almost all the planets have the same dang thing not much variety and in the cities, there isnt 
 much to do except walk around and talk to only a few people there is no extra mini games like in 
 KOTOR and the story doesnt seem to be carried out by you it just seems to be just there It also 
 lacks in different cut scenes there all the same landings it seems boring to me... its an okay game 
 but it needed a lot more work and time 
  everything else is fine the customization is great that was one of my favs but i hope the game 
 gets better at the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Link87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this, I recently bought this game and i have to say i was one Biowares BEST!! It 
 totally gets into the 3rd person shooter perspective, it does start off a bit confusing for me, 
 which was a bit difficult making the game hard for new players like myself, but when you get deeper 
 into the game it get really easy to understand, the story is unbelievable, I enjoyed it through 
 from start to finish. 
  
  The game lets you make lots of decisions, which opens up a ton of opprotunnities, you will be put 
 in heart pounding decisions, even though you get to decide what to say and what to do, the makers 
 of this game surely put you in a place to choose only 1 of the 2 choices and you will be thinking 
 '' AWW I WANT TO CHOOSE BOTH!!!'' , and it will possibly make you scared to make the decision, 
 because we wouldn't know what would happen after that.
  
  when it comes to starting the game, i started as the already made character, Commander sheppard, 
 but you also get the choice to start the story making your own character male or female, so thats 
 a big bonus. even though get to the end after doing 4 major missions theres still tons of planets 
 and side quest you can do. So with all these new options, im expecting myself to play this through 
 atleast 3 or 4 more times i want to explore more of this game. Well i hope this did give you some 
 insight of them game and encouraged you to try it out, so cya people , i got some mass effect to 
 play =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quader_ac400
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  +Amazing Grapics
  +Great Detail Put In Every Charecter
  +Great Gameplay
  +Lots Of Different Voices
  +Immersve Universe
  +Great Story makes you want to play to the end
 
  -Kind of confusing in the begining
  -Controls take some getting use to
  -The story takes a while to sink in
  
  
  Bioware Delivers another Great Game
  
  
  With 
 Great Gameplay that Contends with the Many Knockout Titles in the passed couple months definatly 
 another MUST OWN Title of 07. The Story Keeps you going and craving more you may find yourself 
 foaming at the mouth because you keep wanting more and more. 40-60 hours gameplay depending on 
 if you do all the side quests. With 6 Different classes you can play as all with different strong 
 points , better with different guns with different specail ETC . Truely A Solid Game If You own 
 a 360 Definatly pick up a copy. 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggleJUGGLER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  mass effect puts you in a huge universe where you are picked as the representative of humanity 
 basically. humanity is new and are not welcomed with opened arms by everyone. humanity in this 
 game is that of action and so aliens are scared of that. you will be commander Shepard the guy 
 who is going to save everyone and probably going to kill allot of people along the way. you can 
 be nice or you can just go ahead and say screw it everyone dies along the way. you will get to 
 know your crew and have to make some tough decisions about them. not everyone is that of how they 
 appear. you will be think how could they say that or i didn't know about this side of them or how 
 could they do this. theres more but i wont say. the action is actually really good. it balanced 
 out perfectly and powers are always fun to use. the bad part about combat is vehicle combat. its 
 not fun and its actually easier to go in on foot if theres no turrets. the galaxy has a allot of 
 little side missions and its fun to explore planets. the graphics are good for the most part. it 
 will take some time for the detail to come in and the shadows in the game don't look right at all. 
 a little note about characters here. if you look closely at all their personalities all of them 
 are truly brutal people. years of battle make all of them justify the death of some alien. its 
 actually quite nice to not have some hippy nagging you as you put a bullet in someones head. its 
 just nice knowing that these are the personalties of soldiers and not that of civilians. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 12:07 pm PT
Review:  The developers Bioware has always been keen on creating a great narrative in their storytelling. 
 Mass Effect is in no surprise, on the same route, and is their greatest story yet. Its an understatement 
 to say this is a great narrative; it's something you're going to need to see for yourself to get 
 the full experience.
  
  As in other role-playing-game of its category, Mass Effect allows you to customize your avatar 
 in depth. You play as Commander Shepard, but you are free to mold him (or her) into any shape you 
 want. The appearance customization isn't as in depth as Oblivion for example, but their are plenty 
 of features in their do work your magic. You then have a choice of six classes, all of which have 
 various strengths in either combat, tech, or biotics which is essentially Mass Effect's version 
 of magic. More importantly, you will choose your autobiographical past. This is important as it 
 changes the dialogue, as this allows you to comment with wisdom, selflessness, and even scorn.
 
  
  The story is all about the future and space. One surprise is that humanity is not the revolving 
 race of the story. They are more than often looked down upon; they have no seat in the galactic 
 council, nor a representative in the elite special forces, called Spectres. In the meantime, one 
 of these elite soldiers has gone rogue, looting ancient artifacts and unleashing a violent robotic 
 race know as the Geth, on the unsuspecting galaxy. As Shepard, you must pursue him across the Milky 
 Way, going from planet to planet attempting to find out what the Spectres plans are.
  
  In Bioware's fashion, you will navigate through loads of dialogue, and how you respond brings varied 
 consequences. This is incredibly cinematic, and feels like your watching a film. Some of the important 
 conversations you have will have effects on how your mission plans out. It all plays out in melodrama 
 of political intrigue and some racial discretion, in a galaxy full of fascinating and complex characters. 
 The quirks of speeches of some alien races feels somewhat familiar to that of Star Wars, but it 
 makes Mass Effect's vision an excellent one. While navigating through dialogue, you will also earn 
 Paragon or Renegade points depending on how you choose your words. It's your usual light versus 
 dark system, but does not affect the abilites you have.
  
  The cinematic dialogue is easily one of the highlights of the game, but the combat easily shines 
 as hard. With a Gears of War meets Oblivion type combat system, you will harness a third person 
 view. But beware of mindless rushing towards your foes, as it will earn you a quick trip to the 
 obituaries. Like in Gears of War, you require cover do stand a chance to live, and it's just as 
 effective and entertaining as it is in the shooter. You are also, like in Gears of War, accompanied 
 by squad members. They are variations of the starting classes, and who is in your party of three 
 is all up to you.
  
  To accompany the gameplay and dialogue, is great audio soundtrack and gameplay sounds. Mass Effect 
 is also accompanied by an excellent voice acting cast, Keith David and Robin Atkin Downes to name 
 a couple. These talents make Mass Effect that much more worthwhile of an experience. 
  
  For a game with this much finish, its quite surprising how some of the bugs and annoyances become 
 significant. You began certain missions by dropping down in this unique APC-like Rover. It's a 
 resilient beast, capable of surviving massive falls and driving up otherwise un-drivable terrain. 
 However, this is easily the greatest flaw of the game, as the driving and shooting feels quite 
 awkward and poor. 
  
  When you add the good and bad qualities together, you find out that Mass Effect does not deserve 
 many demerits, as its rich role-playing and incredible dialogue weld together to form an incredible 
 experience, one that should not be missed by any owner of XBOX 360. Mass Effect is the greatest 
 RPG to exist since Oblivion, and its unique qualities and long gameplay ensure that its worthy 
 to be in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon1978
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  
  Were to Begin... First off this is one of the best games I have played on the 360 to date.
  
 
  The story is truly engrossing and I know for me I sit down with the intention of playing for an 
 hour and end up playing much more then I intended because I don't want to stop. The graphics are 
 amazing I still get wowed whenever I get to a new planet and look around. I have read other player 
 reviews as well as gamespot's that complain about the frame rate dropping off I have been playing 
 for 10-15 and hours and I think I have had one hick-up and that was truly epic battle lots of biotics 
 and explosions 
  
  
  One the other hand the one complaint that I have had is that I keep getting stuck on scenery. This 
 is quite an irritation but it has only happened a couple of times and I can forgive it because 
 the rest of the game is so great!
  
  The bottom line. 
  
  I a personally am not into RPG games, having said that after playing mass effect I might have to 
 change that statement to say until this If you are a scifi fan who wants to get into a really engrossing 
 RPG then you should defiantly take a look and judge for yourself
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gomez619
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  the overall story is amazing now i get what people were saying that they combined the stories of 
 teh greatest scifi stories ever told. With that said the soundtrack is awesome makes me feel like 
 im watching a george lucas or spielberg scifi movie.
  gameplay is really fun, its real time and you can pause the game and choose an ability and/or weapon 
 to take down your enemy with. there are lots of weapons and armours and 6 unique classes. Right 
 now i havent even touched the story due to crashes in the game which ill talk of later. IM a vanguard 
 and its soo much fun throwing are lifting your eneimes up from the ground and blasting them in 
 teh face with my shotgun. 
  Now with the frame rate issues....
  there are some but not alot, i found out if you take off grain effect (in grapchis/options menu) 
 it takes some of the frame rate issues away.
  Sadly the only reason why i barely played this game yet (1 hour so far) is because it always crashes 
 on me. I dont know if its my xbox or the game which i traded in twice but it always freezes up 
 and causes me to shut down. i hope they patch this.
  overall real good game if you like scifi and rpgs get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is another one of the hugely hyped games of 2007. In my opinion, the only one that 
 has FULLY lived up to the expectation is Call of Duty 4. This is because Halo 3 had poor graphics, 
 Assassins Creed was repetetive but Call of Duty 4 had great single player, amazing graphics, superb 
 multiplayer and more. Mass Effect is another hyped game that doesn't quite meet expectation because 
 of glitches and some poor levels.
  
  Mass Effect sees you create your own character called Shephard. You choose a class, a background 
 and the appearance. The game plays much like other Bioware RPGs however the combat is drastically 
 changed. It now plays like a 3rd person shooter. The combat is quite good although is occassionally 
 frustrating; the squad commands are the most. The conversation system has been hyped up and doesn's 
 disappoint because its amazing. The customization isnt as in depth as I would of liked but its 
 superior to their other games.
  
  Graphically this game looks amazing although never quite hits the hights of Uncharted, Bioshock 
 and Gears. This isnt helped by an unstable frametrate and some other really bad and notcieable 
 technial issues such as pop in and textures not loading as well as frequent load times. The facial 
 animation is superb though. In fact, this game does look great but the glithces and issuess let 
 it down a little.
  
  Sound wise this game is amazing. The music rivals a Hollywood sci-fi movie, ths sound effects would 
 sound good in a Star Trek movie and the voice acting is absolutely amazing. The cast of Mass Effect 
 outacts that cast of Star Wars by a country mile!
  
  There's no questioning the games longevity. Its a huge and long game that will take 20 hours to 
 complete and thats without side quests. Theres incentive to play it again for multiple endings, 
 as a different character or just for fun.
  
  It sounds like I'm being harsh on Mass Effect but thats only because it should of bene a perfect 
 10. There are many issues holding it back and the promise of loads of planets is met, but most 
 of them are empty.
  
  No doubt it is a superb game but it should of been a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthedRogue
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a tough game for me to review and the process of playing through it was even tougher to 
 interpret. For starters let me get the bad out of the way.
  
  1. The texture popping. I don't know if other people had as bad of an experience as I did with 
 this issue. It started off pretty well with really quick pops that only took a matter of 5 seconds 
 or less for the textures to fill in. However later on in the game it gets progressively worse. 
 I think it has to do with not being able to clear the cache that builds up as you play (Oblivion 
 had a method to clear your cache that helped a bit) and as such by the end of the campaign I was 
 experiencing waits up to 20 seconds for textures to pop in every new area and cinematic. This was 
 probably my biggest gripe.
  
  2. Clipping issues. This was actually a much smaller issue but it was big enough to detract from 
 the over all experience. The Mako ( A transport Vehicle used in the game traverse planet surfaces) 
 actually got stuck in a wall three times during the game forcing me to restart from the last auto 
 save. 
  
  3. The auto saving feature. Okay this one is on me for not saving myself but come on, they should 
 have thought out the save points better. Dying during a boss fight (You will die a lot in this 
 game but thats not a bad thing at all) and being loaded up 30 minutes prior to the encounter is 
 infuriating. Still this was a minor fault and can be remedied by the player simply by saving themselves.
 
  
  4. Various other tech issues. Frame rate, slow downs, and graphical glitches can be a real eye 
 sore on such a beautiful game.
  
  Okay, I'm sorry. Im done being mister negative. Lets talk about the majority of the game now, the 
 good parts!
  
  Graphics: When the game loads up properly and things run smoothly this game looks absolutely beautiful. 
 The artistic talent that went into making Mass Effect both a stunning and realistic vision of the 
 future is extremely evident. It pains me that there were so many technical issues. 9/10
  
  Story: I cant even describe it, its amazing. Game Informer was right, this is the best space opera 
 since starwars (I personally think the story is about 1 million times better but whatever. Honestly 
 the character development and plot is enough to warrant this game a purchase even if everything 
 else sucked to an almost sufferable degree. I would also like to point out how awesome the aliens 
 are background wise and the voice acting is top notch. The story will last you around 15-20 hours. 
 That sounds short but in my opinion quality quantity. Oh and you will probably get double that 
 with all your deaths during the campaign. :P.
  An EASY 10/10
  
  Gameplay: When free of bugs and glitches the firefights are fast and exciting, when they aren't 
 they can be painful to play through. However for the most part of the game the battles are memorable 
 and challenging. The use of upgrading equipment and mixture of TPS and RPG works flawlessly. Each 
 character has a separate use and utility in and out of battle. Speaking of out of battle, the conversation 
 system is awesome! Its a huge improvement over the one used in KOTOR and it shows. You really feel 
 the effects of what you say and how it affects the story. 9/10
  
  Sound: I cant say much here, the sound is pretty, thats all there is to it. Voiceover work is phenomenal 
 and the sore is beautiful. 10/10
  
  
  Time to sum it all up. Its funny really. I was incredibly hyped for this game and when I started 
 off I was a little put off because I was expecting so much. But then as I kept going I realized 
 how much polish and work went into this game and the storyline pulled me in completely. By the 
 end I was begging for more and it left me wanting Mass Effect 2 very badly. I just wish Bioware 
 had taken a bit more time to make this game Perfect in stead of just Amazing. Heres hoping that 
 the next two in the series live up to that.
  
  9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  It is the year of 2183 and mankind has mastered the ability to travel throughout the galaxy at 
 faster-than-light speeds, bringing them in contact with millions of different kinds of civilizations 
 and species of alien races. Now humanity is struggling to find it's place in the greater galactic 
 community known as the Council.
  
  You play as Commander Shepard of the Systems Alliance Military, and you are aboard the spacecraft 
 known as the Normandy. You represent humanity's first and also last line of defense against the 
 strange and wondrous vast and often times dangerous galaxy. Your actions and decisions are critical 
 and will determine the fate of the human race.
  
  Mass Effect is a very addicting game, I've played it nine hours nonstop. I started the game as 
 a nice Commander (Charles) Shepard. At the beginning you can chose your class, your background 
 and facial looks and even change his or her first name. You can play as a male or female Commander 
 Shepard. First time around I learn how the game works and the second I knew everything and just 
 played as a plan jerk. Right now I am playing as a Commander (Joseph) Shepard, and have some scares 
 on my face and it just looks awesome. I am a jerk to my team and it's just plan fun.
  
  If you just do the main missions the game isn't that long and if you do the secondary missions 
 like investigating the Prothean Mystery, and UNC Quests and all that goodie-goods, it'll take you 
 a longer time. Also you can journey on uncharted planets and find strange materials. I love the 
 Mako, it's a large vehicle that you drive around on planets, I liked going off cliffs and landing 
 upside-down.
  
  Mass Effect maybe addictive but only have four types of guns, Halo has more guns. Well in Mass 
 Effect the strongest weapon I've seen is the Shotgun. The other three are Pistols, Assault Rifles, 
 and Sniper Rifles. The Sniper Rifle is a pretty strong weapon too. You can upgrade you weaponry 
 and grenades at pretty much anytime, which makes up for not having very much guns.
  
  The graphics of Mass Effect are just gorgeous, I promise you that you'll be standing there just 
 looking at the games beauty. The sound is excellent, the acting is brilliant and pretty much everything 
 about this game is good. The facial emotions are pretty good, you can tell if their sad, or if 
 their happy. Just a brilliant game that BioWare Corp worked very hard on. So give BioWare lots 
 of credit.
  
  I would recommend this game to very Xbox360 fan and owner. I promise you that you'll be at the 
 edge of your seat at the near end, the cinematic films in this game are brilliant and the music 
 gets you into it even more. You'll feel like you're in the world of Mass Effect, and that's a good 
 thing!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alch3mist
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  2007 has seen many big players like Halo3, Orange box, Super Mario galaxy and Call of Duty 4. But 
 Mass Effect is also a big hitter as well and this game is brought to us from BioWare who make Star 
 Wars: Knights of the Old Republic and Jade Empire. This game takes the good and evil choices to 
 a whole new level with Mass Effect so take notice of it and everything you do will have a impact 
 on you and your crew as the game progress.
  
  Storyline-Your back ground story changes depending how you were born and raised (space, colony or 
 earth) and how handle your self (war hero, ruthless or survivor) . The story line gets better as move 
 along and conversations goes as deep as you want them to be.
  
  Graphics- This game is a looker from ships to people even the planets them selfs all look great. 
 BioWare used the maxed power on this game but that is also its own weakness textures and people 
 pop way too much and load time are long and often. But its not a deal breaker.
  
  Gameplay-This a action/adventure game with strong RPG elements mixed with Third person shooter 
 camera angles this game is fun and deep and your team mates do a OK job at fighting. The AI is 
 good as well but they very good accuracy than you. But still the game play is great and people 
 will enjoy it
  
  Sound-The Voice acting in this game is spot on and theirs few Celebrity Voices as well like Seth 
 Green who plays Joker. The lip sync is great and so is the sound effects and body language makes 
 what the mouth says. Over the music is also it pulls you in and never lets go. Everyone you see 
 has a voice which is great
  
  Overall-This is a must buy for anyone who has a 360 or getting one this holiday season and you 
 won't be able to put this game down. Once you beat play it again and you find new things. Mass 
 Effect is a Trilogy and I can't wait for the next to installments 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  
  
  Gameplay : Like many RPG's Mass Effect uses a leveling system, you kill enemies, earn Exp and recieve 
 points to use on upgrading your character.
  
  You also collect items, however it doesn't have a major impact on gameplay, so you don't have to 
 constantly search for the best items.
  You can find weapon and armor upgrades for yourself and the team that enhances the items. 
  
 
  Besides yourself, your team contains 2 other members of your choice of the characters you've gotten 
 to tag along on your journey, these level up as you do and you can choose to sort their talent 
 points yourself or let it be done automaticly.
  
  Besides the main Story there are sub-plots, Side missions and other tasks to take care of, if you 
 decide to do them all, there is plenty to keep you busy for a while, including the story.
  
  You also have the ability to travel to several parts of the universe, from your ship, and land 
 on every planet, to either investigate or complete a mission you've been appointed.
  
  Some parts of the game require you to drive a rover, and blast your way from A to B, this is essentially 
 very annoying, the rover controls are a bit weird, and the cannon on the rover can't be moved up 
 and down so targeting or hitting certain things can be difficult, but once you make it past this 
 its a small price to pay for this game's greatness.
  
  The main part of the game is the dialog and your ability to answer freely from a few options, this 
 shapes the future of the story later in the game, It also has a very engaging story, which makes 
 you feel like you're looking at a movie and playing a role.
  
  
  Cover is also an important part of the game, and a nice feature that should be in most 3 person 
 games, depending on difficulty you are mostly forced to take cover once in a while to stay alive.
 
  
  Team Commands, these are somewhat less useful, you can only move both members at once and sometimes 
 they get stuck in places and you gotta go get them, i use them only to move forward and cover me 
 sometimes.
  
  Sound : Mass Effect has a great soundtrack that goes along nicely with the environment. Weapons 
 sound very powerful and realistic for the Sci-fi theme. The Absolute best part of the game is the 
 voice acting, its perfect, loads of celebrities, great acting, great script, this alone should 
 be a reason to get Mass Effect.
  
  
  Graphics : Graphics are outstanding, and thats only on standard HDTV without HD-mode, Character 
 models look ultra realistic while in conversation good lip movement, good facial expressions aswell 
 as eye movement, environments interiors look beautiful, like inside the Citadel. The graphics however 
 sometimes takes time to load making environments look odd from time to time.
  
  
  AI : Artifical intelltigence usually work well, but sometimes it gets screwed and your team members 
 might get stuck here and there, stop following you, enemies might stop firing at you and just standing 
 there, or running in circle, this is something that can be forgiven, since it happens rarely, hopefully 
 a patch might correct some issues.
  
  
  Bugs : bug are the main part that pull this game from its throne, Combat problems, AI issues, bad 
 Vehicle controls and targeting, Graphical issues, these among others, drag the game down, but dispite 
 these problems the game still rises tall with its very innovative and excellent gameplay, you should 
 definitely not be put off by the bugs, while annoying they are easy to overcome.
  
  
  Conclusion: The most cinematic game, with some of the best voice acting and engaging story there 
 is, these among many other things, make this a Superb Game, a game everyone who either like Sci-fi, 
 or a Good story aswell as gameplay, im not a fan of Sci-fi, but this game was incredible, a must 
 get. 9.0 Score
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiitana
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a simply stunning game that any RPG Fan should, no must, go out and get. The story 
 is simply amazing, the graphics rival some CG Movies, and the sound is absolutely surreal.
  
  Graphics: 9.9
  Amazing visuals. The draw distances surpass anything I've seen on the 360. 
 There have been a few graphical glitches, but they are negligible. I would even venture to say 
 this surpasses Halo 3 in the visual department.
  
  Controls: 9.0
  Controlling the characters is simple and intuitive. Even tasks like switching weapons is a breeze. 
 The only issue I have is controling the Mako, your planet roving vehicle. Using one stick to control 
 the movement and the other to control the cannon makes sense, but not when the vehicle also follows 
 the direction of the cannon.
  
  Sound: 10
  Absolutely stunning and immersive sound. You would think you were watching an epic movie with a 
 John Williams soundtrack. Simply amazing.
  
  Story: 10
  You get thrown right in from the beginning and you don't want to look back. Mass Effect does an 
 excellent job of making sure you're gripped from the very start.
  
  Intangibles: 9.8
  I would have liked the map to be a little more user-friendly (i. e. being able to switch between 
 maps to find your next objective) and detailed, but this is truly nit-picking. There is so much 
 to see and enjoy in this world that anyone who was a fan of the KOTOR series and really any XBox 
 360 fan will enjoy this game. Go and buy it today!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Osiris1975
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  Every so often, a game is released that you actually take your time playing, because you do not 
 want the experience to end. Mass Effect is such a game, and in this reviewers opinion, the best 
 X-Box 360 game out there. How Gamespot can give a rehash like Halo 3 a 9.5 rating and original 
 masterpiece like Mass Effect 8.5 is completely beyond me. Perhaps it is a statement as to the fps-o-phillic 
 gaming world we live in today, that an FPS thats any good gets bonus points just for being an fps, 
 while any other game is marked down harshly for minor flaws despite being 10 times more engrossing 
 than said FPS. But thats a subject for another day. Back to Mass Effect.
  
  The graphics are amazing, particularly so when playing the dialogs portions of the game. Facial 
 expressions and body language are life-like, and a joy to watch. Where as in many dialogs-driven 
 games, players often skip the dialog to get to the action, in Mass Effect, players will find themselves 
 exploring every dialog option in each interaction just to watch how the characters interact. 
 
  
  A large part of these excellent dialog sequences is the voice acting itself. Every single character 
 I've encountered in the game is convincing and interesting to talk to. The acting is carried out 
 so well in fact, that you do not even think of the actors behind the characters at all, where as 
 in poorly voice acted games, you can imagine the actor sitting at a microphone reading a script. 
 
  
  The ground combat is excellent as well, and must be approached much more tactically than your traditional 
 FPS. Not only must you make the appropriate decisions before the battle, such as using the right 
 weapons and ammunition for the opponents, you must also make appropriate decisions during the battle, 
 such as when to use cover, when to advance on your enemy's ground, and when to use special biotic 
 abilities.
  
  There is a lot to do in Mass Effect, and it has great replay value. In addition to the main story 
 and side quests, the game has free-roaming space and planetary exploration (ala the classic game 
 Starflight) where you can survey for minerals and explore the planets surface for artifacts. Also, 
 because you have very limited control of your party members, to truly experience all the character 
 abilities in the game, you will probably have to play through the game more then once. 
  
  All in all, this is a wonderful game play experience that you will want to savor again and again 
 and remember for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somethindumb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  The Good- Amazing graphics, detailed character creation, long enough to keep you playing for 60 
 hours, took as much of the same things as it could from KOTOR (the guy that played Carth, Davik, 
 and a few other voices are also in M. E., money is called credits, same equipping menu and "light 
 and dark" meter.
  
  The Bad and the Ugly- text hard to read on standard televisions, your crew doesn't butt into conversations 
 and tell their opinion as much as i would like them to. To much motion blur and gritty-ness in 
 cut scenes (can be turned off in the extras menu) .
  
  Mass Effect is one of those game you won't be able to stop talking about even after your family 
 repeatedly tells you they don't care. The choice of words runs way smoother than it ever did in 
 KOTOR and the combat scenes more realistic than any other tactical third person shooter (excluding 
 the fact that you're fighting synthetic aliens created by an outcasted alien race) . In Mass Effect 
 you play not only for your agenda, but the agendas of two others: Earth's alliance military, and 
 the galactic counsel. You're trying to stop a rougue specrte who may or may not be using synthectic 
 A. I. aliens called the geth to wipe out life in the galaxy. You aslo have to show the galactic 
 community and the rest of earth that humans are ready to take a larger role in the galactic community.
 
  
  As Commander Shepard, many aliens distrust you for being human, but as a spectre you are given 
 a reputation of being brutal and visious, so the alliance now distrust you, as do many aliens, 
 and cops, who think that no one should be able to operate outside the law like spectres can.
  
  Aside from the combat and the main storyline, there are many sidequests involving the past 
 troubles of your crew members. There are also the BioWare classic puzzles where they give you three 
 columns of four energy levels and you have to move them from one to the others without any direction. 
 The Mass Effect galaxy is so wonderfully unique it is on par with the awesomeness of the Star Wars 
 universe. This game is a must play for anyone who enjoys Science Fiction and tactical shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brown_p1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  This game is incredible. The voice acting is superb and at times, gripping.
  
  Conversations can take a twist and the more you talk to people the more information you will uncover 
 and receive, so chatting to people makes the game open up just that little bit more
  
  From the music to the graphics, nothing has been rushed or haphazardly done.
  
  The first person 
 shooter aspect of this game could be a stand-alone title itself
  
  Excellent, just excellent
  
  My only negative for this game would be that the textures tend 
 to load up a lot slower on some areas but not enough to distract, that is just me being harsh. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afroloq1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Ok.... some of you are wondering, if you haven't gotten it yet or getting it today what is the deal 
 and does it live up to the hype... 
  
  My answer is, yes 
  
  If you were a big fan of KOTOR this is a no brainer... either run and don't walk and get this game 
 or if you were like me, you got it last night (BTW I was one of 5 people who went at midnight in 
 my area to get this game) 
  
  The I don't know part is for those who are looking for either this to be a run n gun experience 
 (it's not) or something out of Oblivion (it's better) or things I can't name right here. 
  
  For the most part in the 1/2 an hour of time I got to play it before sleep kicked in, I saw 
 a lot. 
  
  Before that tho, 20 mins took me to set up my character because if this the epic game that Bioware 
 is making this, you want to have a character you can stand to look at. 
  
  My character wound up looking like a mordern day version of Eartha Kitt (in her 20's or 30's) with 
 a nice short cut... hehehe 
  
  
  
  Ok.... in a brief sum. 
  
  1. You learn a bit about your own character based on whatever background set you pick 
  
  2. 
 You learn that your crew are working with aliens that everyone has mixed feelings about especially 
 since one is on board the ship. 
  
  3. I p*ssed off said alien race on my ship because he likes working 'alone' and I don't think I 
 can trust them. 
  
  4. I may have p*ssed off a doc on my ship because she has a nasty 'tude also and my character doesn't 
 take any crap.... lol 
  
  5. I got one of my 'Ensign Jenkins' (hereafter known as EJs) killed because I sent him forward 
 to take out an emplacement and he accidentally blew up a power cell (dummy!) 
  
  6. I got a cool peice of armor... hehehe 
  
  The combat is a bit of a mixed bag because sometimes 
 it seems as even tho you are shooting at something it doesn't quite 'die' the way you want it but 
 this is definently preferred over turn based combat. 
  
  If you have seen the pix and the videos, the graphics are very well done and if they get around 
 to doing another KOTOR then this right here may be a sneak peek as to where this is going. 
  
  Also another thing you want to be aware of.... check your graphics settings as your are setting 
 up the game... I got a little concerned as I played about a 'grainy' quality my picture had and 
 I thought it was the TV.... it's not... in the settings, they have a reading for "film grain" so 
 that way the game alomost looks like you are playing a movie. 
  
  Back to the convos.... it's everything that they advertised as far as how fluid it it and each and 
 every choice you make as far as how you want to take definently makes a difference. Sometimes you 
 have to make a choice to glean info from someone vs brushing them off because they are getting 
 a little too familiar. I did find in one instance so far that if you kind of continue along the 
 exact same line of questioning, that you get the same response. But it still doesn't detract from 
 the experience. 
  
  I think this will be the game that knocks Oblivion off of the throne as the top RPG on the 360 
 but only time will tell and some downloadable content can't hurt either! 
  
  Otherwise so far, within the very tiny portion of the game that I have played... it is indeed impressive. 
 
  
  Now...... after playing for 2 days and 20 levels later... 
  
  This game has been able to take stories from all the sci fi greats 
  such as Star Trek, Aliens, 
 Babylon 5 and many others and put it into 
  one playable package! 
  
  And it is so true that some missions you play may change the outcome 
  later on in the game while 
 some, such as a hostage situation, no 
  matter what, will not change. 
  
  One thing I will say, is... is your moral compass always swing north 
  and you are afraid to break 
 it, this game won't be as fun. You have 
  to sometimes make tough choices and sometimes you have to know when 
  to have mercy. One of the 
 main missions involve me having to possibly 
  exterminate a whole race of sentients and yo tell me whther I had a 
  hard time pulling the trigger. 
 
  
  It's moments like that which makes this game worth playing. 
  
  You have to pick the greater good for the galaxy over what your 
  conscience may say and I playing 
 thru now waiting to see if I will 
  possibly learn the consequences to my actions. 
  
  Now... some tips for those playing. 
  
  SAVE SAVE SAVE SAVE!!! self explanatory... if you hit 
 a spot where 
  something big may come up or just happened. makre sure you follow 
  that rule. 
  
  Next, sometimes micromanage your leveling. Let the computer do all 
  the work 
 but every once in a while, check in and see what your squad 
  is doing and if you don't like it, make the changes needed to get 
  necessary armor, weapons 
 etc. 
  
  Also, like I stated, don't be afraid of saying no because sometimes it 
  may be the right thing to do. 
  
  Now... do I have any complaints? 
  
  A few... very few 
 and Bioware should adress these before the next 
  KOTOR.... hehehe 
  
  1. Inventory - not all that crazy with when going to a shop and 
  everything is all lumped in 
 with no way to sort what from whht 
  because I have to be careful that I am not selling off something good. 
  
  Also... the comparison 
 charts need to be a lot more informative from 
  character to character. 
  
  2. Combat AI - kinda shaky at times, doesn't always obey commands 
  
  3. Music - ok... I will 
 be first to admit... I am not a big fan of the 
  music, it's just that to me, the music is more 80's sci fi than next 
  century. I was expecting 
 something more sweeping akin to Star Wars 
  etc... but hey... it will do. 
  
  4. Some of the puzzles are WAAAAY too hard. 
  
  Starting the reactor (wont say where) suffice 
 to say, if you don't have enough of a certain thing you will need to guess your butt off in order 
 to figure it out. 
  
  Also one of the early Boss fights is a bit complicated until you figure out what you need to gun 
 for.... and sometimes the enemy AI can be cheap to say the least. 
  
  Otherwise... if you needed the next big thing after Oblivion, this is 
  it. Get it, don't play 
 it... experience it and enjoy it. 
  
  When you are done, you will probably play it again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kxtreme
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  This game never has a dull moment. Great story line, without the horrible random battles engine. 
 Keeps you on your toes and makes you want to finish the game! It brings the whole package of what 
 a game should be. Storyline, game play, innovation, dreams, and graphics. Great Job Bioware. KUDOS 
 
  
  
  Alot of games that get hyped on being such an incredible RPG usually fall short. One example would 
 be Oblivion, for those who played it know that the characters in the game had no emotion at all. 
 This was not a problem in "Mass Effect". The characters in the game, made the game. They showed 
 the emotion that was needed, which made the storyline in the game believable and just outright 
 magnificent. 
  
  This game is a Classic masterpiece that will be remembered as one of the best games of our time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect takes reasonably emulated combat from Gears of War (which involves a lot of running 
 behind cover and shooting things from a third person perspective) and merges it with the story-driven 
 3D world narrative of a Bioware RPG. 
  
  That's already an excellent formula, but they didn't stop there. They added a space exploration 
 and planet transversing mechanism like Star Control 2, Starflight, or Sentinel Worlds would have 
 had if the developers of those games had cutting-edge 3D technology at their disposal.
  
  Though the amount of space to explore in Mass Effect is not as vast as many of the earlier games, 
 it makes up for it by having universally (but to varying degrees) hand-crafted content. When merged 
 with the hardcore story presentation, which makes the whole thing feel like the military Sci-Fi 
 TV shows that air today, the whole thing feels very real and at the same time adequately surreal 
 to suit the genre. 
  
  My only complaint about the game would have to be that the hand-crafted universe is disappointingly 
 finite, the game is over in about 20-40 hours, but that really can't be helped considering the 
 elements of their winning approach.
  
  Two thumbs up. I might even have to extend my pinky on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dougie_Doright
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  I love this game. Just love it. 
  
  There are some mechanical issues for sure but nothing that gets in the way of your enjoyment of 
 what is one of the Xbox360's best games. 
  
  Do no miss it. 
  
  Great story. Fantastic Graphics. Interesting Characters. Indepth character creation. everything 
 you'd want from an RPG game but yet pretty sweet action mechanics as well. 
  
  Textures seem to grow on some things in real time which is odd and there is a lot of repeated level 
 design on the various uncharted planets but I really think these are only minor issues and the 
 reason I give this one a 9.5 instead of a 10. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aureatus
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:19 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the best rpg I have played to date. I have played all of BioWare's computer 
 titles and almost all of the games that beat this game on this site. I am humbled and awed by the 
 production and vision the creators brought to us (the gamers) . Every game company working on a 
 future RPG need to take their projects and re evaluate their direction. BioWare hit it on the nose. 
 The graphic glitches that I recieved in the game are due to the fact that the XBox 360 is getting 
 old... it takes time to load the textures. As for the combat it is fine (RPGS use Dice Rolls to 
 calculate the hit or miss) . I enjoyed the combat. I wish that MMORPGS would play like this. I am 
 tired of click wait click wait watch. I wouldn't normally do this but I am, and this will be my 
 last review on this site. After playing the game and seeing it in action the reviewer on this site 
 for the game is wrong. This game is a 10 for the way the player interacts with the characters in 
 the story alone. Challenge... Has there ever been a RPG that the lvl of interaction was as satisfying 
 and complete as this? Buy this game and play it , the future is here. Good bye Gamespot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonwarlock77
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect. This is a game that not many others can hope to even aspire to be. BioWare is known 
 as the foremost developer of Western RPGs. Every time they release a game they surpass themselves, 
 just when it seems that's not possible. 
  
  Mass Effect is the BEST acted and animated game of all time, without a doubt. The entire time you 
 play, you'll feel you're playing a, at least, 25 hour long movie. The entire cast of actors gives 
 a commanding performance that surpasses most movies this day in age. I played the Paragon route 
 and ended up with the 'best' ending, for lack of a better term. This definately made ME into the 
 most epic and touching adventure I've ever seen. No gamer should pass this beautiful space opera 
 up. No one. It's just too finely acted. I must say this is Seth Green's finest work. Who'd have 
 thought Oz would one day be leading a whole armada of ships into battle?
  
  The combat can either be played fast-paced a la Gears of War or Halo, charging in and obliterating 
 any targets in your way, or you can take a more thoughtful route, taking your time to survey the 
 current situation and act accordingly, playing it more like a game of chess. 
  
  The game does come with BioWare's almost signature little glitches here and there. But by now, 
 fans have come to love this I suppose, I know I have... Where once the issues were the framerate 
 (KotOR) or clipping (Jade Empire) , ME seems to have some issues with popping textures. 
  Whenver you enter a new area, it takes a couple more seconds than you woulld probably like for 
 the game to load the textures, but this hardly gets in the way of the game's enjoyment factor.
 
  
  All in all, this is not a game to be passed up. The conversations flow beautifully, and the ME 
 universe has such believeable feel to it, it made me think this just might be humanity's future. 
 Not a lot of sci-fi takes the time to talk about WWII, Christianity, or even Santa Claus... (Yeah, 
 that was unexpected...) .
  
  By far, ME is one my favorite stories I ever experienced. By now, I'm sure most people know this 
 is a trilogy, so I'll just say it has just the right amount of closure to make it a self-contained 
 story on it's own, but leaves just that bigger threat looming in the shadows open for the sequel. 
 Mass Effect is only gonna get bigger and more epic from here. Let's see what the Reapers hold in 
 store for Commander Shepard and crew in the second installment of the ME trilogy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvin950
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Note: Game Spot is being noobs for giving ME (mass effect) 8.5 NUBS!!!
  
  Anyway, Mass Effect is the best game I have ever played and possibly the best game i will ever 
 play. The main story of ME is based on Commander Shepard (you) . Your a well experienced soldier 
 that gets the job done. There are many sub plots and missions. There is a romance sub plot and 
 many side quest. Plus to add to game play, uncharted worlds r free for u to roam in ur durable 
 macko (forgot how to spell, sorry) . When u start the game, you can either chose a pre-made Shepard 
 as seen in trailers and on the box, or make a customized one with many options. You can Choose 
 for ur Shepard to be A sole Survivor, A War Hero, Or Ruthless. These choices let make subtle differences 
 in the story. You can choose were ur Shepard was born, A Colonist, A Earth Born ( Ownage) , Or a 
 Spacer (pffff) . After u make ur Shepard, u embark on the first mission. The combat is really really 
 really fun, especially if u got biotic powers. Its really funny pushing an enemy off the cliff. 
 You have a lot of classes to choose from to suit ur game play style. 
  If ur into just blowing heads off, play as as a soldier, like being a soldier and a biotic user? 
 Be a vanguard. There r many other choices and all of them r fun. The graphics are excellent. But 
 a little to good. They r so good in fact, they crash the game. Na I'm kidding. But they r so good 
 that the game's engine can not keep up with it. In some cut scenes, some graphics r un rendered 
 and loot like paste. After u play through the game a couple of times, it will go away. The game's 
 story, this is a game from bio ware you know. So of course the story is perfect. Any one who says 
 the story isn't good should go jump off a cliff. Any one who has played kotor 1 should know that 
 bio ware is 1337 =D. The characters in this game are really well voiced. Plus the flexible graphics 
 make the characters in this game seem like real actors. You will feel guilty for berating your 
 squad and you'll think about ur actions. For example, one of your squad mates did some thing pretty 
 stupid and you yell at them, they would look ashamed and broken. You'll probably go "ooh man, i 
 shouldn't have said that....". Trust me, if u play this game, you will fall in love with these 
 characters. I even felt pity for the Main bad guy, Sarren (forgot how to spell too) . At one point 
 in the game, your gona have to choose who lives and who dies, it took me a while to finally choose 
 and i felt so guilty when i realized that person isn't coming back (un less i play again lol) . 
 Now about the dialog in this game. Now game i have ever played has this kind of depth in the dialog. 
 The characters speak with good dialog and have a wide range of facial expression. You will have 
 many interesting conversations with people. Unlike Kotor 1, you can choose an options that represents 
 what you r thinking and Shepard will say it. Its kinda hard to explain for some reason. Its really 
 good but i cant explain. maybe some one with more intelligence can explain =P. Exploring uncharted 
 world is fun and all (especially when you get to mess around on our moon) but the Makco has some 
 retarded handling. The steering sucks and its too bouncy. But i can forgive that since there are 
 not alot of missions were u drive that thing. Now about the misc stuff. I get frustrated with the 
 inventory because it doesn't make crap u already have into omni gell (ur all purpose gell that 
 repairs ur makco and to by pass locks) . For example if u have 3 kinds of the same ammo, u will 
 keep getting those and ur inventory won't automatically delete them. But thats forgivable cause 
 u can sell them for $$$. I think i have covered most of the important stuff. Oh yeah, the soundtrack 
 or the score which ever u prefer to call it is absolutely perfect. There i have covered most of 
 the stuff. This game is the best game ever. It makes a it's own category, Perfect. This game gives 
 you a wonderful story and a experience you will never forget. It is an emotional ride and a exciting 
 one. You will come to love the characters and you will never forget them. This game, is art. 
 
  
  Stats= Based on a scale of 1-10, 10 being highest 
  
  Graphics 9.5: (too good as i said in review)
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  Re play 
 value: 11 Did i say a scale of 1-10? Too bad ha ha
  
  Story: 11 Ditto 
  
  Is it worth the 60 bux? I think its a rip off! It should be 100 bux!!! Bio ware deserves more! 
 
  
  The bad thing about this game. It makes u want the sequel. I can not wait for the sequel!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BladeBurial
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game through about 6 times, I figured something out. I love this game! But the 
 thing is, I didn't quite like it until later in the game. Im not saying the start is bad, instead 
 im saying that until mid game, I had no idea what I was doing. The tutorial is lacking a bit, but 
 once you get into it, its easy.
  
  The story is great. One of the best. An interesting twist, great interaction, and voice acting 
 like never before. At one point in the game, I had to sit there for over 40 minutes just to make 
 one decision. And lets just say, that changed the game for me. At one point it became personal. 
 Any game that can do that deserves to be played at least!
  
  Combat is fun once you get the hang of it. My favorite class is the soldier. Kick butt and take 
 names. The adept is fun, but I enjoy shooting more than casting. I didn't enjoy the engineer, but 
 I still played through with one. Each gets a special class, which lets you play even more to your 
 style. 
  
  To wrap this up- ME is a great game that you have to play. It may have some issues, but it makes 
 up for them with tons of fun. Can't afford it? Atleast rent it. Its a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for Mass effect ever since Bioware announced its next RPG for XBox. I've been 
 a Bioware fan since 97 with Baldur's gate. And personally, an RPG by Bioware is just my flavor. 
 In short, I'm forwarning anyone that I am severely biased for Bioware and this review is simply 
 a comparison between Bioware games. All Bioware games get a 10 out of 10 in my book. 
  Also, I have only played about 20 hours and have not finished the game. My FPS game skills suck, 
 and I'm relatively new to the console. That being said... 
  
  Succinctly put, I would place Mass effect just behind Baldur's gate 2, followed by KOTOR, KOTOR2 (okay, 
 maybe not exactly Bioware) , Jade empire, the original Baldur's gate, then rounding up with the 
 IWD series. Yes, it's that good. 
  The reason I placed it behind BG: SoA is simple. I played that game a thousand times in all its 
 mods and glory. 
  The point is actually why it placed above KOTOR. 
  
  Mass effect has its own share of colorful characters, Wrex (ME's Canderous) , Tali (ME's Mission) , 
 but this is more of a down side. KOTOR has the upper hand when it comes to sidekicks. HK47 and 
 Mission Vao, ME can't beat that. Bioware already stated that even the romance aspect was toned 
 down a notch for gameplay's sake. 
  The kudos for ME comes with how well the game was executed. This is really really immersive. This 
 essentially shows a near absolution to what Bioware was aiming for in what it means to be an RPG. 
 With all those past experiments with multiple endings, alignments, hammering out the defects in 
 playing evil, romances, bantering, consequence of actions and all. The game feels more mature as 
 an RPG. There are points which I do miss from the previous games such as party dialogue, but as 
 for the central character, Bioware seems to have made up it's mind. 
  
  #1 whatever "alignment" you play, the Game itself should be more goal oriented. This may seem a 
 bit of a let down at first, but considering the fact that a limited pile of algorithm as a game 
 cannot truly flesh out all the features of choice and consequence without sacrificing the Game 
 experience, this is the right way. For instance, a choice in life presents itself, there are both 
 good and bad ways to deal with it. And then again, as pointed out in KOTOR2, there are good intentions 
 and actual good results. In the end, is every possible choice "Game worthy"? Bioware answered "No" 
 with ME. It doesn't help the game for Shepard to decide to let the galaxy die a horrible death 
 and make friends with Saren. This game is a statement that Bioware feels tht RPG is more of "How" 
 you experience a story, than "how the story unfolds". 
  I don't necessarily agree with the self limitations and the philosophy bioware has placed itself 
 behind with this game, but after playing ambitious ventures into RPGs that claim "open ended" while 
 ultimately nose dragging you to an inevitable end (i e Oblivion) I feel that a better game would 
 eventually result with such firm direction. 
  
  #2 In such views as stated above, Bioware seems to have spent the rest of its effort on truly making 
 a, as the game reviewers' jingo goes, "cinematic experience". This is truly the highlight of the 
 game. As the game works less without the grain effect. Observe the camera angles as the characters 
 speak. Facial expressions, Hand and eye movement. This is truly the end result of a lot of effort. 
 It's hard to empathize with a talking manequin. Especially if the manequin is so obviously inhuman 
 in its presentations. We people find faults with so many flaws in aspects of deformity that we 
 have eventually conjured up the notion of "beauty" based upon healthy reproductive features, miniscule 
 details that catch our unconsciousness and logs it down as a form of emotion. How such effort of 
 making presentation as natural as possible is decidedly why I placed ME above KOTOR. 
  
  I'm an old RPG fan. The days of 100 hour games 200 hour games seem to be over. Such a grand scale 
 game as ME can barely cover the richness of 3 chapters of BG SoA. Yet, content aside, the aim for 
 perfecting the game itself is certainly laudible. I hope the climax is as good as Bioware's previous 
 games. 
  Mass Effect is Awesome!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHARPSHOOTER25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect, simply put, is like playing through a Hollywood movie, except without the idiot celebrities 
 and paper thin plots. Bioware has done an amazing job shaping an entire universe, essentially creating 
 stories upon background stories to support the multitude of characters, plot developments, and 
 planets in order to fully immerse the player in the Mass Effect experience. The immersivness and 
 amazing story have never been rivaled in any game to this points, and I sincerely doubt that any 
 game will ever come close.
  
  But say you are not the most appreciative person of a story-driven game where your actions and 
 choices affect the entire plot. Well, the action sequences are just as good. Shooting requires 
 patience, skills, and most importantly a good sense of surroundings and strategy. By using your 
 2 NPC allies, you can order them to cover (Just an interesting tidbit here: There's an actual cover 
 system much like GoW, GRAW, and kill. switch) or use them as bullet sponges while you play hero 
 and mop up the enemies. The guns, sounds, and graphics, all combine to make simply stunning action 
 sequences where the slightest mistake will cost you. I won't even begin to get involved in the 
 ridiculous amount of customization involved for weapons, and you have four types of weapons at 
 all times, each with gun modifications and unique ammo. By exploring, defeating enemies, and completing 
 quests you gain these upgrades, which all factor into making you the best Soldier ever to walk 
 into that universe.
  
  Mass Effect is one of the few times where I can say a game has left a lasting appeal on me. Games 
 like Halo, Half Life, and World in Conflict are all amazing in their own right, but they can get 
 played out rather quickly. Mass Effect has so many differnt options, so many differnt possibilites, 
 and so many great things about it, that it is an impossible game to pass up. GamePpot's Review 
 of this astounding game is completely opposite of my experiences, and I have experienced nothing 
 but the greatest gaming sensation since I first picked up an NES controller and jumped into a green 
 tube while playing as an Italian plumber.
  
  This game will leave you a devout fan of the series, and if nothing else, is the quintessential 
 RPG of recent memory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrDisappear
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Ever since KOTOR and KOTOR2 I have been waiting for the next step in RPG evolution, and it has 
 arrived in Mass Effect. This is truely a great game that despite a few bugs manages to pull you 
 in and keep you comming back for more. With an all star cast of voice acting and a top notch story 
 this is the best thing Bioware has ever released, and that is saying something. If you are at all 
 interested in RPG's or are looking for the right game to try the genre, this is without a doubt 
 a must buy, and even with all the great games released this holiday, this one shines through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthony112791
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Let just something straight right off the top. Do not listen to anything that the guy from Gamespot. com 
 had to say about Mass Effect. Now that we got that out of the way I can address how I feel about 
 the game. I have already played through the entire game on normal difficulty. It was a little challenging 
 at some times but if u are uses to playing RPGs it should be pretty easy for u. This is the first 
 RPG that i have ever played (i played most of the game as i would if i was playing Gears of War) . 
 I beat the game in about 11 hours. I did not do anything that was not essential to the plot. When 
 i did beat the game i had mixed reactions. I felt like "thats it?" The ending of the game really 
 isnt satisfying. Bioware said that they wanted it to become a series and the ending definately 
 ends at a point where there will be another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zbu85
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  When I first popped this game in I was instanly blown away. BioWare hasnt just jumped the hurdle 
 of making the game unique but destroyed it and lit its debrie on fire. The story has a hold of 
 you from the moment you make your character. The game play is as smoth as you can get with minimal 
 glitches and hickups. And the combat is edge of your seat fun. 
  
  Now I cant give is all praise because of a few minor things that have to be rectafied before I 
 can go through with out frustration. One is the random glitches that apear all over the game. (My 
 Char. was able to defie the laws of matter and meld with the wall.) And I dont know if this is 
 a glitch or not but I was instantly killed by the great nothing. No combat was going on, nothing 
 my guy just droped dead.
  
  While the problems of the game are few and far between this game is as perfect as its going to 
 get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NearlyPrescient
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Just wow.
  I'm left nearly speechless upon completing my first playthrough. This game? What do I think of 
 it? My thoughts are a bit muddy, I'm staggering in the overwhelming glory that is Mass Effect; 
 one thing is clear though, this game is a masterpiece. This game floored me in the most literal 
 sense.
  First off, I ought to explain the premise of the game for those of you interested in something 
 a bit more in depth. At the start of the game, you must first design your character, and pick his/her 
 class. After that you're thrown into the game. It starts with Commander Shepherd heading towards 
 a distress call on a human colony. With him is a Specter, an agent of the galaxy's ruling council 
 that is essentially above the law and able to do nearly anything. This Specter is to observe Shepherd 
 on this mission and consider him as a potential Specter canidate. This of course would have significance 
 because Shepherd would be the first human to become one and would herald the introduction of humanity 
 as having a large role in intergalactic politics. From there, the story sets off and will keep 
 you hanging on as new events bring new meaning to situations.
  The story is well crafted. The cut sequences rarely have much action in them; typically, they show 
 the arrival of a new enemy in a few brief seconds or are entirely dialog. Dialog is a serious portion 
 of the game as it takes the form of a playable minigame. You choose Shepherd's response, as I'm 
 sure you've heard, from a number of basic one liners that outline what Shepherd would be saying. 
 This keeps the player involved and prevents the dialog and sometimes long cut scenes from becoming 
 excessively boring. Character interaction is a large portion of the game, and its entirely possible 
 to level up just from conversing with crew members.
  The rest of the gameplay involves combat and exploring. Mass Effect plays like a tactical, squad 
 based shooter. The significant differences are that there is no reloading, and weapons instead 
 work on a heat system. About 30 shots from the assault rifle will overheat it, thus forcing the 
 user to fire in bursts or suffer the consequences. Grenades are useful, but are mapped to the back 
 button, something unique to Mass Effect. Overall, the slightly unorthodox grenades work well.
 
  Equipment can be customized in a number of ways. Weapons can have such upgrades as recoil buffers 
 which make it easier to aim, heat sinks to increase the amount of shots before overheating, and 
 then another category in which the player selects a type of round such as incendiary or tungsten. 
 The different rounds have differing effects, such as X% damage increase against synthetics, organics, 
 or causing poisoning.
  Mass Effect also has a cover system, something few shooters go without. Shepherd is able to put 
 his back against the objects and lean out to take shots at enemies. There is no blindfiring; this 
 isn't Rainbow Six Vegas or Gears of War, as much as it may seem like it. For some strange reason, 
 the player must crouch to take cover against low objects. Why this needs to be done is as unexplained 
 as the lack of a jump button, or why the auto-save function is typically useless (dying on a mission 
 can cause you to need to go through an entire planet again!) .
  Now, Mass Effect also has a biotics system, much like the magic of other RPGs. Additionally, there 
 are tech abilities as well, which I understand are very useful in Mass Effect because of the game's 
 most common enemy, the self-aware robotic Geth. I can't offer much input on these since my first 
 playthrough was devoid of both abilities since I was a combat only class. My experience with biotics 
 and tech were secondhand, only experienced on the rare occasions where I took control of a squadmate, 
 something that can be done at nearly any time in combat, assuming you don't mind a pause.
  Now, for the negatives of the game; there aren't many. The biggest gripe I have with the game is 
 the framerate. If this isn't the first review you've read, you've likely heard about it. The framerate 
 can bog down in spots, but it's usually only for a few seconds. It doesn't break the gameplay as 
 it doesn't ever drop to a stop. The Artificial Intelligence is also a tad spotty, something ironic 
 considering how A. I. is treated in the Mass Effect universe (there are restrictions on advanced 
 A. I. for numerous reasons that are apparent in the plot) . Occasionally throughout the game, squadmates 
 would become caught on objects, but this was a rarity. I didn't encounter very much in the way 
 of bad enemy intelligence, but that's something that can be hard to notice when its subtly happening 
 in the middle of combat. There isn't any glaring A. I. deficiency though.
  Overall, I don't feel that either of the two issues I outlined detract severely from the game. 
 As someone who pays for Xbox Live and plays games online often, I'm usually not a fan of purchasing 
 single player games at full price. I'm unhappy with my purchase though; I wish I would have forked 
 over the extra 10$ for Limited Edition as it would have been worth every penny. I can safely say 
 that I'm in love with this game (and yes, if it were female, and if it were legal to marry games, 
 I'd be on a knee proposing) . The ending of the game was full of edge of the seat action (I was 
 literally on the floor playing) , and although the main mission is somewhat short, it's still intense 
 and the replay value is enormous. There are something like twelve classes (six base, and two branching 
 prestige-style classes chosen around level 20) , two genders, numerous character customization options, 
 six standard weapons, and countless worlds to explore that are never touched in the main questline. 
 I completed a number of side missions, but the majority of it was untouched as I became caught 
 up in the intensity of the main story. This is a game that I will be playing for a long time to 
 come and that says a lot; just take a look at my collection. If you're someone that likes RPGs 
 or Shooters, and as long as you're not someone that likes one and can't stand the other, Mass Effect 
 will not let you down. It'll satisfy more than some of the crew members (yes, there are romantic 
 subplots, and yes, that was a dirty joke) . Overall, Mass Effect is an enormously pleasing game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JFannn
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Bioware's popularity among Xbox fans began with the release of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, 
 or KOTOR, and continued with the release of Jade Empire a couple years later. Now in the age of 
 the Xbox 360, Bioware's first release for the console is Mass Effect, a completely original space-based, 
 action RPG that's roughly based 200 years into Earth's future. Bioware's talent at creating amazing 
 cinematic presentations certainly shines though in Mass Effect, but has it been worth the wait? 
 
  
  
  At the outset of the narrative, a human colony known as Eden Prime sends a distress call to the 
 Alliance military and it's intercepted by the SSV Normandy, an Alliance stealth ship using experimental 
 drive technology. As the main character, you are sent down to the planet to investigate the invasion 
 of a synthetic alien race called the Geth. When it's determined that a Turian named Saren is behind 
 the attack as well as attempting to unlock the universe's oldest and most dangerous secret, you 
 are launched into a heroic saga and epic battle to save humanity from extinction. And that's just 
 the opening! The rest of the review will be story-spoiler free. 
  
  
  The character creation menu is the very first screen that appears when starting a new campaign. 
 Bioware cleverly masked it as accessing classified files on an Alliance database. John Shepard 
 has been pre-created for you if you wanted to start off with a straight soldier. Those who are 
 more familiar with the character presets should head into the custom mode to create their own. 
 You can alter the first name, but not the last as characters will call you Shepard constantly. 
 After choosing a male or female, facial options can be altered to give the character a unique look. 
 I found the facial customization to be on par with other titles like Oblivion, but unfortunately 
 without options to adjust the shape of the body.
  
  
  There are six types of classes in the game, three of which are hybrid combinations. Soldiers are 
 excellent at gunplay and get to wear heavy armor. Engineers are more about directing combat and 
 de-buffing enemies. Adepts are biotic experts; which allows them to alter and cause damage with 
 the environment. The last three classes are combinations of the main three classes, each with specialized 
 benefits. The easiest hybrid class seems to be Vanguard as you get the raw power of Adept mixed 
 with the hardened qualities of the Soldier. 
  
  
  The main character and six crewmates can be outfitted with a variety of weaponry and armor. Each 
 character carries a pistol, shotgun, assault rifle and sniper rifle, but they aren't necessarily 
 trained in the weapon. The main character also gets to carry grenades, but they are a bit unwieldy 
 to use and slightly underpowered. Armor ranges between light, medium and heavy as well as custom 
 builds for specific alien species. Additionally, weapons / armor can be custom fit with modifiers. 
 For instance, you can alter the type of ammo to increase damage on organic life forms or increase 
 the fire rate at expense of the accuracy. You can custom fit nearly every piece of equipment in 
 the game with these modifiers. 
  
  
  Biotic and tech talent powers offer more entertaining styles of combat. Biotic abilities allow 
 you to lift unsuspecting enemies high in the air or create a massive field that rips apart the 
 evildoers. You also have an ability to provide an extra layer of protection or create stasis fields 
 to trap enemies. Tech powers can disable enemy weapons, overload shields and hack into robotic 
 enemies for some unlikely assistance. They are also the backbone of breaking into various encrypted 
 devices like storage lockers and errant laptops. As long as you have someone in your squad with 
 these abilities, you don't need to invest skill points on your main character. Also, any one biotic 
 / tech power can be mapped to the right bumper for quick access. 
  
  
  As the character levels up, adding skill points in the correct places can boost damage, improve 
 defense, add talents and open up new armor / weapon options. Skill points are awarded after gaining 
 enough experience to level up. It's very easy to understand and Bioware included the auto-level 
 function that was found in KOTOR. I used it frequently for managing the development of teammates. 
 The Skill screen does an excellent job explaining the abilities and the benefits for upgrading 
 each step of the way. Experience points and total health are also viewable here. 
  
  
  Opposite from the turn-based combat in KOTOR, Mass Effect is in real time and uses a variety of 
 squad commands to direct teammates. The squad commands are very basic and are certainly nowhere 
 near Rainbow Six: Vegas caliber. Commands consist of move, rally, target and take cover on the 
 directional pad. The first three work well enough, but take cover seemed to be redundant if you 
 used move correctly. The cover system works fairly well for the main character. You basically just 
 push up against any object to hide and peek out occasionally to pop off a few shots. The sprint 
 function is also an interesting inclusion, but becomes shorter with heavier levels of armor. It's 
 also a bit difficult to use on a regular basis. 
  
  
  Due the various types of enemies, the A. I. took on different actions based on the race of the attacker. 
 Geth attackers would use cover and attempt to fire from far away while the Krogan warriors prefer 
 to charge directly at you. There are also a variety of zombies in the game that just kamikaze themselves 
 toward you to explode or spew acid. Unfortunately, the enemy A. I. is vastly smarter than the friendly 
 A. I. If you don't give squad commands immediately as well as choose talent powers for teammates 
 to use, they will be picked off very quickly on the advanced levels of difficulty. 
  
  
  After killing a batch of enemies, Mass Effect uses an automatic looting system. The main problem 
 with this setup is the menu screen for item acceptance. You only have two options, accept everything 
 or convert 1 item at a time to omni-gel (omni-gel is used to open objects and repair the Mako) . 
 There's no option to just leave stuff behind or batch convert items to omni-gel. After accepting 
 all looted items in too many instances, you will hit the 150 item inventory cap and be forced to 
 spend time making room in the inventory. While it's nice to reap the moolah from the sale of inventory 
 items, you will be receiving so many credits in the later stages of the game that it's just not 
 worth the effort. 
  
  
  When you aren't shooting down Geth, you will be in constant conversations with people in the Mass 
 Effect universe. Conversations require a great deal of attention and choosing a response is never 
 a hasty affair. You usually have the option of asking further questions and altering the tone of 
 the ongoing discussion. Additionally, charm and intimidation options eventually open up as blue 
 and red responses respectively. Often they will lead to the same goal, but the tactic is severely 
 different. While there is an amazing amount of dialogue options, I found conversations to be somewhat 
 lacking in the amount of humor that made KOTOR so entertaining. Still, listening to the dreary 
 Elcor announce their emotions before speaking a sentence is utterly hilarious. 
  
  
  Mass Effect is very much structured like KOTOR in terms of decision making as you get points for 
 good and bad deeds. They are referred to as Paragon & Renegade and can been seen on the character 
 skill's page. They also open up options for further charm and intimidation conversation choices 
 as you progress in either category. It's very easy to tell which actions / words will award the 
 points. I was a bit disappointed with the lack of the payoff. I obtained 100% of my paragon points, 
 but didn't receive anything for being such a goody-two-shoes. KOTOR had the luxury of offering 
 Force benefits for 100% achievement, but there's nothing like that in Mass Effect. 
  
  
  Within the pause menu, you will find two excellent resources of information; the journal and the 
 codex. The journal keeps track of the current and finished missions. Each mission description is 
 easily accessible at any time and often helps guide the way. The codex is a shockingly vast collection 
 of information on nearly every subject within Mass Effect. Everything you learn about alien races 
 will be input into the codex for further review. With the multitude of planet descriptions and 
 the data in the codex, I can't imagine the amount of time it took Bioware's writing staff to create 
 and compile all that information. It's beyond impressive! The pause menu also contains the save 
 function which I'm happy to report is specific to location. You never have to restart at a checkpoint. 
 
  
  
  Similar to KOTOR, the Normandy serves as a place to modify equipment and move the character subplots 
 along. Teammates are spread all over the ship and require some investigative legwork to find them 
 all. The Normandy also has an area to sell and purchase new supplies, Alliance military issue anyway. 
 While the Normandy's layout is suited to science fiction's take on spaceship design, I really didn't 
 care for riding the slowest elevator in the galaxy down to reach the loading bay. Bioware should 
 have included a simple set of stairs. In the loading bay, you can modify your team's equipment 
 via a locker system off to the left of the elevator. That's one of two areas of the ship that can 
 be interacted with, the other being the map system. 
  
  
  When accessing the three dimensional space charts in the upper deck of the Normandy, you will be 
 amazed how far Bioware has come from the KOTOR navigational map. You have the ability to zoom out 
 from planet, system, cluster and eventually end up looking at the entire known galaxy. When selecting 
 a system, the Normandy will shoot off to the new area. You can then travel to each planet, but 
 are limited to surveying most of them. There are typically only one or two planets that can be 
 landed upon in any given system. Additionally, the map can locate spaceships and asteroids to identify 
 and possibly interact with. 
  
  
  Once you land on a planet for the first time, the Normandy enters a low trajectory drop and allows 
 the Mako infantry vehicle, or rover, to drop onto the planet's surface. Planets all look pretty 
 much the same in terms of structure, but offer different types of terrain like grass, lava and 
 snow. A quick peek at the map will highlight out points of interest in the nearby area as well 
 as any mission objectives. You have the ability to leave the rover for mining, looting damaged 
 spacecrafts and entering structures. Occasionally, the planet will put a limit on the amount of 
 time spent outside the rover due to poor weather conditions. 
  
  
  Unfortunately, visiting planets is easily the most boring aspect of the game. Perhaps it's due 
 to the lack of visible life on the worlds, but driving around looking for rocks to mine just isn't 
 much fun. Occasionally Geth enemies or a sandworm creature will pop out when you near an anomaly, 
 but it's not enough to keep planet travel exciting. It's like being stuck inside Val Kilmer's Red 
 Planet, but less entertaining and more aimless wandering. While I can appreciate the quick influx 
 of cash / XP for mining and plundering broken equipment, I'd much rather head to the sub-story 
 objective on the map and skip everything else. But I would like to send Bioware a giant fruit basket 
 for putting a "Return to Normandy" option in the map screen. 
  
  
  The shielded, 6-wheeled Mako is outfitted with a machine gun / cannon as well as jump jets to pop 
 out of a tough incline. The jump jets also come in handy when the rover's undercarriage gets stuck 
 on a rock or seems to be dragging Geth bodies. The Mako handles moderately well, but becomes a 
 little shaky at high speeds. Also, the camera angles are difficult to get a hang of when attempting 
 to back up. My poor Mako suffered so many rocket blasts and plasma bursts because it didn't kick 
 into reverse very easily and the camera angle didn't want to work with me. 
  
  
  Due to the obvious absence of multiplayer, the achievement set is designed for increasing the number 
 of times you play though the story. Total kills are added up over a series of run-throughs and 
 some achievements are awarded for finishing on specific difficulty levels. There are also a couple 
 quirky achievements like completing a romance subplot or finish a run-though with more shield damage 
 than health damage. On my first complete run through the campaign, I racked up about 300 to 400 
 gamerscore points. All in all, it's a solid, challenging set of tasks to complete and somewhat 
 adds to the replay value of the title. 
  
  
  At first glance, Mass Effect is an absolutely stunning example of the raw graphical power of the 
 Xbox 360. Similar to Gears of War, the sheer level of detail will impress anyone within visual 
 range of the high definition television it's being displayed upon. The facial appearance, especially 
 on the aliens, is top notch and brings each character vividly to life. The lighting effects for 
 the biotic powers are brilliant and illuminate the area with gorgeous purple plasma power. The 
 character animations are absolutely fluid and react appropriately with rag doll physics to changes 
 in the environment. 
  
  
  There is a downside to pushing the 360 to these limits though. The frame rate can slow to a chug 
 during the large scale battles, especially with lots of talent powers flying around. It's enough 
 to affect the gameplay and become annoying during a fight. It also can happen when you turn your 
 character around too fast. The game pauses for a few seconds to load before you can continue. When 
 you move too fast though an area or conversation, textures won't load quickly enough and you may 
 be staring at a blur until it finishes. I also had problems with the rover land vehicle on planets 
 and the last few levels. Specifically when taken off a steep jump, the front hull of the rover 
 would become embedded in the ground and I couldn't move or exit the vehicle. I can't imagine it's 
 designed to force reloading an old save, so it must be a problem with the hit detection system. 
 
  
  
  Interestingly, Bioware gives you the option to turn off the film grain and the motion blur effect. 
 On a high definition display, the film grain really makes the image pop with realism. I found turning 
 off the film grain brings out the flaws in the facial visuals, namely sections around the mouth 
 and eyes that become spotty. Turning off the motion blur wasn't as big of a difference, but it 
 will make the visuals appear more like a video game rather than a 23-hour science fiction movie. 
 It does help the troubled framerate though. 
  
  
  I can't rave enough about the ensemble of voice actors that have been put together to bring the 
 characters to life. Most of you have recognized Keith David's (Saints Row, Halo 3) voice as the 
 captain from the trailers, but you will also find celebrities and KOTOR nods in the mix as well. 
 Star Trek: TNG actress Marina Sirtis does an excellent job portraying Saren's second in command 
 and Raphael Sbarge, who many of you will recognize at the voice of Carth in KOTOR, does a solid 
 job for the voice of Kaiden; a crew member on the Normandy. One aspect of the voice cast that's 
 highly under-utilized in the game would be Seth Green (the Normandy's pilot) . His comical jabs 
 would have been perfect beyond the ship and the number of his recorded lines is far and few between. 
 I'm not much of a Seth Green fan, but his character portrayal of Joker is dead on. Overall, the 
 sheer amount of recorded audio is enough to make your head spin and Bioware deserved major kudos 
 for pulling together such a fantastic cast. 
  
  
  The musical score is tremendously expansive and accurately matches the broad nature of the narrative. 
 There are moments that crescendo to an absolute frenzied pace, much of which is due to the moving 
 orchestral tracks during the major plot points in the game. The epic quality of the score reminded 
 me very much of the music in Wrath of Khan or, to a lesser extent, Serenity. The melodies invoke 
 real emotion from the cinematic portions and it translates incredibly well via the video game medium. 
 The sound effects all match the space theme and seem to portray their designated actions correctly. 
 This is a title begging for a directional sound system if you don't already have one. 
  
  
  I was surprised to find such a high level of commentary on bigotry and racism within the game. 
 Many times, the main character is asked their opinion concerning the relationship of humanity to 
 all the alien races in the world. There is even a political party rally towards the end of the 
 game that wants Shepard to endorse their "pro humanity, anti-alien" candidate. Don't get me wrong, 
 it's never preachy, overbearing or attempting to establish a correlation with current times. It's 
 just an ongoing debate on the direction humanity should take. I found it to be a refreshing, highly 
 intelligent aspect of the story that's rarely, if ever, seen in a video game. 
  
  
  I completed the single player game on a combination of Normal and Hard difficulty at character 
 level 42 in a little over 23 hours. I'd imagine folks could possibly blow through the single player 
 story in 12 to 15 hours if they avoided all the side missions, but they would miss out an enormous 
 amount of entertaining material. For those who are wondering about the possible trilogy aspect, 
 be assured that you will receive a clear, decisive ending to this portion of the tale. It's extremely 
 satisfying and still does a great job of setting up a sequel. 
  
  
  With a mass of achievements still waiting for me, I've already started working on my "evil" character, 
 which is much more of a Biotic talent junkie. I am saddened to find out most of the character responses 
 are exactly the same on the opposite end of the conversation spectrum, but it has opened up a couple 
 new side-story options. Also, I'm very intrigued to change the main storyline choices that I made 
 to discover the various, different endings. 
  
  
  Mass Effect certainly has a few flaws, but it's easily the most enthralling space adventure that's 
 ever been created for a video game platform. It honestly makes the Halo narrative look like amateur 
 hour. Much of the credit goes to a writing staff that incredibly created this world with nothing 
 more than pure imagination. While Mass Effect isn't a revolutionary step for Bioware, it's certainly 
 evolutionary. Combining the elements that made KOTOR so entertaining with a combat system that's 
 much more accessible to the teeming masses of shooter fans will make for a highly successful combination 
 on the Xbox 360. I can't imagine anyone being without a copy of Mass Effect this holiday season, 
 and it's one of my favorite games of all time.
  
  Written By James Fanciullo of AceGamez 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotflame56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This is my first full review that I've ever written. I'm not even sure how to start out. Geez, 
 my first review and I'm reviewing Mass Effect. I couldn't have picked an easier game? Well, that's 
 what I get for being me.
  
  Mass Effect is the latest game made by Canadian developer Bioware. You may recognize Bioware from 
 some of their games that include "Knights of the Old Republic" (the first one, not its sequel that 
 was handled by Obsidian) , "Neverwinter Nights" and "Baldur's Gate 1 and 2". Mass Effect is, and 
 I say this in all respect, a spiritual sequel to Knights of the Old Republic. While they differ 
 in combat systems, the feel of the two games is incredibly similar - they both tell a deep, intricate 
 plot in a unique and fresh way. Even some of the plots are similar (within hours in the game you 
 are allowed into an elite group of covert agents called the Spectres, which are treated and get 
 special abilities much like the Jedi Order in KotOR. So, yes, Mass Effect is a spiritual sequel 
 to Knights of the Old Republic.
  
  That is a very, very good thing.
  
  INTRO
  Let's start with character customization, since that's the very first thing you do. Touted as one 
 of the greatest character-makers in the history of video games, this is one of the few areas of 
 the game that disappoint. While it is fairly complex, it's outclassed even by games such as Fight 
 Night Round 3. However, you can still choose from a variety of different options for your character's 
 physical appearance, varying from gender to eye color to the width of your neck and the depth of 
 your eyebrows (I'm thinking of playing through the game as a caveman) . You can also customize your 
 character's personality and backstory. Specifically, you can choose how he was born (a spacer, 
 a colonist, or earth-born) and what type of military-bred personality he's gained (war hero, sole 
 survivor, or ruthless) . All of these choices are reflected within the first few seconds of the 
 game, where an unseen military officer comments how you're the only one for the job because of 
 whatever impressive deeds you did in the past.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  This, at least to me and somewhat of an agreement from gamers in general, was one of the areas 
 in which Knights of the Old Republic fell flat. Mass Effect does no such thing. If I had to describe 
 the combat in Mass Effect, I would say that it was "simple, hectic, and addictive". There's a bit 
 of a learning curve as far as getting used to all of the different menus and customizations you're 
 allowed to make (a learning curve that will be lessened for those of us who are familiar with Bioware 
 games) , but in its essence the combat is fairly easy to learn: simple, squad based mechanics. You 
 can pause the game during any time in combat to tell your squadmates to use certain skills and 
 who or where to use them on. You also use this menu to take command of any tech (skills such as 
 hacking enemies' shields or disabling their weapons temporarily) or biotic (this game's Force powers, 
 that allow you various powers ranging from pushing enemies down to spawning a warphole that damages 
 them) abilities that you have.
  
  There's a few weapons you can choose from ranging from the pistol to the sniper rifle, all of which 
 can be improved by using talent points that you gain from leveling up. You level up when you gain 
 a set amount of experience, which you gain from defeating enemies, successful conversations, or 
 even simply exploring new places or things. Each character has a certain amount of attributes you 
 can distribute talent points to that depends on their class. Weapons-based classes like the Soldier 
 will have mostly weapons-based attributes like Pistol or Assault Rifle. Biotic-based classes like 
 the Adept will have mostly biotic-based attributes like Lift, Throw, or Barrier. All characters 
 also have additional attributes based on their armor, and their class. Shepard, the playable character, 
 even has a few dialog-based attributes.
  
  You can improve all of these attributes by distributing talent points to them, of which you get 
 a certain number every level-up. Every talent point will improve that attribute in some small way 
 (in weapons it'll usually increase damage a small percent) , but every four or so talent points 
 you distribute, you'll gain a new skill that you can use in combat (these are signified beforehand 
 so you can plan ahead) .
  
  The shooting controls are solid. It's not as fluid or precise as Halo, but then again, this game 
 isn't just a shooter. While it may disappoint fans of hardcore squad-based games such as GRAW or 
 Rainbow 6, for the rest of us, it's just fine.
  GAMEPLAY RATING: 9/10
  
  
  GRAPHICS
  Mass Effect is effin' beautiful. I don't know what else to say. The style (ultra realistic) may 
 not appeal to some people, but there's no denying the incredible amount of work they put into making 
 all of the character models perfect, making every environmental detail precise.
  
  A lot (well, not a lot, but some) debate has occurred over the grain filter that the game automatically 
 applies. If you don't know about it, well, the game automatically applies a small grain filter 
 as an added effect to the game. You can remove it (as well as the motion blur, which you really 
 shouldn't have any reason to remove) at any time in the game menu. My opinion? It works for certain 
 situations, and doesn't work for others. Particularly in outside areas like the game's first level, 
 Eden Prime, it gives the game its own sort of unique look. I'm not a fan of it during inside levels, 
 however, like the gigantic city The Citadel (Half-Life 2 flashbacks, I know) .
  
  Some problems, however: the talking animation is occasionally awkward, particularly when viewing 
 the scene from a high angle. Oh, did I not talk about the camera angles? The game is very cinematic 
 in the way it handles cutscenes. It'll switch camera angles, not just from side to side, but all 
 over the place, at specific moments. It makes it really seem like you're watching a movie but you're 
 controlling it.
  
  I know what you're thinking about too, you sick freak. The sex. Well, the game, while not overly 
 sexual, doesn't necessarily disappoint in that area, either. Within the first hour and a half you'll 
 venture into a gentlemen's club (with amusing remarks made by Ashley, one of your current squadmates) 
 and you'll have the option to sit down and get a sort of lap dance given to you by an alien woman 
 (not nude, but wearing some type of revealing outfit) . Your options in this situation are to "lean 
 forward" or "relax", which serve no purpose but to switch camera angles so you can view both sides 
 of the... uhh... graphical art, you know.
  
  The graphics are great. A little glitchy on occasion, but still good enough to be on my list of 
 "best graphics this gen". However, I highly recommend you have a HD while playing this game - it's 
 not confirmed but most reports suggest that it cuts down lag and popup massively. I personally 
 experienced no problem with lag at all, but I've heard others say they did.
  GRAPHICS RATING: 9/10
  
  
  STORY
  This is a relatively low-spoiler review, so I'll keep 
 this section short. A lot of reviews of this game released so far have gone as far as to say that 
 Mass Effect is a new benchmark for video game storytelling. Do I agree?
  
  Yes. Well, 99% yes. The story is great, but I have some complaints.
  
  The customizable background 
 story is great. It especially comes into play in the first hour or two of the game, and I can only 
 hope it comes into play more in the rest of the game. The rest of the game. Maybe I should talk 
 about the game's universe itself, since it doesn't fit in anywhere else.
  
  It's really, really, really big. Like Toyota (or Ford, if you're a Ford guy) truck big. I literally 
 said "wow" (something that will be familiar to the NGGizens reading this review) when I saw the 
 galaxy map. "Oh, that's not too big," I thought, seeing a few scattered planets with indecipherable 
 names on the radar. "I thought this game was supposed to be huge." Then I saw "press X to zoom 
 out". So I did. Christ. There were at least 15 clusters of planets that have the same amount as 
 the zoomed-in version I was just in. This game IS huge. Then I saw it again. "Press X to zoom out". 
 My god. There were even MORE sectors, at least 10, that had as many clusters and individual planets 
 as the first one I was viewing. These are all part of one major galaxy. It's mind-boggling, and 
 frankly, I can't wait to explore every damn one.
  
  The characters are all well-thought out and well-written. However, there's only six of them that 
 can be in your squad, including yourself. It's a little disappointing at first, but when you think 
 about it, the character's backstory is ripe for exploring and it'll give you more of an opportunity 
 to expand upon those characters that you have.
  
  The dialog system is astounding, it really is. You can pick different choices to respond to at 
 opportune moments (or inopportune moments, if you want to piss off the person you're talking to, 
 as you can press X instead of A while highlighting a dialog option to interrupt the speaker's sentence) , 
 nicely summarized to you by little descriptions like "Time to die" or "Investigate more", which, 
 when selected, cause Shepard to burst out in much more eloquent responses. The writing itself is 
 great, and it's no small feat to write for a game like this when there must be hundreds upon hundreds 
 of pages of material for the whole game.
  
  My complaints: being a KotOR fan, I can't help but draw some convenient lines between the two games. 
 I described a few of them before, but just in general, there are a few discrepancies. For one, 
 Shepard shortly in the game gets accepted into an elite corps known as the Spectres, which are 
 a little too similar to the Jedi for me to allow it just yet. But more generally, again, I can't 
 help but draw lines between the two games; in Mass Effect, your main goal is to hunt down an evil 
 rogue Spectre who is using ancient, long-lost technology to assemble a fleet of doomsday machines. 
 In KotOR, your main goal is to hunt down an evil rogue Jedi who is using ancient, long-lost technology 
 to assemble a fleet of doomsday machines. See what I mean?
  
  However, playing the game all the way through, the differences to the story become obviously clear. 
 There are no 100% evil characters in this game as there were in KOTOR. It's more realistic this 
 way (albeit a little less fun if you're into being a psychopathic murderer) and it's just one of 
 the ways that Mass Effect's story has evolved past any current video game we have out there - better 
 than Half-Life 2, better than Deux Ex, better than everything.
  
  
  STORY RATING: 10/10
  
  The game is a perfect meld of two very popular genres - shooters and 
 RPGs, and will, if there's any justice in the world, sell like crazy due to this. If you have an 
 Xbox 360, I strongly recommend you pick this bad boy up when it comes out on the 20th.
  
  
  
  Score Breakdown
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Story: 10
  Overall Score: 9.5/10
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivion-boy147
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  
  Mass Effect is a very good game, but as like other games, it does have its flaws. I'm going to 
 start off with the game flaws however. 
  
  1. Once you get in an area with a high concentration of people or enemies, the frame rate will 
 drop a bit, so it doesn't run as smooth.
  
  2. Mako turret is flawed, you need to be able to move that turret up and down, and instead you 
 have to be close to or on the same elevation as the target you are shooting. And, it's also hard 
 to hit someone if you're too close even if you're on the same elevation level on them.
  
  3. When fighting Thresher Maws, it seems that when they try to hit the Mako with their "Scythe" 
 arms, that the arm reach is WAY too far.
  
  4. Story is SO DAMN AWESOME, but I think it is a little too short.
  
  5. It can be tedious 
 having to hold down the RB (right bumper) in order to have access to your "Powers" (which are more 
 powers for biotics, and skills for the engineers)
  
  That's all I have for game negatives, now on for a few surprises the game threw.
  
  1. I was 
 NOT expecting there to be a small sex seen, you didn't see anything, but you talk about it afterwards 
 (maybe not all the time, I only did it with the Asari)
  
  2. Side quests are fun, and exciting.
  
  3. You never know when the Thresher Maws are coming, 
 so if you're playing a 4 AM like I do, when you see a Thresher Maw pop up out of the ground (or 
 anything that might be a tad scary) it just makes you jump a bit.
  
  4. There are really unexpected twists in plots (but I'm not giving any examples.)
  
  Parts 
 of the game I was neutral to.
  
  1. Loading times get annoying sometimes, but I'm fine with it.
  
  2. Just some random and stupid 
 side quests.
  
  3. Alot of building/cave/mine layouts on the lesser planets were either very similar or identical, 
 but meh, it just made it easier for me.
  
  Ok so now to the good aspects of the game.
  
  1. I like how the game was sort of a merge between KOTOR and the Star Wars Battlefront over 
 the shoulder view (i guess as well as Gear of War too) .
  
  2. Very good graphics, and I have an HD TV 1080i, from when HD first game out, and it still looks 
 very good.
  
  3. I like armor looks and mods, as well as weapon looks and mods. 
  
  4. Sniping is pretty hard unless you can time and aim right, and there is also one really awesome 
 sniping area on the planet Solcrum in the Grissom system when you are doing the "Geth Activities" 
 quest, I by far think that little sniping spot was my favorite part of the game.
  
  5. Fatigue when running I like, makes it more challenging when you have to walk extra slow because 
 I was stupid enough to get fatigued.
  
  6. I like how there are fusion control units or ion control units that you can shoot and make explode.
 
  
  7. Very good story line.
  
  8. Immersive, and fun, it really is though when you play on the hardest difficulties, and have enemies 
 and bosses and sub-bosses that have special shielding and immunities. It's a good challenge that 
 enemies will adapt.
  
  NOW FOR THE ACTUAL REVIEW!!! *FRANTIC*
  
  Mass Effect is an overall good game. You start out as Commander John Shepard (or you can change 
 the first name) going to the planet Eden Prime. You have what is known as a Spectre on board the 
 ship you're on, The Normandy. He is studying to you, because you ahve been chosen a a candidate 
 for the Spectres. 
  
  You are going to the planet Eden Prime, so that you can pick up an ancient Promethean beacon. Little 
 do you know that the panet is being attacked for that same beacon when you get there. 
  
  The game shows its brutality right off the start, not 30 seconds into the game does your first 
 squadmate get brutally killed. Now, that it story wise from me, go buy the game if you want to 
 know what happens after that.
  
  Mass Effect has a rather short story line, but you can really add up the gametime if you take on 
 alot of the side quests, and personal quests, as well as the romance plots. 
  
  The game has its flaws, but more than that it has alot of great aspects that some games do NOT 
 put in to one game. This is a strong 9.3 in my book, but you can't get to specific decimal numbers.
 
  
  
  
  
  MASS EFFECT IS A DEFINITE BUY!!!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desertdback
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  This game is just amazing. Bioware sends us another masterpiece. I am sad to see that Mass Effect 
 is rated 8.5 by gamespot, because it deserves so much more. They said that the vehicle and person 
 to person combat could be better, but I could sit here and say that about any game about any aspect. 
 Oh it could be better. But lets stop talking about what is above average in this game, because 
 this game has so many things that are superior to any other game out there right now. 
  
  The voice acting and the music is unreal. They put you in this cinematic feel that it feels like 
 you are playing out a digital movie at your house. I have had friends and family both comment when 
 they walk by the tv, saying "What Movie is that?" I'm like oh this isn't a movie, well not really. 
 :D The cutscenes and load screens are for the most part totally inter weaved into the game, that 
 you don't even notice them. When its loading to get off the ship you have a decompression chamber 
 that goes off. When you are going to one part of the ship to other you go down an elevator and 
 you get some news reels or your characters interact, depending on where you are at. 
  
  There is just so much you can do. You can just follow the main story line and be pleased by this 
 world or you can go off on all the little side quests, like I do and find so much more about the 
 interactions of the world around you. You can literally go to any planet and either survey it for 
 special gases or artifacts or you can go land on it and go kick some butt against some pirates 
 or some thresher mals. I love driving the mako. With the little jump button that makes it jump 
 up, you can attack and evade very easily. 
  
  Well as you can see I loved this game, if you have a xbox 360, this is a definite must have and 
 one of the main reasons, the other being Bioshock that I bought one. Hopefully you enjoy it as 
 much as I have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dog_of_Death
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  
  
  Story- Mass Effect has an engaging story that sucks you in right from the start and doesn't leave 
 you wanting more.
  
  Gameplay- Combat is real time with many RPG elements put into it. You can bring up the weapon wheel 
 to switch you and your party members between 4 different weapns these are shotguns, assualt rifles, 
 sniper rifles and pistols. All handle well and look great however a little more variety would have 
 been nice as you will see that while some weapons look a little different they are pretty much 
 the same. You'll also get to drive a vehicle called the Mako while it is fun to drive it's not 
 as good as the foot combat.
  
  You will have a huge selection of powers to choose from these vary from biotic powers like lift 
 which will literaly lift your enemies into the air and tech and weapon powers such as carnage a 
 shotgun blast with imense power and overload wich disables an enemy's shields.
  
  To further inhance the feel you will have a selection of upgrades which you will be able to apply 
 to your weapons and armor. Things like extra shields to poison resistance, all these upgrades also 
 have very cool effects things like cryo rounds will actually freeze your enemies solid making for 
 some great gameplay.
  
  Classes- There are three base classes in Mass Effect and three hybrid classes the base classes 
 are.
  Soldier- able to use all weapons and trained in light, medium and heavy armor the Soldier is a 
 class great for people looking for a less tactical approach.
  
  Engineer- Making use of many tech powers and only able to wear light armor and use only pistols 
 Engineers are good for someone who likes a more tactical approach and invests alot into their squad 
 as this is how you will be most effective.
  
  Adept- Using biotic powers Adepts are great fun to play like the Engineer tho you can only have 
 light armor and may only use pistols. However the biotic power more than make up for you in the 
 offencive department they are probally the most fun aspect of the game. Altho you are weak at first 
 after lvling up a bit there are very few people who wont love this class.
  
  Infiltrator- The Infiltrator combines Soldier and Engineer making for a nice mix of tactics and 
 gunplay.
  
  Sentinel- Sentinels combine Adepts and Engineer making for a fery tatical class not reccomended 
 for a first playthrough
  
  Vanguard- Using a mix of Adepts powers and Soldiers combat expertise the Vanguard is a very powerfull 
 class and is reccomended for a first playthrough.
  
  Dialouge- Oh my God what can I say? The most engaging and rewarding dialouge system ever seen in 
 a game. Great voice over work and scripting make for an experiance you will remember for years 
 to come.
  
  Graphics- Alright heres what stops this game from a perfect 10 let me explain. The graphics themselves 
 are the best I've seen and will make your jaw drop however it pushes the limits of the 360 so you 
 will run into alot of texture loads when visiting new places these only take about 4 seconds to 
 fully load but it is a problem. Also the framerate drops constantly. While these two things would 
 normally ruin a standard game everything else the game does for your makes you forget these small 
 but annoying things.
  
  Sound- An excellent musical score great voice acting and awsome sound effects are something you'll 
 love hearing
  
  Closing comments- Mass Effect is a superb game with a few flaws that hold it back from being a 
 perfect game. When alls said and done if you own a 360 you need Mass Effect
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  I went back and changed all the scores on my previously reviewed games because of the Twin Pillars 
 of gaming excellence 'Oblivion' and now 'Mass Effect.' Because these games are so unique, special 
 and revoluionary I wanted to reserve the highest rating for games of this caliber. This is what 
 computer gaming should be all about. Rich and engaging with a very creative plot and an exciting, 
 interesting mix of game elements. Simply put... Mass Effect is the Oblivion set in the future. As 
 an avid gamer I understand that sometimes we just want a taught FPS where we can frag everything 
 in site. Games like COD 4 do this and have superb multiplayer components. But my hunger for gaming 
 goes much deeper and thirsts for that magical aspect that Oblivion helped define and now that Mass 
 Effect so elegantly extends. Gaming that draws you into the story and makes you a part of it.
 
  
  I am not sure why the Gamespot critic gave this game an 8.5 which is an absurdely low rating for 
 this game. I did not read his review. I will not read the view so as not to prejudice my experience 
 in advance. I will read it later. Check most of the other credible reviewers though and you will 
 see that 'Mass Effect' scores very high. For example 'Team Xbox gave it a 9.6. This rating is really 
 more in line with the truth. Who knows what axe to grind the Gamespot reviewer had against this 
 game. Perhaps he did ot like some of the riskay romantic sub plots who knows. Maybe he is a PC 
 gamer type of guy and is just angry that it was not released for the PC. In any event it hardly 
 matters. Mass Effect along with Oblivion is defining a new genre of entertainment that fuses many 
 different elements. Suffice it to say that it is better than a movie because you become the main 
 character and, to some extent, determine the outcome of the story. The story of Mass Effect is 
 rich and engaging and the graphic renditions are often of an Epic scale. The voice acting is truly 
 superb which adds to the excitement of the game. Is this an RPG game? Is it an FPS or an Action 
 adventure type game? It is all of the above an much, much more. It is rare when a genre of entertainment 
 transcends itself and mutates into something new and breathtaking. This game deserves a place next 
 to Oblivion on your game shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g8torjim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  I think a lot of reviewers have Halo and CoD4 on the brain. This is a top notch immersive game 
 from bioware. It may be the best story ever incorporated in a video game. Truly massive in every 
 sense of the word. You feel part of the story.
  
  Combat is fun and fluid. I did miss the KoToR style of combat at first, but the more the game went 
 on, have enjoyed ME's combat just as much. The only knock would be the inability to take control 
 of the individual squad members.
  
  There is so much going on, and so much to learn and expierience. It is a game you should relish 
 and take your time with. Even if you feel you missed something, the genius addition of the "Codex" 
 in the start menue, allows you to read up on everything and anything in the massive world.
  
  Your squad is diverse and interesting. Each character has an interesting back story you learn 
 about as the game progresses. 
  
  The game looks beautiful. I chose to turn off the 'Film Grain" effect so i could enjoy it in all 
 its HD splendor. The frame rate issues and small glitches that have been talked about simply do 
 not matter, and are easily ignored when you are playing. They can be forgiven when you consider 
 the scope of the game. 
  
  If you loved KoToR and you are looking for an immersive challanging RPG, this is a MUST own. The 
 more you play it, the more you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gm_jyoo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  For the most part, this is an outstanding game that blends RPG elements with shooter elements incredibly 
 well and the sheer effort put in cannot be ignored or go without applaud. It delivers a principally 
 solid, engaging, and moving story and creates a rich universe any Sci-Fi fan would most certainly 
 appreciate. And the game boasts some of the best graphics and animations seen this generation.
 
  
  However, many factors seem to restrain Mass Effect from being a truly stellar game.
  
  Story:
  The plot is original enough and for the most part the execution is flawless. However, 
 the story lacks the sense of depth and immersion KOTOR, another IP from Bioware, boasts. While 
 the actual game universe is immense and very rich (as evidenced by the codex, an in-game encyclopedia) , 
 the game fails to deliver a truly convincing story. Plot elements are individually interesting 
 but are connected poorly in contrast to how it was done in KOTOR and seem but shallowly skimmed 
 upon. The simple fact is, Bioware seemed to put too much of their effort into making each conversation 
 feel natural and cinematic, which ultimately amounts to nothing more than a highly upgraded (visually) 
 but rehashed dialogue system present in Bioware's previous RPG IPs. While each conversation feels 
 cinematic, the whole plot as a whole suffers as each plot element seem woefully strained together. 
 Each major mission contributes to the story's unfolding, but are so disconnected that there is 
 no sense of cohesion. Events just seem to happen and thus feel only coincidentally associated with 
 the overlying plot. Especially subplots, like the romances, do not even seem to have any bearing 
 on the main story at all; the romances appear as nothing more than a gimmick to watch a digitally 
 choreographed sex-scene. The romances are thereafter no longer relevant and the involved characters 
 seem to suddenly have no recollection that anything happened between them. Also, the lack of a 
 concrete motivation for the ultimate enemy severely and aversely affects its credibility, effectively 
 rendering the whole point of the story a tad unrealistic. Overall, there is an incredible lack 
 of connectivity in the story and each plot point seems rudimentary when compared to how much more 
 they COULD have delved deeper, but nonetheless, the game delivers a compelling-albeit somewhat 
 rushed-tale.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are fantastic. Everything looks beautiful and the art design offers a genuine "feel" 
 to everything. The Character models are especially impressive since the animations are exceptionally 
 fluid and convincing. The animations, especially during conversations are convincingly real, natural, 
 and cinematic, which wholly adds to a more immersive atmosphere. However, this greatly impacts 
 the performance of the game. There's just so much going on and so much to see that the game just 
 doesn't run as well as people would hope. There are slight, split-second pauses during gameplay 
 that may or may not be noticeable, but it is enough to detach one from the experience. Also, the 
 game also suffers from severe frame-rate drops, especially during chaotic firefights, which sometimes 
 turn the tide of battle out of your favor. Additionally, textures often take quite a while to load, 
 which initially presents ugly low-res textures. It is a shame that such a gorgeous game suffers 
 from such technical drawbacks.
  
  Sound:
  The sound effects are amazing, the voice acting is generally outstanding, but the music is a little 
 annoying. The music oftentimes gets rather repetitive and the emphasis on Sci-Fi inspired electro 
 seems tacky, but this is purely a matter of personal taste. The sound design ranks among the top; 
 subjectively, nothing can bad can really be said about the sound.
  
  Gameplay: 
  The combat is remarkably smooth for an RPG-shooter hybrid. The team did a fantastic job at making 
 sure this part felt natural and easy. Instead of relying on pure run-and-gun skill, the player 
 is required to develop skills that improve gunplay and damage output but also a wide ranging host 
 of skills that mix things up a bit (such as making an opponent float helplessly in midair) . This 
 provides for a more unique tactical and stat-oriented combat system. It is this exquisite blend 
 of RPG and shooter elements that truly makes this game stand out. Unfortunately, the same cannot 
 be said of its ridiculously confusing and equally complicated menu system. Unless a player takes 
 the time and effort to learn HOW the menus (such as armament augmentation, equipping items, etc) 
 work, the intricacies of the game will be a major chore. It is quite upsetting that so much effort 
 was made to make the rest of the game so smooth and fluid but the same effort was seemingly omitted 
 from the menus and interface. (also, as a side note: why are the elevators so damn slow?)
  
  On the whole, the game is highly commendable and is truly ambitious. But perhaps this ambition 
 was its downfall. Bioware offers a great, rich, and new universe that makes any Sci-Fi aficionado 
 drool, but regretfully fails to deliver a game that offers a singularly spectacular experience. 
 Significant technical issues and weak narrative cohesion hold this otherwise great game back. Mass 
 Effect is still a terrific title, but could have faired better. Hopefully the planned sequels live 
 up to and exceed the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oliem
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for Mass Effect for a long time and i can tell you that it is better than i 
 expected. Everything about it is absolutely fantastic. 
  
  Basically you should just go and buy it right now and if you dont have a 360 g and buy a 360 just 
 for this game, it is worth it. 
  
  
  The story of Mass Effect is absolutely brilliant, it is original, long and full of great characters 
 and settings, there are also fantastic sideplots and missions do to.
  
  One of the most talked about things of Mass Effect is the conversation system, it is great. All 
 of the responses are very different from each other, all of the lip syncing is generally spot on 
 and because of the aamzing graphics the game has, all of the characters (which there are an extremely 
 wide range of) look absolutely real and stunning. 
  
  The other talked about part is the Combat. Mass effect has a good combat system and i find the 
 combat a lot more fun than a lot of the current shooters out on the market (YES, even HALO) . It 
 is challenging but not too challenging. It is very rewarding when you ahve just beaten a "boss". 
 The enemys AI is very good but your squad AI sometimes is stupid and retarted.
  
  All of the weapons have a great feel to them and feel very realistic and painful! Using biotic 
 powers to deal with enemies is also a hell of a lot of fun, sometiems your teammates will use a 
 move like throw, it is fun to see an enemy go staright fast and hit a wall and then fall down LOL!
 
  
  Mass Effect features THE BEST GRAPHICS I HAVE EVER SEEN! Everything looks absolutely amazing, from 
 the watery worlds to the lava worlds to all of the different species of aliens. textures are great 
 and especiallythe character models are super dooper. 
  
  The only bad things about Mass effect are the stupid ally AI and some technical issues. Some people 
 say it gets choppy sometimes but i havent experienced and chopyness at all yet. Sometimes after 
 a load, it can take up to 5 seconds to load the textures which is odd considering this game has 
 a very high level of polish in general.
  
  SO overall Mass Effect is a masterpiece of a game that should be checked out by anyone, it even 
 has a full blown encyclopedia on every single frickin thing in the entire game and ALIEN STRIP 
 CLUBS
  
  Thanks and i hope you find this helpful
  
  OLIEM
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kollawona
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the RPG out there and game. There is so much to do and there is a huge replay value. 
 The story is great and it sucks you in from the very beginning of the game. The combat is paced 
 depending on which difficulty you play the game on. You would think with a game this big there 
 would be alot of lag issues well there isn't, even if alot goes on. The only time it might fell 
 like its lagging is when its about to auto save. And it lags for like 2 seconds auto saves and 
 there its done. There are alot of planets you can land on. At least one in each solar system. Decisions 
 in the game are incredible. At some moments of the game I didn't know what to answer and at some 
 moments I didn't have time to think which was good. At at the end of some of my choices at felt 
 sad which is surprising for me to fell any emotions over a video game. The side quests in there 
 are all very good and actually distract you from continuing with the main story because there so 
 good. Money in the game can be an issue at first but it comes easier to get before you know it. 
 And if you do side quests you easily get it. The crew that you carry out with you on the missions 
 actually do help and work hard. Planets/Moons are fun to land on and every planet/moon has something 
 on there. All the plants/moons are good. This is a great RPG and has amazing replay value. I could 
 say so much more for hours but I can't. This is my first perfect 10 and it earned it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casey_mcqueen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Although the hype for this game has only been sparked here of late, I have been looking forward 
 to it and following its progress for quite sometime; and now that it's out and I have invested 
 nearly 20 hours in it thus far, I can proudly say I am very happy with the way its turned out, 
 even though it has a few minuscule flaws.
  
  If you've ever played Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic I or II, you will instantly be familiar 
 with the general setup/customization of this game; however, Mass Effect takes the features of KOTOR 
 and really, in all ways, perfects them. The most noticeable difference is the new combat system 
 in Mass Effect; contrasting from KOTOR's turn-based fighting, Mass Effect is completely open and 
 has many similarities to the gameplay of Gears of War, which is truly a new combat system for RPG 
 games!
  
  One of the greatest features of Mass Effect is the voice acting/conversation; it's truly like watching 
 a movie unfold because the cutscenes feel utterly -real- and the faces of the characters give astounding 
 emotion and bring the story to life. And moving on to the story, the main storyline is extremely 
 interesting and gripping, although it is SO much better to experience all the side-missions and 
 quests too in the game because then, you receive a much, much better sense of what's really going 
 on in Mass Effect.
  
  Although few in number, some flaws are present in Mass Effect; one noticeable problem is how the 
 game just throws everything at the gamer and makes them figure A LOT of it out for themselves; 
 some gamers might like this challenge of figuring how to work everything out themselves, but it 
 may be a big turn-off for others; yet, once you DO get how to work all the game's mechanics and 
 understand what to do, the game is simply a blast to play and experience. Another problem that 
 may turn some gamers off is the fact that this is NOT an action game, but an RPG which means it's 
 not going to be filled with tons and tons of action; Don't get me wrong, there is a whole lot of 
 fighting, killing, and violence in this game but don't be expecting Gears of War or Halo status 
 when it comes to wasting the enemy.
  
  Therefore, in the end, Mass Effect is easily one of the best RPG's ever created to date, with AMAZING 
 graphics, characters, and story; this title is one you're not going to want to miss. I'm already 
 looking forward to BioWare's next big RPG release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  + Perfect Story
  + Superb Character Developement
  + Unique Gameplay
  + Good RPG Elements
  + Nice soundtrack
  
  
  The Bad:
  - Loading
  - Difficulty
  
 
  
  The Horrible:
  -- The Frustration!
  
  
  Okay, I will admit it but I thought that Mass Effect was actually going to actually going to be 
 horrible after the Gamespot review. I thought Mass Effect was actually going to be a disapointment, 
 but actually, it's not. When I played through the first real mission, the snowy planet (by my choice) , 
 I had a very satifying feel toward the game. Mass Effect will actually let you feel like you are 
 in a situation that seems very involving. Sometimes at momments, you will get into fights with 
 your own teammates and will have a choice to save them by persauding or by not taking any risks 
 and shoot their skulls.
  
  
  The universe is filled with many secrets, and Mass Effect can honestly tell a very involving story 
 that seems like anything could happen. At first, you start out has Shepard, a commander for the 
 humans, and you are going to seek out an acient probe from an ancient civilization. I really can't 
 spoil any more story, but the first mission will get you involved with the story right away. To 
 
  
  
  Gunning your foes and commanding your friends is what Mass Effect is all about if you want to survive. 
 Gameplay is tough, and it is very hard if you can't use your team. You get two squad mates to choose, 
 and will talk to you the whole mission or section, and each have a unique part into their gameplay. 
 Creating your character to fit what is looking good and have skills that match up to yor personality 
 will help you get fixed in a right position for your squad. Six classes exists for your disposal, 
 and each are very unique so choose wisely. Back to gameplay, it is fast, involving, and can be 
 very frustrating. The .5 tooken away for it being a perfect game is because of it's checkpoints 
 and the frustration. If you can master the combat, you are golden and unstoppable.
  
  
  With gameplay aside, Mass Effect allows some pretty good visuals to bounce around your screen. 
 The game is just beautiful, and I thought no game could compare the Mass Effect ever until the 
 next Xbox console comes out. Spetacular visuals and very superb particle effects makes the battles 
 look like a fourth of July inside your screen. The character models will look like they were tooken 
 out of a computer animated sci fi movie from the eighties' and created them to look like a modern 
 piece of today's video gaming. 
  
  
  Music and the battle cries of this artwork is just inspiring. The acting is top notch and is not 
 dumbed down. You will have many momments of laughing at Wrex's statements because his character 
 is dead on hilarious. The music is Game of the Year material, and will have totally huge impact 
 of the experience. 
  
  
  Mass Effect creates a whole new genre for shooter/RPG for its outstanding story and revolutionary 
 gameplay. Buy it because not only should this game be bought for the story, but for the amount 
 of exploration your can do. It's still hard to image that this did not get Gamespot Editor's Choice 
 Award, but it sure did for many professional reviews and the respect of the player who play this 
 masterpiece.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EL_MONO1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  This game had me from the moment it started and it hasn't let go. The universe that has been created 
 is huge and immersing. The most impressive innovation is the conversation system and the facial 
 expressions that go along with it. It really makes you identify with characters. I also appreciate 
 the absence of typical RPG definite stances on right or wrong. Everything in mass effect is not 
 a clear cut good or bad decision and some of the ones present in the game will make you pause and 
 think before deciding. Mass effect (This was true with bioshock too) was able to effectively add 
 weight to many of the decisions I made, which only added to the overall immersion. The graphics 
 are excellent especially if you leave the grain and motion blur effects on, there are times when 
 I just sat back to look at the suns and environments. The graphics do tend to suffer from pop-in 
 while loading or starting the game up but these are easy things to forget about. The combat is 
 interesting and extremely well done, how ever it might not appeal to everyone and takes a little 
 bit to get into. The lack of tutorials mean you need to figure this one out on your own, and until 
 you do the game might feel a bit strange, however once you are used to it the whole game especially 
 combat become a whole lot more fun. The style of armor, weapon, and general design to take a little 
 while to get used to, but this is only further evidence of a fully realized and original universe. 
 Bioware also did a good job in filling you in on the galaxy, writing the conversations and the 
 story. I fail to understand how it consistently received scores in the 80's including an 85 from 
 this very site. While there are some technical glitches they are extremely minor and infrequent 
 and don't detract from the game-play hardly at all. Not since Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic 
 have I been drawn so deeply into a game and Mass Effect is worth several replays as well. I will 
 be playing this game for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the long awaited Role Playing Game from developer Bioware. Bioware is known for 
 great games like Baldur's Gate, Never Winter Nights, Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, and 
 Jade Empire. Those are all great games, some of the best ever developed in fact. Mass Effect falls 
 in with them quite well. It's an amazing experience that no RPG/Shooter fan should miss out on.
 
  
  Mass Effect is a mix of conversation, role playing, and tactical combat. Half of the game is spent 
 in conversation. Choosing what you say can determine the outcome of certain effects. It also plays 
 a big role in your interaction with the NPCs and various story arcs of the game. 
  
  The role playing aspect of Mass Effect is deep and enthralling. You've got six different character 
 classes to choose from. Soldiers are ideal for players looking to shoot enemies and not worry about 
 spells. Infiltrator is like a scout, a class more toned for players looking to avoid close knit 
 combat. The other classes, such as Sentinel and Engineer, are more toned to traditional RPG players 
 who intend to use spells. If you're looking to do a bit of both, more classes are available such 
 as Adept and Vanguard. Vanguard is more of a cross between the Engineer and Soldier class. Choosing 
 is up to the gamer though, so you can choose as you desire.
  
  The third portion of the game is combat. You'll be spending a lot of time fighting in Mass Effect. 
 This is where the game can potentially shine apart from standard shooters, but it's where the game 
 nearly falls flat on its face. To start with, you're thrown into combat with minimal training. 
 Your character class dictates what weapons you can use efficiently, and you're leveling up skills 
 determine how efficient you can use them. Armor, special skills, and a general shooting ability 
 all play a role in being successful in combat. 
  
  Combat can be difficult if the gamer can't adept to the tactical style of game play here. You'll 
 have to switch weapons on the fly, and constantly activate powers to be successful. Leveling up 
 your character properly will benefit, as running and gunning will only equal massive restarts from 
 the last point you, or the game saved.
  
  The game's save system isn't exactly bad. It's not entirely convenient. You can save when ever 
 you'd like, but you'll be so caught up in playing you may forget. The Auto-save system is horrible. 
 It doesn't Auto-save enough, and when it does it will usually do it if you do something out of 
 character. You may accidently choose the wrong romance plot because you suggested something you 
 thought, for whatever miss leading reasons, would've worked.
  
  Mass Effect is deeper than it may appear. Choosing which party members travel with you effect combat, 
 and story elements. Some of them may have relationships to other NPCs, and some will throw their 
 two cents in here and there. One may even be as bold as to shoot someone you didn't necessarily 
 want killed. The party members you choose vary from each other in many ways simply due to their 
 character classes. It revolves around your class as well. Brining two soldiers along may make combat 
 easier, but you may not be able to repair your Mako, or hack into a computer if you don't have 
 the tech ability in the group. Mixing your party members goes beyond your species/gender/attitude 
 preferences. It goes to who can bring what to the party. 
  
  While Mass Effect may offer so much, it fails on some levels. The game lacks tutorials. The ones 
 that it does have are kind of useless since the game doesn't clear up much confusion within the 
 combat system. Another area the game falls short in is the graphics. Mass Effect is probably one 
 of the most stunning games developed. The problem is that games frame rate is constantly dipping. 
 It doesn't dip into the single frames like KOTOR, but it is noticeable. 
  
  The thing that truly stands out about Mass Effect is the story. The symbolism in this story is 
 un-canning to the problems we as a society still face today. This tale supports optimistic views 
 on racism, gender orientation rights, and war above all things. A constant theme of the game is 
 tolerance, or in-tolerance depending on how you want to drive the story. 
  
  What makes Mass Effect so great is that you play how you want to play. Conversation leads you to 
 choose who Commander Shepard is. He/she (depending on how you create him/her) is essentially you. 
 Everything you choose to do is your choice. Whether you're playing the renegade or the paragon, 
 everything you say is up to you. 
  
  While this style of game play is compelling, you'll feel a sense of Nostalgia from past games such 
 as KOTOR and Jade Empire. You'll notice that some characters, voiced by some of the same actors, 
 are very similar. You'll also notice how the scenery designs were inspired by KOTOR and KOTOR 2 
 (developed by Obsidian Entertainment) . It's nice that Bioware is paying"Homage" to some of their 
 past works. 
  
  Overall, Mass Effect is one gaming experience no one should miss out on. It has compelling story, 
 fun combat, and excellent characters. RPG fans shouldn't pass it up, and shooter fans may want 
 to take a look here if they're looking for something outside the standard war time shooter. Mass 
 Effect is something that many gamers will hold deer in their hearts for a very long time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: babydingo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a groundbreaking game that puts as much emphasis on story as it does graphics. The 
 characters are diverse and the worlds vast... it almost seems overwhelming once you begin and initially 
 I was a it put off by the complexities, the terms for certain individuals and ranks of this world 
 but that was quickly overcome and I became more eager to learn.
  
  The story is absorbing. Once you get started you can barely pull yourself away. Once you get into 
 the combat (and it is combat) you get the needed action to go along with the chapters. The interfaces 
 are a bit confusing at first and does take some adjustments but once you have that down you can 
 wield powers and abilities akin to the Force from Star Wars. It's certainly something I recommend 
 you figure out before combat.
  
  This is a game worth the wait and time.
  
  I say try it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloatz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an amazing game with few glitchs wich are overlooked if you appreciate the story 
 and gameplay.
  
  The Good- For the planets that are in the main story they're beautiful and lush, filled up with 
 textures and incredible detail. The combat system takes a while for you to pick up but once you 
 get the proper class and squad to fit you're fighting styles/ strategy combat is great. Soundtrack 
 is simply beautiful and voice overs are pretty good, although some characters could have been better. 
 But I'm not saying talking to ppl and scaring the crap out of them was still hilarious. Story is 
 without question the high point in the game, its flawless.
  
  The Bad- In the beginning you are thrown into a mission with no sense on the buttons. I fooled 
 around for a couple minutes to figure out what did what. So i'd recomend trying a lower difficulty 
 just to get the hang of it then test you're skills on veteran. I know it takes lots of time and 
 work to create a planet but all the unexplored planets are pretty much barren. ON one planet theres 
 nothing but a distress beacon that does nothing and a mummified turian (or at least i think i was 
 a turian) That was about it. If you don't feel like doing the subplots DON'T BUY THIS GAME without 
 doing any subplots you're looking at about 20 hours of main story line. and trust me you'll be 
 disapointed. So take you're time and enjoy it, learn about you're crew or something. Combat can 
 be tough so you have to figure out a strategy or you're screwed. Taking a squad member with biotics 
 is your best bet, so they can disable or help neutralize tougher foes. on normal all ennemies are 
 effected by things, even the end boss can be put into stasis so you have 10 seconds or so (depending 
 on stasis lvl) to patch your squad up or get into a better position) .
  
  Some things could of been improved but once you learn how to fight "effectively" you shouldn't 
 have any problems later on in the higher difficulties. I've started Mass Effect for my second play 
 through and I think it has great replay value, I'm just exploring every possible are to fully experience 
 the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekdawg21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Mass effect getting an 8.5, and Crysis getting a 9.5. There is very little doubt in my mind now 
 that reviewers are either totally off the ball, or they are being paid off to spin reviews. Mass 
 Effect is 'The Best Role-Playing Game Ever Made.' You play a role like you have never played before 
 in any game to date. 
  
  If the reviewers rate games based purely on graphics, Crysis wins. But they should go rate movies 
 instead. We are PLAYING games. Crysis does nothing revolutionary in the FPS genre other than making 
 it look the prettiest to date. But the game is nothing special. Point, shoot. Story on rails. Kill 
 everything in a few different ways while following the pre-scripted story. It's fun, but these 
 two scores need to be switched.
  
  Mass Effect offers an infinitely better gaming experience. Story. Intrigue. Emotion. Characters 
 you care about. An excellent tactical and character building experience. Replayability. Mass Effect 
 is 'The Best Role-Playing Game Ever Made.' and it is also 'A Very Strong FPS Game In It's Own Right'.
 
  
  This game is revolutionary, people. The industries masterpiece. Bioware's crowning achievement.
 
  
  Mass Effect: 9.5.
  Crysis: 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmallory
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I've only played the game for around 3 hours, so this isn't a complete review. So far the game 
 is enjoyable. I am not a big RPG player, the only two I ever really finished were the two KOTOR 
 games. That being said, I'm a little disappointed with the amount of speech compared to actual 
 combat. I'm hoping that farther into the game there will be more combat, which would make sense 
 as now I'm just getting the background story. The game looks great. At points I forget I'm playing 
 a video game and almost believe I'm watching a live action movie. Like the review says the interface 
 system is a little whacky, but other than that I have no real problems with the game. So overall, 
 real good game so far and I hope it gets even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyPhantom
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I love it and can't get enough of it. Game spot lowered its score based on game play? I don't understand 
 that... There is so much in this game to be explored that I'm surprised anyone could finish it. 
 I still have a little ways to go myself. But from what I've seen in the combat system and the unique 
 dialogue system, I'm disappointed with the rating on this site. The game play is superb. The story 
 is so far the most riveting story i have ever seen in any game. Yeah there are some minor little 
 flaws that every game has. In this case they are minor and would have gone unnoticed by me if I 
 had not read various reviews of the game. So if you actually enjoy rpg's do not listen to the rating 
 on this site. Just remember that OXM (The official xbox magazine) and I give it a 10. So get it 
 an enjoy it because it is going be the best game you ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect finally!! I've been waiting for this game since E3 07 I love it so much it is the best 
 RPG ever made and can not be surpassed it has so much to it and I love the ability to talk back 
 in the cinimatics is amazing and fun espesially insulting them in it.... lol.... The gameplay is 
 amazing aswell. You'd expect that from a 10... The Shooting in real time is like TCRS vegas and 
 the turn-base is less fun but still cool and is like SWKOTOR Also the graphics are beyond amazing 
 and people are photo-real the gameplsy intesity is amazing and the story is great and epic and 
 it lasts long and you'll want to play through it more than once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martialbullet
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Bioware has done it again. They've created a game that will immerse the player into a deep story 
 which is affected through actions and dialogue. It's been done with KOTOR and Jade Empire, but 
 it's much bigger and better. Gamers play the role of Shepard (who can be customized at the start 
 of the game) and what makes it better and more believable is the fact that he/she has his/her own 
 voice compared to previous bioware games. The story is full of space politics, war, history and 
 relationships. To explain the story is like trying to explain how to create a complicated rocket 
 , it's possible but it would take too long and there are just so many ways and possibilities. You 
 just have to experience it for yourself.
  If you though the story was complicated, the combat will mess you up. Its not bad at all, but if 
 you're expecting a run and gun action, then this ain't for you. The combat is basically like KOTOR 
 and Gears of war in a blender. It's gun and cover action with varied ability options and skill 
 upgrades. Unfortunately, depending on the class you choose for Shepard, combat can be a pain in 
 the ass or a very fun experience. Be sure to switch to casual mode when it gets tough. In many 
 places, you may get stuck which can be another pain.
  Visually, Mass Effect is amazing at a technical and artistic standpoint. Characters show emotion 
 and move with fluid animation. Details on water and surfaces are realistic. The default male Shepard 
 looks great but the customs models that you can create will likey end up looking freaky. Its not 
 the best character customization (that honor goes to fight night Round 3) but you'll really have 
 to put some time into it to make it look decent. Another problem is that graphical pop ups happen 
 a lot which may take you out of the experience. Unreal engine 3 does a great job but maybe Bioware 
 could have made a proprietary engine instead as many of todays games are using UE3. 
  The dialogue is what sells this game. Top notch voice acting plus different kinds of choices for 
 dialogue will make you want to believe that all of this is actually happening. My favorite were 
 Seth Green who plays Joker, a concieted, smartmouthed, outspoken pilot of the Normandy and Kieth 
 Davids who plays Captian Anderson, a professional captian who really gets into your heart once 
 the story plays out.
  Overall, Mass Effect is a great game that gamers should look into no matter what the problems it 
 has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anoking
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Those sides that gave Mass Effect a 8 or lower, they just dont understand what videogames are about. 
 I mean seriously, who has seen such revolutinary graphics in a videogame?... the A. I. the sound, 
 the voices, the shooting..... Simply no word can describe this game.
  My hopes are that it will be the game of the year.!!
  To all the real gamers, u know what to 
 do, vote for BioWare's Revolutinary Mass Effect, because they deserve it !
  
  Love You BioWare corp
  
  So again thanks to those who did the right thing by voting Mass Effect 
 the game of the year.... Appreciated by AnoMade (X360 gamertag) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks123456789
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  this game has alot of choices and many options to talk your character into different situations... this 
 game has good graphics and good game play. It is one of the most best Scifi games I have ever seen. 
 The maps are apposutly incredable. You can custimze your character and it really feels that the 
 charater is you. There are some situations that you feel what the charater is feeling because you 
 got to choose his path in the game. This game is lik 100 games in one because of all the chooses 
 in the game. I recommend this game to all xbox 360 users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejok3r
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Around this time last year I anxiously waited with blistering excitement for the arrival of the 
 game I had waited a year for: Gears of War. We all know just how super dope cool Gears of War is; 
 and should anyone criticize it, they're a party pooper! Well, Gears of War was a great single player 
 experience; but, the multiplayer is simply over simplistic (for my taste) . Like a bloody moron I 
 went out and bought the limited edition, now I have a tin can with a disk in it I never play. 
 
  
  This year was the year in regards to xbox 360 gaming I was waiting for since I bought my Xbox in 
 2005. This is the pinnacle of this system. There will be more great games coming out; however, the 
 technical limits of this system have now been reached (or are nearly fully exploited) . In essence, 
 the console is now going to be quite inferior in comparison to a high powered gaming personal computer. 
 We have Call of Duty 4, Assassin's Creed, Halo 3, some sports games which are quite good (though 
 do not satisfy my taste) , and we have Mass Effect. 
  
  Of all the games coming out this season, Mass Effect was the one I most anxiously awaited, more 
 so than I had Gears of War. I played Oblvion, and became completely seduced by the newly discovered 
 RPG genre (for me) . I saw previews for Mass Effect, a Sci-Fi epic made by Bioware, the developers 
 of KOTOR. This was going to be an Action RPG, I COULD NOT WAIT!!! 
  
  This is one of the few games I bought without reading reviews. I have to say now that this game 
 is just as over-hyped as Halo 3. Halo 3 was a huge disappointment for me. I thought Halo 2 had 
 been a fluke. With all the time spent developing Halo 3; and considering the considerable power 
 of the 360, surely they couldn't go wrong, boy was I wrong! The same applies to Mass Effect. My 
 expectations were admitably higher for this game. Bioware has an excellent reputation. They had 
 even more time than Bungie (and more skill, in my opinion) to make a classic 9.9 of 10 rated game, 
 they have failed though. 
  
  Let's get on to the review:
  
  Graphics:
  Awesome for the most part. Most things are absolutely gorgeous in this game, aside from the technical 
 issues. The draw distance, structures are amazing. The detail of the aliens/most characters is 
 superb. 
  
  Presentation:
  When I first set the game up, WOW. I thought I had got all I had hoped to get! This game truly 
 looked Epic. Cool concept. Things took several turns for the worse though. They start you off without 
 much of a tutorial, and throw you into missions, which on Veteran difficulty, one is not well equipped 
 (mainly due to the terrible, terrible gameplay) . The capacity to personalize your player is limited 
 in comparison to Oblivion. The categories of personality types/player types is limited as well. 
 You have 4 weapons, SHORT RANGE WEAPONS IN SUCH AN ADVANCED TIME, pathetic. 
  
  Gameplay:
  This is what brings this game down to atrocious levels, and quite simply ruins it. 
 When one buys a game, they buy it for the gameplay (or should, unless one is a complete moron) . 
 Graphics and Sound mean NOTHING when you can't maneuver nor effectively combat one's enemies. Combat, 
 with the lame sorry sad short range weapons is horrible. I feel like I'm playing a better version 
 of Spiderman 3, not much more. The enemies are not interesting. It is overly simple, simple is 
 good; but it is not a good thing when it becomes boring. The frame rate suffers quite a bit when 
 using Biotics. The driving is horrible. It is like a game from 2001, only worse (because I think 
 of Halo 1's simple yet effective driving system) . 
  
  I am not interested in having to take care of a squad, nor do I desire to get held back because 
 the AI sucks (when letting them fend for themselves) . I'd rather go explore the Universe myself, 
 rather than be a babysitter for some useless squad. 
  
  You will wind up finding yourself fighting the controls rather than enjoying the game, this is 
 not a quality of an 8.5 out of 10 game. I struggle to get my bearings when the combat gets "hot" 
 (since it's really pretty lame) . I frequently lose sight of the target, not due to my own ineptitude, 
 simply because it is glitchy and weak. The combat also is a worse version of the overly simple 
 Gears of War. 
  
  Overall:
  This game has so much squandered potential. They spent roughly 3 years making this on a system 
 that should by now be fully developable (made that word up I guess) . The concept is awesome, the 
 visuals are usually no less than stunning, the sound is great, the game is a huge disappointment. 
 The conversation system is probably going to be the greatest legacy of this game. It paves way 
 for the future of this genre. 
  
  One thing that infuriated me is all of these worlds you can "explore" are BARREN and BORING! There 
 is nothing to see of interest on most of them! I was expecting lush Alien environments, what I 
 got was mostly barren landscapes with nothing interesting to find (aside from the occasional base 
 or debris from a crash site) . 
  
  This game has quite a bit going for it, I believe it's legacy will be it's concept. After the HYPE 
 dies down, people will look back; and see it for what it is, an over-rated game with a great concept 
 that was completely squandered. Don't get caught up in the hype. Just because we wish it lived 
 up to everything it is supposed to be; and because everyone else is saying it's so great, is not 
 a reason to be another brick in the wall. We paid good money for this, we should hold it accountable 
 rather than pretend it is something more than it is; and we're no less of good gamers (or whatever) 
 if we criticize what should be criticized. This doesn't come close to the level of quality and 
 depth of Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brain-Dead360
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is easily one of the best RPG experiences I have ever had. From the stunning graphics, 
 to the intense real time combat elements, this game has it all. By using a blend of great story 
 telling, modern combat controls, the most fluid dialogue system to date, plus harnessing the power 
 of Unreal 3, Bioware has achieved what many other developers have tried in the past, and have either 
 failed miserably or have come short of complete excellence. It's safe to say that Mass Effect has 
 completely changed the way an RPG should look and feel, and has raised the bar to a totally unparalleled 
 level.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VamperoBlood
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe how great this game is I'm lost for words!!! Finely a true RPG on the XBOX 360. I 
 can't stop playing. It's a RPG fans dream come true. Better than I ever thought it would be. You 
 have control of everyone in your group and you can pick where the points should go when you level. Very 
 deep story line sucks you right in the game. The contols are very easy to use the menu is great. To 
 bad PS3 won't get this game.. hahahhaaha I could go on forever about the game it pure bliss. You 
 need to get of your a** and buy this game you won't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Let's get the Mass Effect's minor issues out the way first. The inventory menus could have been 
 more user-friendly. They aren't terrible, but they could have been better. The vehicle combat can 
 be a bit frustrating, especially against the thresher maw monster. Graphically, textures do pop 
 in sometimes and the framerate has a hiccup every now and then. 
  Now that I've stated these issues, let me say this: ALL OF THESE ISSUES ARE MINOR AND DOES NOT 
 DETRACT FROM THE OVERALL EXPERIENCE!! While the vehicle combat can be frustrating, driving around 
 in the Mako is awesome fun! Some people have said the side missions are boring 'cause there isn't 
 much to do. Well. these side missions aren't meant to be super important. These uncharted planets 
 are simply a break from the norm, and it's great to break away from the main story and jump around 
 in your rover! And while textures do occasionally pop-in, the graphics are superb. And i mean, 
 SUPERB! The most complaints I've heard are about the framerate. This is a nonissue for me. While 
 the game does hiccup every now and then, it never detracts from the game. Never. 
  Honestly, if you love sci-fi, rpg's, or both, you will love this game. I'm a gamer that normally 
 plays a game one hour at a time. I have sat in front of my tv for 3 or 4 hours a day with Mass 
 Effect. It's that good. The story is grand, the graphics are grand, and the gameplay is great fun.
 
  This is easily my game of the year, a reason alone to by an xbox 360, and a tribute to Bioware 
 as the greatest game company at this time. 
  As far as a score, again, none of it's technical issues detract from the experience. Therefore, 
 I am not going to subtract off of the game's overall score. This game desereves a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atagger1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  The 8.5 Game Spot review is really suspect in my opinion. Let's see here... These are the same 
 guys who gave the Two Worlds RPG a 7.5. 
  
  The graphics are revolutionary, the story is incredibly complex and the sound design is rich. From 
 the voice acting to the retro analog synth lines in the game, it's truly next level.
  
  Overall, this is a game with a great story and it really makes you want to talk with characters 
 and learn about the universe. It just draws you in from the first times you start playing - it's 
 like being in a giant interactive movie. The level of emotion that the characters express is unparralled 
 in any game.
  
  The combat has been super fun so far, combining tactical squad combat with engaging first person 
 mechanics. The shooter aspect of this game easily eclipses Rainbow Six Vegas or Gears of War in 
 terms of fun and graphics.
  
  I think there is something for everyone in this game, and it's not to be overlooked. Every gamer 
 needs this title in his/her collection. Don't listen to the editor who wrote the GS review with 
 a 8.5. This game deserves a way higher score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brad1087
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Now many people were saying on how Mass Effect was going to be GOTY way back in like August. And 
 i started to get hyped like most gamers did. This story was supposed to have awesome gameplay, 
 great story, and top of the line voice acting. Whats not to like? A few lucky gamers got this early, 
 and some started to gripe on an unstable framerate. This immediatly got my attention. As we all 
 know 60 bucks for a game is a bit pricey for an un-immersive expierience. I got this game anyways 
 (eventhough gamespot complained about every little thing, and made it such a big deal.) I popped 
 this game into the 360, and was just amazed by how well done everything was. Now the people that 
 said there was minor framerate issues were right, but with all the great aspects of the game that 
 is a very small price to pay. People can always find stuff to complain about. Such as shadowing, 
 and this and that. Im not very far into the game, but if you are thinking about getting it, but 
 unsure about tech issues, definetly get it. Everything is top notch. I garantee you if you have 
 been awaiting this game, and wondering if it will live up to the hype, you will be satisfied because 
 it is everything i expected, and more. For those of you who have played it and say it sucks because 
 of tech problems....... i just feel sad for you. You gotta expect no game to be perfect, but this 
 has got to be one of the closest games to perfection i have ever played. I like Oblivion, but I 
 dont even think that lives up to this game. That is how good this game is. Definetly 1 of the best 
 games i have ever played, and definetly raises the bar for future games. My nominee for GOTY goes 
 to Mass Effect. Well done Bioware.
  
  9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Right off the bat, let's get the bad stuff out of the way. The game suffers from technical issues. 
 Bioshock-esque texture popping is the worst of these problems. It plagues this game more than it 
 did in Bioshock. For me, there's no excuse for texture popping. Textures should load immediately 
 and in real time, no exceptions. Unfortunately, Bioware couldn't do this.
  
  Second, the framerate, while usually decent, sometimes drops. There are also times of "skipping," 
 and a jerky camera that is usually associated with framerate problems.
  
  These issues are the worst parts of the game. Overall, the game itself is nearly perfect.
  
 
  Graphically, when the textures are in, the game looks very good. There are some questionable things, 
 like the lack of persistent bullet holes, and lack of object physics. However, these are minor 
 issues. The game world is wonderfully created, a good mixture of fantastic sci-fi, and a nearly 
 believable environment. It's immersive.
  
  Gameplay-wise, the best part of the game is the conversation system. I know a lot of people don't 
 care about this and want to get right into combat. Oh well, this game has a LOT of talking. The 
 voice acting is easily the best in any game ever. Instead of choosing an exact response, you choose 
 the gist of what you want your character to say. Adds some unpredictibility to the game. Conversations 
 impact every little thing that goes on in the game, and ultimately changes the ending. But, the 
 immediate changes are the real treat. People change the way they act toward you. It's dynamic, 
 and nearly flawless.
  
  Combat, while fun, isn't for everyone. Combat plays like a shooter, similar to Gears of War, but 
 in reality is very different. While it is in real time, and you can take cover, and there are some 
 basic squad commands, the game bases damage on your current skill level with that weapon. Skills 
 can be used during battle, and opening the selection menu pauses the game so you can issue commands. 
 There are about 20 different skills, which in my opinion is too few. I would have liked to have 
 more, especially the biotic powers (like Force powers or magic) .
  
  Combat is fun, and if you use your skills right, is pretty easy. Bosses though, are some of the 
 hardest in any game, period. Some are just cheap, others require you execute flawlessly to win.
 
  
  Classes aren't balanced. They never are in Bioware games. Soldier is really easy, while Sentinels 
 have some problems. Each class though is very different, and plays differently. Also, combine the 
 alignment system (paragon or renegade) , and the game will always be different, depending on how 
 you want to play it.
  
  The sound is flawless. The music, while subtle, is superb, and the sound effects are great. As 
 I said before, the voices are amazing. It's pleasing to the ears for sure.
  
  There are an excess of sidequests, a lengthy main quest (though not quite long enough... thank God 
 for sequels) , and some of the best characters ever devised. You'll want to learn about all your 
 crew mates, and talk to every character you can, as they all have backgrounds. It sounds dorky, 
 I know, but it really is good. And when a game can make you emotionally attached to the characters, 
 it's special. The story itself is also very good, though not entirely original. It's still the 
 best told story though I've played.
  
  This game is a must get for any RPG fan. Heck, this game is a must get for anyone, it's THAT good. 
 I'd give it a 10 if the technical problems aren't so glaring. If they're fixed in a patch, this 
 game will definitely be a 10 in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makemeweak
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a perfect ten - not because it is devoid of bugs or gameplay issues - there are 
 a few minor hitches, but nothing that should hamper your experience. No, Mass Effect is a ten because 
 there is absolutely no other game that has reached these heights of presentation, production, innovation 
 and entertainment. It reaches a perfect balance of challenge, immersion and outright fun. I have 
 never before seen an RPG that simply sucks you into the characters and story as smoothly as Mass 
 Effect does. The combat is light years ahead of any other live action combat in RPGs - plus it 
 is largely based on third person shooting and tactical gamplay, which is virtually unheard of in 
 the RPG genre. Yes, there are problems with the game: occasional intrusive load screens (intrusive 
 but generally short) , lagging texture pop-in, and inventory management that can be confusing. But 
 none of these problems are a large enough detriment to the game as a whole. I cannot recommend 
 this title enough. Once you have experienced a game like this, you may be sorely disappointed with 
 the other games you play, simply because they cannot rise to this level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Common You keep banning me. I dont care anymore, this game is good. Gamespot are starting to suck 
 in your reviews. M. E is a great game, awsome characters and deep story and voice acting. Halo3 
 was a good came but COD4 IS WAY BETTER abd you said that was too short. Bull....... t .
  
  The game is huge, beautifull graphics and the music is nice too. Bioware has done a great job delivering 
 one of the greatest games of 2007. Of course every game has minor problems. The controls (driving 
 vehicles feel different but you get use to it.
  
  Take my word for it. 
  
  This game is worth the wait.
  
  
  DONT LISTEN TO GAMESPOT
  Common You keep banning me. 
 I dont care anymore, this game is good. 
  Luis Baquerizo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowofamn1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  After finishing my first play through of Mass Effect, I like to give my 2 cent on this game. The 
 reason I bought this game is because I like RPG and I am a fan of bioware's baldur's gate series. 
 I know they make quality plot and smooth storyline. The game didn't disappoint me at all compare 
 to some other players who dislike this game, but to clarify one thing, this game is a RPG, not 
 a shooter, at least its not meant to be a shooter.
  
  The graphic of this game is nicely done, for an RPG the textures are expected to be recycle and 
 in mass effect, it was cover up nicely. The blur effect which generates the film grain effect makes 
 the motion of character and some shadowing much more naturaly, but this is always an option to 
 turn it off. Overall the graphic is not top notched but its great for an RPG.
  
  The Sound is excellent, ranging from voice acting, background music, the effects of certain situtation. 
 For a RPG, the voice of each character is very important, and bioware have done a great job at 
 it. The dialogue is also outstanding, no longer you have to read line of option which you can say, 
 word by word, but now you only need to choose what respond comes first in your head. Example is 
 responding Yes in nice tone, neutral tone or an aggressive tone etc.
  
  The Plot of the story is great, It start slow but gets in the climax in about 8 hours in game. 
 Its all about you, saving the galaxy. Because this is a trilogy, you should expect the ending to 
 answer most of your question, but at the same time give you more question about the game, which 
 hopefully will be in the next game. The Ending IMO is not as epic as other RPG i played.
  
  The Combat system have minor flaw but its enjoyable, you can command your squad to follow, go to 
 a location, find cover, or attack a target. However, sometime your team will not obey your order 
 or even starting acting on their own after they finishing doing what you told to do. Most of the 
 time they will get themself killed. The best thing is hold their position in a doorway or a chokepoint, 
 and you can lure enemy to them and then finish them off. For experience shooter, use expert mode 
 and low setting on aim help.
  
  The game itself have numerous glitches, like character stuck in a wall, forcing you to restart 
 at your last save point. Enemy stuck inside obstacle where you can't hit them and they can't hit 
 you. Your teammates are fighting for one cover space while there is a lot of other covers nearby. 
 There is alot to talk about but it didn't make the game unplayable, but it did drag the game score 
 down. 
  
  Graphic 9/10
  Sound 10/10
  Plot 9.5/10
  Combat 8/10
  Technical Issue and Bugs Fixed 7/10
  
  Sums it up its around 9.0 
  
  I also got disk reading 
 error and it screw around with me for couple of minute but then I play for 6 hours straight and 
 nothing happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehdi_lord_70
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  Another good game from bioware with a good story and also good dialogs.
  the graphic is acceptable and gameplay is fine. I don't know why the gamespot score is 8.5 actully 
 I agree with critic's score because it is reasonable. I think the score was low because the DRAKE'S 
 FORTUNE on PS3 had a low score. by the way mass effect could be very better game but this game is 
 good too. and it can to be EDITOR's CHOIC. it has some amazing things that never seen in other games. I 
 play this game verylittle and I can't say a big thing but it seems to go boring. perhaps the score 
 was low of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nooblet69
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  Beautiful game, if you were into kotor and are an rpg lover I highly suggest this. The only thing 
 that may hold this game back is the frame rate issues which didn't even bother me that much due 
 to the awesome story, game play and overall feel to it. You get to really customize your character 
 from their looks all the way down to their personality and skills. This game really gives you an 
 epic feel like you really are in the future. Make sure that this is a game for you before purchasing 
 because it is not an fps though the combat is a little similar to one. If this game didn't have 
 a few small bugs and frame rate issues it would of been perfect in terms of presentation, story 
 and game play.
  
  Side Note : I played this game for 15 hours straight after purchasing. Could not put the thing 
 down !!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalipekona
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:05 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Mass effect since 11-16-07 (yeah, I got it early) and I can honestly say that 
 it has been one of the defining gaming moments of my life so far. Mass Effect is simply phenomenal!
 
  
  I can't understand the perspective of the Gamespot reviewer. He chooses to nitpick every small 
 thing and seems not to be aware of the monumental accomplishment the game represents as a whole. 
 And like many reviewers he thinks he makes himself sound smart or sophisticated when he says the 
 game is unoriginal and points out comparisons between it and other stories. But come on, that is 
 such a baseless attack! Of course there are some familiar elements in this game -- no game, movie 
 or book can be completely original. Star Wars, for example, is derivative of Japanese bushido, 
 westerns, earlier Sci-Fi stories, etc. and yet it is one of our most enduring Sci-Fi classics.
 
  
  I challenge the reviewer to give just one example of a piece of art that isn't derivative in at 
 least a few ways. Such a thing does not exist and even if something completely original could exist 
 we probably wouldn't enjoy it. It would be analogous to trying to get enjoyment from a piece of 
 music that uses no scale and has no key. We get enjoyment from those things that blend the familiar 
 with the new and unfamiliar in unique ways to create something that excites and moves us. And Mass 
 Effect certainly fits this description.
  
  So, except in cases of extreme derivation, I just find it annoying when a reviewer attacks something 
 for sharing obvious characteristics with other members of the genre, class or style to which that 
 thing belongs. Criticizing Mass Effect for having elements in common with other Sci-Fi stories 
 is moronic, since it is those very elements that identify it as a Sci-Fi and not some other genre. 
 A Sci-Fi without any Sci-Fi conventions would not be a Sci-Fi at all. As a life-long fan of Sci-Fi 
 I can honestly say that Mass Effect offers some truly unique twists and perspectives on the tried 
 and true Sci-Fi themes. And more importantly, the story is exceptionally good -- truly moving and 
 memorable. In fact, I would go so far as to say it is one of the very best game stories of all 
 time.
  
  What's truly shameful is that the competing Elder Scrolls 4 is far less original yet there wasn't 
 so much as a single mention of unoriginality in the Gamespot review of that game. They also didn't 
 seem to feel the need to nitpick that game to death the way they did with Mass Effect. The reviewer 
 even went out of his way to say "it's surprisingly difficult to find much fault with any of it".
 
  Oh really? If we applied the same nitpicking to ES4 as was applied to Mass Effect the list of 
 minor faults found in the former game would, by any objective standard, far outweigh those found 
 in the later. In fact, a large number of faults listed for Mass Effect are also found in Elder 
 Scrolls 4. Nevertheless, I think ES4 was an exceptional game and was deserving of the score given 
 to it. None of the small deficiencies ruined, or even significantly degraded the overall magnificent 
 experience that was Elder Scrolls 4. But giving ES4 a 9.6 while giving Mass Effect a 8.5 is inexplicable. 
 The Mass Effect experience is at least on par with that found in ES4 and in many ways surpasses 
 it.
  
  The presentation in Mass Effect is quite simply the most amazing I have ever seen in any game. 
 The graphics during exploration or combat are among the top tier of modern games -- somewhat better 
 than Gears of War, in my opinion. But during conversations... oh my... they are without compare in 
 video games -- not far behind pre-rendered CG films! The music too, is simply beautiful and helps 
 create the strong atmosphere of the game.
  
  The story hooked me right from the beginning and only gets better as it goes along. As I said before, 
 it is one of the best stories I have ever experienced in a game.
  
  I really enjoyed the leveling up and development of my character and party members. The game offers 
 a really nice collection of abilities, weapons, weapon upgrades, and armor. And exploring uncharted 
 worlds in the Mako or on foot is a blast.
  
  The combat is always exciting and offers nearly unlimited ways to combine your party's abilities. 
 It is as exciting as the combat found in Gears of War, but of course offers much more depth. I 
 can only guess that the few reviewers who had complaints about the combat simply don't understand 
 its possibilities. It is dynamic and real-time when you want it to be, but offers surprising depth 
 and strategy as well.
  
  The conversations in Mass Effect blow away anything else seen in an RPG. The AI characters in Elder 
 Scrolls 4 are stiff, un-emotive automatons by comparison. The characters in Mass Effect show emotion 
 and intent through gesture and facial expressions. And the lip-syncing, although not perfect, is 
 definitely a step up from anything we have seen in an RPG before. The conversation wheel really 
 does help to keep the conversations flowing and makes them more believable and engaging at the 
 same time. And now, our own character finally expresses him/herself through voiced dialogue, so 
 we can hear the whole conversation, not just half of it.
  
  There are so many great things to say about Mass Effect, I could just go on and on. But it is the 
 way all of these seemingly disparate elements come together that makes Mass Effect truly special. 
 The story, characters, conversations, presentation, combat, and exploration all weave together 
 to form one of the most astonishingly fun and engrossing experiences in the history of gaming. 
 To experience Mass Effect is to experience the pinnacle of interactive entertainment and should 
 be experienced by any and all who wish to see where this medium is going. Truly exciting stuff 
 indeed!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  Players take the customizable role of a celebrated starship captain, who is exploring the fringes 
 of known space when the story begins. Mass Effect is set soon after human beings have discovered 
 the secrets to interstellar travel, and the people of Earth were both surprised and challenged 
 to find that the universe is full of intelligent races that are far more advanced than they. However, 
 it may very well be those human ties to a more primal nature that ultimately save all the space-faring 
 species from destruction.
  
  Built on a third-generation version of the Unreal game engine, Mass Effect features real-time combat, 
 in which players take limited command of a three-soldier squad. Decisions made by the hero, both 
 in the heat of battle and in sophisticated role-playing sequences, will affect many details and 
 may even influence the final outcome of the plot. Mass Effect is intended as the first of a trilogy 
 of Xbox 360 games from BioWare. Between the launches of each full game in the series, the developer 
 intends to release additional levels, side-stories, and other Mass Effect material through the 
 Xbox Live service.
  
  In combat, you'll be able to switch between all of the characters under your control on the fly, 
 and we're told that the artificial intelligence of those accompanying you won't disappoint. However, 
 you'll have the option to give them simple commands using the directional pad and even to issue 
 more complex orders by pausing the game and using a Full Spectrum Warrior-style interface. The 
 whole screen gets a yellow tint when you pause the game in this fashion -- it's overlaid with a tactical-looking 
 grid -- and your colleagues are represented by 2D icons that almost look like chess pieces. Using 
 this interface, you can tell the other characters where you'd like them to go (behind cover, for 
 example) and which of their abilities or special powers you'd like them to use. It's an interesting 
 control mechanic and one that promises to afford you a far greater degree of control over your 
 allies than most.
  
  The abilities and special powers that your characters have at their disposal will be determined 
 by the skill sets you assigned them at the start of the game and how you've been spending your 
 experience points since then. Some of the more memorable powers that we got to see in action on 
 this occasion included a telekinetic "lift" that could be used to pick up objects and enemies, 
 and a tech ability that let our alien friend drop the shields on a large, four-legged mechanical 
 boss. We also got to see a couple of the game's numerous weapon modifications put to good use -- namely 
 an incinerator upgrade that set fire to enemies and a vaporizer add-on that made them disappear 
 completely.
  
  Tech Abilities can be found very useful in this age, for every enemy is synthetic in some aspect. 
 The tech abilities are activated through the usage of the OmniTool, which Engineers, Infiltrators, 
 and Sentinels can use. These abilities can range from destroying an enemy's shields (as seen in 
 the X06 Demo) , to unleashing a turncoat among your enemies, to the ability to heal your party member's 
 shields.
  
  Biotics are accessed through the use of implants in your character, and allows the manipulation 
 of mass effect. These abilities range from being able to raise shields that you are able to shoot 
 through but your enemies cannot, to creating small gravitational vortices that cause destructible 
 parts of the environment to go flying at the enemy, to the ability to raise your enemies helplessly 
 into the air (as seen in X06 movie) and eventually throwing them away.
  
  Mass Effect will feature four classes of conventional weapons, different types of grenades, "tech" 
 weapons (see brief description of Tech abilities above) , as well as other usable items. The player 
 will also be able to outfit their character and squad with various types of armor. All equipped 
 items will be visible on the characters; changing armor immediately changes the look of the character, 
 whether adding a bulky helmet or switching to a sleek skin-tight suit of armor, and all weapons 
 fold up into compact versions and are stored directly on the character. Weapons and similar usable 
 objects can be retrieved by simply pressing a particular direction on the directional pad for each 
 item.
  
  The main story and character interactions in Mass Effect will be affected by the player's chosen 
 morality. Unlike in BioWare's previous titles, emphasis on becoming a pure "good" or pure "evil" 
 character will be lessened. Some characters may not like the player or leave the player's squad 
 if the player's moral direction differs from their squadmate's too much. The overall story is also 
 affected by the player's personal choices. Project Director Casey Hudson of BioWare has said " [the 
 player's] style of play throughout the game will result in diverging endings that determine the 
 fate of humanity itself," affecting not only the first installment, but also the planned sequels.
 
  
  Morality will be mostly determined by the player's choices during conversations.
  
  The Normandy, the player character's ship, and a technological marvel in the setting of the game, 
 will serve as the primary mode of transportation.
  
  Since the game spans the galaxy, many trips will have to be made from planet to planet. Players 
 will select destinations by selecting them through a galactic map of the Milky Way. Videos have 
 shown that the galaxy is divided into numerous levels of organization, from the galaxy as a whole 
 to individual planets within their respective solar systems.
  
  Certain unexplored or uninhabited planets will be navigable at the ground level using an all-terrain 
 armored personnel carrier, controlled directly by the player, which can be upgraded throughout 
 the game. Some segments of the game even require the player to fight an enemy using the weapons 
 mounted on the vehicle (developers have said one such event involves a towering bestial creature 
 native to an uninhabited planet) . [citation needed]
  
  Although the game will follow a main story, Mass Effect will supposedly include a large number 
 of side missions and free-roam "unexplored planets" that can be reached by selecting them through 
 the galactic map.
  
  Mass Effect's showing at E3 2006 was generally well-received, and resulted in the game winning 
 several awards. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soupflakez
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:38 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a great game with a lot to offer. Being an RPG, it was expected that you have character 
 modification and class selection in the beginning. Overall, the game is one of the best RPG's I 
 have ever played. Mass Effect incorporates a sleek battle system similar to Gears of War or GRAW. 
 The third person shooter aspect isn't all mindless shooting. As you progress through the game you 
 start to realize that you cannot run into a battle with guns blazing. The games battle system still 
 maintains a good RPG feel by incorporating a decent menu selection where you can select a specific 
 weapon and power. In doing so you can also choose your teammates weapon of choice and power. This 
 creates a scenario that requires plenty of strategy and first hand evaluation before or during 
 battle. The balance between shooter and rpg in the battle system is perfect and the game plays 
 great when in battle. 
  
  I don't want to go into detail with the storyline because of spoilers, but the story line is great 
 and will keep you hooked. 
  
  The interactivity between characters is probably the best looking part in the game. The different 
 responses you can choose are sometimes humorous and effect the total outcome of the conversation 
 (whether it be for good or bad) . If you choose to be cruel or mean, you build up your "dark side" 
 and if you choose to be nice and helpful, you build up your "light side." This is similar to the 
 dark/light side thing in KOTOR. 
  
  The one bad thing about Mass Effect is it's technical problems. The game is highly detailed and 
 absolutely massive. When the game runs at a higher resolution (on your HDTV) it persistently has 
 frame rate issues and hitches. I personally have my Xbox 360 hooked up to a 720p/1080i display 
 and the game doesn't run entirely smoothly on it. The technical issues do take away from the overall 
 enjoyment of Mass Effect, but as you play the game more you start to notice the frame lag and hitches 
 less and less. The game is extremely immersive and will keep you hooked well enough to over look 
 the moderate frame rate issues and hitches. The other problem with the graphics are the textures. 
 The textures, sometimes, take a couple of seconds to load up and expose the raw models of the game. 
 I have seen this happen before (Gears of War) , but the texture loading doesn't bug me as much as 
 the frame rate issues do. 
  
  Overall I would give the game somewhere between an 8.7 and a 9. The game isn't perfect and sort 
 of disappointed me with the technical issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarNone101
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Like a lot of people I was highly awaiting the release of this title. I am happy to say that I 
 am not disappointed. Mass Effect really scores points in the totally awesome department, from the 
 amazingly detailed graphics to the amazingly detailed voice acting, with a solid battle system 
 as well. This game is just all around impressive. 
  I wasn't the biggest fan of KOTOR but Mass Effect takes everything that was good about KOTOR and 
 enhances it to the 3rd degree. There are hours upon hours of exploring the universe, which offers 
 very unique solar systems and planets; all with there own elements and individual characteristics 
 that make the environments really come to life.
  Although the game is gorgeous and has a lot to offer, but with that said it is not perfect. Frame 
 rate issues and late texture loading can get in the way of a seamless experience, but on the other 
 hand with the game being so large it would be hard not to have these minor set backs. Any mechanical 
 issue in the game can easily be over looked as they really don't disrupt the game, and you will 
 most likely be too immersed in the moment to even realize that there was a mechanical error.
  All in all Mass Effect is a great game and rightfully deserves all of its praise that it receives, 
 although not perfect (but what game is) Mass Effect in my opinion is one of the 360's top 5 games. 
 Where is fits in that top 5?... I'm not too sure... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Majpain007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I just crossed the 10 hour mark after 2 days and I can tell you that this 
 game is everything a RPG can be. 
  
  The gameplay is very easy to grasp. Everything is smooth to running around to being in a combat 
 situation.
  
  
  Though during a battle getting your squad into position takes some getting use to.
  
  Battles 
 are a life and death situation. It matters what squad members you have to use them to best of their 
 abilities or you might end up loading up all the time on certain parts.
  
  The mako is great. Exploring different planets is a blast. I really don't get how GS lowers ME 
 to a 8.5 because of it. Its so simple to use and the combat is what'd you expect. this isn't Chromehounds 
 where its complicated. The vehicle control reminded me of UT 2K4.
  
  The game is a challenge and keeps things fresh.
  
  
  Visuals are amazing. The amount of detail 
 in the characters is amazing. to every wrinkle, to every scar, you will see it on their face.
 
  
  The facial animations is pure joy. I have never seen it pulled off so well before.
  
  With some of the visuals you will get some hiccups, clipping, and among other things, though its 
 all minor and doesn't effect the experience.
  
  The Interface could be better but its easy to navigate through and isnt a issue.
  
  
  The 
 sound is probably the best part. It captures you and surrounds you with a euphoric atmosphere that 
 makes the experience that much better. To the footsteps, to blasters, and VA its mind blowing.
 
  
  The Music will remind you of Kotor almost immediately
  
  VA is WONDERFUL. They did such a fantastic job with each character. Hell even Seth Green as Joker 
 doesnt bother me anymore. Its so immerse that you will want to play this game all the time. Its 
 like crack. Not that I know what crack does to you or anything :P
  
  Now on some parts the sound wont be totally in sync with the character but thats minor and isn't 
 a big deal.
  
  
  This game is great that its replay value matches it. This game has different endings and virtually 
 endless possibility with the different dialogue. This game is must buy.
  
  I don't know what Kevin Van Ord was thinking. He gives ME a 8.5 because of the Vehicle controls 
 and Interface issue? Arent we grasping at straws on this one Gamespot?
  
  The game is amazing and fantastic experience. I suggest you buy this game. Its everything a RPG 
 should be
  
  9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistwaver1985
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  BioWare does it again, this time with Mass Effect. There is no doubt about it Mass Effect is a 
 masterpiece, with some minor flaws. The flaws are so subtle compared to the core game they are 
 hardly noticible. To keep spoilers in the dust, in Mass Effect your journey through several planets 
 in a 30 hour sci-fi epic adventure. That's all I'll say about the story for now, other than it 
 will knock your socks off. It has been a long wait for Mass Effect. The lingering question is was 
 Mass Effect worth the wait, and without any questions, the answer is yes, yes, and yes!
  
  With titles like Knights of the Old Republic and Jade Empire, BioWare had big shoes to fill with 
 Mass Effect. Not only did they manage to fill the shoes, but they went to the next level. Mass 
 Effect is the most immersive and intense adventure experienced since Gears of War nearly one year 
 ago. If you're familar with how Gears of Wars plays, you should have no problem getting started 
 in Mass Effect. Coupled with a crazily in-depth and sophisticated squad system, the gameplay in 
 Mass Effect is top notch, and if something we have not seen in a shooter in history.
  
  With how awesome the gameplay and story is aside, Mass Effect doesn't come without flaws. The game 
 was a bit rushed, but it's easy to overlook the technical glitches in Mass Effect. The textures 
 in Mass Effect are artistically well done. They look sharp, and the art design in Mass Effect is 
 over-the-top. The shadows are glitchy. Character shadows look pixelated, and environmental shadows 
 are not volumetric. They're static. You can walk under a shade and the shadow doesn't transfer 
 to the character. Not a big deal for most people, but it is at least worth mentioning. When you 
 load in a new area the textures are low quality and fade in over time. This only happens when you 
 come back from a fresh load, so it's easy to overlook. Special effects and explosions are stellar. 
 Some of the best special effects I've seen to date. Bulletholes in objects add to the already intensely 
 deep immersive feeling Mass Effect puts you in. The sound is outstanding. The weapons sound like 
 they have a punch to them, and everything just flows together really well. The music isn't bad 
 either.
  
  There's only one thing to ask yourself. Do I have a soul? If you answered yes, you will go buy 
 Mass Effect. It's easily my candidate for 2007 GOTY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozman_Beyond
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  It is a big change from those Final Fantasy's and refreshingly different, a lot of time and investigating 
 is needed if you plan on doing it without a game guide. I would have to say if you choose to play 
 as a soldier you can compare it to Halo on steroids minus the multi-player of course. With tons 
 of ways to upgrade weapons and armor is a plus to this game. I also like the many of choices of 
 dialoge you can choose from. The only thing so far I found to be annoying is the stutter of the 
 game when moving fast may just need an update to fix this though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savagethumper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Great story. Great voice overs. Massive areas to explore. It's not turn based (hoorah) . Probably 
 one of the top 2 games out for the Box. And, as I said before, absolutely enthralling. Really keeps 
 you up with the story. Best Sci Fi since Star Wars.
  
  Cons (Don't worry, only one major one) : Texture takes too long to fill in. Up to 10 seconds to fill 
 in textures sometimes. But with worlds this detailed, I can look past this. 
  
  Overall, this is a fantastic game, that won't be blown thru in 7-10 hours like COD4, and Halo 3. 
 Both great games, but way to short. This game sits right below Bioshock as my favorite game on 
 the Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleach190
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Never has a game drawn me so deep into its story. As a player this game makes you care for you'r 
 fellow characters and will make you think how you want to come off to others as. By no means is 
 this game made for the combat, like most negative reviews you will read focus on how choppy or 
 how drab the combat in this game is. The true highlight of Mass Effect is the deep rich story and 
 character development. If you have played KOTOR and enjoyed it then missing this game would be 
 pure insanity. Not only is it easy on your eyes, because all the dialouge is voice acted, but character 
 interaction is also better. No doubt this is the greatest RPG to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killiasxxx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  OK don't listen to gamespot the gameplays fine everything is perfect when has bioware went wrong 
 with a game NONE exactly. The Graphics are far by the best Ive seen so far. The gameplay is new 
 and interesting and of course the story is SUPER GOOD like every bioware game. Something is wrong 
 with them I think there just saying HALO 3 is the best game they're in deniyal yep. Halo3 is not 
 as good as COD4 and this game. This game is so much fun and you will be playing it for hours probly 
 days and maybe you might want to play the story again but be a bad character or good your choice. 
 Thats the best part you play it the way you want. And theres alot of planets to visit and look 
 around. Or go to a local gentlemens club just to relax your choice so I RECOMEND this game to ANYONE. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disturbia666
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  i was hard core into KOTOR one and KOTORII. this is one step up from then. the speech system is 
 something else. graphics are perfect. and you can make your character a complete jerk or keep his 
 cool in any conversation. i give it a solid 9! little work with the battle system and i can see 
 the next one of this series making a full 10. i myself have not spent a whole lot of time on the 
 game. but the tim i did really makes me want to go back to my brothers and tell him yea i change 
 my mind about letting you keep the 360 so hand it over! the game has me hook line and sinker. I 
 will definatly be putting some extra time inot this game as soon as i pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Expectations for Mass Effect were high. Too high, perhaps. The game isn't revolutionary. It is, 
 for all intents and purposes, a highly polished, next gen version of Knights of the Old Republic -- just 
 with a new set of characters in a new universe.
  
  Don't take that to be a negative. KOTOR remains one of the best games ever made. Mass Effect benefits 
 (and suffers) from this. But the result is a fantastic game.
  
  If you've played KOTOR, it's impossible not to think of it constantly throughout Mass Effect. Not 
 just because some of the voice actors are the same (which they are) but the entire feel of the 
 game is the same. Structurally, the missions are built the same way -- some action-centric missions 
 with a healthy smattering of find-and-fetch missions, political intrigue, smuggling, etc. thrown 
 in to spice it up. The formula isn't new, but it works very well. Then you've got the three-member 
 party made up of you plus any two of six possible companions. Then the love subplots. All straight 
 KOTOR. All a blessing.
  
  But the game does pick up a lot of KOTOR's bad habits, including fetch missions which place objectives 
 on opposite sides of the map, just for the sake of adding a few extra minutes of wandering. It 
 also has KOTOR's sometimes chunky framerate (which, given the combat structure, never gets in your 
 way) .
  
  Where the game departs from KOTOR, though, it does it in ways that shine. The combat system is 
 so much more enjoyable than KOTOR, which gave only very limited options. Mass Effect's combat system 
 is easy to use and flexible. And the biotic and tech powers are a hell of a lot of fun to use. 
 Weapons are a bit limited -- guns don't look different (there is, essentially, one look for each 
 class with only minor variations) , but there is a great deal of flexibility in upgrades. Mass Effect 
 does, unfortunately, follow KOTOR in making it ridiculously difficult to manage upgrades, weapons 
 and items in inventory. Especially when you want to quickly compare items, things can become a 
 bit tedious. If you're willing to spend the time, the game will let you do what you want, but I'd 
 rather spend time blowing up Geth.
  
  The dialogue system isn't revolutionary. In fact, it's really only a few minor updates over what 
 KOTOR offered. Rather than seeing exactly what you'll say, you get to choose the gist of what your 
 approach will be. And you know what? It's great. It makes the dialogue that much more enjoyable. 
 But, if you're in a hurry, turn on subtitles and read the dialogue, and use the X button to skip 
 through dialogue. There aren't many instances where that's not an option. But you'll find that 
 your customization options at the beginning of the game only offer a semblance of depth to the 
 game, not real depth. There are really only a handful of relatively unimportant points in the game 
 in which the customization options impact dialogue.
  
  The game's graphics are stunning, despite the occasional framerate hiccup. (I wonder why so many 
 reviews have complained about it. It's really not an issue.) In particular, the animations are 
 fabulous. Even when characters are just talking on screen, they are using appropriate body language. 
 It's really a sight to behold. Teamed with the unbelievably fantastic voice acting, Mass Effect 
 really brings a new level of competency to the RPG genre. The game sets the bar very high for next-gen 
 RPGs.
  
  I'm going to slightly dissent on the general praise for the storyline, but only because I am still 
 waiting for a sci-fi game to have a genuinely fantastic story. Compared to other video games, the 
 story in Mass Effect is one of the best ever. But compared to TV shows, movies, or novels.... meh. 
 Average. Nothing terribly original. Certainly entertaining, but I'm still holding out for something 
 better. And I only say this because I'm holding games to the same standard I'd hold a movie or 
 novel. Maybe that's unfair, but it's because I know that it can be done.
  
  The game universe is large, but not large enough given what we were lead to believe by the design 
 team. Very few planets can really be explored, and many are simply a few paragraphs of text in 
 the game's database. Again, the game suffers from unreasonable expectations. You'll still find 
 about 30-40 hours of gameplay here, which is certainly enough to justify purchasing the game. And 
 the replay value here is high.
  
  So, go and buy this game. It's a blast. It looks great, and plays great. It's challenging on the 
 harder difficulty levels, and gives you as much or more control over your character than in any 
 other game of this type to date. While the game is not perfect, it's flaws are minor and forgivable. 
 It's games like this that give me hope that one day my unreasonably high expectations for video 
 games will someday be met. The game certainly deserved a higher score from Gamestop. I don't know 
 what they were smoking.
  
  I recommend this game heartily, to sci-fi fans of all stripes, and to RPGers. More casual gamers 
 might find the learning curve a bit steep, but I'd encourage them to take the game out for a ride 
 despite all that. It's easily one of the best games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volcomstoned013
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is immersing, deep, entertaining, and very time consuming. The writing and storyline 
 are amazing, and keep you wondering. The combat is the best combat any RPG has ever seen. The replayability 
 is up there with KOTOR and Oblivion. The sound and voiceover's are better than any game you've 
 seen. The graphics and art are unbelievably amazing/ The two minor flaws are just that. Minor. 
 The vehicle combat is just fine, you just have to get used to it. you cant just point and shoot. 
 You must move, aim, and fire all at once. Once you get the hang of it, its really quite fun. The 
 other flaw, frame rate skips and other minor visual flaws are barely noticeable, and have no real 
 effect on the game. The only reason they are noticeable is because of the perfection throughout 
 the rest of the game. A game of this size and caliber will have these flaws. Theres nothing you 
 can do about that. A definite must have, and a DEFINITE GOTY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwistyNinja
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect was well worth the wait! BioWare has produced yet another amazing game. The story line 
 isn't confusing what so ever and is told so well. Character designs and animations are by far the 
 best for the X360. And I am a huge fan of the KOTOR series. And this game was just as good as both 
 of the KOTOR games and maybe even better. True, the combat system might not be perfect but neither 
 was KOTOR's combat system. For the game that Mass Effect is, the combat works very well. And the 
 voice acting is astounding. It is a very addicting game and you won't ever want to leave your seat. 
 In fact its almost like watching one of the greatest Sci-Fi movies but instead your playing it 
 and picking and choosing how you want it to go. Basically the game is very intense and well done. 
 And the story line... WOW! Its beautiful. A definite masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegamanX97
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I am about 10 hours into this game. The game over all is great, but it isnt for everyone. 
  
  GamePlay - The gameplay in this game has mixed reactions. The on foot battle can be really 
 fun at time, but other times can be extremely frusturating. Ive died a lot in heated battles because 
 of moves that constantly knock you off your feet, and the enemy can take advantage of these situations 
 really well by shooting at you while your down till you die. Also once your shield is gone you 
 really cant take a lot of damage, which is basicly realistic. When you get good upgrades and armour 
 and moves the game really opens up and makes thing a hell of a lot easier, the game then becomes 
 really enjoyable! The missions when driving can also be frusturating. I find the mako can not take 
 a good amount of damage so you spend less time killing and more time just driving past the enemies. 
 Lucky there is a repair button, but it doesnt repair the vehicle all that much.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are great! makes the game really come to life. There is a lot of variation 
 between colors and all the aliens look amazing. The intense graphics have their downside which 
 leads to a choppy frame rate, but the dip in FPS isn't really that bad. The game is still very 
 playable.
  
  Sound - The sound and the voice acting are top notch. You wont experience many games with such 
 great sound work. Absolutely tons of dialog to go through and just listening to the players voices 
 is great! the voice work is very believable.
  
  Rough spots- Like stated before the gameplay can be tricky. Your team mates AI for such a high 
 profile game is really lacking. More times than not your team mates are probably just going to 
 die, and there is no real point to reviving them in the middle of a fight because they will probably 
 just die again.
  
  Frame rate drops are frequent, but the game is still very playable.
  
  Odd glitches like getting stuck in the terrain is horrible.
  
  Auto save system sucks, 
 but luckly you can same anytime you like!
  
  Overall this game isnt for everyone, but if you like a good shooter with RPG elements and a sci-fi 
 twist, this game is worth checking out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zandartheweeble
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect's concept is wonderful: an original sci-fi RPG with squad-based FPS combat, a huge 
 galaxy to explore, top-line voice talent and writers, and next-gen 360 graphics.
  
  But it's the execution that hurts this game. Bioware almost put too much into it, or tried to. 
 Long load times, graphical glitches, framerate drops, script bugs and wonky vehicle combat really 
 bring down what would have otherwise been an outstanding title. Weak AI on both your squadmates 
 and your enemies and the inability to issue direct, detailed commands to your team make the combat 
 part of this action RPG frustrating, and the clunky inventory system doesn't help either.
  
  Even worse, given the careful detail and attention to the game's story, dialogue choices, voice 
 acting and immersive universe, it's almost criminal that the combat and *especially* the driving 
 exploration sequences are so mediocre. You have to almost suffer through the middling combat to 
 get to the juicy story elements (which seem to have a lot in common with Babylon 5 for some reason...)
 
  
  Really, if Bioware had spent the kind of quality time on the combat and the framerate that they 
 did on the story and the voice acting, this would have been a shoo-in for GOTY. Instead, it's not 
 even the best RPG on the Xbox 360. If you're a big fan of the story, you'll love this game despite 
 the flaws. If you're looking for a squad-based FPS... look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reali_T
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is obviously one of years best but its suffers from a few small, at first, but constant 
 issues.
  
  Graphics/ These graphics are the best on the console but I just was downright disappointed with 
 the frame rate and how long it takes the textures to load. But I give them a nine because of how 
 divine the characters and enviroments look. 9 
  
  Sound/ The voice acting is phenomenal accompanied by the great score I give it a ten. 10 
  
 
  Value/ By now you have probably heard how much replay value is in this game and if you haven't 
 this is the game Stride of video game, it last for a long time. 10 
  
  Gameplay/ The discussion system is just great it keeps you in the action not knowing exactly what 
 your going to say or do. As for combat its better than the average RPG but it cannot compete with 
 games like Gears of War thanks to problematic Artificial Intelligence. As for the vehicle controls 
 they are mediocre and sloppy because the turrets cannot aim correctly. 9
  
  Tilt/ I loved this game very much Mass Effect is a game that should not be missed. 10
  
  Mass 
 Effect's M rating is somewhat deserved. It's rated M for Violence, Blood, Sexual Themes, Partial 
 Nudity, and Language. While it is easy to see all these things are in the game they feel like they 
 are toned down. Since it is M rated they could of had more blood and there are no breast or anything 
 like that but instead that it gets its Partial Nudity for thongs and excessive cleavage. It seems 
 like they were going for a T rating. 
  
  
  9+9+10+10+10= 48/5= 9.6=9.5
  
  
  9.5 superb
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much more then anoone can realise. Yes, we can listen to the critics stating that 
 this is a Sci-Fi version of a Neverwinter Ghost Recon. And even though the image seems to fit, 
 you would be looking at the old version of the Cliche. This game is so much more.
  
  Like Neverwinter the main quest is there, but coated in dozens and dozens of oterh missions. Do 
 one without the other and the game is a simple race. Like taking the train from Twon Hall to Central. 
 You miss the good stuff. 
  
  Like Ghost recon you get to chase, shoot, hunt, kill and evicerate, but you miss the opportunity 
 of Diplomacy. The part where the victim gets to look forward to getting gutted. 
  
  Then there is the sci-fi part. Yes, this part is Sci-fi, but to see this as just some Sci-fi thing 
 is to compare 10 books of Dune to one episode of Star Trek (not attacking Star Trek here) .
  
  Exploration and choice. The matter is choice. To use status, to gain wealth or to do the right 
 thing. Like most games, this game thrives on making choice. Good-Balanced-Worldly whatever your 
 choice, this game is filled with lots of things to see. lots of things to learn and choices to 
 make. I reckon that this is what makes Bioware so very great. And it gives the game the replay 
 value of a lifetime. Because this game can go in a whole other way when you replay with another 
 character. 
  
  And as the universe is set-up. I expect loads of add-ons and extra missions. I just have no idea 
 how much missions i have either missed, or haven't started yet. One thing. Missions can come from 
 the strangest sources. 
  
  Like Oblivion this is the one game that is an absolute must with every 360. To add the spice. I 
 have had Assassins Creed on my table for two days now. But i just cannot stop playing Mass Effect. 
 The game is just that much fun to play.
  
  If there is one critical note to give, then it is probably the level system. In itself, that part 
 is good, but i think i got spoiled through Oblivion. It seems wrong to become master of assault 
 rifles without EVER shooting one. 
  Perhaps an idea of Mass Effect II?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cybergooch
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  That sound, my friends, is me being sucked into this game. From the minute I stuck it in and hit 
 "Start", I was mesmerized by the AWESOME graphics and sound. But this game isn't just a "trophy 
 wife", the compelling storyline and linear movement really makes this a GotY contender. I especially 
 like how easy the controls were to learn (less than 10 minutes to master) and how easily you can 
 manipulte through the conversations. Character customization is awesome and it gets you hooked 
 on "what will I do next" with just the first 4 points applied! My suggestion would be to NOT play 
 this game if you have to be somewhere in the next 4-5 hours because, sadly, you will NOT MAKE IT!! 
 Way to go Bioware on taking a new IP and PWNing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is the latest in a long line of fantastic BioWare RPGs. 
  
  What this game is:
  1) Heavily story- and character-driven -- many unstoppable cutscenes, excellent 
 voice acting, and terrific non-player character depth
  2) Scripted, tactical combat -- If you hate real-time combat, this may not be a perfect choice 
 for you. Though the combat is all pausable, and you can configure your equipment, NPC behaviors, 
 etc. while paused. Once a battle is over, the enemies don't respawn. The battle are clearly built-in 
 to the script in ways that make sense within the game world and story. Still, this game is really 
 not about combat.
  3) Adventure-oriented -- In the adventure sections, which can be lengthly, you will explore, solve 
 multiple (and often interesting, even though I'm simplifying it here) "fetch this" and "solve this 
 conflict" side-quests, and learn more about your NPCs.
  
  What this game is not:
  1) An action FPS or action RPG -- the combat is highly tactical and fun, but not for the "hardcore" 
 FPS gamer, or people that prefer action-heavy RPGs. There are long sections of storytelling, and 
 entire levels of exploratory adventuring without combat.
  2) A "traditional" pen-and-paper style RPG. Like other Bioware games (Knights of the Old Republic, 
 Jade Empire) , there isn't much focus on traditional strength/intelligence/etc stats. Still, there's 
 a good sense of character development, with many other attributes (weapon specialization, armor 
 skill, a rough equivalent to magic/force power use) .
  
  Strengths: 
  Graphics, sound, music, story, characters
  
  Weaknesses:
  Inventory system (clunky) , speech/dialog 
 synchronization (pales in comparison to two competing games -- Drake's Fortune, Ratchet and Clank) , 
 NPC AI
  
  Overall, a terrific game (top five of the year) , but not perfect, and not for everyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuDisNow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot noted that some of the combat didn't work our very well and the frame rate gets messed 
 up after a while, but that's no reason to not give this game 8.5. I desereves and 9.5 as it has 
 the best story in video game since KOTOR. You play as John Sheppard where you go through galaxies 
 and help people that well... need help. Also, humans are more of refugees, so your kind isn't highly 
 looked apon. I won't tell you anything else about the story except the fact that some actions might 
 get people killed, including you own team. Mass Effect truly deserved a much better score than 
 AA. Believe me, this is a game you will want to play if you like Sci-fi RGPs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aresmaxim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  The start of the game helps bring you into the world of Mass Effect (ME) and provides enough of 
 a story backdrop based on your character details. Granted there is a lot of reading and voice in 
 the journal and codex (think encyclopedia) , but it plays well into the story and is a good deal 
 of information. Story aside the involvement of the character creation is very well done and the 
 model reacts well in the cut-scenes. The graphics are stunning and one can take awhile to sit back 
 and behold. The depth of the game allows for either a relative quick game of about 10-15 hours 
 or based on the current reading over 40 hours of play. 
  
  The Bad:
  Some graphical glitches at times and heavy loading at inoppertune times. The game is constantly 
 loading in the background but that is to be expected. Also, the vehicle really needed to be worked 
 on as it is more of a moon patrol type then something expected to fit into the physics of the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  1) The gameplay is unique so its not the easiest game to get used to but in about 30 mins into 
 the game you will get used to it.
  
  2) Graphics are great with highly detailed environments and characters.
  
  3) The story will 
 have you sucked in right from the beginning.
  
  4) The action is intense.
  
  5) Weapons look cool and they are fun to use.
  
  6) You can customize your character, weapons, 
 and your team however you want to.
  
  7) The powers you can equip your character with are really cool.
  
  8) You choose whatever 
 you say and do.
  
  
  Cons: 
  1) The music isn't too suspenseful.
  
  2) Not enough variety of weapons (that doesnt bother me but may bother other people) .
  
  3) 
 Vehicles controls suck.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: srx5171
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to write much here because if you are reading this you should stop and get the game! 
 The voice acting and dialog tree are amazing. And the cinematography during conversations and cut 
 scenes is great. This game really feels like it's bridging a gap between story telling and cinematography 
 of film and the interaction and immersive-ness of games. The combat is not as solid as a shooter 
 (i. e. Gears of War) but the tactical side and variation of it is very complex while capturing the 
 intensity and excitement. The RPG side of things is great too. Leveling is at a good rate. You 
 never feel like you are grinding to level, so as to not hinder the story telling aspect of the 
 game. The aliens species and planets are very well done. If you are a sci-fi fan or a a fan of 
 great story telling I would not hesitate to get this game. This is a game you will remember for 
 years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waveddiamond
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is an artistic action ride. You begin with the choice of creating your own character 
 based on a couple of modifications or chosing the default character. Then you go on the journey 
 to find a becon which gets exploded in your face thanks to your comrad, who was dumb enough to 
 get close to a beeping object. Sheppard begins to have visions, and uncovers the reality behind 
 the geth. The game does have a few glitches that can get in your way of finishing your asignment 
 ,but for the most part they are just funny and easily ignored.
  
  Mass Effect plays almost like a FPS, but if you choose to ignore commands and Weapon selection, 
 you might end up getting stuck forever. The combat mechanism is great you can choose from a variety 
 of team commands, powers and guns. The whole battle demands on your next move.
  
  As story lines go, well Mass Effect is rolling with the top dogs, you will want to play 50 hours 
 straight just to unravel the mistery, behind this becon and the return of an ancient civilization.
 
  
  Graphics are amongs the best ever, the only problem is that at times the frame rate is not steady, 
 or the engine can't hold up the graphics or in part its the xbox's fault for not having enough 
 power to fuel such a unique game.
  
  Overall, Mass Effect was made for RPG fans, so if your a big fan or RPG's get it. This is a game 
 that you wont soon for get, it will leave you wanting more even after the 50 hours+ of gameplay. 
 Graphics well unless you have crysis or gear of wars for the pc there isn't any better. As glitches 
 go Im pretty sure they will make an update and fix it, so to me that doesn't affect the score the 
 game should get, which is a ten. Its not a ten because its perfect because no game is, but just 
 because its original, the pushed the graphics to the limit, the storyline is engaging, and they 
 managed to mix to incredible genres, FPS and Sci-FI RPG's. Its almost as if you a stuck inside 
 a star wars movie. What will be your next move?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbond
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  My 5 word review: Nicely satisfies my Sci-Fi jones. 
  
  But since Gamespot wants at least 100 words...
  
  As others have already said... 'don't believe 
 the hype'. I am enjoying it immensely, but it certainly isn't anything new. In fact, I feel like 
 I've bought an expansion to Knights of the Old Republic. Not like that is a BAD thing -- I loved 
 KOTOR and still replay it every once in a while.
  
  Looks like KOTOR, plays mostly like KOTOR with a few significant interface tweaks. Not revolutionary 
 at all. But I've played KOTOR and Jade Empire a bazillion times, so I appreciate what I regard 
 as 'new content' in the Bioware universe. If you enjoyed previous Bioware titles, you should enjoy 
 this one. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: esands72
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  This was a very ambitious project and I must say that Bioware pulled it off pretty well. I think 
 Gamespot's review is pretty much spot on. The game misses on a few spots, but delivers well.
  First off, let me say that I tried to not let myself fall victim to the hype machine. No game ever 
 lives up to expectations when under the microscope (see Star Wars Galaxies) .
  The visuals are absolutley amazing. It took me a while to figure it out, but if you turn off that 
 "film grain" and "blur effect" option, the game looks and plays much better... IMO.
  I have not had the problems that others have complained about with the load times/frame rates. 
 The game has skipped here and there, but its nothing that could ruin my experience. Try playing 
 The Witcher to really see what bad load times are all about...
  The story (for what I have played so far) has been great. The voice acting is superb and really 
 draws you into the game. As I was playing yesterday, my wife comes in to the room and asks what 
 movie I was watching becasue it sounded great. The visuals, combined with story, acting and music, 
 really set the mood into a deep and telling Sci-Fi adventure that I would say, could be film worthy.
 
  The gameplay has been great so far. There seem to be endless side quests that fit well into the 
 main story. It helps propell this world into reality that much further. I really like the fact 
 that a seemingly friendly stroll through the innersanctum can explode into a life or death fire 
 fight in a flash. There are no load times... no spinning, swirly frame, that holds your attention 
 while that battle loads. Its like taking a walk through the park and BLAM!!! You are in an intense 
 fire fight... and you BETTER find cover FAST... this aint your mommas TPS...
  The "spells" work well into the game as well. No fancy summons or impossible meteors here. Instead, 
 you get a realistic working of metaphysics controlled through biotic implants that are upgradable 
 through experience. Nice work really. I found so far that all of the biotic powers are useful. 
 None of the wasted spells like other games out there.
  My only gripes are with the AI of your squad. They seem to take cover well, but they leave you 
 out to dry. They also have a habit of running in and getting killed quickly when tasked with assisting 
 you with your target.
  All in all, I am finding this game quite enjoyable and have not had some of the horrible experiences 
 that other have claimed. I think their XBOX's may be on the fritz or something.
  If you are longing for a great RPG, really enjoy SCi-fi and need it on the 360, then put this on 
 your X-mas list. Its well worth the money IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdmoore356
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  think of this game as KOTOR on steroids... takes all the good and improves upon it.... amazing game
 
  
  combat is like gears of war when your in combat and the immersive dialogue and morale dilemmas 
 are amazing. Evil corporation representative pissing you off? Choose, to persuade him or just simply 
 shoot him in the head. (just a small sample) Every conversation with another character leads to 
 a moral dilemma in some way.
  
  only complaint i have is AI teammates like to try and shoot through walls and trying to drive the 
 mako takes some getting used to (think warthog with a slower reaction time) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brian5
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  Gamespot gave this one a 8.5 I would say it's closer to a 9.5. But I understand why this got the 
 8.5 due to the bugs that shipped with the game. And really thats the only complaint I have about 
 this game. It does come packed with quite a few bugs that being said i'm still happy they did not 
 deley the game as i'm sure a patch to shore up these problems will be coming at some point. To 
 counter act this "SAVE OFTEN" as you can reload from a previous save anytime. Some of the glitches 
 I have encountered i'm about 5 hours into the game mind you have included my charcter tearing through 
 walls, or getting stuck in the geometry. Bug's aside this game is a holly masterpiece and if you 
 like or love RPG's or are just a fan of great Sci-Fi in film or game's then you owe it to yourself 
 to purchase a copy of Mass Effect. Mass Effect lives up to expectations & raises the bar in terms 
 of innovation, graphics, immersivness, music, and gaming in general. It has a excellent combat 
 mechanic think Rainbow 6 Vegas, a deep but accessable leveling up sytem newbies to RPG's or gamer's 
 that have not liked RPG's in the past will not be overwhelmed, a musical score on par with a big 
 budget film, oh and just the best graphics built into a game ever. Also I almost forgot to mention 
 the dialog aspect of Mass Effect. No more reading text and watching the story play out now your 
 given a choice of what to say kinda like a choose your own adventure book. It's amazing all the 
 speech they were able to put into this game and on one disc. The voice acting is superb, it's all 
 matched to the charcter's movement and facial expressions to a "T"! The biggest complament I can 
 give Bioware is that I did not want to turn off my 360 and leave the wonderful world they created 
 damn you work your getting in the way with my Mass Effect time. Now for Mass Effect 2 give me at 
 least 2 player co-op, 4 player co-op would be sweet "what i'm just saying". If they can get co-op 
 up and running on Live this game flat out gets 10's across the board. Run!!! Don't walk and buy 
 this one. -STU- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  Well lets see, this game is simply amazing. Everyone that likes RPG's should go buy this asap. 
 I bought this game 2 Sunday's ago from Kmart and I must say it was the best choice.
  I have played the game twice, and beaten it. It's amazing the graphics are like WHOA, the facial 
 expressions are also very awesome.
  
  The game does have a lot of downsides. All you get to use are those "Weapons" that you have. The 
 only thing that would make them different is the ammo you would use in the gun. There are also 
 a lot of graphical glitches. 
  
  But overall, how can you NOT buy this game? The story sucks you in and makes you play more and 
 more. There is simply no reason you should not buy this game unless you HATE rpgs. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone of my friends. 
  
  When you think about it. All games have downsides some more than others, and some that are way 
 to much that you can not play the game.
  But that is a game. I mean you can't think about that stuff a whole lot or you will ruin your fun 
 playing it. Nothing in this game on the "bad" stuff would ruin your game play. To be honest most 
 of that is all based on someone's opinion. Everyone's will be different.
  
  Best thing I can say is go buy this game. You will enjoy it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: god_of_shawn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Bioware has done it again. They deliver superb games from time to time. Mass Effect's story is 
 AMAZING. I love the options where you can choose, instead of forcing you. The graphics is amazing, 
 but not mind blowing. The game is not that perfect though, you will see some glitches from time 
 to time. 
  
  1 thing i hate is your teammates. Bioware had done poorly in the teammates area, you can't control 
 them, which RPG is supposed to do that. 
  
  But overall this game is a nice solid game and it should be the game you will get.
  
  Graphics 
 9.5
  Gameplay 10
  Story 9.5
  Sound 9.0
  Lasting Appeal 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmfan84
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  This is game is so good, you can completely overlook some of the Frame rate and AI issues. NO game 
 has ever given the expressions and feelings that the characters in Mass Effect show. It has unbelievable 
 dialogue and photo-realistic moments when talking. The voice acting is top-notch and this game 
 will probably get some serious considering for GOTY (probably COD4 will get it unfortunately) . 
 
  
  The combat system is fun and plenty of gear to find to keep the fighting interesting. The game 
 also isn't a cakewalk which makes it more fun. 
  
  The score game spot gives doesn't even do this game justice. How AC got higher baffles me. Oh well 
 doesn't matter anyway!
  
  I recommend this game to all! What are you waiting for?? Get to game stop/best buy and start now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VlaDikStYle
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I think this game deserves much more than an 8.5. Sure, the framerate gets a little choppy RARELY, 
 and it takes a while to get used to, but once you play for about 2 hours, the story, combat, graphics 
 and characters just suck you in. This game definitaly makes up for what it lacks in framerate issues, 
 in overall gameplay. 
  
  Characters: 
  
  The characters in this game are so well made that you feel for them, youll see yourself bitching 
 at one guy, or rooting for the other (which makes you look kinda stupid when people are around 
 you) .
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Best RPG gameplay i have ever seen. Definitally innovative, perfect combat.
  
  Graphics:
 
  
  What can i say, just beautiful graphics, they are pretty much flawless, except for occasional times 
 when the framerate gets a little choppy, but its no biggy, especially since hte overal quality 
 of this game is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWasteOfTime
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Simply the way games should be made.
  Wonderful story.
  Beautiful environment.
  A great game! As soon as I'd finished it, I began a new carrer from the beginning. 
  When you 
 play it you know! You know that there's a lot of work behind this.
  You can see it and you can feel it.
  Mass effect is massive in so many ways, good ways. =)
 
  I hope that other developers can collect this and not only think money.
  Take your time when making a game. People will wait so it's worth it.
  Games like these lasts 
 for years. At least for me they do.
  Thank you bioware and microsoft game studios for making this wonderful
  piece of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoom_roulette
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  I was adamant picking up this game today at EB games thanks to the negative reviews from other 
 readers here. Yes I know I had to find that out myself eventually but I just couldnt resist the 
 tempatation. I am one of those guys who just cant wait a month or so after the release of this 
 game. Truly excited since last week hehe but hey I am a huge fan of BIoware so what the hey. From 
 the moment of character creations to the actual gameplay It exceeded all my expectations. I ran 
 into some glitches but the game had me at the storyline so... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farreg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Whilst looking very much like a 3rd person shooter it would probably look quite daunting if you 
 are watching someone who is a fair way into the game, even though it is not such an overwhelming 
 game to play. This game is, in it's simplest terminology an RPG. That doesn't detract from it's 
 very obvious TPS influences, but I doubt it will appeal to anyone who is not a fan of the RPG genre.
 
  
  Those of you who have played Bioware's previous RPG offering of KOTOR will have a lot more ease 
 in playing this game than newbies. To put it simply there a few core controls that are reminiscent 
 of KOTOR, that is not to say it is a KOTOR clone, far from it, but the influences are there.
  
  The gameplay in itself is very slick, cutscenes are not obtrusive in anyway, and the conversation 
 interaction is smooth and easy to use, something that does annoy me is the lack of ability to skip 
 through conversations (I normally have subtitles turned on and read through them) , you have to 
 sit and listen to the full dialogue before you can continue, there are references in the booklet 
 that this is to ensure full dramatic effect.
  
  The weapons are in set classes and are capable of upgrades to suit both character and opponent 
 (as you would expect from an RPG) , and is quite a simple system to use. The main interface is easy 
 to use, opting for a rotary menu as opposed to cycling through lists to get to the category you 
 want. This is a much faster way of going directly to the screen that you want. This is important, 
 because in a game genre where you can spend about 1/3 of the time in the menus, you want them to 
 be easy to use and intuitive as possible. No matter how good the action part of the game performs, 
 if you have a poor menu system, it makes the game extremely frustrating.
  
  It is just as easy to equip your squad as it is to equip yourself, and also to give them orders 
 in the midst of battle. The game freezes when you hold down your LB or RB to issue weapon changes 
 or biotic/tech commands, making it as simple to use as it is to change weapons.
  
  The gameplay itself has a nice world in which you can interact and discover plenty of challenges 
 and side missions (referred to as assignments) as well as a plethora of characters to interact 
 with.
  
  Squad control can be as interactive as you like, whether you like to issue commands like in Rainbow 
 6 Vegas, or are happy to let them find their own way. Your squad is as much under your control 
 as your own character, or if that is not your thing, they are quite content to assist you in ways 
 the game AI deems fit, which a majority of the time is coherent with your idea of what they should 
 be doing (though they do tend to take all of the good spots for cover) .
  
  There are very few things I can fault with this game, the characters are strong and likeable, the 
 game runs very cinematically, the freedom of choice and consequences that really do have lasting 
 affects on the game, as well as the fun things like designing your own character and different 
 coloured armour/weapons.
  
  Having said that, I do have a few complaints, some of the button options aren't consistent, a majority 
 of the game has the 'B' button as your cancel option, except weapon upgrades, you have to press 
 a to exit, and make sure you have it on the item you want equipped. That means you need to ensure 
 that you go back through the list of upgrades to ensure that you have the option you want before 
 you exit, this make 'just having a look' for better items painful, because I have to scroll back 
 through my list to find the item again or risk having it unequipped.
  
  The other thing, which I also consider minor, is that the textures often are still loading when 
 the cutscenes or stages start, it is a minor irritation, but something that takes you out of the 
 imersive environment, and reminds you that you are playing a game. A very well rendered & textured 
 game, but still brought out of it for a few moments.
  
  All in all I would say this is a must own for any RPG fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  That's something that you have to ask yourself when you look at this game. If you've played games 
 like Knights of the Old Republic and Jade Empire on the Original Xbox than you'll probably be familiar 
 with the controls in this game, but if this is your first time playing this type of Sci-Fi RPG 
 shooter than you will struggle a little like I did. 
  
  The first thing you'll do in Mass Effect is create your character from male or female. After that 
 you'll have to choose different categories within your class to make up a profile of your character. 
 You have six to choose from and once you've done these choices you will not be able to change any 
 of these things once you have confirmed your character. This will allow you to play the game multiple 
 times to see the different outcomes of each class. 
  
  So you'll play as Commander Shepard and you were chosen to go on this mission to inspect a planet 
 to check up on these high technology weapons. Once you've reach this planet you noticed everything 
 goes wrong and once you return to your ship your filled in on what's really going on. I will not 
 spoil much of the story because that's one of the best things about the game. 
  
  The graphics in this game look gorgeous it' is up there with one of the best that I've seen on 
 the system this year. The planets and indoor enivornments look great. The facial animations look 
 almost realistic, it's like your watching a movie. There's a lot of dialogue in the game so be 
 prepare to do a lot of talking in the game. It's also good to investigate the people you meet so 
 you'll have an understanding of what's going on with the story. Also your replies will affect the 
 outcome of how things play out in the game. 
  
  Now onto the controls, here is where you'll have a little bit of frustration. At first it takes 
 a while to get use to. If you're going in running and gunning than you will not survive, not even 
 for a second. You'll have to be prepare to bring up your squad menu and pin point attacks on your 
 enemies. You also have control over your squad and where they moves. They are not the smartest 
 so you have to be careful where they wonder off. Sometimes they will die on you and you'll be left 
 allow battling it out if you're not too careful. 
  
  This game is pretty lengthly judging from the 20+ planets, dialogue, side missions, and all it 
 will take you about 40 hours to finish the entire game but only 20 hours if you stick to the main 
 quest only. The game is not prefect it has it's framerate issues and glitches but that shouldn't 
 affect you that much from the gameplay. Besides those minor issues you'll have a great game to 
 pick and keep you busy for the rest of the year. If you're a fan of the RPG and a fan of 3rd Person 
 Shooter you should give this game a try. If you're a fan of Bioware's games than this will definitely 
 be an easy choice for you to make. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TENTHROW2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this is an RPG with shooter elements. Some people are playing it backwards trying 
 to make it a shooter with RPG elements. If you run and gun through this ala Gears of War, your 
 going to die a lot and the game will be a disapointment to you because you have the wrong preconception 
 of what this game is about.
  
  The gameplay is fantastic, duck n cover, strategy orientated. While it does use real time targetting, 
 which is where your FPS skills will come into play, but takes a level of strategy by pausing the 
 action, sending out commands to teamates, and figuring out the next best tactical step.
  
  If you dont realize going into this game, that your playing a Story driven RPG and not a Halo 3 
 type of game, your going to be disapointed. The game REQUIRES you to slow down and think and use 
 the skills available to you for each encounter. It's as close to real time - turn based action 
 as you can get and it's done beautifully.
  
  The story is off the charts, the amount of spoken dialogue is insane, and it was done twice over 
 as depending on if you play male or female, the game dialogue will address you as him or her!
 
  
  If you've played KOTOR (and if you havent by now you should have your head checked) then you know 
 what to expect from the story - you get choices to your answers, and depending on your choices 
 dictates a little bit how the story goes, what you find out, or what quests are available.
  
  The graphics and presentation are gorgeous. Sometimes the faces can look a little plastic - 
 sometimes trying too hard to make it look real is a bad thing i reckon - but most the time you 
 FEEL like your there, making the decisions.
  
  I only have a couple gripes that are not gamebreaking at all - first is the framerate - it will 
 drop fairly often. The next is the vehicle combat, but again, once you get used to it, not bad 
 at all, but something that coulda been improved. Theres a few other minor glitches here and there 
 that arent even worth mentioning, and can be fixed via XBL anyway.
  
  Overall, i cannot recommend this game enough to RPG fans. If you're a shooter fan and dont have 
 an RPG background, you will be disapointed unless you stick with it and learn how the system works 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azazel005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Mass Effect is one of those titles both destined for great success and great failure. Developer 
 Bioware's near flawless record will drag RPG fans to it in droves, yet the massive amount of surrounding 
 hype and expectation means that even if it did your homework, laundry and gave you a foot rub while 
 you played some will feel disappointed.
  
  Taken upon its merits, there is no doubt it's a phenomenal achievement, an experience that really 
 needs to be played to believe, though it's not without a few niggles that will likely draw more 
 criticism then is fair.
  
  Set in its own futuristic world, you take veteran soldier Shephard on a harrowing adventure to 
 save the galaxy. An arguably richer galaxy and more mature sci-fi realm has scarcely been presented, 
 shades of Blade-Runner, Star Wars, Alien and Dune influence the spectacular design and there is 
 literally hours of history embedded into the games Codex that fills you in on the world. It's a 
 compelling place, beautiful, varied and complete with its racisms, theological clashes and political 
 tensions. It's quite possible to spend hours of time reading about the galaxy, not to mention that 
 it contains a brilliant mechanic that rewards your character simply for learning about the world.
 
  
  And you will learn, and be driven to learn more as you explore the lush world, the graphics are 
 always pleasant and often breathtaking, there is an occasional stifle as the engine renders which 
 may pop up more than it should leaving things blurry for a few seconds a little immersion breaking 
 but a minor blemish considering the overall package. Alien species are wonderfully expressive, 
 so far and away in quality from the dry repetitive Knights of the old Republic aliens that one 
 wonders how we ever tolerated them. 
  
  From a technical stand point its one of the more polished Bioware titles. Given the scale of their 
 work it was common and mostly acceptable that there would be a myriad a little glitches hiccups 
 and anomalies, Mass effect however delivers an almost perfect level of production values. I have 
 yet to experience a bug that forced me to re-load and beyond the sluggish texture issue previously 
 mentioned and some unpleasant frame rates its smooth sailing.
  
  There has been a lot of discussion concerning terrible frame rates and a myriad of glitches, though 
 from personal experience I cannot attest to them.
  
  Sound is typically awesome again very reminiscent of the great Sci-Fi films of history (Blade Runner 
 especially) , and while the voice acting CAN be a touch strained it's far better then average. There 
 is just so much spoken dialogue there is bound to be some inconsistencies, sadly these tend to 
 come more from the main cast then the ancillary ones. Shephard has so much to say sometimes his 
 (and her) vocal inflection seems a bit forced and while most of the team mates do stand up well, 
 others feel overly melodramatic and trite.
  
  The game mechanics themselves are excellent. All the classes are invaluable and all the special 
 abilities can have dramatic in game effects when timed correctly. The learning curve on the combat 
 feels a touch steep, and as you begin you sometimes find yourself in two minds about how to play. 
 As you progress further you get a deepening appreciation for the design, it's fast paced exciting 
 yet not overly twitch based, it's easy to forget how difficult it is to create real time RPG combat 
 most of is generally just a nice paint coat over a turned based system. Mass Effect is genuine 
 in its real time nature, with the one serious chink being that you cannot take individual control 
 of each party member. So if you have a soldier and an engineer in your party you either have to 
 have them either hang back or send both to the frontlines, this hurts your tactical options a great 
 deal. 
  
  Dialogue systems are great, and the cinematic direction of conversations is second to none. Never 
 in an RPG has talking been so much fun.
  
  Exploration is, rather bland at times. Beyond your core "plot" worlds there is nothing exciting 
 to see, having a ship at your command and wheeling around in your all terrain vehicle on barren 
 planets chasing clues IS at times good fun, and gives you an almost "Where in the world is Carmen 
 San Diego?" gaming feel, what you uncover is usually not much more then a few quick fights. It 
 all can be a nice diversion but basically feels like a sub game to the main journey and isn't as 
 fleshed out as it could be, or as many gamers likely hoped it would be.
  
  Getting the information is probably one of the games strongest mechanics though. A report buzzes 
 over the radio elevator about a missing group of miners? You can then investigate that system and 
 see what's up. Talking about the history of the Quarian race and discovering things about them 
 earn you experience points. While searching for someone's data disks you pop up another console 
 discussing a completely separate shady deal that you can then go off and investigate. All these 
 things happen in game, and it all feels very natural and organic, it's a shame that actually conducting 
 the investigations ends up a little dull because the entire integration is wonderful.
  
  Inventory and items can be a little frustrating, the interface takes some getting used to and even 
 once you do, you have to stay on top of it otherwise you will end up with so much "loot" it's hard 
 to keep track of it all. It can quickly be disposed into a raw resource and sold at your space 
 ship HQ but the variety of objects aren't always clear, and sometimes you aren't really sure what 
 it does. It is nice that all your rewards are automatically sent to your inventory without having 
 to investigate every corpse though.
  
  Stores are even worse; the random stock they provide can sometimes be down right infuriating. Searching 
 for a specific piece of armour, or weaponry is near pointless and you are often flying from port 
 to port to try the different merchants over and over to see if anything half decent pops up. The 
 HQ suffers from this in addition to you needing licenses so they can sell different types of items, 
 licenses that even when acquired don't seem to give you anything worthwhile.
  
  The plot itself I fairly straightforward, decent but certainly not groundbreaking, it is however 
 less about "How do we save the galaxy" and more "What kind of people stand up and try and save 
 the galaxy?" and from that angle it truly is involving.
  
  Mass effects greatest point maybe that it is only the first, it sets a new standard in visual storytelling 
 (how often have we heard that lately?: p) and manages to deliver excitement at every turn, yet it 
 still feels as if there is a huge amount of potential to call on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adambob91
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Good - fun game play, fun battles, great story, replayable
  
  Bad - to short took 17 hours, only 4 weapons and all look the same except different colors laggy 
 graphics
  
  the fighting was fun don't get me wrong but it sucks that if you go for something like a biotic 
 your stuck with a pistol the whole game because you can't focus with anything else (very annoying 
 because who does't like powers) literally only 4 kinds of weapons sniper, shotty, pistol, rifle. 
 even doing alot of side quests the game will be short i did most of the side quests because the 
 whole game there are only 4 required planets besides the citadel... so I'm slightly disipointed 
 it didn't live up to my expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tctctctc
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Let's start off that the game doesn't have nearly the battle action that 
  Oblivion has for an action/RPG, that is not good IMHO. Including taking my 
  time, searching 
 for all kinds of goodies, starting the game on the toughest 
  difficulty, I finished the first mission, going through all of the dialogue, 
  in less than 1-1/2 
 hours. I killed maybe 20 enemies, more or less on the 
  way. But, that doesn't mean that it won't change further on, so I'll be fair 
  on that.
  Presentation:
 
  Awesome, the story, as it gets told in cut scenes, and in the way you 
  interact with everyone is simply incredible, and I do really like that part 
  immensely.
  
 
  Gameplay:
  
  As expected, it is an RPG you know, so I knew what I was getting and I love 
  RPGs anyway, and 
 I do like the way it presents itself and the interactions 
  in conversation are pretty cool. But, the interactions are not what they 
  were made out to be, 
 IOWs, we heard you could change the course of the 
  situation by changing the attitude of the conversation, this is not true at 
  all. It simply 
 gives you different answers, but you go on the same way. I 
  saved points before chats, and reloaded them to see if it did change. One 
  thing it does do 
 though, it gives slight variations to your character's 
  aspects and personality, whether forceful or mild, etc.
  
  There are not many fights at all 
 that I saw and the first mission was very 
  linear, and was terribly easy, so that is a little bit of a downer to be 
  honest, considering 
 the difficulty I chose to start. Even against one the 
  purported worst baddies in the game, the "Geth", it was a cakewalk. I'll 
  admit I didn't seem 
 to fight a boss fight, but the end of that mission 
  didn't seem to have one, so I'll be opened minded that this will change and 
  that I only played 
 the first mission anyway.
  
  The game also has a cover system, similar to Rainbow Six Vegas, but it isn't as good, it is less 
 effective, and it is difficult to aim from a covered position 
  comparatively. Zooming in on enemies from cover make you snap from that 
  position to the area 
 you're aiming at, making it seem unrealistic, almost 
  like a glitch, frame rate issue.. You can direct your allies to positions 
  other than where 
 you are, and direct what weapons/biotics to use. You can 
  make them hold their spot as well, and this is very helpful, though I forgot 
  that they are 
 there to help me a few times. One thing I don't like, is your 
  character doesn't have the ability to jump, so you cannot get on top of 
  objects of any kind 
 at all.
  
  I read from a few sites (especially here at Gamespot) that the submenus were clunky and hard to 
 use, but I actually found them really easy and it only took about 10 minutes to learn the controls. 
 Overall, the controls work pretty well considering the things you can do in this game and their 
 complexity. You can change weapons pretty much on the fly with the bumpers and take out/put away 
 weapons in a snap. The submenus are almost self-explanatory and you use this to increase the grade 
 of your weapons and armor
  
  Weapons:
  
  Pretty neat really and plenty of upgradeables, and I like the fact that if 
  you have less powerful 
 weapons in your inventory, that are similar to the 
  ones you got that are more powerful, that they can be turned into "omnigel", 
  a restorative, 
 for use on your partners, or yourself when theirs/your health 
  levels are low. You have pistols, rifles, snipers, shotguns, etc, and they 
  can be upgraded 
 to more powerful more accurate types, and you can gain 
  ammunition upgrades as well. The biotic powers, that you and your partners 
  have (depending 
 on the character choice you make to start the game) can 
  vary, but be effective, and have some very nice results. The sniper rifle is 
  hard to aim, as 
 you cannot steady it (really swivels around no matter what) , 
  and that gets annoying (unless there is a way to steady it, I haven't seen 
  it in the tutorials, 
 so I don't think there is a way, but I could be wrong) , 
  but you can zoom in and out. Weapons balancing seems a bit off compared to the enemy, but it is 
 early in the game, so maybe this won't be an issue.
  
  Characters:
  
  They humans look really good, though at times can look a little plastic, 
  like a mannequin, 
 and the facial expressions for the most part are a little 
  stony. Therefore, you don't see much emotion in the expressions, but it 
  still is very nice 
 and the expressions and character movements are better 
  than Oblivion, though they can be a little bit jerky (but wasn't it like 
  that in Oblivion too?) . 
 The non-humans simply are incredible, and very 
  detailed, even their movements too. To date, only Call Of Duty 4 has the best looking human characters, 
 their features and movements, that look realistic, and IMO, is the best yet on the 360. The character 
 movements in Mass Effect are fairly realistic and are modeled well in this game though. The interactions 
 and gestures in conversation, makes this game look incredible from this standpoint.
  
  Even though the facial expressions somewhat lack, it still gives the air of 
  a real person to 
 person talk during interactive conversations, and the 
  atmosphere around the conversations keeps your attention. Your character 
  also has the ability 
 to move forward in a squatted position, but cannot lie 
  prone. You can only do this with a weapon in hand. The friendly AI is 
  nothing to write home 
 about also, but not that bad, they do tend to stand 
  right in the line of fire from the experience so far. Having said that, as 
  the game does progress, 
 all characters level up as they battle and chat, so 
  this may be normal, until they in turn, gain experience. The voices and 
  their lip movements 
 are pretty well done. You'll see a little synch issue, 
  but this is the best I've seen in a game while in actual game play, ever.
  
  Graphics:
  
 
  What can I say, outside of the really good looking characters, the graphics 
  are fairly ordinary when you see games like COD4, Gears, even Halo3 is much better looking, considering 
 how this game was touted for its incredible 
  graphics.. There are no natural effects going on that I saw so far, except 
  for these firefly 
 like things that float around. No tree/grass movement, 
  very little physics going on, no cloud/sky movement. The smoke effects are 
  rather ordinary 
 at best and grenade explosions look like firecrackers. Other 
  weapons effects are pretty decent though overall. Outside of the awesome 
  looking characters, 
 I am really stunned at the lack of overall great graphics; they are pretty ordinary ,as I said..
 
  
  Now, during conversations, there is a noticeable frame rate problem, as it 
  looks like someone took a film clip, took a frame or two from it, then 
  spliced it back together; 
 this makes the characters snap and stutter in motion. You see this quite often during chats and 
 it just jumps out during them. This also happens during the cut scenes, and to be honest, this 
 is unforgivable as this isn't game play, which would be an excuse. When you are out moving around, 
 you really notice it as it stutters a bit more even, and the scenes seems to jump. It isn't real 
 bad, but it is certainly noticeable. You'll also see loading times, and they are similar to what 
 I experienced in 
  Oblivion. The disappointment isn't that it happens comparatively to 
  Oblivion, it is that it happens with a lesser degree of graphics going on.
  
  The buildings, 
 the ground, and the areas around you are not that much to 
  speak of. While the graphics are OK, they are not that detailed and nothing 
  grabs you visually, 
 like Gears, Halo3 and COD4 does. Textures are low, no 
  draw distance, tree branches and their leaves look flat, rocks and general 
  objects look rather 
 ordinary for a game of this scope. The lighting and 
  special effects during gameplay are almost nonexistent, and Halo 3 smokes 
  this IMHO since it 
 has great physics and natural environment movement, and lighting (COD4 has awesome lighting effects) . 
 I wouldn't dare compare this to Oblivion in detail on an overall basis, not close at all. And the 
 scope 
  of Oblivion makes me wonder how the scope of this game was so highly praised before its release, 
 since they are of about the same genre.
  
  To start off, I would give this game an 8.3 as the graphics take away from 
  what is a beautiful 
 game in story and character features and their interactions 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yokuz1166
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Mass Effect is a good game and I suggest that everyone with a 360 should play it at least once.
 
  
  Mass Effect is the first game of a three-game series that BioWare Corporation is creating for the 
 Xbox 360. It's a good start. You can find all of the great voice-acting and immersive storyline 
 that you've had the pleasure to witness in their previous games. Put that and a brand new, highly 
 addictive combat system and you will have a great time. The game will take about 20 hours if you 
 only do the core storyline, and about 30-40 with all the side quests. There are multiple classes 
 you can play with, each having different abilities that allow you to experience the game differently 
 each time. 
  
  That is my review if I'd never played a BioWare game before.
  
  Now the review for folks who've played previous BioWare games. My professional review. Includes 
 both good and bad aspects.
  
  Fans of KotOR and Jade Empire, prepare to be let down. As this game is nothing like either of the 
 two.
  
  To start off, remember how deep those characters were it KotOR? It could take you hours to figure 
 all of them out. The unique views and humor of Jolee Bindo, Carth's distrust of everyone, romancing 
 Bastilla. You won't get any of that in this game. I've played through the game four times now, 
 and I've barely gotten to know any of the characters. They have little or no reaction to your choices, 
 you can't have any conversation with them outside of the ship, and nothing they say affects you 
 or them. Combine that with crappy AI and you don't even feel their presence.
  
  Good and Evil has been replaced with "Paragon" and "Renegade" points. These basically translate 
 into "Accepting of other species" and "Prejudice against other species," almost word for word. 
 They have no effect on how people react to you and they have no effect on the storyline. It's only 
 usefulness is in getting you 30 gamerpoints.
  
  Side quests. Oh wow. Remember those? There is something like that in this game, but it's a sad 
 excuse for a side quest. Basically, what 100% of them will have you do, is land on planets and 
 find stuff. Now it's not bad at the start, but when every... single... one is like this, it gets 
 very old, very quick. All but a few of these 50+ quests will have you find a colony or a base where 
 every... single... person is either dead, dying, or soon to be dead. It really makes you want to 
 shoot yourself because of all the depression. In fact, the entire galaxy causes you to be depressed. 
 The only place that makes you feel good is the Citadel, where everything is fine and dandy. Everywhere 
 else, buildings are falling apart, colonies are failing, ruins are crumbling, or some evil sinister 
 act is taking place. I don't know about you, but I was picturing a brilliant galaxy where you could 
 see the beauty of thousands of years of prosperity wherever you look. How are you supposed to get 
 emotionally involved by saving the galaxy if you can't see anything worth saving? Anyway, none 
 of these quests will satisfy you for long as you will soon become bored of them and they all reak 
 of unimportance.
  
  For all this bad stuff, there is very good aspects of this game that I do not fail to see. The 
 visuals in Mass Effect are just stunning. It's like nothing I've ever seen before. It's artistic 
 in a way, but still looks realistic. Another thing to note is the fantastic combat system. It alone 
 rivals every shooter on the market, and for being in an RPG, that's a major video gaming achievement. 
 The storyline is also incredible.
  
  In the end, Mass Effect successfully establishes a brilliant universe in which you can both believe 
 in and be immersed in, and that's just what BioWare was aiming for.
  
  Now you may see this as pessimistic, but this is purely pragmatic. I've been a huge fan of BioWare 
 for many years now, and I believe KotOR to be the best game ever made. To see this game the way 
 it is is unsettling to me. I really do hope that the sequels will be better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ldksparda21
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I don't really know what is wrong with people refusing to see what is real about a game, i know 
 Bioware are gods amongs developers, but hey even they aren't perfect, although the story is fun 
 so far, and the combat system is actually cool and fun, but you can ignore the bad acting of the 
 some of the character like the boss at the end of the peak 15 level, the way she was crying i mean 
 come on. The next thing ofcourse is the technical hitches all over the game, and bad frame rate, 
 textures poping in when the loading is done, loading screen where they could have been masked with 
 a cutscene. I see what they were doing but honestly the game did not deliver what it was set out 
 to do, and if game reviewers can't see that then we have dark days ahead of us. And if you are 
 a reviewer and you think i'm wrong let me know what makes me wrong, and dont just say "F**k off" 
 we are all adults and we gamers aren't stupid at least us none fanboys that own all the consoles. 
 I know a good game when i see one and i know a bad game when i play it, this game isn't bad at 
 all by all means, it does lots of thing good but it also does to many things bad to be over looked 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InnerHeaven_X
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This is the sort of game many people have been waiting for. After Starwars KOTOR there haven't 
 been many games that give that sort of an immersion into a game. That is... until now, Bioware 
 did a great job making this game. Great detail, dialog, customizing and all the options. This is 
 the game to set the bar for the rest of these sort of games. If you haven't bought it or rented 
 it, I HIGHLY recommend getting yourself a copy. Trust me you won't regret this! PS. I almost always 
 agree with game stop on ratings, but this time they're wrong at least a 9.5 and no less! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Egg
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  By a pure stroke of luck I managed to pick a copy of Bioware's Mass Effect a whole 4 days early 
 due to a certain store's (I wont mention any names) break of the street date, and after heftily 
 playing the main story for a while, heres a review of what is potentially the final release for 
 the 2007 Game Of The Year:
  
  PRESENTATION:
  Mass Effect is simply beautiful a game to look at, there's hundreds among hundreds of character 
 models, and while you cannot talk to ALL of them, the detail that Bioware has put into this is 
 astounding. This is even more so true for when you can talk to the various characters of Mass Effect, 
 the lip syncing is superb, even with your Commander Shepard, who could be expected to look a little 
 disjointed from reality what with the amount of customisation you, the player, can put into his/her 
 looks, which I can tell you is huge, you can change almost anything at all about your Shepard's 
 looks, from iris colour to the scars on their face etc. This really helps the player feel like 
 its really their persona in the game, not just some face you've never met. Another area in which 
 Mass Effect is spectacular in presentation is the landscapes and surroundings of all the planets 
 you visit (and trust me, there are PLENTY) . The different main quest missions involve you to scour 
 planets that range between great metropolises to barren snowfield planets resembling something 
 off Lost Planet to dirt encrusted, almost mechanical planets. The only area where Mass Effect lacks 
 in prettiness is that it seems almost as though the side quest planets seem detached from the beauty 
 of the main quest planets as they often come off as different skins of each other, and you'll find 
 yourself replaying one dirty sand planet after another dirty sand planet. Although this is a tad 
 of a put off, it is wholly redeemed by the fact that the rest of the side missions don't feel like 
 the category that their name is generally put under, a 'side' mission, as many of these 'side' 
 mission feel vastly more detailed that so many other games (see The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion) . 
 Now that I've left Mass Effect completely dripping in praise for its looks, I can go ahead and 
 sucker punch it in the face, because Mass Effect's presentation may be one of the best of any game 
 yet this generation, it is far from perfect. The game's main problem is that it can NEVER keep 
 a steady frame rate. You'll find yourself entering areas and loading the textures all around in 
 a similar way that you got with Halo 2's cutscenes, or various occasions at the beginning of missions 
 in Gears Of War, the only difference with those was that they actually loaded fast, Mass Effect 
 doesn't quite have this talent, sometimes taking 5 renders before it comes out looking as shiny 
 as it should. Also, you'll get spectacular frame rate dips when just too much is happening on the 
 screen, the game simply cannot handle it with the thousands of enemies it launches at you. It is 
 disappointing to see a game with such promise lack in this area. But at the end of the day all 
 of this doesn't matter because even with all these little flaws, Mass Effect comes out, as mentioned 
 before, looking beautiful. Another great aspect of Mass Effect is the soundtrack, the ambience 
 that it creates is indescribable, every song fits the situation right on the mark, and submerges 
 you even further into the intense story. Make sure the volume is up to 11 (Spinal Tap reference) .
 
  
  STORY:
  The story line of Mass Effect is possibly one of its strongest points, it follows a very generic 
 Sci-Fi plot, giving you the position of one Commander Shepard, of whose back story you get to choose 
 before starting the game, but basically consists of you having a.) escaped from slave traders a 
 la Star Wars Sand People at 18 and joined the Alliance military, beta.) growing up in the metropolis 
 that is now Earth, and managing to run away and join the Alliance military at 18, or 3.) Having 
 two parents as Alliance military soldiers, and following in their footsteps by, as you might've 
 guessed, joining the Alliance military at 18. But this is all well and good because everything 
 you choose in Mass Effect's story affects how your the plot and your character develop. Although 
 the story does follow the clich 'save the universe from imminent threat of destruction' Sci-Fi 
 method, Mass Effect manages to get by this by reducing the amount of cheesiness that is thrown 
 in its general path. Without revealing too much, if you didn't already know, you are Commander 
 Shepard who is sent to investigate a beacon from a lost species that helped boost technology in 
 the universe "almost 200 years" last time something like this beacon was found. But once arriving 
 on the planet, you find that a rogue operative of the high government's "Council" is determined 
 to get to the beacon first so he can keep it for himself, accompanied by a friendly army of super 
 evil, super intelligent space robots called the Geth, who believe that the beacon will allow them 
 to reactivate an even more lost, even more evil species of synthetic life forms called the Reapers, 
 who will in turn destroy all natural life in the universe, and now it is up to you to stop this 
 from happening (obviously) . The way Bioware has managed to keep the amount of cheese down is greatly 
 appreciated as the story could've easily take one wrong turn and sent it right down to Crapsville, 
 population; Mass Effect, and possibly some of the Mario series is still down there too. But overall 
 the main story is brilliantly displayed, with very in-depth characters who make the player really 
 believe in them and their personal traits, as well as the huge amounts of side missions that you 
 actually want to do, so you can fully appreciate the hell out of Mass Effect, and the way the story 
 can unfold so differently under your power of being a complete ass, or a right suck up, and some 
 sort of middle ground, toward certain characters really makes you feel as though you are controlling 
 what is going on, not that there is any straight path to develop the plot. If you were to be really 
 anal about finishing Mass Effect's main quest, I predict there would maybe be 20 hours of gameplay 
 before you finished, but then I would probably call you a complete idiot, because there is so much 
 to savour in your first play through of Mass Effect, that you should really attempt a huge amount 
 of side missions, giving the game a good 10 or so more hours at the least. Bundled with the fact 
 that you'll want to play it a second time through because of how diverse the story can turn out, 
 Mass Effect's story will grapple your attention by the throat and happily not let you go untill 
 you are finished at least two times, so if you were planning on finishing ANY other games this 
 holiday season, either do that first or prepare to let them wait just a little.
  (As a side note I'd also like to mention that I enjoyed the fact that everyone in the entire universe 
 seems to hate the greedy, non-trustable, dirty, dirty human species for once. Apparently we multiply 
 too much for other alien species.)
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Phew, this is going to be a big one;
  Many people were ready to compare Mass Effect to Bioware's earlier game, Knights Of The Old Republic, 
 which remains simply one of the best original Xbox games to date. And the similarities ARE clear 
 in many places, but at the same time, so many things are changed that Mass Effect does feel like 
 a completely original game. For example, now you have a big, shark named, impossible to control 
 car. And the Force is called Biotics. No but in all seriousness Bioware has done a lot to change 
 the formula that Knights Of The Old Republic ran on. Possibly the most clear change is the complete 
 removal of a turn based fighting system, instead being replaced with real time combat against many 
 enemies, requiring a general strategical approach. Mass Effect was originally labeled a AATPSSBRPGIS, 
 or for people who aren't savvy with lots of letters, Action Adventure Third Person Shooter Squad 
 Based Role Playing GameIn Space. And surprisingly enough the game manages to pull this off pretty 
 successfully. For the RPG elements, you get your general pick of class, and you can choose between 
 a specialist of combat (Soldier) , meaning specialising in weapons and armour for the people who 
 like to run the hell in, and kill absolutely everything. A specialist in Tech (Engineer) , meaning 
 specialising in manipulating machinery, disabling enemy weapons and healing the squad. Or a specialist 
 in Biotics (Adept) , who specialises in affecting the physical world, including enemies and objects, 
 this class focuses on the power to use a sort of magic to lift and push enemies with your mind, 
 tearing enemies apart or creating a barrier to stop oncoming firepower as a few of the available 
 abilities. Even the hybrids of these three classes (the Vanguard, the Infiltrator and the Sentinel) 
 all feel original in how they play, so being one of them is not a turn off if you like a bit of 
 variety. The conversations with the AI in Mass Effect is also great, with the conversations feeling 
 smooth and completely under your control, you even develop relationships with various members of 
 your squad that can lead to a rather naughty part of the game, but if you're expecting to see flailing 
 nipples, prepare to be disappointed, Bioware has managed to pull off this certain section of the 
 game very professionally and mature, so only a mild amount of nudity is actually shown. The shooter 
 elements of Mass Effect do have a small bit that is left to be desired. Unless you are a full Soldier 
 class, a general run 'n gun approach wont work, and untill you get to grips with the learning curve 
 for the combat, you will find yourself dying a fair amount in the game, and having to strategically 
 combine all your abilities to overpower your enemy. Bundled with this problem is your squad's habit 
 of running in and dying, leaving on your own to die, or taking ALL the available good cover, leaving 
 you in the open to die. I can't say that this is particularly enthralling an addition to the game. 
 GameTrailers. com have said that even if you stripped Mass Effect of all of its aspects apart from 
 the combat, it would still make a competent shooter, I don't agree there, I believe that there 
 is a bit more work left to do in that particular area, and I sometimes find myself wanting to actually 
 avoid the combat, which is generally not a good sign for a game which calls itself part shooter. 
 So with mixed feeling about the combat it is fair enough to say that it is not nearly direct enough 
 for a general shooter player, and not nearly strategical enough for a squad based/turn based player. 
 It is fun to be able to shoot a sniper from a thousand or so yards with a shotgun though. The range 
 of different abilities, upgrades and armour is impressive, the weapons are expected of your average 
 shooter, you get a shotgun, pistol, sniper rifle, assault rifle and grenades, but along with those 
 comes so many different upgrades for every one, including different rounds to use on different 
 guns which can be more or less effective on certain enemies, and mixes up the formula a bit. The 
 abilities and their upgrades are controlled by the level up system, giving you points to use on 
 yourself and your squad that are spent on upgrading Biotics and Tech abilities, or weapon strength 
 and accuracy, plus your class's unique abilities. The controls for the game are also sometimes 
 a little iffy, with almost all of the Xbox 360 controller's buttons being used, you're going to 
 have to get used to reaching for the back button to throw a grenade, and the game only lets you 
 hotkey one Biotics or Tech ability at a time, so you have to manually change it every time you 
 want to use a different one, luckily, Bioware was smart enough to make the game pause while you 
 decide which weapons and biotic/tech abilities your squad is using at one time. So although the 
 combat could've been improved in my opinion, you are generally able to miss most of it if you are 
 so inclined, but apart from that, Bioware really hit the nail on the head when designing Mass Effect's 
 gameplay system, and it shows.
  
  CLOSING COMMENTS:
  Mass Effect is an awesome game, it is fun, and involving, while making the player really feel that 
 the fate of the universe is at his hand, not many games manage to really pull you in in the way 
 that Mass Effect does, it's a great experience, with the visuals being to the standard that you 
 actually want to show people how the gaming world has developed over the past 25 or so years. Put 
 aside its flaws, as every game has them, and just enjoy it to the fullest.
  
  OVERVIEW:
  Graphics - 8.5/10, 
  Beautiful game, beautiful scenery, beautiful characters, beautiful on HD, 
 icky frames.
  Sound - 9.5/10, 
  Creates a fantastic atmosphere, sometimes a little to quiet to appreciate, but that's hardly a 
 complaint.
  Story - 9.0/10, 
  A lack of twists and the sort kept Bioware on a safe track when deciding on the story, but this 
 is simultaneously a praise and a bit of a let down.
  Gameplay - 8.5/10, 
  Generally a great experience, but the combat, as mentioned, is weak, and Mako is a bit of a *insert 
 naughty word here* to drive, plus, Penny Arcade is right, why IS it that the elevators are soooooo 
 slow? Makes me want to cry.
  Replayability - 9.5/10, 
  Yes. Over and over and over and over with the gigantic variety of options you wont get tired of 
 this game for a long time to come.
  OVERALL - 9.0/10,
  Truly brilliant a game, even with its itty-bitty flaws one has to experience it to judge it. Reviews 
 do not give it justice, go play it, just go. Now.
  
  By Greg Grassi aka. The Oreo
  XBL Gamertag: The 0reo
  Please, feel free to come tell me my stupidity on reviews via email at 
 gregezra@yahoo. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pferris
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is brilliant - the only issues I can fault is a combat system that takes some learning 
 before perfecting, and the graphical pop-ups (but that is a fault of the engine and not the game 
 itself) .
  
  Once you get to grips with the combat system, and realize that going gun-ho will get you killed, 
 and that a squad is much better than an individual you will have no problems. The use of squad 
 commands takes so getting use to, but quickly becomes second nature.
  
  I have only played the game for about 10 hrs, and still nowhere near finished! With so many side 
 quests, and sub quests, this is a game with a long play time to explore everything 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DexCasas
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Best game, ever. Seriously, there were sometimes in this game that i asked myself how is it possible 
 for a game to be so good. 
  The graphics, story , environment, everything is great. It feels like you're watching a sci fi 
 blockbuster, except you get to kill that annoying guy/girl that you hate.
  
  The combat is very good, fast paced and the physics are very nice , something i wasn't expecting 
 considering this is an rpg, the enemies go flying when you shoot them and each damate type you 
 have on your weapon kills the enemy in a different way. (different animation)
  
  The music and voices are great too, fit perfectly into the game. 
  
  
  There are minor graphical 
 glitches however, but nothing that bothers me at least.
  
  Im recommending this game to everyone i know, people must know about this game!
  
  I can't 
 wait for the sequels! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenaj
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This might be the best game I have ever played in my entire life. All the enviroments, the depth 
 in the story and the history. The magnificent galaxy and all the characters, you really care about. 
 The voice acting is so good you sometimes think it's for real. And even though it's such a long 
 game, took me up to 40 hours to finish it, I still wanted to play it again when I had finished 
 it. Right now I'm so pissed of at this review. Enough said. I have another thing to add, and that 
 is that the bald reviewers of gamespot really suck. Look at their reviews and think about it. So 
 don't even mind the scores they give to games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retwakm
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok I`m just going to let this out and say that this is the absolute, without a dought best game 
 ever created. Its got very deep storylines involving a rogue spectre named saren, ancient artifacts 
 and huge robot armys as well as all thatr other good sci fi stuff. Another thing is that once you 
 think your about to finish the entire game something happens and you suddenly realiz that you are 
 only about haf way done. There is loads of content and every single insignificant civillion on 
 the streats is voice acted by a different person. Every single one of the more immportant characters 
 are voice acted by stars from across the world. The frame rate usually stays at a steady 50 fps 
 but when it dips it never goes beneath 25fps. The shier amount of content overwelmed me at first. 
 There were hundreds of weapons and litterly thousands of things like scopes etc. The main quest 
 will take an average 40 hours to complete but then if you go and do the litterally hundreds of 
 sidequest there are you will probobly beable to squeeze about 70 hours of juice out of this masterpiece. 
 This is also one of the few games thats bonus content is actually worth getting the collectors 
 eddition. there are about 500 concept art pictures 4 documentary videos and so-on. The characters 
 are explored with greater detail than ever in a video game. The fighting is great due to the fact 
 that it is pretty much like a shooter mixed with an rpg. so if your an rpg fan you can pause and 
 give orders and stuff like that but if your an action fan you can forget all about that and play 
 it like a third person shooter. The grapghics arre great and look like the best on the 360. The 
 universe is so large with over 80 planets and about 25 explorable ones. These explorable planets 
 are about three times the size o average than the regular KOTOR planet. Its also got plenty of 
 custimization. It is really the best rpg bioware has made to date and I think that it should win 
 atleast a dozen game of the year awards . I went to lots of website and the average review for 
 the 17 websites I went to was 9.9. Mass Effect is also very replayable. Pretty much in the mddle 
 of the game you hit a fork in the road where you have to choose one of three paths and you wont 
 see any of the same content after that so if you play it through once your prbobly only getting 
 about 40 % of the game . So really you could have as much as 130 hours of content maybe 150 if 
 you got the collectors eddition. This is also different form other bioware games which usuallly 
 have some good versus evil character custimization. Here it makes it more realistic because if 
 you do something bad good things cant erase that and vise versa. i would recommend this game to 
 anyone who has an xbox 360. Even someone at the age of 80 could enjoy it due to the huge difference 
 between the extemely easy settings and the very hard seting. It is deffinitly the best game from 
 bioware and easily the best game ever created. I would recommend it to anyone this Christmas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbas123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  ok so i love this game, and i feel like it deserves a 9.5 for the fact that it is beautiful, well-made, 
 and has one of the best stories. Finally a US RPG that catches your eye like Final Fantasy from 
 Japan.
  
  If you need a game that will keep you busy for months and maybe years, because i'm sure you will 
 want to play it over and over again, this is the game. It has lots of things to offer, and the 
 cinematics are beautifully created.
  
  All in all, don't look as this as a shooter or you will be disappointed, look at its RPG elements 
 and you will enjoy the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skirbie
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I've only been playing Mass Effect for a few hours now, and although that's not much time spent 
 on a game, it's totally sucked me in. The Graphics, sound, story and interactive dialogue are extraordinary 
 in there delivery. Mind you I haven't been playing long enough to come across the technical flaws 
 that have been described on a number of the critic websites. That said my experience this far has 
 been fantastic, and I can't wait to keep playing this game through to the end, and likely again 
 after that to see how it unfolds differently based on alternate choices.
  
  In the end there's likely going to be far more to like about this game than any short comings due 
 to technical issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filmfreak1138
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  I rented this game on the 17th... cuz I was looking for a game to play... and I was THRILLED to 
 see it on the self... So I picked it up took it home... and I have not stopped playing it.
  
  I have put in about 15 or more hours into this wonderful game.
  
  It is NEW to the Next 
 Gen market... KOTOR was one of the best RPG's to hit the XBOX and now we have an amazing RPG for 
 the 360.
  
  It took me sometime to get use to the controles and the story did not grab me like I was wanting 
 it to. Not to say that it is not a good storyline... I guess I was hoping it to GRAB me and pull 
 me in. I do think that the Charectar development is very deep, and you begin to get attached to 
 a few that are apart of your journey.
  
  The look of this game is eye candy... very beautiful... the more you play it... the the more beautiful 
 it gets. It is amazing towards the end.
  
  The sound and voice acting is very well done... at times I felt i was playing a new KOTOR. It put 
 a big smile on my face a few times.
  
  The controles at time were sluggish... it did not feel like HALO or even GTA... but after a few 
 times it began to feel like the same stage even though you had progressed a great deal.
  
  Over-all... it was a good game. Im sure that if I were to all the side missions it would of been 
 20 or more hours.
  
  If you are wanting a great RPG... then YOU have got to pick this up... but if you are not into 
 RPG's... rent it... I think you would like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stra6es
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Bio-ware never disappoints The Story is fantastic, and every game has a glitch or two. With the 
 story, visuals, and voice acting being so spot on you don't even see them. The president of Bio-ware 
 { EA 870 million dollar buyout } Said mass effect was going to be a trilogy lasting quite a few 
 years halo es-que. And that the way you played the first mass effect it would effect your experience 
 in the next game. Sounds like a lot of sleepless nights. 55 hours plus Is quite long for a game 
 since the lasted and the greatest of the 360 line up have been First Person shooters except for 
 Forza which is a bad ass race game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-obiwan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  and again bioware do it ! impressive game, awesome graphics never saw on a game, good gameplay, 
 good music, everything about its just right!!. it never get boring theres alot of classes to pick 
 from, good interaction, awesome story, the only bad thing about its the minor issues that the game 
 have but nothing that stop you from getting this awesome game. i truly recommend it. worth to be 
 buyed. also im not agree about the score that gamespot gave to mass effect atleast they should 
 gave it a 9 but nto a 8.5, in any case dosnt matter cause the game its really awesome get it and 
 you will know what i mean. its just so Amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  As soon as you get familiar with Mass Effect you can tell exactly the path that Bioware took to 
 create it. The combat, the graphics, the light side / dark side scale (oops, excuse me, paragon 
 / renegade scale) , everything that has made the Knights of the Old Republic series good is all 
 here. Mass Effect takes what is normally boring in a RPG, the choose your next line conversations, 
 and makes it one of the most interesting aspects of the game. In other RPGs it is usually a task 
 to talk to every character and get all the information, but Mass Effects dialouge and excellent 
 voice acting make this one of the best parts of the game. The story is really good, the sound is 
 cool (very Blade Runner) , and the combat is good. With no menu based combat, and all gun weaponry, 
 this game is sure to bring in the FPS / 3FPS masses and keep them pleased. I wasnt very impressed 
 with the driving the Mako. I really like all the additional planets to explore and the additional 
 quests, but I got tired of the Mako rather quickly as it was really just a means to an end. What 
 I really like about this game is that if you do not have a character in your party for a little 
 while, they will level up just as anyone you are playing with. This allows for you to play missions 
 with whatever NPC you want (you get achievments for the amount of time you use each race) . I really 
 look forward to the rest of the trilogy (and importing my character to the next game if they do 
 make that happen) .
  
  The Good - Great voice acting, story, sound, gameplay, exploration
  
  The Bad - Mako gets old, some constant loading
  
  The Ugly - The updated KOTOR combat system 
 feels like it is missing a little something, but i cant really put my finger on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 40ozbastard
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  If you have ever played knights of the old republic, then you know what to expect gameplay wise. 
 Mass effect does an excellent job keeping the action going even through the enormous amount of 
 dialogue, which can be skipped for the impatient players. I think gamespot gave this game a lower 
 score than deserved, This is one of those rpgs that won't take you weeks to beat, but if you really 
 don't want the adventure to end there are many side quests which add explanation and background 
 into this mass adventure. The graphics are incredible and the action is intense. This game has 
 all the features of an rpg, such as the ability to level up your party, choose and upgrade different 
 armors, weapons, grenades, etc. The action blends really well into the battle system.
  You can use sniper rifles, assault rifles, grenades, shotguns, pistols, and telekinetic like powers 
 all as if you were playing any other action shooter game.
  I think this game is a must play for anybody looking for a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  One of the greatest science fiction stories ever told, and a new benchmark for video game storytelling"
 
  "Graphics: Every second of gameplay offers the visual quality you have come to expect from Final 
 Fantasy cutscenes"
  "Sound: One of the most memorable and unique soundtracks in gaming. It's inspired by '80's sci-fi, 
 yet sounds like nothing you've heard before. The game also features an amazing ensemble of voice 
 actors"
  "Playability: Fun and functional, but something always seems to be amiss with the AI and Balancing"
 
  "Entertainment: An expansive quest (18 to 30 hours) that toys with your emotions and keeps you 
 engaged"
  "Reply Value: High"
  "Mass Effect shares a similar design to Bioware's previous work on Star Wars: Knights of the Old 
 Republic and Jade Empire. However, by comparison, both of these remarkable games now seem like 
 test runs."
  "The gameplay is certainly fun, and it controls admirably, but it doesn't live up to the large 
 stage the story sets or the standards you've come to expect from action games and RPGs"
  "You'll want more from it, but by no means does it hold the experience back, nor does it make you 
 wish you were playing something else. In fact, I think you'll agree that Mass Effect is one of 
 video games' greatest treatures."
  "It sounds like a perfect game. And it comes damn near close. The one thing that might turn a few 
 people off is the combat, which has a lot of little nuisances that take a while to get used to. 
 When they all come together the action is breathtaking."
  "Bioware's epic also has the richly detailed environment of Gears of War, the deep exploration 
 of Oblivion, and a fictional universe almost as compelling as Star Wars"
  "Characters convey realistic emotions, their lip-syncing is perfect to the point that they don't 
 seem like CG creations, and they all have little quirks that you attribute to being alive."
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DeF_RaY-
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  Oblivion in Space..... Ever had that dream about tje perfect video game. Wellwith Mass Effect this 
 becomes reality. Imagine Oblivion and Gears of War becoming one in a single awesome game. Well 
 thats about a summary of what mass effect offers you/ Hours of gameplay and addictiveness makes 
 sure that this is an excellent title. Wors cant avtually describe this game. Its a game u have 
 to go and expreience on your own. Oh yes then there is the drop dead great visuals... Its awesome. 
 The voice acting is 5-star hollywood quality and really draws you into the game. The only bad thing 
 about Mass Effect is the vechile control, which can feel a little clumsy at times. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
