-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Medal of Honor: Airborne
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/medalofhonorairborne/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of intense action.
 Strong online multiplayer.
 Levels aren't strictly linear.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 First half of game isn't very interesting.
 Weapons can be tough to aim thanks to recoil and poor hit detection.
 Lots of little flaws detract from the overall experience.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.5, 65 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 1,975 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date: Sep 4, 2007

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The single-player campaign doesn't get cooking until the last two levels, but those two levels combined 
 with solid multiplayer make it worth enlisting in Airborne. 

  It seems you can't read a preview or review of a World War II-based FPS without hearing about how 
 many games there are in the genre. With good reason, too -- it's a crowded one. But just because 
 there are a lot of them doesn't mean there can't be some good ones. Medal of Honor: Airborne is 
 one such game. It starts off really slow, and the whole parachuting hook is little more than a 
 gimmick; but later on the game realizes its potential and gets good.  

  There's not much of a story to Airborne. It's WWII; Nazis need killing and the world needs saving. 
 You're in the Airborne division, so you'll be jumping out of planes and doing your part to swing 
 the war in the Allies' favor. Before each mission you're given a brief rundown on what's going 
 on and list of objectives to accomplish. Rather than spawning on the battlefield you'll arrive 
 in style by parachuting out of a plane. As you fall to the ground you'll want to maneuver toward 
 green smoke, which indicates a safe landing zone. In theory, parachuting into the level is supposed 
 to open up a whole new style of play. You're free to land wherever you want, but invisible walls 
 prevent you from getting too clever, and nine times out of 10, when you do land somewhere other 
 than the safe zone you'll end up dead in a matter of seconds. There are some special landing zones 
 to discover and sometimes these areas will provide you with an advantageous starting point, but 
 because you find most of these locations when you're already on the ground, they're of little use. 

           Might as well jump.      

  Once on the ground you'll take on waves of Axis soldiers over the course of the game's six levels. 
 Six levels might not sound like a lot, but each generally takes an hour or more to complete, so 
 it'll probably take most people around eight hours to finish the game. Your objectives are shown 
 on your radar and you're free to tackle them in whatever order you choose. Between choosing your 
 starting location and being able to pick what to take on first it might sound like there's a lot 
 of freedom here, but there's really not -- you can't start from many different places, and you have 
 to do the same tasks regardless of the order you start them. Mission objectives range from blowing 
 up AA guns to clearing buildings of enemy soldiers, taking out tanks, and detonating lots of explosives. 
 On their own these tasks aren't anything unique, but because the levels are so long and feature 
 so many objectives you often feel as though you're performing monumental feats rather than routine 
 tasks.  

  The first three levels aren't very interesting. They're fairly linear, take place in unexciting 
 settings, and don't play to the game's strengths. Starting with the fourth level the game picks 
 up since you're given more freedom as to how you want to tackle the levels. You might decide to 
 climb towers to take out snipers (their position is given away by a reflection off their scope) , 
 clear the area of ground troops, and then make your way into a building, while a different player 
 might head to the building first, clear the ground troups second, and hide from the snipers rather 
 than kill them. The game's artificial intelligence isn't very good, but at least it's aggressive. 
 You can pick off guys as they peek around corners, but they won't just take it lying down. They'll 
 spray bullets in your direction without looking, and they're rather fond of blindly tossing grenades 
 over their backs. If you get too close or they get some reinforcements, enemy soldiers will charge 
 right at you and inflict serious damage until you can fend them off with your weak melee attacks. 

           You can pick where you land, but straying outside the safe zone typically means death. 

  The controls are pretty standard on both the PC and the 360. A sprint button comes in quite handy 
 when trying to dash from one bit of cover to the next. Once you're behind that cover, the ability 
 to lean and fire is extremely useful, as is the ability to raise your weapon and aim using its 
 sights. As you progress through the game you'll be able to upgrade your weapons, earning bigger 
 clips, faster reloads, and secondary firing abilities. You can carry two weapons at a time as well 
 as a pistol, which isn't very powerful but has unlimited ammo. Grenades are often tough to come 
 by, but ammunition is plentiful, as are health packs, which are scattered throughout the levels. 
 It's a good thing, too, because once you start getting hit your health depletes in a hurry.  

 
  While most of Airborne is good, it does have its share of problems. Hit detection is terrible -- it's 
 not uncommon to hit someone with three or four shots before even one registers. Many of the automatic 
 weapons have too much recoil, making them extremely difficult to aim -- a problem not shared by the 
 CPU, who is more than capable of hitting you from across the level regardless of the gun. Your 
 fellow soldiers are sometimes quite useful, but other times they don't do anything at all -- or worse, 
 they stand right in front of you and block your shot. We also fell out of the level a few times, 
 though this was usually when we parachuted someplace the game probably didn't want us to. When 
 all of these problems come together the game can be extremely frustrating, as you're forced to 
 try the same part of a level over and over again in an attempt to find the best way to circumvent 
 the game's sometimes cheap tactics.  

  Unlike the last Medal of Honor, MOH: Airborne has a solid online component. Up to 12 people can 
 hop online and play ranked and unranked matches on half a dozen maps and a few different game types. 
 The action's always fast-paced and for us, at least, lag-free. Interestingly enough, multiplayer 
 is the one area where choosing where you want to parachute into a level actually lives up to the 
 hype. As you descend you can see both friends and foes and, if you're quick enough, can land in 
 areas that are quite advantageous -- like right behind that jerk camping on a rooftop with a sniper 
 rifle.  

           There are lots of different weapons, and they can be upgraded, too.      

  Airborne 
 isn't a great-looking game, but it does run well and the visuals don't hamper the experience. It 
 looks best on the PC thanks to higher quality textures. Outside of a few nice-looking buildings 
 most structures are simple, and look pretty much the same, not only to each other, but every other 
 WWII game out there. There are only a few different types of soldiers and while they aren't very 
 detailed, you can tell one type from the next easily. At least, you can if you're up close. It's 
 tough to tell the good guys from the bad guys when you're far apart, and it's even harder to hit 
 them thanks to a lack of transition animation, meaning they might instantly jump from one position 
 to the next. Weapons look great, but explosions look embarrassingly last-gen. Not only do weapons 
 look nice, but they sound great, too. The rest of the game sounds pretty good as well. You'll hear 
 the familiar orchestral theme from previous MOH games, and there's lots of chatter from both Axis 
 and Allied soldiers.  

  Medal of Honor: Airborne is a game that rewards those who are patient enough to stick with it. 
 The first half of the game is dull and just rehashes the same sort of gameplay you've seen countless 
 times before. But about halfway through, things pick up and gradually get better and better until 
 the last two levels, which are quite intense and a lot of fun to play. The multiplayer isn't anything 
 groundbreaking, but it's quite good and adds some value to an otherwise short game. If you're tired 
 of the genre, Airborne won't do anything to change your mind, but if you're looking to fight for 
 the Allied cause yet again, it's a worthy tour of duty.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (162 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ferntfactor
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Airborne is one of all time my faves for the 360. i really feel that its universal panning was 
 unfair. but i say that as a FPS WW2 game fan. here are my thoughts:
  
  The Great:
  
  - one of my fave single player campaigns
  - excellent weapons - look, sound and function.
  
 - great sound all around. 
  - nice ambient atmosphere throughout.
  - excellent, classic WW2 movie music.
  - varied, interesting and authentic looking environments.
 
  - upgradeable weapons and ability to land all over make the single player extremely re-playable. 
 
  - retention of your upgrades when respawned.
  - no obvious enemy respawn locations.
  - cool and different battle locations, based on historical fact.
  - in my opinion, the absolute 
 BEST duck, cover and fire set up - even better than COD WAW and Hell's Highway. it allows for super 
 subtle lean-in shots. this accuracy means head shots galore. i wish the COD series would incorporate 
 this nice tweak.
  - enjoyed the little tank excursion. not great, but fun all the same.
  
  The Not as Great:
  
  - A few spots are frustratingly hard on veteran, like the Nijmagen 
 bridge fight in Holland and parts of the Flak Tower finale. BTW, these are a historical fact, naysayers. 
 about 8 massive towers like this existed in Germany and Austria. Wikipedia it and you'll see. some 
 had up to 300 soldiers garrisoning them and could house up to 3000 civilians too. only the Airborne 
 never had to storm one. our Russian Allies bumped into a couple in Berlin in late April 1945, though. 
 the mega SS Storm Trooper dudes though... i dunno. but they hardly ruin the game for me. hey, it's 
 a video game!
  - the earning of medals remains a mystery. i mean what's a guy got to do to earn 5 in all stages? 
 pretty sure i got everything done and yet, nope. 3 of 5...
  - i dropped in on the multiplayer and it was a serious ghost town. you could hear a mouse fart. 
 needless to say, i skeddadled back to WAW. 
  
  In Summary: 
  i feel that EA deserved far more credit for this game. great fun, great sounds, great replay value. 
 it's only serious knock seems to be that it was set in WW2. a lot of us like this genre though 
 and if you're one of us, overlook the industry reviews and pick up this little bargain for yourself. 
 i'm sure you'll enjoy.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelsdad
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Airborne is really a fun game. Each new "level" starts out with a debriefing and 
 pretty soon you're hurtling through the sky in the hold of a plane. The graphics and sound effects 
 make you feel like you're flying through the flak of WWII. When it comes time to "stand up, hook 
 up, stand in the door, and jump" -- the graphics are really successful in creating the sensation 
 of parachuting. The jumps are relatively straightforward but one of the addictive challenges are 
 "skill jumps" where you have to angle your chute to land in difficult target areas -- really fun 
 to attempt and I found myself leaning my own body back and forth to 'help' the controller get me 
 to the target -- i. e., I really got sucked into the game. Once you land, there's plenty to do and 
 it involves guns, knives, grenades and increasingly difficult types of Nazi specialist soldiers 
 trying to stop you. The gameplay on the ground is solid, the gameplay in the air is excellent, 
 and the objectives are relatively varied and engaging. This is a solid game with a really nice 
 angle which overlays the thrill of parachuting onto the ground-based combat missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerTron0
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 12:53 pm PT
Review:  EA has had good moments and really bad moments but this time this an Ok moment. Medal of Honor 
 Airborne brings some new stuff but mange's to make the series good... in some ways.
  The narritive and story about a soldier in WW2 is gone and now u play as a faceless guy that kills 
 nazis. There are only 6 missions in the game each taking from an half hour to hour 1/2 to complete, 
 so it can be beaten around 8 to 9 hours. This game is like Call of Halo, it has a rebounding health 
 meter and u rarely fight alone in WW2 and sometimes enemies behave like the different covenet units. 
 What i mean by this is that 1 enemy will run away and take cover like a grunt. One enemy will stand 
 there and take bullets and die. Another enemy will run around and shoot and then run up to u and 
 hit u with there gun, no joke. The gameplay has u shooting nazis and reaching objectives but they 
 all consist of blowing this thing up or securing this spot. U have upgradeable weapons that upgrade 
 the more u use them so they start off weak but thet get stronger and stronger throughout the game, 
 but the enemy will too. Later in the game they can survive 2 rocket launcher shots which is unrealistic 
 in every way. When u start a mission up or when u die and respawn u parachute from a plane and 
 land on the ground. When i said it ur health bar recharges it does not do it like halo. U have 
 4 bars when one takes little damage it recharges, but when u lose the whole bar u wont charge that 
 bar, there are health pack in the game so dont worry. U will have to take cover so many times in 
 the game but its more painful since u dont have a cover system, u just walk behind a wall or something 
 and run out to the corner and shoot! It would have been a lot better if there was a cover system 
 like what gears of war has. OK, the graphics are pretty good, the textures and models look great 
 so is the music but the sound effects need work a huge machine gun sound like a little rifle when 
 it fires and the voice acting could have been better. Controlling this game good and responcive, 
 firing running or something is well balanced. After u beat this game u will not wanna play right 
 after because half way into the game it just all falls apart. The first half is good not the second 
 half which is not good. Medal of Honor Airborne could have been great but it does not work out 
 to be a great success.
  
  Story: 6.0
  Gameplay: 7.3
  Graphics: 7.9
  Controls: 8.5
  Re-play Value: 4.2
  Overall: 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerdboyxxx
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2009 1:35 am PT
Review:  Although MoH is usually regarded for its poor game quality and horrible recreations of actual fighting, 
 MoH Airborne is one of the few that is better than the masses. With so many WWII First Person shooters 
 already out on the market, and the infamous name of the MoH series, Airborne showed everyone that 
 the series isnt all that bad, and could be taking a turn for the better.
  
  Well, I hate to say it but they still havent captured the whole essence of "real WWII simulation"still 
 designing the game as a one man show. "You go kill 50 Germans over there"or "take out 5 tanks by 
 yourself with nothing but grenades" are still common missions in this game, and you have no support 
 from your fellow... er... elite soldiers as well.
  
  If you are not entirely a fan of complete WWII recreation, and you get past the few quirks this 
 game has, it really is a game worth having a go at. But who ever heard of a Nazi German Elite? 
 Gas masks and an MG-42? Pleeeeeease... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarman151
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 9:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is another WWII shooter that features airborne which is a squadron that parachutes into 
 battle which is shown on the box art. This game is a sort of half-baked shooter that has spotty 
 AI and some but not very much unrealistic physics. The story is very easy to follow whith playing 
 entirely as one person Travis. He never speaks though. The weapons are of course realistic as with 
 most WWII shooters. There is one difference though these you can upgrade to get double magazines 
 and launch pineaplle grenades. This of course is cool but there are only three levels for each 
 weapon including grenades. The difficulty is rather surprising compared to other medal of honor 
 games. One last thing is that I which they didn't incorporate a health bar in the HUD. I wish they 
 would have done what all other shooters are doing and made the sreen turn when injured. Also something 
 of a cover system would have been nice two considering they emphasize using cover. Overall 8-10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agordplayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  This is probably the best Medal Of Honor in the series from my point of view. I don't agree with 
 Gamespot on their review with this game. It's underated. Sure it might have some glitches, but 
 its still a good game. Has awesome graphics. One of my favorites for the 360. Not as good as Halo 
 3 though. The price was around $15. It also runs at really good frames. This game is kind of hard 
 even on Casual. But it gives you a good challenge. Has a great number of achievements to unlock. 
 Very challenging ones like the 10000 kills in multiplayer. I never played multiplayer yet cause 
 I dont have Xbox Live Gold. But when I do get it im trying it. Overall I give it a 9.5 out of 10.
 
  
  
  This is probably the Medal Of Honor in the series from my point of view.
  
  This is probably the Medal Of Honor in the series from my point of view.
  
  This is probably 
 the Medal Of Honor in the series from my point of view. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boyd803
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Airborne is my first X-Box 360 game.
  I felt great for the first time I played. It really exhilarated me. Although the game is hard, 
 still, it is fun to play and to investigate around the whole entire environment. The environments 
 are splendid! They are magnificent You can dodge for the Axis soldiers, then pop out to shoot them 
 until they're dead abruptly. It is enjoyable.
  I really like the intense story though it is short. In addition, at the end of each mission, there 
 is a counter something will show up and tells you how many bullets you got hit and how many headshots 
 you earned or how many medals you deserved.
  
  However, there is one big bad thing I must said. At the last two mission thought it is excited, 
 but there's a Nazis soldier with a crazy gas mask holding a MG-42. It is impractical to defeat 
 them! They're like immortal. You will never kill them. Eventually, I did kill those Nazis soldiers 
 and achieve the game. I think it is out of history. It is too too dramatic, which you have to shoot 
 your ammo until you ran out of magazine to get rid of them. This is too crazy, man. I cannot accept 
 these. Another point, after I complete each operations, I realized that the opponents gradually 
 became stronger than before which you must take a lot of shots to kill them. How come a soldier 
 needs to take around six or seven shots to defeat them? I still can't get it.
  
  This game is cool, it has a lot of magnificent environments. It can be more fun if they redress 
 their dramatic errors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kooly1111
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I just picked up this game and in fact, I've never even done a review before. But after reading 
 GameSpot. com's review at only a 7.0 I was extremely shocked. 
  
  This game is extremely underrated and for some reason not many people play it. People are complaining 
 about the graphics, and I myself do not care much for graphics, but I still think the graphics 
 are very acceptable.
  
  I think it is great how they didn't rely on their graphics to get good feedback for the game.
 
  
  Good gameplay beats great graphics ANYDAY.
  
  The actual gameplay is very entertaining so far, sometimes the scenarios seem too "traditional" 
 but I think they play them out very well.
  
  The AI is not stupid, they do not just stand in the middle of the open waiting to be shot, and 
 the missions are challenging, but not too challenging to which you give up on it.
  
  I think this game is without a doubt one of the most underappreciated games out right now and I 
 think I know why.
  
  People always want realism, but now they got it, and they dont want it. You dont heal automatically 
 (unlike Call of Duty 4) you can lean in and out and up and down. You only get a few shots of life 
 so you're forced to use them wisely. When you sprint, you strut. And the guns are not unbelievable 
 accurate.
  
  Great game, go buy it, finish it, go on MultiPlayer, enjoy the classic maps. Have fun. Platinum 
 game at a bargain price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspdemoboy52
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  I'm happy to say that the first Medal of Honor game on the 360 didn't disappoint, however, it didn't 
 really thrill either. In other words, the game was good but not great. The story is obviously based 
 in WWII, but you are in the Airborne Division of the U. S. Army. This is something new to the franchise. 
 Usually in MoH you are in the Marines. This change, however made the game unique and brought something 
 new to a over-saturated franchise. You start each mission jumping (or being pushed) out of plane 
 and then try to land in the "safe zones" marked with green smoke. At these "safe zones" you will 
 have boxes for health, ammo, and sometimes explosives. These boxes are used to refill your equipment, 
 but you can only use them once. This makes the game a bit easier to play due to being able to go 
 back and refill real quick. The only problem is the respawning of enemies restarts when you go 
 back somewhere and then come back to that spot or if you die and jump out of the plane again. 
 
  
  The story is pretty short but the game lasts a little while longer if you play through to get unlockables 
 such as secret skill drop points you can find that will increase your drop skill. You do not have 
 to land on these spots, you just have to walk to them and you'll get the skill points. There are 
 also gun upgrades you get when you get a certain amount of "experience points" with that gun. The 
 more you kill, the more points you get. The upgrades are usually bigger magazine sizes, steadier 
 aiming, and more grenade capacity. These upgrades add to the replay value of the game, as well. 
 The overall gameplay is pretty good but the enemy respawns get very annoying when trying to beat 
 the game. The game will not only keep respawning until you get to a certain point, but they refresh 
 every time you have to go through that spot again. The controls are pretty tight, but I was hoping 
 they'd be more similar to the controls of Call of Duty 4 because they were hard to learn and there's 
 no way of changing them. This is not saying the controls are bad but some of them seemed oddly 
 placed.
  
  The graphics are really good. I actually did not have any problems with the graphics being glitchy. 
 I played the game in both SDTV and HDTV and they both looked good. The sound is really good but 
 after a little while the voices of your teammates get annoying because they repeat the same thing 
 over and over again. I didn't try the multiplayer at all so I can't tell you much about it but 
 it didn't look appealing to me and the controls of the game turned me off from trying it but I'm 
 not going to score it cause I didn't try it. So my final score for this game is a 8. 5 out of 10.
 
  
  The Stats:
  Story  9/10
  Gameplay  9/10
  Controls  8/10
  Sound  8/10
  Multiplayer  N/A (didn't try it online)
  
  Verdict:
  8.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOLZILLA12
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  Medal of honor: Airborne has very short singleplayer, is very glitchy and is dead online. Yet this 
 game is brilliant it is so much fun singleplayer and online. The hit detection is also horrible 
 on this game, but still you can easily look past all its flaws and have a brilliant time. Each 
 map is different than the others so it doesnt get repetitive and the weapon upgrade system was 
 a fantastic idea although they could elaborate how to system works and there could be alot more 
 upgrades to add. Yes this game has its flaws like many other games probably more than most games 
 but it is also alot funner than alot of games out there. Probably a rental although you could pick 
 it up fairly cheap second hand as it is a fairly old game now. Just for one playthrough of them 
 game on normal you could get an easy 400+ gamerscore and alot more depending how much time you 
 are willing to spend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero5link
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo of this game and immediately loved the game. I went out and bought and loved 
 it even more. The graphics are literally amazing, the controls are tight and the gameplay is superb. 
 It starts with a memorable first level (at least for me, after the training) throwing you right 
 into the battle. The levels are vast and very detailed. The guns are very good looking, although 
 the gun upgrades in the middle of battles is out of place, I still like it. The sounds are spot 
 on and the voices are perfect. This game is so amazing, but the story is really short. Yet the 
 replay value is really high for me. The online is really fun and, just fun.
  This is a complete buy from me and it's pretty cheap nowadays
  
  Ratings:
  Graphics-10/10
 
  Gameplay-9/10
  Control-9/10
  Playability-10/10
  Originality-7/10
  
  Overall-9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rubbish71
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2008 1:36 am PT
Review:  Quick review
  
  Gameplay: Vertical airdrops give you an option from where to start the fight. From a rooftop or 
 ground level.
  
  The ability to run to cover quickens the pace
  
  Leaning above and around cover is great fun Sniping is intuitive and rewarding as you have to squeeze 
 the trigger to get the most reliable shot.
  
  Weapon upgrades are addictive and will have you trying them all so you can upgrade. (scopes, drum 
 magazines, rifle grenades)
  
  Graphics: Quite nice, daylight missions especially.
  
  Sound: hectic gunfire with a bit of ally chatter
  
  Memorable moments: 
  1. Dropping at Normandy 
 and battling your way to the cliffs with a Recoilless rifle.
  
  2. Timing the 'cooking' of a grenade so it blasts entrenched enemies as it explodes above their 
 heads.
  
  3. Sniping enemies from safety.
  
  4. Clearing bunkers and tunnels with a shotgun... they go flying.
  
  In a nutshell: A really 
 fun, well presented WW2 shooter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rheinmetal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the game, like no other of its kind, but to be franc, I didn't believe for a second 
 that I was a part of some WWII operations. Take out the Germans, the antiquated weapons, and the 
 40's scenery and you have another of the dozens FPSs out there, like Halo. The game fails to truly 
 deliver the atmosphere of a WWII game. I would say this game's feel is rather closer to the today's 
 war operations of the Americans in Iraq. Only those who have played the original Medal of Honor 
 in Playstation, can feel the huge distance between a WWII game and one that simply mimics it.
 
  
  There are some little things that ruin up to some point the heavy and dark atmosphere of the world 
 war. Generally, in this game things don't look as serious as they should be. All this team work 
 with the fellow soldiers, and their endless chatter, like: "Hey Travers! glad you made it in one 
 piece!" or "Heads up, here comes Travers!", or other companion and confidence boost cliche expressions, 
 all these seem a little silly. And speaking of fellow soldiers, don't expect from them much of 
 a help. It's you that always must clear the path from the enemies, you can't rely on them, not 
 for a second, they serve more as a decorative element in the level.
  
  The music is not very matching for the period of 1940, at least all the way before the last level, 
 which is generally accepted as the peak of the game, and to my opinion, the only true "Medal of 
 Honor" style level of MOH Airborne. Also, how come the usage of walkie talkie was so wide spread 
 in the 40's? I don't believe so. Radio in some levels, makes playing somehow more vivid, but it 
 spoils completely the atmosphere.
  
  Never the less, if you forget all about WWII, it's a great game, and an excellent FPS. The controls 
 are very well set, and the handling is responsive. The graphics are solid and the levels very well 
 designed. Also, the sound and the handling of the guns is realistic enough. It's quite difficult 
 though even in the easy mode. Getting killed at the last moment before a checkpoint does happen 
 a lot of times, thus hugely multiplying the hours of game play. There is "red thin line" between 
 a frustrating game that you will hate, and one that can be addictive until you beat it. Luckily, 
 Airborne succeeds to be listed in the second category.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonioGamer87
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:33 am PT
Review:  The game starts a bit slow, but it builds up after the second level. Every level is free roam so 
 you cure pick what check points/missions you want to do firs. 
  The gameplay is fun, and i like how every map is very different so it does not feel repetitive 
 at all.
  The enemies Germans are very smart they will run away, find cover and move spots so don't expect 
 them to stay on one spot and shoot until you killed them, also is funny how 3-4 Germans attack 
 you at the same time.
  
  The bad thing is the campaign is very short, this is by far the shortest FPS i played on the 360, 
 but is better short and sweet than long and boring. 
  
  The online is almost dead at any given time you cure see 20-30 people and on the weekends 30-50.
 
  not that many online maps.
  
  Also is very hard to shoot enemies if there far away, the hit detection is garbage, it gets annoying 
 when your going for head shoots with the rifle. so make sure you get close to the enemies. play 
 the demo and see for your self, you being warned.
  
  graphics are average better than cod2.
  
  
  Overall i would only recommend this game for 
 ww2 fans cause after you passed it, there's not really mush left.
  
  The online is not that fun, but i think is better than cod2, and the only people who still play 
 are hardcore Medal of honor fans, and does n@@bs who are boosting for online achievements. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fubulu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  After seeing WWII being done over and over again, you begin to wonder if it's possible to make 
 a WWII game that isn't the typical shoot all the Germans to get from point A to point B. Well, 
 Medal of Honor: Airborne did just that. They managed to make a great WWII game that wasn't just 
 another face in the crowd.
  
  The game play is good. You start every mission by jumping out of an Airplane and once out of your 
 plane, you can land anywhere you want on the battlefield. If you want to land in the marked-off 
 safe zones, then go for it. If you want to be like Rambo and land where there are lots of enemies, 
 then be my guest! The best part is, if you die, you jump out of the plane again so you can land 
 in a different place. 
  
  Unfortunately, the graphics don't match up as well. The detail is amazing, but sometimes the graphics 
 don't load right away so you see blury buildings and weapons. Other than that, it's a beautiful 
 game.
  
  The game play in Airborne is a little of both good and bad. The default controls are terrible. The 
 other control schemes work better though. The ability to make your own control scheme would be 
 nice, but no such luck. There isn't a left-hand control scheme either. Apart from this, the gameplay 
 is actually a great experience. Once you get over the oddness of the controls, the game plays very 
 well. The RPG element of "leveling up" your weapons is a lot of fun. 
  
  My only real gripe with this game is its multiplayer. If you're playing Team Death match Airborne 
 or Objective Airborne, then the Axis team has a huge disadvantage. You have one spawn spot for 
 each map. Allies can land anywhere though. It's very common to be spawn camped in multiplayer, 
 which in turn takes away from the fun. Plus the fact that the game doesn't tell who's talking is 
 annoying.
  
  Overall, Medal of Honor: Airborne is a great game if you like action packed First-person shooters, 
 or if you just like to play for a few minutes at a time. You can play the game over and over again 
 landing in different places and getting new upgrades for your weapons. Multiplayer might leave 
 you frustrated, but the single player is great. A must buy.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommykp7
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  Hard to get to grips with but definately improves if you persevere and get the weapon upgrades, 
 which make it alot easier and more interesting. the AI is generally good apart from your allies 
 sometimes getting in the way of your grenades, which is annoying. the mission design is awesome, 
 being free to land where you want and do whichever objectives you want in any order you want is 
 a great touch. multiplayer gets some getting used too, especially if your used too playing games 
 like Rainbow Six vegas or Halo online, this doesn't come close, but can be fun if you don'y get 
 too frustrated by people shooting you out of the sky! Also, the upgrade system in multiplayer sometimes 
 emans that if your new to it and your up against people who have been playing for a while, you 
 will be lacking in upgrades in comparison with them, thus making it harder for you and easier for 
 them. But once you get rolling, it's time for revenge!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mntnbkr
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  I didn't go into this game expecting much. The last MOH game that I had played I believe was on 
 the PS2. I think I played the first MOH and the second MOH and after that I was done. Since then 
 there have been many FPS's that have crossed my path namely the Halo series, the Call of Duty series, 
 the Rainbow Six series, etc. After games like those it is very easy to forget the MOH seriesuntil 
 now. 
  MOH: Airborne is the new iteration of the MOH series and it is very well done. The concept of having 
 to jump from an airplane at the beginning of the levels is pretty cool. Also, the fact that you 
 can land almost anywhere on the map is certainly a great addition. In the long run, being able 
 to start the level in whichever part you desire could add to the replayability of the game. The 
 single player has the same type of story as the Call of Duty games in which you are a soldier in 
 a unit that has a task that must be completed. The story isn't about your character but more of 
 the entire conflict. It works here as well as it works in any other game.
  I have only had a few instances to play the multiplayer of this game. It didn't seem like something 
 that would make or break the game. In other words, nothing really stands out. It was good to waste 
 some time but it definitely couldn't hold up against Halo 3 or Call of Duty 4.
  I would say that for someone who is a fan of the Medal of Honor series this would be a definite 
 buy and the same would go for those who are fans of good FPSs. There are better FPSs but for a 
 game that is from last year it holds up well. This is a great jumpstart of the MOH series and in 
 the future it can only get better. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schmidt1942
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I believe a lot of things were very unrealistic. Every enemy suddenly knows where you are at anytime, 
 making stealth nearly impossible. (Even a German tank will be watching your every move later in 
 the game while there are many more allies present that it could kill) The AI needs serous help 
 (you will find yourself own your own and your allies dont seem willing to help you, or they just 
 serve as cannon fodder) as well as the sluggish aiming system. Later in the the game you will encounter 
 Germans with gas masks all of which are hard (er) to kill and the masks themselves are unnecessary. 
 There are Uber-Nazis that are extremely hard to kill as they have, well it at least seems like 
 they have 50 flak jackets on under-neath their uniform. They wield a machine gun and as you can 
 imagine are very annoying. Some of these things can get to you and make you feel like this game 
 is crap, but if you like more arcade-like games you will like it. But looking back on it, it was 
 something a little different for a change and over all was OK, but Games like Brothers in arms: 
 Hells Highway and COD 5, I believe, will be much better. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobkinator
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  You guys are probably sick and tired of hearing about how there are to many WWII shooters out there, 
 so I'm not gonna bring any of that up. Throughout Airborne you'll be playing the role of a paratrooper 
 in the 82nd airborne named Boyd Travers. If your looking for a shooter with a story this is absolutely 
 not it. There is no character development for yourself other than finding out your name in the 
 beginning, and You will never learn the names of any of your comrades. Thouh there is no story 
 that doesnt mean that this game is bad, cause its not. As you all know the feature that is supposed 
 to set it appart from the other WWII shooters by letting you "Fight anywhere". The way that this 
 is carried out is that you start every mission by jumping out of a perfectly good airplane. While 
 this may sound cool, its a little gimmicky. The main reason for this is that if you dont land in 
 the designated area [green smoke] on any difficulty other than the easiest you are a dead man. 
 Another way that this is carried out is that you start the goal with a few goals that you can do 
 in any order that you choose which will lead to other goals. All of this is set within a good sized 
 area that allows you to freeroam to a certain degree. Another feature that the is included is the 
 ability to upgrade all your weapons. The way you do this is by simply using the weapon. You can 
 gauge your progress by how a picture of the weapon right above the ammo counter that will fill 
 up the more you go. The game lasts about 10 or so hours and offers some online play but I havent 
 played it to much so i wont go into that. The game has a forgettable soundtrack but it isnt bad, 
 just not great. The graphics in the game are also a little odd, most of the game looks great except 
 to different things. First the explosions are un realistic, and different things will be super 
 shiny such as different things on the troops or the lettering in the game. One last thing that 
 I have to address is that the controls take some time to get used to. All in all, if your looking 
 for a WWII game that stands out from the pack by taking a chance or your just tired of COD this 
 game is for you, if not you should still give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomasz73
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 4, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Let's start this short review from some positive things:
  This game is fun ! You just start playing over again when the campaign (very short unfortunately) gives 
 You some CREDITS screen. Graphics is fine for me, Nazis are looking great with all that glossy 
 helmets on their heads. Artificial Intelligence is........ hm yes, there is some little AI in their 
 digital brains - Sometimes they flank You from sides and try to beat You up with melee attacks, 
 throw grenades (very precisely) trying to make good impression ;-) Guns and their upgrades - that's 
 nice ! If You use guns wisely (shoot few buckets of bullets) You get some nice upgrades like bigger 
 mags, etc.
  
  MoH series was always in great shape - sometimes on PC's, sometimes on consoles, it's a game worth 
 this few hours and $$.
  
  ps. and remember to jump online ! that's time thief !
  (Time Spent Playing=SinglePlayer only) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loanduck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Airborne is a slow start but fantastic finish game!
  
  The gameplay -Is fantastic, the movement, running, speed it's all
  there and equals all great 
 shooters .
  
  Health- The design is a little outdated but after
  experience points, levels up etc... It keeps up with the modern health design, hey l forgot the 
 challenge of looking for health packs.
  
  Guns-In the early stages of the game you start off with guns that need to be
  upgraded through 
 quality of shoots, kills etc... but they will be fantastic and 
  satisfyingOh yeah....
  
  Action/Leves- They are great, you don't play levels you play war and staying
  alive is a 
 challenge. Each level is intense and it's very easy to get addicted.
  
  THE BAD : (
  
  A. I - Could be better, man to man the A. I seems dumb at times but makes up for it with EXTREMELY 
 ACCURATE Shooting close and from far, it evens it out.
  
  OVERALL- I loved this game!! One of my new favorites, what caught my eye was how though it was 
 and I love that, It had me thinking okay bring it then and that's what great games do to me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoringGlorioso
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I think this is one of the best games ever for the PC. In fact, I love it so much, I own it on 
 my Xbox360 too. Well Medal of honor usually has been a good franchise, especially with its last 
 game pacific assault, which was awesome. My fave feature is the weapons. Theres a whole bunch, 
 each with their own special upgrades. There are weapons like hte scoped springfield rifle, the 
 Tommy Gun, the Sturmgewehr 44, the Panzerschrek, and my favorite the BAR. Being in WW2 and in Europe, 
 you face Italians and Germans. The Italians really are only on the first level, but hey. The enemies 
 and your fellow airborne both chatter alot. But the AI is terrible, your enemies have eyes in the 
 back of their heads.... you just cant sneak up on em! Plus too much recoil. Your enemy on the other 
 hand could snipe you frimp the other side of the map with a Mauser Pistol. Although the levels 
 are fun, but short. 6 levels took me a week, cuz i was doing it on expert. They are long, and at 
 times repetitive. But I still love the game. Specially the multiplay, which is so addictive. The 
 best feature in thw hole game all in all is the jumps. the cutscenes are excellent also. You have 
 to like a good WW2 game to appreciate Airborne. But pretty much a game for any FPS freak. A bit 
 better than the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8erwarlock
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  For starters, medal of honor is a long running series and the game has been hyped since the first 
 trailer. I finnaly got a chance to play it and it is by far in the top 3 ww2 fps to date! 
  
  You can guide your parachute at the very start of the area landing wherever you want on the 
 map and play the game almost as a sandbox except for the few story progressive scenes.
  
  The gameplay is very tough, ecspecially once you hit the last four levels, they are just HARD! 
 And then on the 5th level you meet these 6 feet guys weilding portable mg42's and they take life 
 5 grenades to kill, and besides that, they are like secret weapons of ww2 guys you'd find in movies 
 making the game at the end lean in that direction.
  
  The graphics and sounds are very good in this game too, im think [not sure] but they may run on 
 the unreal 3 engine. As i said, im not too sure but they are both very good.
  
  The multiplayer is also very fun but there is not too many people playing which is a real let down 
 but it a very good multiplayer so i kinda don't understand why that is.
  
  The achievments in the game are both really easy like go crouch and run, then there is those dreadful 
 get 10000 kills in multiplayer which is necciscarily hard, but do take lots of time!!! 
  
  Overal, if you buy this game, you will enjoy your first playthrough and then some multiplayer which 
 is quite good. You will get a good moderate amount of playtime which is very good.
  
  Hope this review helps :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catachan29
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I was hesitant when I bought this because of the reviews but when I started playing it, I was amazed. 
 The graphics are top notched, with only a few glitches like the eyes of allies. Some of them have 
 bug eyes that stick out. The AI can be impressive at points but your soldiers often get in the 
 way. The physics is off, but it is comical and entertaining when you shoot someone with a colt 
 .45 and they do flips. The weapon upgrades are a nice addition to the game even though history 
 buffs hate it. Dropping into a fight is a nice add-on to the game allowing for different styles 
 of approaches. You feel like a piece of a puzzle with all of the c-47's flying overhead and guys 
 jumping out. The save system is just fine the way it is. Jumping from the plane again allows the 
 player to try a different approach. Overall, this is a very solid game with some of the best visuals 
 out their. If you haven't played this game yet, I highly recommend it, espicially if you like playing 
 COD 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  This game was surprisingly better than I had originally expected. It has authentic weapon add-ons 
 which made me want to use all the weapons instead of only the popular ones. Airborne was also more 
 difficult than I thought. This game is short yet sweet. If you remotely enjoyed the many previous 
 Medal of Honors this is a safe choice for you. The parachuting didn't really add to the game play 
 it was more of a gimmick. It was the same old MOH plot. Shoot Nazis and blow up their big guns 
 before they blow up your friends. But it works for the series because no matter how many of these 
 games they shell out they are still entertaining. THE OFF LINE GAME PLAY IN THE GAME IS GREAT. THE 
 ONLINE SUCKED!! THERE WAS ONLY 49 PEOPLE ONLINE. BUT WHAT REALLY GETS YOU IS THAT LAST LEVEL. ITS 
 LONG , ITS HARD, ITS INTENTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlsatianCale
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  I found this game at Wal-Mart for 30 bucks, and I decided I'd give it a try. I took it home, put 
 it in, and played online for about 30 minutes. The online was where the paratrooper method really 
 came in handy. I loved looking over the whole map seeing where the enemy and my buddies were. But 
 it could also be a pest (You get picked off in mid-air) . But it was fun, and the weapons were pretty 
 cool too, especially the Gewehr 43 sniper. I don't really get into campaigns much, mainly just 
 online, but as soon as I started playing the campaign, I couldn't stop. It's a little difficult, 
 and there's only six missions (But, they're about an hour each) , and it lags some times, but for 
 the most part, it's a great game. I really love the weapon upgrades too. So, all in all, it's not 
 game of the year, and it's not something to get your hopes up about, but when the bullets start 
 flying, it gets pretty intense, and for the most part, fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: green0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:00 am PT
Review:  This is a good WWII game. Story is fun and exciting. You will have fun trying to get each and every 
 gun maxed out to it's full power. But multi-player isn't nothing to brag about. Story does tend 
 to get a bit lame when you have to go back and forth. As I said rent it before you buy it and try 
 not to pay full price if you can. But if you are like me you'll have a hell of a time playing. (ecept 
 the last level is pretty difficult and alittle frustrating.) P. S. Jumping from a plane to get to 
 battle is coolest F***ing feeling I have felt in a WWII game since ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor52
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game was great and intense also the ability to upgrade your weapons was fantastic but 
 this game was just a little to hard for people who have just started playing MOH games like me 
 i only have played MOH eroupean assult for ps2 and rising sun for ps2 and they were very easy but 
 this MOH was a lot harder than the rest like those MOH games were like COD 2 on easy!!!!! but in 
 airborne you could not get far in a level without getting shot at or hit!!!!!!!!!!!! its a pain 
 in the butt!!!!!!!!!!! but other than that the game has great graphics, awsome weapons, and intense 
 firefights!!!!!! so i would recomend this to experienced MOH players and not noobs who havent even 
 played one MOH this game is classic so i would highly recomend it!!!
  
  Note: this game is also a very short game there is only 7 levels if you absolutly hate short games 
 than just rent the game but you will miss out on some great online play!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpie125
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 14, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  Well... After getting my hands on a copy of Airborne, I guess I can finally make a decision about 
 Medal of Honor as a series. As a second warning, I'll be making a lot of comparisons (rants) to 
 previous Medal of Honor games. So if you want to just see what I think of the game, I say it's 
 good, not great. Worth a rent.
  
  Onwards and upwards.
  
  In general, I think Airborne had a lot of potential. When used correctly, the land-anywhere feature 
 is a groundbreaking feature... but other than that, it could just be one of the game's biggest 
 frustrations. Like many other reviewers have stated (Yahtzee, in particular) , when landing, there's 
 here, or there's everywhere else. Everywhere else is literally swarming with enemies, and by landing 
 there, you're cut off from friendlies -- not that they help much, but you usually need allies to 
 distract your enemies in these types of games.
  
  The other feature, upgrading your weapons, is nice at first. I used a Kar98k for the entire first 
 level because I liked the idea. But after a while, all the upgrades usually involve improving firing 
 speed, reloading speed, accuracy, or some cool little upgrade (some of which aren't to my liking) . 
 For instance, the achieving the third level for using a shotgun awards you with a bayonet. Okay, 
 cool, I guess. However, the way enemies attack you (with rage and serious speed) , you generally 
 want to shoot them before engaging in a melee. Another feature, having a scope on an StG, is a 
 nice touch. But personally, I don't care for having it. If I wanted range, a sniper rifle is much 
 better suited for the job (in terms of power and sight) , and if I wanted a tough automatic weapon, 
 I think my fully-upgraded Thompson would be my weapon of choice.
  
  Let's keep on moving. Back to the subject of parachuting, I enjoyed it in the first two levels, 
 mainly because it felt like there was a lot to explore. During the mission to unblock Utah beach, 
 it was really a pain. As mentioned before, there is the safe zones, and then everywhere else. Unfortunately, 
 the Germans are dug in pretty well by the time you and your allies move up the hill, making the 
 jump next to useless. Would have saved a lot of time if we had just started in the safe zones, 
 really. Unlike Gamespot's review, I thought Airborne got progressively worse. The gameplay might 
 have been more intense, but it was bought by becoming more and more ridiculous. I enjoyed the very 
 first mission (Operation Husky, I think it was called) and tackled every side-mission and cleared 
 out any house I came across, simply because I thought it was kind of fun. The game began to drag 
 on, and then I just found myself wanting to quickly shred through the Germans, blow up the objective, 
 and get to the end of the mission. The enemies began to become more difficult... understandable. 
 Then suddenly, out of nowhere comes elite soldiers with Panzerschreks. I'm used to seeing enemies 
 from games like Halo with grenade launchers or some kinds of RPGs... but usually, those games provide 
 the player with a tactical advantage, so the game remains fun. In Airborne, you get whatever weapon 
 you were carrying through the last checkpoint (if you didn't know what was coming up) and they 
 tell you to march down the Nijmegan Bridge. Surprise! The walkways are lined with Germans with 
 rocket launchers, and before you even get close, you'll be blasted from all directions. Too bad 
 you don't have a rechargeable shield... you're only a man, who can't take a shell to the face. 
 Long story short, I had a non-scoped StG and nothing else. Hands down, that was the (shi++iest) 
 part of the game.
  
  Oh yeah, let's not forget the final class of Germany's best. Big guys with mini-guns. I was almost 
 expecting to drop into Castle Wolfenstein at the end of the game. When you're running through the 
 dark sewers, being pursued by an army of supersoldiers, I nearly soiled my pants when I ran headlong 
 into one. So there you pretty much have gameplay. Graphically, it's competent. In sound, the weapon 
 sounds could have more weight (like older MoH games) , but Giacchino's soundtrack was well-done. 
 Truth be told, I enjoyed his older styled Frontline music (when he was just pulling out of the 
  stage, and his music was maturing) , because Airborne really seems 
 like a soundtrack to a Disney film and isn't as memorable. Also, where's the choir? Part of what 
 made Arnhem Knights so successful was the mournful music, simple and also powerful at the same 
 time. Now, I really miss the old days of MoH. Where you snuck around German-run facilities, wearing 
 a disguise and having only papers to flip at guards. When the alarms went off, you ran down the 
 hallway with your stolen MP40 blazing, and the famous Medal of Honor theme is picking up in the 
 background. And in between these missions, there were some intense larger-scaled battles (more 
 towards Frontline and Allied Assault) interspersed. That's what really makes Medal of Honor what 
 it is, IMO. Airborne, and some of the newer MoHs (European Assault, most of all) feel like some 
 generic WW2 shooter with "Medal of Honor" stamped on the cover. What I think they should do, is 
 try not to follow in Call of Duty's footsteps. Let Infinity Ward do what they do best, also leave 
 much of the frontline combat to Gearbox, and turn back to the days of espionage. I would like to 
 see a game back in Jimmy Patterson's boots... still first person, but with elements of stealth 
 mixed in with shooting. Hell, I even want them to get wild and throw in co-op gameplay (good co-op... 
 tactics and everything) with Mike Powell (or Manon) as player 2. And even holding off on total 
 realism can be a good thing... but historical accuracy could help, say in weapons and settings. 
 I read a book once about an OSS "Commando" tasked with protecting the secrets of Operation Overlord, 
 who is deployed into France to either rescue or silence a captured officer who is being interrogated 
 for his knowledge on the upcoming D-Day. I don't wager the book is historically accurate, but when 
 I was reading, it just felt so much to me like a Medal of Honor game. I was even listening to the 
 Frontline soundtrack while reading :) ...
  
  Screw this pretend-Call-of-Duty thing they're trying to pull, and go back to its roots. They almost 
 got the parachuting thing right, so if they have another breakthrough in ideas for a new OSS game, 
 it could really make MoH a name back in the industry, as not just "that old WW2 shooter". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniak4life
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 5, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  I used to love the old MOH on Playstation 1+2. They were original and exciting. Then Call Of Duty 
 came along and gave us a visceral, mind blowing WW2 experience. But does MOH: Airborne put up a 
 good fight in the quest for best XBOX360 WW2 shooter?
  
  First off, there are some great features in this game. The parachuting device is unique and ingenius, 
 and really adds and extra dimension of gameplay to the levels. You really think about where you 
 want to land and how it affects your game and the objectives etc.
  
  However when you hit the ground it all goes horribly wrong.
  
  The game machine is clunky and 
 the graphics aren't up to par.
  I aimed at the first nazi coming towards me and popped off a few shots. I was on target but the 
 bullets seemed to fly away from him. WTF?
  
  The maps are nothing we haven't seen before, and the objectives are same old same old too, which 
 wouldn't have been to big a problem if the actual game was exciting, but it isn't.
  
  The game soundtracks have been recycled from the original games too. Come on EA, at least try not 
 to make it so blatantly obvious.
  
  At the end of the day, if you've exhausted COD and you NEED something more, pick this up, but only 
 on budget, it's really not worth full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenday4500
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor is another game in the series that seems the same. But now it is on next-generation 
 consoles and the graphics have been boosted. By Airborne they mean it. You're a paratrooper meaning 
 every mission you jump out of a moving airplane. It is actually very awesome and intense. While 
 your falling down you look around: bullets are whizzing around you head, people around you with 
 parachutes are jumping from airplanes. You see airplanes exploding around you, you look down past 
 your feet. You see the whole map and you can land where ever you want. Option 1. You land behind 
 the enemy. Bad decision. You get shot the second you come down. Option 2. You land where the green 
 smoke is. You and your team mates have to fight through the whole way. Atleast you don't die the 
 second you hit ground. Option 3. You land left or right of the enemy. Some of your allies follow 
 and you flank the enemy. You now led a path for more of allies to come assist you on your objective. 
 See what I mean? You can also kick people while landing in a parachute. It is also great to watch 
 before you jump from the plane. You see fire from outside of the windows. Some of your men get 
 hit by AA guns. It's a awesome experience. You can also level up all your weapons including grenades 
 and pistols. There are 6 missions or something like that and they basically take an hour depending 
 on your level of difficulty. To be honest the difference of Easy and Normal is huge. Especially 
 in the last 2 levels. The multiplayer is okay. You can play online. I've only played online once, 
 so I don't actually know if you can jump from an airplane. If you can I would play a lot more. 
 Medal of Honor is a must rent.
  
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 8
  Gameplay: 8
  Story: 5
  
  OVERALL: 8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goldeneye103X2
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 28, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  Funny thing actually, the medal of honour franchise has existed for longer than World War 2 itself. 
 People moan about how World War 2 is boring now, and call of duty 4 has had so much success, but 
 EA made the next instalment of their world war 2 series, in world war 2. YAY. So, each mission starts 
 with some plan thing like that part in star wars part 4, and then you're in a plane. You have to 
 jump out and steer the parachute of course, but you can just stay there and wait since the guys 
 in the plane will push you out if you waist time. So when you land, you take out you're guns which 
 don't sound or feel like proper guns because they feel too light and then you realise that when 
 you use the iron sights you can only lean left or right and duck. But you have to use the iron 
 sights if you want to upgrade your weapon and you will want to because the Nazis are really hard 
 to kill. Strangely though, a quick bash in the face will knock them out instantly so you could 
 say that the pistol with infinite ammo is useless. When you hold the grenades, it looks retarded 
 and in fact the controls are so misplaced that you feel like you're controlling a retard. But there 
 is some good stuff about this game. For example, when you jump out of the plane, you can choose 
 where to go instead of just waiting to land. But the parachuting mechanic is also used when you 
 have to restart at a checkpoint. And the Nazis can easily kill you so you'll be jumping out a lot 
 in this case. Also, the Nazis keep on respawning so you're just wasting ammo by killing every single 
 one you see. To stop them respawning, you have to advance on their own territory, and that's really 
 hard because the Nazis have superpowers in this game. So yeah, that's medal of honour airborne 
 in a nutshell. Well not exactly nutshell but EA are nuts because they haven't figured out that 
 people are bored of World War 2. Seriously, there are TONS of First person shooters out there so 
 why get this? Seriously, get medal of honour heroes 2 if you want World War 2 action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Airbourne is the next instalment in the series and this time it is on the next-gen 
 consoles. This game has very good visuals even if it is in HD, it looks so good. The weapons are 
 in great texture and the gameplay is very enjoyable. In MoH Airbourne, you get to parachute into 
 action and it feels like a free roaming game. You get to land anywhere you want but make sure it 
 is a safe area or you might get killed in the air or on touch down. You make to do the missions 
 in any order you want to do it in which makes it more fun. The controls get very easy to learn 
 after the first 2 missions. There are a lot of intense action and the online multiplayer is very 
 good and strong. There are a few bad areas like weapons can be tough to aim thanks to recoil and 
 poor hit detection and there are lots of little flaws detract from the overall experience. But 
 the game's overall is a great WWII game and it is a great game in the series which make it the 
 best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben399
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 27, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  The best part of this game is the weapons. you have every kind of weapon from the WWII period, 
 they are all fully upgradeable, and they are all at your disposal. the ability to choose where 
 you want to start fighting is a nice feature, but most of the time it's better to just land on 
 the green smoke. the difficulty settings are perfect, although if you are the kind of person who 
 likes run-and-gun shooters, this is NOT the game for you. most of the time, if you are outside of 
 cover during a fight, you are already dead. and the rest of the time you will be dead real soon 
 if you don't get yourself behind some cover quick.
  
  the multi player is nothing to get exited about. most of the maps are very small, and in the big 
 ones you'll find that people will choose one spot (normally the place where the first confrontation 
 occurs) and soon everyone will be fighting there, and they will keep fighting there until the end 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: predo124
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying, This IS a great-looking game. absolutly 110% the best looking game i have 
 EVER seen (besides crysis) hands down. look up a vid on the tube, or download the demo, because 
 i got bored of the gameplay after about 2 hours of dying, but i kept playing just to see the amazing 
 lighting effects and watch the flashes of my barrel reflect of of your teamates helmets, water 
 on the ground, or the wall. graphics i give you a 11 out of 10. 
  A Story doesnt exist here.1 out of 10. 
  Campain mode is i guess, story mode, but like i said, 
 there is no story, so i made two seperate catagories. Campain mode is where i find myself playing 
 most of the game. Sure, i hop online once in a while, but really, i just like to parachute out 
 of a plane and kill some nazis, that's why i bought this game... the game never was boring to me... not 
 even the first four levels, and upgrading your guns is easy and fun! One thing i can agree with 
 slightly is the hit detection, which gamespot over-exaggerated. You can get kills just like real 
 life. imagine that, a game where it is kind of like real life...
  if you try to use an MP40 to take out a guy BEHIND a bunch of sandbags, shooting at you with a 
 TURRET, and he is half of a mile away, you're NOT going to hit him. You're just not going to. One 
 other cool thing in campain mode is the feature to stomp on a nazi's head as you come in for a 
 landing, instantaneous kill... i give campain mode an 8.75 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6StringShredder
Rating: 6
Date: May 18, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  MOH AB Is better in areas then it is in others. Such as sound. The sound of this games is absolutely 
 great, the bombings in the back ground and the machine gun fire in the distance and fire fights 
 going on in other parts of the battle field. The look of the men, buildings, guns, and your surroundings 
 really look lively. Every thing seems to look and sound really great. 
  But the game play isn't so amazing. Its fun for a while until you realize that you are only able 
 to fight along side about three to four fellow paratroopers at a time. And iv noticed that the 
 missions are pretty straight forward, you are forced to do all of the missions basically by your 
 self. And some of the missions are historically incorrect. For example The landings in Holland 
 were not right in the city of Arnhem and they made it appear that the battle took one day. And 
 was very straight forward when it realy wasn't. They could have at least made the mission to appear 
 to take 8 days like it really did. And they could have made you feel like you were connected to 
 a certain unit, our certain people, and they could have simulated the feel of the losses and gains 
 in the battles Ect. Also one more thing was the elite Nazi guys in which wield a mg-42, I will 
 say.. that's a pretty beefy Nazi, but its highly unlikely they would do that, and im sure it wouldn't 
 take 20 shotgun loads to the face to kill him 
::::::

::::::
UserName: premolight
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 10, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  The best part of this game is the variety of weapons, the upgrades for the weapons, and that the 
 maps aren't one way they are an actual world where you go where ever you want to go. The weapon 
 upgrades make you play the game over and over again just so you can make your guns better. They 
 also did a good job at putting different and intricate weapons in the game. The part of this game 
 that sets it apart from all other games is thatyou have the ability to land where ever you want, 
 do objectives when ever and however you want to. You can land on a rooftop or you can land with 
 a mericans or you can land behind enemy lines, the possibilities are endless. On the down side 
 though you don't get to know the characters you don't get to understand World War 2 you are just 
 playing a game you know nothing about. Overall the graphics aren't amazing the story isn't lights 
 out but it is a well put together smart and innovative game like no other game before it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamehell321
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  MOH: Airborne is a somewhat cheesy attempt to gain more sales, EALA has apparently created a comedy-like 
 version of the 82nd Airborne, the gameplay has no storyline, no characters, hardly any defined 
 tactics that all Paratroops were trained with. Though the graphics are quite good and the sounds 
 are amazing, and the more open nature of the levels are fun and all, it cant be saved by it's seer 
 lack of authenticity, immersiveness, Multiplayer, and popularity. Apparently EA went to the National 
 D-Day Museum in New Orleans and managed to track down an authentic C-47 in Texas and recorded it's 
 sounds and even got a ride in it. Yet EA, and all of their infanite wisdom took only a few shreds 
 of the audio and hardly any of the research at the Museum and put it into the game. 
  
  
  The weapons have impressive audio and skins, but as usual with EA they are nowhere near accurate 
 and authentic, in-fact, they don't really perform or operate realistically, the sights aren't blurred 
 and are WAY too large, especially the M1 Garand, which is, once again, not reloadable in mid-clip 
 (so much for historical accuracy) . The MP-40 is fun to shoot but is let down because of it's sights 
 which are WAY off center and shouldn't be hitting anything, and it's fictional "64 round magazine" 
 which in reality was set on sliders to insert the next one, and only got to a prototype stage and 
 saw action only on the Eastern Front for a few weeks. the weapons are mostly all like these, fake 
 and unrealistic. They come with their own upgrades, they are not removable and only make things 
 too easy, to kill masses of dull A, I whose only real defence is to throw grenades till they die, 
 the upgrades are pretty much made-up at random and don't make a lot of sense from a historic and 
 tactical viewpoint.
  
  
  
  The prone has been taken out for gameplay purposes and it was replaced by a cheesy and rather unpopular 
 "leaning system" which makes aiming your weapon hard and cumbersome, especially with the poor hit 
 detection. The controls are OK and are kind of fun, but are too sharp and jerky. The Battlefields 
 are CLEARLY un-researched and little or no detail was implemented, although the somewhat open levels 
 make for a rather fun experience but after a few play-throughs, you start to see a scripted pattern 
 in the A. I like the same enemy squads at the same place at the same time, every time, they have 
 a set spawn point, and a set fall back point, so every play through is, I'm sorry to say, is scripted, 
 I was very disappointed in this, because the developers claimed that it was completely different 
 every time you play a mission, this was clearly a lie. The A. I also seems to stop fighting if you 
 decide to go fight one of the other 3 or 4 other firefights, and wait around for you to return 
 so the fight can continue, so it's basically a one man army cleverly hidden under the false promises 
 of an open battlefield with completely un-predictable A. I, It is painfully apparent that everyone 
 in the game depends ENTIRELY on you to do everything, and every other dialouge line seems to have 
 someone calling out your name, like your in charge of the whole war, and everyone else seems like 
 just extras, you REALLY get a cheesy "superhero" feeling in this game. There is NO teamwork of 
 any kind in this game. Sure you can choose to land anywhere in the rather tiny map, that part's 
 true, but if you wish to progress through a level, you will have to fight in one of the scripted 
 engagements that the developers set for you. The enemy A. I is annoying and make little use of tactics, 
 the "squad leader" is just a randomly picked soldier who waves his hands in the air making it seem 
 as if he's doing something to influence the battle, but it never works, the same can be said about 
 the Americans, who all seem to have the wrong ranks and insignias, a "Private" calls a Sergeant 
 "sir" which would make him an officer, but in-fact, he's a non-com. then you start to hear random 
 soldiers saying "yes sir" to anyone in his area. Clearly, no research was used in this game, the 
 enemy is made out to be "Evil Nazis" and the Americans are the Heroes jumping out of the plane 
 singing a melody as they are seconds from death. The patriotism is so overdone it's like almost 
 a musical with all the heroic music in the background and everyone basically saying "Were the Airborne, 
 you can't stop us! ", or "America, f### yeah!" It gets very old, very fast, and has no realism or 
 authenticity on that part whatsoever.
  
  
  
  The last level, called "Der Flakturm" is completely made up, it takes place in and around a Flak 
 Tower in Essen Germany, (even though there is no such tower in or anywhere near Essen, and the 17th 
 or the 82nd Airborne divisions have no records of a combat jump over or near any Flak Tower in 
 WW2) , and typical of Medal of Honor, the last level has that "End of the World" feeling. and there 
 are these "Nazi Storm Elite" soldiers that calmly walk around the level all while under fully automatic 
 machine gun fire and explosions wielding an MG-42 killing anyone in their paths, just like killer 
 robots in a poorly directed sci-fi horror movie, they can take dozens of hits from any weapon and 
 will just keep killing until enough grenades go off in their faces to kill them, and, of course, 
 it's COMPLETELY up to you to kill ALL of them. I was truly in a state of disbelief when I saw these 
 robots, or whatever they are, it was just too damn funny. The Paratrooper uniforms are actually 
 well done as well as the enemy's but the Americans keep the same exact uniforms throughout the 
 entire game, even the parachutes were incorrect, they were in-fact training chutes. The C-47s are 
 well done and detailed as well, but they have the wrong paint scheme during the Horrendously pathetic 
 Utah beach level, they have no Invasion Stripes. This game has got A LOT of issues, but is sometimes 
 fun, providing you are either drunk or just got dumped by your girlfriend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luc11044
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 25, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  In 2007, the Xbox 360 was flooded with a great number of critically acclaimed first person shooters. 
 Who by now hasn't played Bioshock, Halo 3, Call of Duty 4 and the Orange Box. It's no mystery that 
 a number of games went unnoticed and Medal of Honor: Airborne is definitely one that I felt should 
 have been on the radar. It's not without its flaws but personally, I think it's the best Medal 
 of Honor title since MOH Frontline and one of my favorites in 2007. Here's the full review...
 
  
  As soon you as you insert the game in your system, you'll hear the familiar music from past Medal 
 of Honor games. Compared to its predecessors, it's little faster and more orchestral. The music 
 within the game has the same quality and it follows the action extremely well. The sound effects 
 are pretty standard farenothing we haven't heard before but good enough not to hinder the overall 
 experience.
  
  The single player campaign is spread across six fast paced and varied environments. Overall, the 
 production values are of very good quality. The levels are pretty detailed but don't expect to 
 be blown away by the graphics. Do they have a next generation look? Absolutely!. Are the visuals 
 groundbreaking? Not really, as there is definitely a difference in quality if you compare it to 
 titles like Call of Duty 4 or Bioshock. I was pleased overall with certain aspects like the animations 
 and particularly how the soldiers react to bullets and explosions. More importantly to consider 
 when discussing visuals, is the fact that the level is completely open. As your solider jumps out 
 of the plane, you can choose to land anywhereno real restrictions. This is a flexibility unseen 
 in any other first person shooter. 
  
  The control will feel very familiar at the start and it's very easy to pick up and play. One of 
 the control tweaks that I appreciated is the fact that you can hold the grenade button and delay 
 your throw in order for the grenade to detonate in the air or on impactdepending on your timing. 
 My only gripe about the control is the fact that the developers chose the "push-down" on the left 
 analog stick to run. It's not so bad if you need to run short distances however, I find this to 
 be a little annoying in multiplayer deathmatches or team objective when you need to run often. 
 
  
  The Xbox live multiplayer aspect of MOH Airborne is pretty enjoyable although, the offering is 
 the most basic I've seen for a FPS in quite a long time. If you like deathmatch, team deatchmatch 
 and capture the flag, you'll be in good shape because these are the only modes. The multiplayer 
 matches support 12 players at the same time which is not that many however, the maps aren't really 
 that large enough to support more. One of the issues you will encounter in deathmatches is bad 
 and predictable respawning areas which could leave you in a predicament to your opponents. It doesn't 
 happen too often but it can be extremely annoying.
  
  In the team deathmatch or objective "airborne" modes, if you find yourself on the Allied Troops 
 team, your soldier is parachuting down on your enemies. This is the very cool aspect of Airborne. 
 They can try to shoot you in mid-air but better yet, you can kick them as you land on the ground. 
 On the flip side, when you're playing Axis and you are grounded, your opponents are parachuting 
 down and you constantly need to look up to see where they are coming from and to make sure you're 
 not caught off guard. One of the achievements is to try to kill an opponent with a grenade while 
 he's parachuting down. Good luck with that one.
  
  There are definitely more complete and original First Person Shooter experiences out there but, 
 overall I really enjoyed Medal of Honor: Airborne. The production values are very acceptable and 
 the parachuting gameplay feature is more than just a gimmick as it adds to the single player and 
 multiplayer experiences. I found myself playing through the single player campaign four times, 
 which is a sign of a good title. Quite frankly, I'm hoping that my review can encourage more people 
 to give it a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohfrontline
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  In Medal of Honor Airborne, you play as a soldier in the 101st Airborne Division, liberating places 
 from sicily to normandy to holland. It is different from other WW2 games because instead of spawing 
 on the ground, you parachute in and pick the spot you wish to land.
  
  Before you ask, this review may seem a bit biased from the fact my name is "mohfrontline". Luckily 
 though, this game is good enough to prevent me from hyping it too much.
  
  Unlike what the professional review said, the weapons are very solid and can be upgraded (kind 
 of like COD4) as you gather kills with it. 
  
  There are about 6 missions, but they can be very tough as there aren't many checkpoints and you 
 find yourself doing the same things more than once from deaths.
  
  On a side note, the game has good sound effects, and music for that matter. The bullets sound deep 
 and full when you shoot them. As for visuals, well, there are plenty of good views as you're parachuting 
 in, and everything is crisp and clear.
  
  The multiplayer is great, I experienced no lag, there seemed to be a good amount of players online, 
 and it has a lot of replay value. (check professional review for more info on the MP)
  
  MOH: Airborne is a great game, a nice addition to the series, and a good next gen game in general. 
 You might want to rent it first, but I just bought it, and I was pleased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aviator2559
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I think its a great game to play over and over again increasing the difficulty and really pissing 
 you off because you can't beat it. I love level 3 becuase of the view from the spotting tower, 
 its amazing. I think that the view is amazing and looks exactly what it would look like in Normady. 
 I like to have a sniper rifle and stay up there owning the little Germans. Overall the game is 
 a great experience, seeing what is was like for them, i would suggest you rent it first to get 
 a feel and then if you don't like it, don't buy it. The only bad thing is a couple visual glitches, 
 but thats all. One great feature is that you get to carry around three weapons, two primaries and 
 a pistol, which makes it a little easier, i can't say if this is historical or not but it comes 
 in handy. There are only a couple missions (5) but they are kind of long whihc makes a hard game 
 to put down. The last mission is very hard because of main the frightful sight in inflicks upon 
 you, when you beat it though a since of relief, joy and happiness overwhelms you. The game is rare 
 not to like, but everyone has the opinions...
  
  ... mine is a 9.5
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rotten__eggs
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  The game is very hard if not played on the lowest difficulty. Graphics are pretty good nothing 
 amazing. The AI is horrible often times nazis will run around mindlessly just charging you trying 
 to beat u with their rifle. Or if they dont charge u they will run around and its annoying trying 
 2 hit them. Although I havent played online cause i thought it couldnt be that great if i didnt 
 like single player. The hit detection isnt as bad as gamespot suggests but it can still be a little 
 annoying. Unlike games like COD:4, and my most disappointment about the game is that people can 
 take up to four shots for a normal solider, and this can increase with the Nazi's rank. Other than 
 that the game is pretty realistic. Just remember to rent b4 u buy. Parachuting to whever you please 
 in the range of your chute is very fun though. Deciding weather you want an all out attack or to 
 snipe from roof tops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Story: You are Boyd Travers of the U. S. Army Airborne Division.
  
  Missions: Always parachute in to start the mission. After landing you must take out high ranking 
 German officers, disable AA guns, Artillery, or Enemy encampments.
  
  Controls: Great, flexible aiming scheme. Parachuting feels good also.
  
  Features: Parachute, 
 upgradeable weapons, 15-20 weapons.
  
  A. I.: Not dumb, move around a lot!
  
  Loading Times: Many but usually just 10-15 seconds.
  
  Graphics: Unreal 3 engine. Looks good 
 but nothing that will blow you away.
  
  Audio: Your standard WWII shooter audio. Accurate Airborne lingo.
  
  Multiplayer: Laggy. Not 
 as fun as single player but worth a try if you liked Call of Duty 2 multiplayer.
  
  Requirements: N/A
  
  The Good: Nails parachuting, missions don't get boring.
  
  The Bad: 
 Could have been a little longer and had more team combat.
  
  The Ugly: Not this time, the awesome: Watching the end building explode.
  
  Replay Ability: 
 Medium to High. (Beat SP twice within 2 days)
  
  The Bottom Line: Worth a rent at the least. If you have any interest in the Airborne at all (Many 
 you've seen Band of Brothers?) please, try this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: klugenbeel
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  So over the years many Medal of Honor games have hit the shelves, and over teh years they have 
 drawn mixed reactions. People remember the greats such as Allied Assault, and then theres the ones 
 we want to forget about, like Vanguard. Medal of Honor, out of all the World War 2 Franchises was 
 one of my least favorites. Even Allied Assault, i was impressed and didn't get into. Well its been 
 over a year, and besides the Outfit, I don't have a really good World War 2 game. So i said what 
 the heck, for 40 bucks lets try out Airborne, and boy did I get more than I bargained for. Not 
 since Brothers In Arms (original) , had i been so sucked into a World War 2 game. Jumping out of 
 planes is by far, the coolest and best way to enter a player into a battle. THe fact that you control 
 your parachute and where you go is great! You can jump into the action from just about anywhere 
 on the map, granted you guild your parachute correctly. This allows you to do a couple things, 
 land safely in the green landing zones with your comrades, to land behind enemy lines, while your 
 boys fight up front, you capping Nazis from the back side, adding to some intense battles. This, 
 good gameplay, and some challenging battles add for a fun game, with soem good replay value. Now 
 there are some flaws to this game. You will once in a while find some graphical and texture glitches 
 in the game, but they are few and far apart from what I have noticed, and don't ruin a lot of the 
 game experiance. The main thing that drops this game down a score or more is really, the Nazis. 
 At times there are some crazy/unrealistic battles you will fight. My most noteable is a bridge 
 battle you do in about the 3rd or 4th mission in the campaign. After completing all other objectives, 
 you finally have to cross a bridge running through the town, and well.... the amount of German rocket 
 divisions on that bridge and where they are posted, well highly unrealistic. Though this spot is 
 very challenging, it is very frustrating. The fact you have Panzershreks just sitting on this little 
 elevated rises on the bridge, makes you scream, where is the air support?!?! I unstand they want 
 it to be challenging but when all i have is a upgraded scoped rifle, and you do not give us a Springfield 
 in sight, it makes for this last battle, to be a very frustrating one. Overall this game is great, 
 has great battles, and despite a few unrealistic fights and some graphical glitches, this is a 
 great game. -8.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 100starz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  The customer-hating EA has yet again graced us with a medal of honor game - and it's mostly worth 
 it. Pacific assault was the best game for me, and this is basically the shadow. Subtle compared 
 to its source, but there nonetheless.
  
  Now, lets start with the graphics. No lag. They rock. like WOW. the REAL saving factor is the good 
 use of specularity shaders. Here, they look excelent. 
  
  Sound: The most expensive feature of it. Guess what? They got actual sounds of weapons, c-47 cargo 
 planes, and they have germans speaking german and americans speaking... american?
  
  The gameplay is pretty pretty good.
  Let me start with the flaws. Thehail Herr Uber-Hitlers!" 
 are the gas-mask wearing, super flak jacket wearing, fearless, machine gun holding dark troopers 
 with a hell of a bloodthirst! They walk into battle, fearless, and unless you use the highly explosive 
 gammon grenades, a couple rockets or two clips of the best gun in the war, the STG-44, you are VERY 
 screwed. Also, the lack of transition animations makes it impossible to actually aim perfectly. 
 But MOST OF ALL, MOST OF ALL, TOPPING ANY FLAWS IN ANY GAME, IS THE PATRIOTISM. This game NEVER 
 mentions any of the allied countries. You get the feeling that the US took over canada, australia, britain, etc. 
 and then went to war against nazism. What do you call a game like that? 
  I'll tell you: Alternate history FPS. -_-
  Also, it lacks any uber action. in the final cutscene 
 of the game, after going through dozens of elite nazis, after destroying a huge concrete monstrosity 
 of a tower covered with AA guns, you witness a massive airdrop that never takes place in actual 
 gameplay. it would be something if the game let you be one of those soldiers, and you would face 
 an equal amount of foes!
  Now for the plus sides
  The weapons are well balanced and realistic. Jumping out of planes is pretty fun. You don't feel 
 lonely at least. You always have a couple pals beside you to fight against the nazis. This obviously 
 has the best sniper experience in the history of games. Squeeze the trigger, don't just pull it. 
 slowly squeeze, stabilize your vision, aim for the enemy, and then nudge your finger and feel the 
 shot pierce your enemy's skull, the bullet digging itself into his brain.
  Okay that sounds totally emo! LOL
  And when you pull the trigger, you KNOW you're shooting a 
 gun! Not a spud launcher, a gun! how nice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shootingrobot98
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Airborne was a game I was so desperate to get since April 2007. The game got delayed 
 twice, so that really made me angry. When I finally got the game in September, guess what happened-Red 
 Ring of Death! When I got the XBOX back the next month, I went right to playing this game. I read 
 Gamespot's review before I got the XBOX back, and I was a little discouraged. I played the game, 
 and this is my review.
  
  When Gamespot said that the first half of game was too linear, I don't agree. All of the missions 
 land you in different places, so none of them are linear. However, the last two are very intense 
 and very un-linear. I also didn't see any problem with the hit direction. It hits just fine! The 
 weapons look very nice, and the sound effects are very realistic. Adding upgrades to your weapons 
 by killing the enemy is also a nice touch. There is a lot of types of enemies, with large varieties 
 of weapons. The enemies aren't the brightest bulbs on the Christmas tree, but they are very agreesive. 
 The multiplayer is also excellent.
  
  However, no game is without its flaws. There is a lot of grapifical errors, which really bother 
 me, and some of the cutscenes are full of weird coloration. Also, I don't like the fact that in 
 the last mission you can't blow up the halftracks on the ground floor with Panzershrecks. That's 
 breaking the laws of physics!
  
  Overall, this game pales in comparison to better shooters such as BioShock and Call of Duty 4, 
 but it's still worth playing if you like to play World War II shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: org13
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Airborne is no doubt a solid FPS that you need to be aware of your surroundings 
 at all time. The whole game has that WWII movie vibe and does a great job staying in character 
 throughout the game. The cut scenes in first person view helps a lot. In some parts it really feels 
 like you're in the battlefield and gives you (perhaps not even close but) a sense of what it was 
 to be there fighting in war. The feature to land anywhere was really amazing where it makes the 
 game non-linear. The enemy AI will change depending on your drop zone was a great too. However 
 the shotgun was a bit too powerful and the over all gameplay was a bit short. Just when I realized 
 how much fun I was having playing the game, it was abruptly over after merely 5 hours of gameplay. 
 Also the online play isn't really worth the long wait and seems half-ass. But over all it's probably 
 one of the best WWII based shooters out there and I really enjoyed playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiiperDrive
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 2:51 am PT
Review:  Over the years EA have really produced some great WWII shooters in the MoH series for example, 
 Frontline, which really was a true classic, and now their latest installment, Airborne, being no 
 exception in my thoughts. Unlike Frontline however, Airborne is based with Boyd Travers in the 
 ranks of the airborne divisions, so not suprisingly, you get to drop into your missions at whatever 
 location you wish, also adding a non-linear mission system, letting you take different roots to 
 your objectives and doing them in any order of which you please which gives the campaign itself 
 some decent replay value.
  The missions themselves, even though there are only six of them, are long, challenging and are 
 relatively fun as you can choose what weapons you wish before you start which adds as an advantage 
 choosing to where you drop, for example dropping on a roof as you chose a sniper rifle or just 
 a rifle alone. The objectives themselves are varied, interesting and you can choose in several 
 ways you wish to achieve them which is a nice twist to what was seeming to become a repetitive 
 series when it came to MoH. The AI seems decent aswell as Airborne as they react to incoming enemies 
 by taking cover, lobbing grenades over at you, and also while blind-firing their automatics.
  One of the key factors that I consider to make this game a decent one is the fact that you can 
 upgrade your weapons when you have carried out enough kills with it, these can include recoil dampners, 
 scopes, increased ammo capacity and lots of other different things which really do add depth to 
 the game which is pleasing to see, as it a step forward for the series.
  Also the game supports decent multiplayer options which are great to explore as they include the 
 paradropping which adds advantages to both teams, and again the choosing of weapons that clashes 
 with where you drop comes into play again.
  The game does have its negatives, just as most other games but do not seem to weigh out the positives, 
 as getting into ranked matches (for me at least) is next to impossible so getting achievements 
 specified for ranked matches will be very difficult for now at least. Also on the campaign (This 
 might also include multiplayer) the hit detection is very mediocre as when you seem to have obviously 
 hit a target it doesn't comply with it and in the end it becomes as its wasting ammo. The campaign 
 itself I believe could have been abit longer with at least a couple of more missions (but there 
 probably weren't any other major paradropping operations for this reason so bear with me) , and 
 sometimes you may feel that the actual shoot enemy, move on is not solid enough to keep you fully 
 interested so is recommended to play for an hour to two hours a day at most!
  But overall the game is a step in the right direction for the series with its positives heaviily 
 outweighing the negatives, I am pleased to give it the score that I am going to.
  
  /HiiperDrive Out\ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan_385
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  The Good: Action packed combat, different routes to complete objectives, decent multiplayer.
  
  The Bad: graphics aren't great, some problems with weapons
  
  
  Well this game is the 
 most recent addition to the series that defined FPS back on the PS1. I found it to be a solid FPS 
 with all the essential basics in place. The game doesn't have much of a story other than some Germans 
 need killing and you've been sent to do it. Before each mission you will get a briefing on the 
 mission before jumping (or getting pushed) out of a plain and landing on your face in style. Most 
 times if you don't land in a safe zone you will be dead within seconds getting shot from all sides.
 
  
  The gameplay is very basic and can feel old skool, but thats not necissarily a bad thing it allows 
 you to quickly learn and adapt to the controls. A sprint button comes in handy when trying to avoid 
 enemy fire, dashing from cover to cover. Once behing cover the ability to lean and fire is very 
 useful as is the ability to raise your weapon and aim through the sights. 
  
  While Airborne is good, it has its faults. Hit detection can be a problem - you may have to shoot 
 an enemy several times befor the hit registers which is not the case with the enemy (CPU) which 
 are more than capable of hitting you from most distances with any weapon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcmike1942
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I got this game expecting it to be alright, nothing special. So I was very surprised when I played 
 it and it had the look of COD3, but the amazing open game play of COD2. The game only has 6 levels, 
 but they are extremely long. So you get your moneys worth in the campaign. The game play is fun 
 and the levels are free, so you can carry out your orders any way you want. Weapon selection is 
 vast and the upgradability is a nice and fun touch. Graphics are amazing, played it on an HD LCD 
 with the VGA hook up, loved it. Most games EA makes are just pumped out, with little improvement 
 over the new ones. This is a completely different game, the new sprint effect makes advancement 
 much quicker, you can't take any lock on cover like many new games are doing, but the new aim-cover-movement 
 makes things much easier and faster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burney77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Airborne is currently the best of its kind. There garphics are one of a kind and 
 being able to choose your own weapons before going on a mission is a great new way to get into 
 the realism of war. Also being able to gain experience by using different types of weapons is also 
 a great realistic way of the war, considering the point that most of the young men who went to 
 the war at the time had no experience with weapons it makes it seem real. 
  
  There are always similarities in Medal of Honor games and this game has no exceptions. A few of 
 the missions have the exact same name as those in MOH Vanguard (PS2) and the fact you start every 
 mission jumping from a plane. But also like other MOH games there are new weapons and harder missions 
 so that evens it up. I think this game is so far my favourite MOH game and i loved it.
  
  Signing out,
  
  Burney77 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danzilla8450
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  There are 6 levels to this game. Every level you jump out of a airplane and start shootings. When 
 you are falling from the plane you can direct where you fall. As Gamespot said though, if you jump 
 away from safe zone you will probably die. The game is O. K looking. The Graphics are not horrible 
 but not really "Amazing". The Guns feel satisfying and are realistic. They will be upgraded the more 
 you use them and will become more powerful. Although you dont feel that your guns have improved 
 much.
  
  The game normally has a smart AI that will sneak behind you, but not always. Sometimes (not often 
 at all!!) enemy's will stand there and let you kill them. This is really the only problem that i 
 could find playing the game.
  
  It is easy to look past these problems and have a great time playing this game.
  Some might disagree 
 with me but i say this game is worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 30, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  Airborne is good, nothing more, not great, amazing, next-gen, just good. The reason being is that 
 it just feels odd. The part of each level where you jump out of the airplane feels great, it looks 
 great to look down and see bullets flying here and there and people trying to shoot you down, but 
 surely that's not the only thing that makes Airborne a good game? The gun models don't look right, 
 that's one thing i noticed, the M1 Garand looks big and chunky, and you shoot downsight with the 
 german M40 and tell me it doesnt feel like your just firing a placed turret?! However, the graphics 
 are pretty good so you do have to give MOH that. One great think i loved about Aribourne though, 
 is the dropping anywhere you want, you choose how you engage the battle, whether you want to jump 
 stright in and fight them all, or do it safely and land on a rooftop and meet your teammates later. 
 The AI doesnt just have one Bot-route either, they wander around just as much as you do and they'll 
 try to kill their enemy and contine their mission.
  
  MOH: Airbourne is good but not great as it does has it's downfalls and good points. If you like 
 the MOH series, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: specs777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Medal of honor airborne is a great game that seems to be a little... under-appreciated. Everything 
 leaves you in awe, from the graphics to the weapons it all makes you say "wow this is an awesome 
 game". Although I do think that they could have toned down the difficulty just a little bit... 
 It might just be me but I found that this game was a little harder than the other games even on 
 the easy difficulty. I also enjoyed the levels, being able to choose wherever you want to start 
 on the level is a great advantage and the scenes are magnificent! Although I would encourage you 
 to rent this game before buying it, some games are not for everybody... Other than some minor set-backs 
 I found this to be a great game that I will not easily forget. This is a great historic first-person 
 shooter that, I hate to say; will not ever get the appreciation it should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OwnedDaPope
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  This game is unappreciated! The graphics in this game aren't the best, but they look good and thats 
 enough for me. The game play is fun and challenging the upgrade system is a genius plan that should 
 be done in more games, i mean who doesnt want to shoot grenades off their M1 grand or turn their 
 Thompson into a tommy-gun ! The jumping out of airplane idea and land anywhere you wan' is so cool! 
 The single player mode will make you go at it again do to the achievements and the fun it takes, 
 it took about 10 hours because of the amazing AI that makes the game so hard. As you progress through 
 the game you may notice some pop-ins in the graphics, its a little flaw but you can go around it. 
 The multi-player is a little flawed i admit, but it doesn't detract from the fun that this game 
 delivers i give it a 9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanSniper1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  The game is great, I love upgrading the weapons. The achievements give a well balanced amount of 
 gamer score. I love the effect when you drop from an airplane its just great, graphics are great. 
 Once you hit the ground though it isnt much different than the other old MOH games, but its still 
 lots of fun and the weapons have their specialties. Once again upgrading weapons makes the game 
 a lot of fun and most games should use that tool. I beat them game in short order but I do that 
 with most games so thats not a big deal for me. I havent tried the online play but it probably 
 isnt amazing, id call this game a renter. But dont get me wrong it is plenty fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorpal
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  The Medal Of Honor series has taken some hits the last few years but I truly believe that this 
 is the best MOH I have ever played and I have played every single one (apart from crappy gba stuff)
 
  
  The attention to detail in this game is amazing. If you fighting indoors you might hear radios 
 that play musi cor you can hear enimies through it. When you doing D-Day in reverse you can actually 
 SEE the boats on the shoar and men running up the hill. Its actually quite breathtaking the amount 
 of little things theve put in to this.
  
  The gameplay is extremely immersive. When your in a trench and you've got a good speaker sytem 
 with a good sub like I have the bullets tear past your head and grenade explosions thump you. Its 
 really cool.
  
  I don't know why people are knocking th egraphics because I find them gorgeous. The shine on wet 
 pavement and the attention to all the little pieces of shrapnel.
  
  Although the games single player is a tad short it is VERY replayable. But if your not in to that 
 kind of thing the multiplayer hits the riight spots for me. Its extremely fun.
  
  So after all this I hope you consider buying this, its a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reavesb
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  MOH Airborne kept up with its MOH counterparts. The graphics were smooth, but some features were 
 annoying. The games save points were spread out too far. As a Halo Gamer I found myself spoiled 
 by Halo's continual checkpoints and found having to continually go back to jumping out of the bird 
 tedious, rather than a challange. The missions seemed to be repeditive, rather than adventurous 
 as was found in earlier additions. Additionally, sniping became a laborous task (and all too frustrating) 
 by the scope continually bobbing around. All the same Airborne was challenging and fun. It was 
 worth playing through and left me some challenges to go through missions again. But it fell short 
 of being my favorite. MOH fans won't be diappointed, however, I think that other FPS games like 
 Halo or Call of Duty have taken staying on the cutting edge of making people want more. Hopefully 
 when the next in the MOH series comes out, EA will have taken some notes from Bungie and the like. 
 Thanks anyway guys, it wasn't a total let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UN_normal
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game is a better FPS than normal ones. 
  
  The good stuffs:
  
  Good areas for shooting with the ability to land on a roof.
  You choose where to start.
  Weapon 
 are pretty good!
  
  
  The down side:
  
  A lot of small problems that ruin the whole experience.
  No congratulations after beating the 
 game.
  The fact that opponents can shoot through a wall, makes cover not worth it.
  
  I would like to see another of choose where you start games without all of the problems. It does 
 get better once you get to higher levels. On expert and the last level the best soldiers can kill 
 you in about three seconds! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor was the first WW2 game i played and i was hooked to the franchise until about the 
 rising sun it was to short and just didn't realy cut it and the next consol verson was better but 
 still not great and the pc versons i have never played. So i got Medal of Honor Airborne a game 
 wich i hated the demo for but soon found myself being a little harsh and realy sat down and beat 
 the game and tryed out the multiplayer funtions of the game
  
  The story. you play as a soilder in the airborne devision and you will play a few misssions where 
 you will drop in at any area and do a number of objectives in the game you will fight in prety 
 cool areas in eruope and the games finial mission puts you in a flak tower wich is this giant freakin 
 tower that you have to just fight your way through and do all the objectives. There is no realy 
 no real story to the game besides that fact that you play a soilder on missions.
  
  The sound in the game is prety good the cpt telling you to stand and the plane going off in the 
 backround sounds realy good all the guns sound good and the voice acting is prety good in the game. 
 the music is brilliant the original medal of honor score is probably one of my favorites in the 
 game industry.
  
  The Visuals in the game are so so they can be beautiful at times or they can be old last gene meaterial. 
 The lighting in the game is realy good the shadows that are cast in certain areas are just perfect 
 and makes the detail in everything look realy good. the character models are prety good the faces 
 can look bad but they can also be good. some times in the game the inviornments feel like they 
 have just been thrown in the game. so overall the graphics are good but they don't have a next 
 gene apeal to them wich is kinda dissapointing in the game.
  
  The single player campaing. The campaing in the game is decent it will have you in each mission 
 pick your weapon of choice then board a plane where you will jump and be able to land any where 
 you want in the sanbox type maps wich is prety cool because you can approach levels in new ways 
 each time you go back and play... each of the objectives are simple manly they will have you blow 
 something up than fight your way back to the other side to do the next objective. whats nice is 
 the weapons are all upgradable they can hold more ammo or have a scope put on the gun or even a 
 knif for instent kiill for a mele attack. all this works realy well but the game is realy short 
 about 9 or 10 mission and the game has realy bad controls but they can be fixed but even with that 
 they are sittlled a little bugy.
  
  The multiplayer in the game. is realy good they have ranks wich you will go up after you do certain 
 stuff you can do reaguler death match or team deacth match but whats proabably the best is TD ariborne 
 wich will have players start off on land and as they get possition the airborn troops come in wich 
 is the other team and they can free land where ever they want and its a prety fun game type that 
 is definatly worth playing. The online play also features upgrades of the same abilitys as the 
 single player did.
  
  the biggest dissapoint ments in MOH AB where prably the shor single player campaign and the controls 
 and the fact that this game is realy underaprecitated not realy that many people played it on my 
 live freinds list wich is a dissapoint ment casue to me its the best game no one ever played.
 
  
  The value is prety ballacned between the short single player campaing and the great multipalyer 
 campaing so my closing comments would be wrapped up as MOH AB is a great game to the frachise that 
 delviers in the end so i say its definetly worth a rent. i hated it at first but it realy grows 
 on you 
  
  THe story 5
  the sound 9
  the visuals 7
  single player 8
  multipalyer 9
  overall 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for christmas and beat it already, despite being short, I think this is a very 
 good game. The graphics I think are really good, I really like how it looks when you jump out of 
 the planes and all the different environments. The sounf of the gunfire is good and doesnt sound 
 really generic. It's also sounds not really fake when the enemies yell. So the graphics and the 
 sound are really good. But going back to the length, this game is really short mainly depending 
 the difficulty you play it on. I beat casual in 2 days, and got about 1/2 through on the next difficulty. 
 It does get very hard and may take a few tries to get past certain levels. But this game is really 
 fun, the environments are well done, and look great, and the variety of weapons is really good. 
 Another cool thing is that you can upgrade every type of weapon up to 3 times. So it adds new things 
 like a scope, faster reloading, or bigger clips. Whatever it is, it is sure to help you out the 
 more you use the weapon. I would recommend this game hands down to any fan of FPS, especially if 
 you like war games, this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  The games story mode is very fun! It has tons of guns that a WW2 shooter should have. The graphics 
 are decent but not as good as some games that came out that month. (HALO 3) The online is very fun 
 but the games multiplayer is about dead by now so I wouldn't go for it now. The campain is about 
 4 hours long but you could ditch it as soon as you buy it that day. Buy this game used, beat it 
 and trade it in. Thats what I would do because the game is worth a check out. Buy this if you loved 
 CoD 3. The game is good but not great. Plus some problems lower my score for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreww93
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  an even score with call of duty this game alows you to start pretymuch where you want you soon 
 find out that this is usful in maney ways you are given two scure landing zones and maney "hot"zones 
 i found that somtimes landing in a "hot"zone was more useful is some missons aside from that the 
 game gives you the abality to slect what weopons you want at the start it is prety much free wander 
 through each mission and the health system is far better than the conventional system basicaly 
 you have 4 main health blocks that will recharge if not fully empty and you find multipul health 
 packs which restore a depleated block the story fits well with each mission working up to a asult 
 on a giant concrete tower and depending on were you land you will have to face half tracks or Super 
 solders all in all however it is fairly short at around 6 hours played on casual it is fun and 
 probly a game to either by for yourself or to by for the surly tenager you live with . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltspwn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing this game on the 360, I thought the Medal of Honor series had taken another 
 downfall. It took me some time to beat the first mission, but I got through it. As I advanced through 
 the game, however, I found it to be quite enjoyable. I've seen many reviewers that are saying the 
 difficulty level is too hard. Not true. While it is true that you will get mowed down going in 
 guns blazing, if you use cover and pick off your enemies, you'll be fine. Plus, the weapon upgrades 
 keep you and your opponent balanced. I will admit, though, that the Nazis can seemingly score a 
 hit on you as long as they can see you. For example, a baddie with an Mp40 can shoot and actually 
 hit you from ridiculously long ranges. But, as I stated before, using cover solves the problem. 
 It seems that EA wanted cover to be a staple of this game, and it appeals to me. Another issue 
 that I've read about is the fact that the enemies are hard to hit. However, many weapons' upgrades 
 include an increase in accuracy/range, so that problem is solved if you just play the game out, 
 instead of shutting it off and trading it in after the first 3 times you die. You WILL die in this 
 game, there's no way to avoid it. So the main thing in this game is to take cover, and don't get 
 frustrated. The graphics are great and the game play is better if you're patient enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: who_r_u
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  I played this game over the week. I was really pump during the jump training at the beginning. 
 then i started to notice that something wasn't right. After you finally start to try and kill stuff 
 you can't. Its like your character is a little girl and every gun you use just kicks you back to 
 much. so this just makes the game impossible to kill enemies when theres more then 4 around you. 
 Also trying to shot someone from afar is just a waste of ammo cause you can't hit them. I really 
 want to love this game but the whole over powering kick back from the gun ruins it. Maybe if they 
 release a patch that would fix this. i would be happy and it would be worth playing. But for now 
 this is going my to gamefly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Airborne is a very average WWII first person shooter to put it bluntly, I found 
 more negatives than positives in a game that fails to impress on any real level. The single player 
 campaign (yeh, like there's a co-op campaign) is relatively dull and even the bright graphics and 
 rich colourful environments can't make up for the boring objectives on every mission, oh and there 
 are only missions, or maybe 6? Anyway the campaign is short and pretty uninteresting. 
  
  But surely Airborne can make up for this in the online multiplayer? Erm........ no. The multiplayer 
 appears to be a very quick 'add on' developed solely for a little replay value, (not that you'll 
 get much of that though) . The multiplayer matches suffer from severe connection difficulties and 
 there are no skill filters for online matches so when you'll start off getting slaughtered by the 
 more experienced players.
  
  In conclusion, Medal of Honor Airborne is a dull first person shooter with some high points and 
 some low points, if I were you I'd stay clear of it and stick with Call of Duty 4: Modern Combat. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aquillae
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Airborne Review
  
  Scores:
  Overall Score : 4
  Gameplay : 4
  Graphics : 4
  Sound : 6
  Replay Value : Don't bother playing it in the first place.
  
  
 My gaming history with MOH. I played all the MOH games upto and including the Rising Sun version.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  There are only 6 missions in the solo campaign. If you are a seasoned FPS you will get through 
 the campaign in five or six hours tops. The story surrounding the missions is totally nonexistent. 
 You are a faceless GI who jumps out of planes to fight the enemy. It seems the game designers thought 
 that was enough. It really isn't.
  
  You're allowed to change your weapon layout before each mission. This is a nice feature that let's 
 each player set up their mission to their own taste  either run and gun or slow and snipe. Unfortunately 
 all the weapons, including the sniper rifles, suffer from both poor hit detection and very weak 
 damage. Both you and enemies will continually shrug off hits from rifles that in a more realistic 
 game would spell instant death. There are 3 upgrades for each weapon that may help a little with 
 the inaccuracy, but the weak damage is always going to be with you. You might think that if both 
 user and computer enemies suffer the same weak damage than there is a sort of balance to the game. 
 This is true in the early 'Trainer' missions. But the last two missions, which take place over 
 Germany, greatly ramp up the fire power of the Germans. And, I really thought this had died with 
 PS1 games, the designers have tossed in black uniformed SS soldiers called elites that Goose step 
 toward you with no emotion or fear, carrying an MG 42 that neither runs out of ammo nor has to 
 worry about its barrel overheating. These Uber Nazis take up to two full clips from the MP 44, 
 the most powerful assault weapon of the war, to take down on easy mode. On the higher modes... bring 
 a bazooka and a lot of ammo for it! (So much for realistic game play, I guess.)
  
  The major selling point of the game is that you can start the game from anywhere on the map when 
 you parachute in. On paper this sounds very interesting. The way it is executed in MOH it is nothing 
 more than a cheap gimmick to cover over the gross inadequacies of the total game experience.
  
  Yes, you can start from anywhere, even right next to the main objective. But the truth is, 
 even on the easy versions, just straying a little bit from your drop zone, marked in green smoke, 
 will spell instant death from all sides. This is not due to poor shooting by the player, but by 
 the unrealistic notion that only you and not one other member of your airborne assault will drop 
 anywhere near you if you drop outside the green areas. It will then be up to you to make your way 
 to where your troops are to have any support or to continue the mission. (Translation  Land anywhere 
 you want, oh foolish player, than follow our path to the mission objectives as we designed them)
 
  
  And when you die in a solo mission, you don't just reappear on the map at the last check point. 
 Oh, no. You go through the whole ordeal of parachuting into combat again. Perhaps the designers 
 felt this would make the user feel as if he was a new GI jumping into action rather than just a 
 respawning video character. Or maybe they just thought the parachute jumping was so way cool that 
 you would want to do it over and over and over again in the later missions on the higher difficulty 
 level after the Uber Nazis killed you again.
  
  Spoiler warning: Yes, Virginia, the Uber Nazis respawn when you respawn.
  
  Multiplayer:
 
  Again, the idea of parachuting into a multiplayer map sounds like a fun idea. Then the player 
 is forced to deal with MOH's execution of the idea. Sides are chosen for you so you have no control 
 over whether you are going to be dropping in and starting with the advantage.
  
  Although the maps from the solo campaign are used in multiplayer they are not the full maps. So 
 as a parachuter you may see the whole city map from the Italy jump under your feet, but the harsh 
 truth is that there are invisible walls that cut the map into a narrow playing area. Tough luck 
 for you if you hit the invisible wall while trying to maneuver over to what looked like a great 
 sniping point. Now you will simply slide straight down to the ground making yourself a very easy 
 target for a Nazi player with more than one multiplayer mission under his belt.
  
  Once you've landed, assuming you've survived because the Nazi player standing below you was too 
 busy killing your other teammates, who are now going through the parachute jump again and coming 
 down over the same Nazi, you will most likely screw up the landing. And by screwing up the landing 
 you will suffer through the penalty animation for not at least flaring your landing. This in turn 
 will give the enterprising Nazi player the time needed to reload and send you happily back to the 
 parachute jump scene where you hope by the time you get near the ground this time, the Nazi player 
 will have run out of ammo from killing your teammates a second time.
  
  If you do manage to kill the Nazi player, good luck. You will have to deal with the same inaccurate 
 aiming and weak damage of all the weapons as you did in the solo campaign.
  
  Graphics:
  Compared to shooter games that have been on the market for at least two years now, this game's 
 graphics look very dated, almost to the point as if they were used when the PS2 and Xbox were the 
 new systems on the market. 
  
  Sound:
  The sounds made by the weapons are standard for a WWII shooter. The musical score does nothing 
 to either heighten the tension in the campaign or help cover up the weaknesses of the design.
 
  
  Achievements List:
  With the exception of two parachute achievements  kill a parachuter with a grenade and kill a 
 Nazi with a melee kick from the air - the achievements for this game are far too easy. I, a below 
 average FPS player, managed to complete all the solo campaign and most of the multiplayer ones 
 in less than 25 hours of play over the 5 days I had the game as a rental. 
  
  Overall View:
  With other shooter games such as Call of Duty, Rainbow Six, and Gears of War that 
 are all far better in every detail, I can't honestly suggest anyone even renting this game. I'm 
 afraid this game will finally mark the sad ending to one of the original WWII shooters.
  
  Only out of kindness for the original MOH game I wont give this game the really low score I think 
 it merits.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I actually like this game a lot. I've never been a fan of MOH, but more of COD instead but MOH: A 
 is actually pretty fun. One of the biggest problems and I know its basically almost everyone who's 
 played this game's problem and that is the very short story. The game's campaign on easy will run 
 you about 6 to 7 hours. The games jumping out of a plane mechanic is actually pretty fun and a 
 lot of times I found myself going into a group of Nazi's. The game even on easy was still pretty 
 challenging because there are just so many friggin' enemies. So all-in-all this game I think is 
 a fun one and very worth the try-out but not worth $60, maybe $50, but not $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pure_Awesome
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  Review: Medal of Honor Airborne
  
  Airborne, the latest in the Medal of Honor World War 2 series, takes an attempt to do something 
 new, parachuting into free open levels. This managed to be pulled off well enough to be enjoyable. 
 The game has some shortcomings though, its length, graphics and unrealistic enemies.
  You play as the mute character Boyd Travers, who is a paratrooper in the 82nd Airborne division. 
 At the beginning of each level Travers sits in the briefing room, to get a brief overview of his 
 objectives for his mission. After the briefing is over you get to pick your weapons for the upcoming 
 mission and you are given the choice to stay with recommended weapons for the level or pick your 
 own. 
  
  There is a grand total of 6 levels for your to complete in campaign, don't freak out though, each 
 level will last for 1 hour or over. So the game averages out to last about 8 hours.
  
  Starting each level greets you with a quick scene just before you jump out of your aeroplane which 
 is normally about to explode by the time you jump out. While you are falling, you can land almost 
 anywhere on the level, you have the choice of safe areas, which are marked out by green smoke, 
 or land anywhere else such as rooftops. You'll find if you choose to not land in the safe areas, 
 you will probably die on your way down to your location or soon as you land from enemy gunfire. 
 You will have to rely on a bit of trial and error to find your perfect landing spot. There are 
 also Skill Drops, which are sometimes marked by a parachute or you have to find where they are 
 in your travels on foot. But once you find them on the ground there is not much point to them, 
 unless you die.
  
  Once you are battling it out on the ground, it's up to you to decide where to go, there are usually 
 many objectives to choose from. As nice as it is not to be linear, you'll find you will do some 
 backtracking on your way to the next objective, once all your original objectives are complete, 
 you usually get a "regroup at" objective which then leads onto a few linear objectives to finish 
 each level.
  
  About halfway through Airborne, the game severely ramps up its difficulty by introducing a new 
 enemy; "Elites" These guys can kill you in about 1 second, they carry portable turrets and have 
 perfect aim. They also take around a full clip of ammunition or a heap of grenades to take them 
 down. They really wreck the game by introducing these unrealistic enemies into the game, especially 
 when they have given you and other enemies' realistic health. It makes the later levels really 
 difficult and not as enjoyable.
  If you are the achievement grinder, picking your own weapons at the start may be the wisest choice, 
 as each weapon you use gets experience for the more people you kill. Each weapon can be levelled 
 up 3 times; these unlock an array of different weapon enhancements, such as, faster reload times, 
 scopes and weapon attachments. Weapons also sound really authentic.
  
  Using your weapons on the battlefield can sometimes be somewhat annoying. This game demands perfect 
 accuracy. Looking down the weapons sights or scope can make hitting enemies a bit hard. Often you 
 will miss your target, even though your aimer is directly on them, the same problems are even present 
 with the sniper rifle which can really get on your nerves.
  
  The game also uses a great peek system which has been missing from recent WW2 shooters, when you 
 pull the left trigger; you look through the sights of your weapon. In this view you cannot move, 
 but can crouch, lean, or go up on your feet. This is really handy when taking cover, you can quickly 
 pop out the side of a crate and take one guy out and instantly go back to your position or you 
 can duck even lower to make sure your out of harm's way.
  
  The graphics in Airborne are just average, nothing here is revolutionary. The game manages to keep 
 a very stable frame rate though, which is really appreciated. What's missing is destructible environments, 
 nothing will move or break in an explosion or gunfire.
  
  Airborne is a great World War 2 game that manages to hold its worth while having some issues.
 
  
  7/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  The Medal of Honor series has been through a rough stretch. For the past few years the series has 
 gone downhill and never managed to pick up enough steam to get back on top. With stellar performances 
 from rivals such as Call of Duty, Medal of Honor needed something to break it out of the current 
 funk it was stuck in. EA had their hopes set on Airborne, a re-invented shooter that let players 
 choose their own paths through levels and customize weapons. Unfortunately, Airborne is not as 
 great as imagined as turned out to be just another mediocre addition to a dying series.
  
  Airborne follows the efforts of the 92nd Airborne division who paratroop into battles during the 
 second World War. What makes these battles so interesting are the fact that you begin each level 
 jumping out of a plane and you can glide your way to any starting position you choose, for the 
 most part. On each level there is green smoke which designates a safe landing spot. If you happen 
 to land outside of the green smoke area you will soon be blasted without mercy before even hitting 
 the ground. There are also only an average of two safe spots on every level, making your "decision-making" 
 not really that hard to manage. 
  
  After you land you will than be thrust into every level with a set of objectives. The objectives 
 vary from the spot from which you start, but there are always the same boring missions over and 
 over again; things like destroying an anti-air gun at Point A than returning to Point B to hold 
 off an enemy attack. Mix around a few decals and offer up new locations and you have the basic 
 feel of Medal of Honor Airborne. However the inconsistencies don't end there. You have to deal 
 with a completely uneven difficulty for the entirety of the game. Enemies are crack-shots meaning 
 they will hit you wherever you are. Crouching has no effects to your location as you will get hit, 
 and even when you are hiding behind a car or wall, enemies seem to be carrying armor piercing rounds 
 that will kill you in one hit.
  
  The AI is also dumbfounded uneven. During some levels you might have enemies flank you, trying 
 to outnumber you in sheer force. While another level has enemies that fire at walls or face in 
 the opposite direction. Both of these types of enemies can be brutally painful to take down, for 
 you have ace shooters combined with idiots with guns. You can see the problem that arises here. 
 If you happen to move a snail's pace through every level you will be bored of the dull locations 
 set in such places as a house, followed by a two story house. Its amazing the amount of originality 
 expressed here. End sarcasm.
  
  EA also implemented a new upgrade scheme for the weapons. Whenever you use a weapon constantly 
 it will eventually upgrade depending on how many enemies you hit. So there could be times when 
 you are running around shooting and the screen will slow down, and all of a sudden you will pull 
 out a grenade launcher add-on from your pocket and equip it to your gun. WHAT? Does that make any 
 sense to you either? This is the most ludicrous addition to a shooting game since Oddworld flung 
 chickens at people. Yes, an Oddworld reference in a Medal of Honor game. Not only does this feel 
 so out of place, but its done wrong all together. Some weapons take five shots to upgrade while 
 others need hundreds. Guess which weapons you wont be using much?
  
  There is also the effects of a never ending loading screen. Whenever you die you are forced to 
 re-start the level by jumping out of the plane. Meaning, you have to sit through nearly minutes 
 of a loading screen every time you die. See how long that lasts for you. The cutscenes are often 
 unskippable, so if you die right before one, grab some popcorn and prepare to watch some WW2 films. 
 
  
  The multiplayer is hardly any better than the single player. You have two groups, the axis and 
 allies factions who fight against each other in matches like high ground, capture the flag and 
 deathmatch. But herein lies the rub. The allies get to jump out of a plane at the start of every 
 match, while the axis areum running around on the ground. In nearly every match I was in, the 
 Allies won because of sheer advantage. I guess EA thought the Nazis deserved to be taken down even 
 a bigger notch than before. 
  
  Medal of Airborne tried to re-invent the series by offering the ability to start anywhere in the 
 level and upgrading levels. Airborne failed to make the Medal of Honor series any better and actually 
 brought the series down farther than it originally was before. Only play Airborne is you are a 
 diehard fan of the series, otherwise set your sights on much more rewarding shooting experiences. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juggernaut140
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  MoH: Airborne is a WW2 shooter developed by developed by EA for Xbox 360, PS3 and PC. The only 
 real difference between MoHA and other WW2 shooters is the ability to parachute anywhere in the 
 level at the beginning and the weapon level up system. It's still a solid shooter with some awesome 
 levels.
  
  Story: You play as Boyd Travers, a member of the United States Airborne Division. Your character 
 never talks or shows any sort of emotion throughout the game, maybe to make you feel like the main 
 character much like Valve's approach to Half Life 2, this doesn't work well for MoHA though because 
 EA takes no attempt to imerse you in the game as there is basically no dialogue or cutscenes other 
 than mission briefings, soldiers giving you orders, and an after mission report. The game adds 
 a final level which turns out to be a sort of "fantasy setting" where you face off against a giant 
 flak gun tower filled with elite Nazi's who carry around MG42's and can take a full clip of machine 
 gun ammo. This turns out to be one of the best levels in the game.
  
  Graphics: The game has decent graphics with the first and last level looking especially good, most 
 textures are bland or blurry however and much of the character models are poorly detailed and have 
 blocky faces. The guns are well detailed, feel powerful and have fantastic sound effects. There 
 are noticeable glitches though with texture pop ins, especially while parachuting, you can see 
 all the trees and miscellaneous objects poping out of nowhere and sometimes it can take a full 
 30 seconds for a texture to load. 
  
  Gameplay: MoHA plays like your standard FPS except you click the right stick to melee and have 
 to cycle your weapons for grenades. In the beginning of each level you parachute in from an airplane 
 and can choose any place on the map to land. Each mission starts with a set of objectives (which 
 are surprisingly varied) and as soon as you've finished them, you stop parachuting in when you 
 die. The areas with green smoke are the "safe zones" and contain crates of ammo health. You may 
 want to avoid groups of enemies though because they have perfect accuracy with every weapon, which 
 can be incredibly frustrating, especially on levels with snipers. EA included a pretty cool weapon 
 leveling system for the single and multiplayer. The more you use each weapon, the more experience 
 you gain with that weapon which causes it to level up, giving you upgrades that range from larger 
 clips, to grenade launchers. The combat gets intense with Nazi's all on the mindset of "kill you 
 no matter what it takes". If you kill an enemy on a turret, another quickly takes his place. They 
 constantly chuck grenades in your direction, and blindfire from random areas.
  
  Value: MoHA has little replay value (unless you want to go through and unlock achievements and 
 find secret drop zones) . There's 6 levels which can take around 6-8 hours to complete. There's 
 a multiplayer that plays really well with one team starting as Nazi's on the ground and Americans 
 air dropping in on each respawn. The same Weapon leveling system in the single player is found 
 here except that each weapon levels easier and the weapon types for each team share experience 
 so if you level up your BAR as an American, your Sturmgewehr will also level. MoHA is probably 
 too short to buy, and not many people still play the multiplayer, you may want to rent it because 
 of low replay value and a dieing multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamfields87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  I know this is a late review, but I just got the game and I have to say I enjoy playing it greatly. 
 Sure, it could be quite easy to run and gun through the levels, but putting the difficulty on a 
 tougher level is the way to go.
  
  The idea of landing anywhere you choose in a walled-in map, which is fairly aptly sized for the 
 gameplay, is a phenomenal idea and an enriching experience. Be weary that you can be shot down 
 by enemy snipers if you stray too far away from the "green landing zone" sigified by green smoke 
 on the map. Also, botching your landings can be utterly frustrating, especially if you're not in 
 your green zone, as enemies will pounce on you. It's like throwing a grain of sugar into an ant 
 pile. However, learning from your experiences can pay off, as you may be able to unveil some challenge 
 landings (5 for each level) and be awarded your wings.
  
  The iron sights are great, the hit detection isn't ass good as CoD4 or Rainbow Six: Vegas, but 
 it'll suffice. The cover system, per se', isn't so much a cover system as much as it is an iron 
 sight/duck and rope-a-dope system. You can use your sights (by utilizing the left trigger) and 
 basically bob and weave, crouch and stand, to avoid enemy gunfire. It's not as nice as sticking 
 to cover via the left trigger mapping in Rainbow Six Vegas, but it's a fairly doable alternative 
 and the cover, when behind it, will protect you.
  
  Graphically, MoHA won't blow you away. Don't get me wrong, the graphics aren't bad by any stretch, 
 they just aren't top notch. CoD4 has set the mark in that department, even though MoHA was released 
 before Infinity Ward's title. However, there are some nice environments and the framerate rarely 
 sputters.
  
  During the single-player campaign, your weapons become upgradable via a meter in the bottom right 
 of your screen. Hit so meany foes with your Sturmgewher 44, and get a larger cip capacity and eventually 
 a fitted scope. This is a fantastic touch and a great innovative idea to weapons upgrades. It works 
 very well, and achieving a weapons upgrade is entirely satisfying.
  
  I've yet to try multiplayer, but I can't imagine it being a disappointment. If it's anywhere near 
 as good as RSVegas or CoD4, then it'll suffice as an alternative.
  
  All in all, EA did a fine jub with this title, although some textures and explosions could have 
 received an upgrade, as well as lighting effects. Those complaints aside, they do little to marr 
 your experience with what might be the last WWII shooter to hit shelves until Brothers in Arms: 
 Hell's Highway. MoHA is a good time, and it's just plain fun to shoot Nazi's in the face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Most people battle between COD and MOH. I like both. WW2 never gets old, its just how you present 
 it. In this game everything feels fresh and exciting and what really shines is its multiplayer!
 
  
  The gameplay for singleplayer is like any singleplayer. You start out each level parachuting from 
 an airplane but YOU choose where to land. You can land in the street, on a roof, even on a soldier 
 and kill him! Its all up to you! No set points or objectives. You take how you want! You kill enough 
 people with a weapon and it upgrades something on it. After awhile you have maxed out your weapon 
 to its peak and you got a kick butt weapon! For multiplayer its pretty much the same thing except 
 the host can choose if who spawns from the ground or the air and if weapons get upgrades.
  
  This is definitely game you can play over and over beacuse you can start anywhere you want! 
 And trust me it makes you change your thinking when you land on a tower instead of a landing lets 
 say ion the middle of a Nazi bunker!
  
  The graphics are a major improvement over last generation! While you can tell things are in a cramped 
 environment, its still fun. 
  
  The controls are pretty easy on this one.
  
  The music is pretty good and the sound is even better! WW2 never have bad sound!
  
  The only 
 problem with this game is online there is a massive amount of spawn camping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davejudge
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I am motivated to write this as I have only just acquired MOHA and whilst I am loathe to review 
 it yet I am moved to do so as I have read the reviews for Halo3 and I cannot think that the reviewer 
 must be the brother of someone who is a code writer for the project.
  Arh I hear you say what the heck has this got to do with MOH.
  Well I am having more fun with 
 this game than the 7.5 hours it took me to clock Halo3.
  I am now convinced that not only are the reviews for certain games twisted to favor some corporate 
 relationship but the reviewers are unable to grasp the concept of 'What is a good FPS'
  Yes MOH is not perfect yes the graphics are average for this generation of machine. But it did 
 not come at me 5000 MPH as did Halo 3 only for me to take as long as I take to have a cofee and 
 eat breakfast.
  Halo 3 is the MOST OVERRATED game of 2007.
  MOH ..... guys you keep on doing what you do best make me feel happy that I am playing a game that 
 is at the very least a little challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OlfKin
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  I just rented this game and it's not bad. Honestly I don't think it's worth 60 bucks.
  Its only good to rent but not to buy. The Graphics are probly a 8 they could have done better. 
 Also they could have made co-op, and deathmatch to play with your friends. I would give this game 
 maybe a 8. The game could be beaten in maybe 4 hours if you good at the MOH series. It only took 
 me about 5 hours.
  But i was expecting more.
  I think it was a total letdown = (
  The gameplay hasn't really changed, but the weapon upgrade is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I have avoided this game like the plague for a while now. MoH games have been getting progressively 
 worse with each new title and when all hope is lost here comes Airborne to save the day.
  
  I rented this one and then quickly purchased it. The gameplay is hardly new, other than air dropping 
 into each level. However, there are two main reasons i purchased this one and can't stop playing 
 it. A. I and the cover system.
  
  First the A. I. The enemy in the game are tough and not just because of their numbers, they are ruthless 
 and smart. They'll flank you, run for cover and hide. They'll charge at you, but run right by and 
 take cover. They throw grenades to flush you out of cover then try to unload on you. This game 
 has very good A. I and presents a great challenge even on normal difficulty.
  
  Second, the cover system works great and you'll need it to survive. Duck behind cover, hold the left 
 trigger and you can peer left, right or over top of whatever you're behind and it feels very smooth 
 and natural.
  
  Lastly, the game uses the Unreal 3 engine and it looks very nice.
  
  If you have been put off by the MoH series lately, give this game a rent at the very least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_monkey_god
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 29, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  I love WWII games so this game gave me hopes. I cast all of my memories of the rest of the MOH 
 games aside. You know the first level kicked ass then after that the game went down hill. That 
 is the way all the MOH games have been. But not this one. This game is well lack of a better word 
 CRAP! And it is a big piling steam of it. My hopes were crushed in an 30 minute play. Why? Well 
 lets go through the reasons.
  
  1. Graphics- They look ok. Not great not bad just ok. Though there is a lot of clipage.
  2. Shooting- 
 Wow I cant hit for **** No really I had to put it on the lowest difficulty to hit some thing before 
 I died. The aiming is bad. Some time you shoot the guy and he does not get hit. Targeting is slow 
 while players are fast. And I sware this had me frustrated so much I wanted to chunk my controller 
 at the wall.
  3. Story- Well I did not expect this to be great because it is a WWII game. But to shorten it up 
 there is no story. You just jump and kill after having to watch a slide show. Yep a slide show. 
 (Boring)
  4. Game play- You have seen it before. Ok so jumping out an airplane into battle is new but it 
 could have been better. Way better. First of all you cant land any where on the map you want. Second 
 landing out side of the drop zone usually gets you killed in a blink of an eye. Then some times 
 enemys will spawn out of thin air in front of you. Which ends up with you screaming and cussing 
 at the screen.
  5. Multiplayer- Same old same. Been there done that and done it better. To sum it all up dont get 
 this game at all Call of Duty does it better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prsorensen
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Frontline was what got me into FPS games and I have fond memories of being sniped 
 from the water towers and blasted by the tank (early in the game) .
  
  My expectations were very high for MOH Airborne, but I was very disappointed. The single-player 
 is ok at best. The hit recognition and accuracy are very poor. These also play heavily into my 
 major disappointment in the multi-player-game poor frame rates, poor hit recognition and poor accuracy 
 really bring it down tremendously. It is fun to jump out of the airplane on Ally and fun to pick 
 off paratroopers on Axis, but it cannot make up for the shortfalls that I mentioned before. Shame 
 on EA for not doing a better job. I have already returned my copy to Gamestop and I won't be buying 
 MOH games in the future (if there are any) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosie513
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 8/10. They are not Gears of War good but they are definitely better than a great percentage 
 of 360 games Ive played. Lighting and textures are sweet. I love the fact that looking down you 
 see your body, boots, zippers..... very nice.
  
  Sound: 10/10. Superb.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10. Admittedly this game is hard... even the "Casual" setting will give you a challenge. 
 My favorite genre of game is FPS so I like the difficulty level of this game. That said.... Dying 
 does not frustrtae me as it did with the CoD series. Everyone is complaining about hit detection 
 in MoH Airborne.... personally I see no problem at all. I very much enjoy this game I believe Game 
 Spot did a great injustice giving this game the rating it did. It blows the socks off any CoD game. 
 More realistic, more challenging, NOT linear whatsoever. Bravo to the developers. There are a few 
 minor glitches, the AI could be better, blah, blah, blah. Buy this game if you like a good FPS.
 
  
  Value: 9.5/10. A little short on the Sp side... but worth every cent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmorice
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  The game was a good time, and worth playing. It could have used more save points, getting killed 
 results in having to re-fight through whole platoons again. The weapons were standard cool; as 
 with many shooters the sniper rifle and shotgun will carry you most of the way.
  
  The enemies did not have much variety until the last three sections, and only the heavy machine 
 gunners presented a real challenge (in fact a level of challenge that was not consistent with the 
 rest of game) .
  
  The most interesting feature was the parashooting, which allows you to land behind or on top of 
 particularly difficult areas in order to get through them. The jumping mechanism did not take long 
 to master, and made to exciting variations to the levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orin_Steel
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 22, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Well,
  What can I say. I have been a pretty loyal fan to the MOH series and was pretty stoked to play 
 this one for the first time. Something I have learned is that if you want to know how the game 
 was ment to be played you play it on the most difficult setting possible. Would have been a pretty 
 good game overall, but of course the story line has been used and even when dropping from the sky 
 your options of control are limited. I can live with all of this, even the slightly yesterday gameplay. 
 There was nothing new to note about this game. So, I would have been bored if I would not have 
 turned the game up to expert.
  
  So, the biggest problem of this game is the check points. You do not get enough of them and then 
 when you do it is always in the worst place possible. Now I have a pretty slow burning fuse to 
 begin with, but the checkpoints got my blood broiling in 2.2seconds. In otherwords, I go out on 
 a date with this hot ass game, that I have been courting around with for a few weeks and then it 
 doesn't even put out like her sisters. That's just BS. The old rule of thumb is that if it is not 
 broken then do not fix it. The whole Airborne thing was a nice touch but you do not even get to 
 do much with it, except find skill jump points. Woopie!!!! That's a kiss with no tounge. For all 
 you moms out there looking for a game to get little Timmy for his 8th birthday, this is the one. 
 Just becareful because this may be all the action he sees in his life. The only thing that made 
 this game hard was that it was hard not to pull this game out of my Xbox and feed it to my garbage 
 disposal.
  
  Hey EA, what happened? Who's that over there is that 2K? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b0-0n
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The marketing responsible for Medal of Honor: Airborne did his job excellently, no doubt. On the 
 mantra of less linearity and spectacular parachute jumps previewers and EA announced the resurrection 
 of the WW2 series. We opened our parachute and looked whether this new product manages to land 
 well in our games collection. Let's cut to the chase: the jumping is a nice finding, but nothing 
 more than a gadget. Even in BF1942 we could already enter the battlefield from a parachute and 
 the only addition is that you can land anywhere in the level to your own choice. Don't expect too 
 much from it, as although this indeed allows to start missions where you want, the choice for a 
 not by a green flare pointed position nine times out of ten results in a quick death.
  
  Once landed you can finish the objectives (blow something up, search, kill, check compass &amp; 
 follow the arrow, fall asleep) as you want. Nice, but the experience does remain linear as you 
 can still only blow up a piece of artillery by putting a piece of pasta with fuse on it. There 
 are no multiple solutions for one problem and often the open levels exist out of a couple of main 
 streets that you'll constantly end up in. Fun is that you can sometimes land on a tower or roof 
 after which you're in a perfect position to play sniper for a while. Those that love that will 
 most certainly find this a plus.
  
  Conclusion on the freedom: nice, but all but as deep or gameplay-determining as the PR-dudes want 
 us to believe.
  
  The rest of the game is nothing more or less than what we've seen so many times already. The storyline 
 is non-existing as except from some briefings where you hardly find out your name you'll have to 
 do with Jump men! And don't forget to shoot! . Some, and then mostly the later ones, of the six 
 levels do succeed in setting down a good and immersive atmosphere, amongst other things thanks 
 to the neat sound effects, and the feeling that your approach does have an effect on the course 
 of the battle.
  
  The AI of the opponents is quite aggressive. They'll run up to you as soon as they see a chance 
 and will give cover fire to pin you down. Also grenades are thrown at you correctly and the machine 
 guns do form a real threat. Of course they're sometimes less bright like when five opponents or 
 so man the same gun so that you can shoot them one by one from the church tower.
  
  What bothered me more are a couple of very frustrating gameplay elements. Your melee attack for 
 instance is very weak, and you'll all too often die in hand to hand combat. Also the unlucky placement 
 of the sprint-button is clumsy. Worse is the fact that the hit detection is all but optimal. Despite 
 the known iron sights to aim better you'll miss incredibly often while being sure you were aiming 
 correctly. This is made even worse by the shaky animations of the opponents which makes them switch 
 from sitting to walking or standing in one frame. Good on the other hand is the way you can take 
 cover and look above, next or below the thing you're behind. And you can stay there easily for 
 an hour as there's little destructable environments present.
  
  Concerning the basic gameplay Airborne just falls short, eventhough you'll forget those shortcomings 
 after a while and learn to live with them. Rifles of that time will probably have shot in a not-so-straight-line 
 back in the day, no? Be aware that this game will appeal more to the hardcore shooter fanatics, 
 and even more as it works with savepoints and your team mates have the tendency to stand in your 
 way. Some innovations like automatic upgrades (less recoil, alternative possibilities, larger clips) 
 of your most used weapon manage to keep the whole just refreshing enough to make the 6 to 10 hour 
 lifespan pleasant.
  
  Online there's of course the possibility to play war a bit longer, with a series of gametypes where 
 up to 12 people can fight at the same time. The parachute jumping here is a lot of fun as your 
 non-suspecting enemies can be kicked in the neck and you can infiltrate enemy lines without being 
 seen. Campers better grow a couple of additional eyes! On top of that the game plays fluid and 
 especially veterans of WW2 will feel at home.
  
  We already mentioned the good sound effects and also the music is decent. Graphically Airborne 
 can't make much of an impression, probably due to the large environments, but the player models, 
 opponents and settings are a bit dull and little varied. No eye candy but convincing enough to 
 never bother and now and then put a nice picture on your screen.
  
  Medal of Honor: Airborne won't make FPS-haters turn sides, but the more hardened shooter fans will 
 be occupied with it for a couple of hours. Too bad about the problems with the hit detection, the 
 animations and the in the end d&eacute; j&agrave;-vu objectives, as we did have some fun thanks 
 to the refreshing feel of the weapons, the parachute jumps and the in the end satisfying final 
 missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOW_Panther
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Im keeping this short because this game doesnt deserve a long review........ Just got the game today 
 and do I feel like an idiot. This game got so much hype from EA it sickens me. I played the demo 
 and thouhgt it wasnt too bad but I did notice the frame rate to be choppy, the accuracy of weapons 
 is off due the hit system in MOHAA, the action is very repetitive, the cut scenes are obnoxious 
 and the objectives are not very in depth. All these factors lead right into the actual MOHAA game. 
 What does impress me though is that there are detailed graphics, the music is superb and the beginning 
 of each level with dropping out of an airplane is fun. Other than that, not much else sticks out 
 to me. Multiplayer is okay, but once again nothing really impressive. All in all, just wasted 60 
 bucks when I could have easily rented it and been happy. Please dont do what I did......... I MISS 
 MEDAL OF HONOR, MEDAL OF HONOR: UNDERGROUND, and MEDAL OF HONOR: FRONTLINE!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JefrsnAirplne69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Occasionally, there comes a game that will redefine a genre, a genre that just is begging to be 
 redefined. That genre is Dubya-Dubya Two FPS's. That game that will redefine the genre... is not 
 this game. That doesn't mean that Medal Of Honor: Airborne won't give you a overall good game play 
 experience.
  
  Game play
  Airborne's game play is just plain fun, albeit difficult. Jumping out of the Airplanes at beginning 
 of levels is actually fun and executed with a degree of goodness. The only problem is that there 
 are certain spots you can land. So that means, that yes, you get a good sized place to land, but 
 only certain places that aren't crawling with Jerries. And yes, sadly, that means you will die. 
 You will die a lot, even on normal I died at least 5 times on the first level alone. Also the hit 
 detection isnt very good, so expect to shoot a guy 3 times in the head, and it doesn't help matters 
 that, a: You enemies are crackshots and, b: the melee attack is weak and it has the very worst 
 hit detection and that your enemy can kill you in about 4 seconds if you get in a melee fight.
 
  Another addition the developers added was the ability to upgrade weapons and this is executed 
 very well. I enjoyed upgrading my Thompson until it was a walking death device, and the amount 
 of upgrades and weapons there are will keep you from never getting bored with weapons. Verdict: 
 Solid Game play, though slightly difficult.
  
  Multi player
  This is MOH Airborne's true time to shine. As always the multi player in this game is exceptional. 
 It's fun, and thats all that matters ( in my opinion at least) . There are several problems I think 
 they could've fixed. Ok, 1. Its really freaking annoying getting shot outta the sky when you parachute 
 (the Yanks get to parachute on certain scenarios) and 2. The team mate indicator isn't very clear, 
 so expect to get TK'ed a lot.
  Verdict: Fun Multiplayer, albeit slightly needs improvement
  
  The Good
  -Fun parachuting
  - Levels are pretty fun
  -Lots of weapons and upgrades
 
  -Good graphics
  
  The Bad
  -Crack shot enemies
  -Bad hit detection
  -The upgrading enemies get kind of annoying
  -High difficultly The WTF
  -The Nazis had super 
 soldiers armed with MG 42's???
  -Who the hell is the 82nd Airborne??
  -All the airborne troops were privates??
  -Some of the landing areas the developers made are 
 suicidal in real life
  
  So overall Medal Of Honor Airborne is a game that is fun with problems, but still fun none the 
 less, so I would say, if you have a 360 Medal Of Honor Airborne is worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalhead164
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Airborne is the newest WWII shooter out and is amazingly not as good as the last 
 MOH games. MOH Airborne puts you back in the WWII setting. In this version, you will start in 1943 
 and will play through some of the most important operations of WWII like Operation Avalanche, Operation 
 Husky, and Operation Market Garden. Graphics- Graphics are a big difference since the ones we have 
 played on the PS2. They make you feel like you are in the presence of an actual battle. Except 
 for the blurry vision when you are zooming in with the sniper.
  
  Gameplay- Gameplay is not as good as some of the other MOH games. This game is a little worse than 
 the others. The laginess is hard getting used to especially with the sniper. The game is also challenging. 
 No matter what difficulty you are on. Your enemies are smart, they know how to kill you. You should 
 start on the casual difficulty first and beat the game. Then you unlock all the weapons for the 
 normal and expert difficulty, plus you remember some strategies to kill the enemies. The value 
 of the game is also good. This is a fun one to play on xbox live. It is better though to play this 
 game on the champaign first, then you can learn the maps better. But other than the laginess this 
 is a fun and very challenging game, but don't take my word for it that it is hard, unless you are 
 going to start on the normal difficulty. That's what I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Medal of honor Airborne is definitely not a bad game because everything that you would expect from 
 a typical WW2 FPS is there besides, the game adds new features that have never been introduced 
 to the genre before; namely parachuting and landing almost anywhere as well as the weapons upgrades.
 
  
  Medal of honor AB features a very intense experience that doesn't fail to deliver fun and immersion, 
 in fact I found the game pretty impressive in terms of the amount of fun you could get out of it. 
 The graphics aren't less impressive either , and I can tell you that there are some very good lighting 
 effects and intact textures and the use of Unreal engine was much of a wise decision. I was not 
 disappointed by the graphics at all and unlike some review I found medal of honor AB as graphically 
 impressive in every respect.
  
  The gameplay is lots of fun too, althought the parachuting doesn't add much to the game and it 
 still is a typical ww2 FPS, however, if you like the genre you wont mind this and certainly won't 
 be let down. the game also has a weapon up-grade system, which I believe wasn't integrated into 
 any ww2 game before and it works pretty well. the cover system is one of the best in the genre 
 because you can pop up using the analog stick and take few shots then prone down and the way it 
 works is quite perfect after a small learning curve. Other than that, MoH AB remains a copy of 
 its brothers in the genre. the game is also too short, 6 levels that you can run through in around 
 6 to 8 hours of gameplay.
  
  to wrap it up, I think that MoH AB could have done better than that in order to compete with games 
 like Call of Duty and brothers in arms, but as it is, the game would not totally disappointing 
 for the fans of the series, and I personally like call of duty series much more but I found a lot 
 of fun
  playing this one as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  In general terms, this is an entertaining WWII shooter with impressive graphics and atmospheric 
 sound, as well as authentic Second World War settings. However, where it goes wrong is precisely 
 where it has tried to be innovative... I was under the impression (from the trailer here on Amazon) 
 that different approaches could be used to complete the same objective (ie assault a gun emplacement 
 or, instead, destroy it's ammo, or destroy it's targeting radar) . I was wrong. Every single objective 
 must be completed (although not in a specific order) , involving going somewhere and planting a 
 bomb, then going somewhere else and planting another bomb etc. The weapons upgrading also sounded 
 great, earning new parts for your guns as your skill increases. But unlocking the add-ons isn't 
 nearly as compelling as it seems and several of them are more annoying than useful. The parachuting, 
 which is supposed to let you pick where you go into the fighting is also next to useless. Your 
 options are pretty much a) land at the pre-assigned green smoke area or b) land anywhere else and 
 die instantly from the German you can't fight back at for 5-20 seconds. There's not that much range 
 in adjusting your landing anyway. Another good idea wasted. Rather than a squad to command, there 
 are now simply groups of allied troops charging around. However, these clumps of men are seemingly 
 random meaning that sometimes you'll have plenty of support (with appalling AI) and at other times 
 you'll have none. The MOH team should've learned a thing or two from those behind the 'Battlefield' 
 and 'Brothers in Arms' franchises. The enemy are one of the worst elements of the game. They are 
 literally endless, respawning continuously until you complete the objective in that area. This 
 means that there can be no tactics, stealth or patience in your combat style, since waiting for 
 that perfect shot will just allow another five Germans to appear out of nowhere. However, the grand 
 prize for letting this game down goes to it being really, really short. I completed it in three 
 days. Three days! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chEEsey120
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is really a good game, getting to land wherever you want and take out the objectives 
 in any order are some of the best things in games. Another good feature is upgrading the weapons 
 to make them more accurate, powerful and reload and shoot faster. This is not a game where you 
 can just run and gun because you'll find yourself dying over and over again. You have to take cover 
 and try to flank and snipe when you can. This game has pretty good replay value do to the ability 
 to land where ever you feel like, whether it is right in the action or in a distant tower to snipe. 
 I think that you will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PizzaWizard13
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  -Gameplay-
  its a WWII shooter and its really cool. you get to jump out of airplanes and upgrade weapons in 
 the game. you also get to blow up tanks and get headshots with a sniper rifle.
  
  -Graphics-
  the graphics in this game are amazing, and i dont even have an HD tv!
  
  -Sound-
 
  Sound is great, i guess, id suggest putting on the sub titles because its hard to hear people 
 giving you orders with gunshots and explosions in the background.
  
  -Value-
  This game only has like 6 or 7 levels and you could beat the game in a weekend. id suggest renting 
 it because its a waste to buy it, play it once or twice, and never play it again.
  
  -Final Thoughts-
  if your looking for a game to play rent or buy MoH: Airborne its a really good 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floridajoe03
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  You play as a guy named boyd travers and you parachute into numerous ww2 locations such as sicily 
 and normandy. The story line doesnt make much sense because one level your in sicily, then you 
 go into Southern Italy, and then Boom! your in normandy. Speaking of the campaign, it only has 
 6 levels, and the last two are the only action packed ones.
  
  On the good side, the recoil isn't as bad as everybody makes it seem. Some upgrades make you gun's 
 accuracy better anyways. You get upgrades by using the certain guns in combat. You get bonus exp. 
 points for your guns if you get a head shot, kill three or five enemies in a row, or using melee 
 kills. The Upgrades are fun to get and give you a sense of accomplishment when you achieve them.
 
  
  There are good achievments to earn in this game too. Such as upgrading 1, of your guns fully, or 
 five, or all of them. Other achivements include performing a drop kick kill.
  
  All in All, this is a game that has great potential, but is made worse by a short campaine and 
 slight errors. Any hardcore WW2 FPS player would truely apprieciate this title, others might find 
 this game just okay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Metal Of Honor Airborne continues the popular MOH series and and the tradition of solid game play. 
 If you have played any of the MOH or Call of Duty series, this game offers more of same Nazi-killing 
 goodness. Significant changes to game play comes from the ability to land and start the game anyway 
 on the map, leveling up weapons, and objectives that can usually be accomplished in any order and 
 a greater reliance on cover. More than ever, there is a very heavy reliance on cover - run and 
 gun tactics will get you killed. Methodical and patient strategies need to be applied. This is 
 a welcome change from the numerous brain dead shooters. Controls themselves are overall good but 
 I did find it frustrating not being able to throw grenades with one button, instead of switch back 
 and forth between guns and grenades. While the levels themselves appear small, level design is 
 quite intricate with multiple paths and options to completion. Supporting the level design is good 
 AI; you truly feel like fighting with other members in an epic battle against smart enemies. The 
 single player campaign is taut and highly enjoyable with the one complaint being that it ends all 
 too quickly. Graphics and sound come together to a final layer of shine on a game that is already 
 good without good graphics/sound.
  
  Simply put, if you like games like Call of Duty or shooters in general, this is a game you must 
 play.
  
  8.5 / 10
  
  Visit my gaming blog/forum www. gamingdump. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxplayingdork
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  I think the only reason why Airborne didn't get a higher review score is because it's a WWII shooter. 
 A genre with far too many titles. So I guess, if you just lump it in with the rest of them, it's 
 just more of the same.
  
  I however have not played all those other WWII shooters. I've played a few of them, but not all 
 by any means. And I think MOHA is an amazing game. I find it fun to play over and over again. I 
 strive to master all the highest ratings on each weapon. The game is challenging, but not frustratingly 
 so. And yet, the gameplay is frantic! Constantly surrounded by enemies. Running (which looks so 
 cool) , ducking behind cover and then peering out to shoot the enemy. Running away, or kicking back, 
 incoming grenades. It's just A LOT of fun.
  
  The one complaint I have is sniping. You can't just zoom in and snipe away. You have to slow down, 
 hold your breath, and THEN you can shoot. And even then sometimes, you miss. VERY frustrating. 
 I've gotten accustomed to it, and better at it I suppose, but I would prefer a easy long distance 
 kill as compared to a more realistic sniping simulation.
  
  All that said, I think this game is just great. I'm not a MOH fanboy or a CoD hater or anything 
 like that. I just like a good game. And I just LOVE playing it. Definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  You play as a guy named Travers who is in the United States Airborne division. Basically, your 
 character and the rest of his troops jump out of planes and into different WW2 locations and basically 
 either destroy something or kill nazis. Theres really no story like the other Medal of Honor games 
 where you feel that your character is doing something extrodinary (like in Frontline where you 
 infiltrate a German base disguised as a Nazi with some Nazi papers) . You get your usual array of 
 weapons in this game ranging anywhere from the M1 Garand and BAR assault rifle to the Panzershrek, 
 Springfield sniper rifle and MP40. However, each gun is terribly inaccurate and do almost the same 
 amout of damage as each other. What do I mean? Well for example I will be holding a Thompson machine 
 gun, I will literally empty and entire clip into one soldier and he will do. On the next victim 
 I used the Gweher and it took me an entire clip to lay him out. You are also awarded upgrades to 
 your guns such as less recoil or a scope if you score enough headshots and kills with said guns. 
 However, most of the upgrades are completley useless since the aiming and recoil (even with the 
 upgrade for less recoil ) is still atrocious.
  
  Lets talk hit detection. Pretty much, no matter where you shoot a Nazi... he will simply shrug it 
 off and run away. You could shoot him in the chest with a Springfield (which in real life would 
 blow a huge gaping hole in his chest cavity) , he'll stagger for a minute and then dive behind cover. 
 This is EXTREMLEY annoying, and is actually one of the reasons a previous MOH game did so bad (anyone 
 remember Rising Sun?) .
  
  The multiplayer is garbage. If your allies, you parachute into the action. Sounds cool right? Not 
 when enemies snipers just keep picking you off before you hit the ground. It probably wouldn't 
 be so bad if you could.. oh, I don't know.. shoot a gun while parachuting?! Basically, your a target 
 until you hit the ground. Ontop of that, your allies and enemies aren't clearly labeled. So for 
 instance, you'll see a character standing there with no name or anything above his head... you 
 kill him, and boom you score a team kill because you had no idea. God, so lame.
  
  Your allies AI is disgusting. They will just stand there and get shot at without doing anything. 
 The best example I have of this is in the 4th level where you are fighting in the city - I had 
 an allied troop taking cover in a ruined building.... with an enemy standing right next to him. 
 Terrible.
  
  And additionally, I guess the game testers must have been sleeping when they gave this game the 
 thumbs up. On more than one occassion bullets would go right through the walls or cover you are 
 trying to hide behind. LAMMMEEEEEEE.
  
  Oh, and expect to have a screaming match with your TV. This is one of the hardest titles ever. 
 You'll die over and over and over and over and over and over just to gain an inch of land and then 
 have it taken away because the checkpoint system is garbage. Since your AI is so bad and there 
 are clipping issues, you'll basically be fighting the entire Nazi army by yourself.
  
  The graphics aren't next gen, and are actualyl a step down from what Call of Duty has set as a 
 standard for the genre of WW2 shooters. Characters look choppy, the explosions are pixelated and 
 sloppy, and the only thing good about the graphics are the environments &amp; guns.
  
  As for as music goes, this has the worst soundtrack in the entire franchise. I was deeply dissapointed 
 with the generic war time music used instead of the epic chorus and strings usually used. And the 
 fact that the theme song isn't even the same is heart shattering.
  
  As far as I'm concerned, the Medal of Honor games are dead. This is just a terrible game all around, 
 and its really sad because I'm a huge fan of the series. The sheer lack of effort in almost every 
 aspect of the game makes this an untouchable title. 2.5 rounds spent in my Garand out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohslax33
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I must say out of all the games that came out this summer this one is a must have. This game is 
 great. You have more freedom in this game than any other, you parachute down from your plane and 
 onto buildings or into alley ways. You can land with your team or land behind enemy lines. Same 
 in multiplayer. You either hold of the paratroopers or you are a paratrooper. The levels are ideal 
 for multiplayer and rank among the top few multiplayer first person shooter games out there. I 
 say this is a great game and one that all first person shooter fans will love. EA makes a great 
 comeback to rival the call of duty series and i think bringing back medal of honor was a good call 
 for them. Hopefully we see some modern stuff from them soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  After a seemingly endless wave of gritty wartime blasters from Call Of Duty to Hour Of Victory, 
 the last thing gamers need right now is another WWII gun-toter. But in taking the action to the 
 skies, moving away from linear levels and adopting landscapes with more opportunities for vertical 
 gunplay, the latest Medal Of Honor succeeds in making harrowing battlefield action feel fresh again.
 
  
  At the beginning of each level players are parachuted into a teeming battlefield, each based on 
 a real skirmish the first wave of US WWII combat drops. But aside from the perilous descent which 
 sees players unable to use guns and at the mercy of German antiaircraft fire and canny snipers, 
 these airborne set-pieces also change how the levels play; moving away from the linear layout of 
 most war games, players can enter the fire-fights anywhere they like on the map - in turn challenging 
 gamers to land in a safe place where they can hook up with allies - and the unscripted nature of 
 the battles allows you to see German lines getting forced backwards as you advance into hostile 
 territory. Parachuting into the levels also gives players the chance to land on vertical structures 
 such as church rooftops, then rain death on enemy soldiers lurking on the streets below.
  
  Other new features such as the ability to upgrade your gun and pull off perfect headshots by gently 
 squeezing the trigger also help Airborne feel different to the other wartime blasters, and while 
 theres a steep learning curve to master by being dropped into combat, nailing this unique approach 
 makes for a more satisfying and nerve-racking experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve_59
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 27, 2007 3:54 am PT
Review:  Have played through 4 campaigns and I am sorry to say this game has not lived up to my expectations. 
 Having to go over the same ground over and over again if you haven't reach a checkpoint just gets 
 boring, Also the balance with the shooting is very one sided i. e., even if you have the enemy in 
 your sights at a fairly short range you can fire at least 4-5 bullets into that figure and they 
 still run away and then the enemy seem to me to have the ability to shoot through walls and many 
 a time I was under good cover only to be shot and have to re-start. As for the grenades you might 
 not as well use them as the same thing happens you throw one just next to an enemy and even if 
 they only move a short distant from it still doesn't have any effect were as if one falls fairly 
 close to you and you move it good as well kills you. I know this type of game is all about completing 
 objectives but to be honest I just found it not worth playing. It is a shame as it could have been 
 a good game but for me the flaws and some of the graphics just made it unplayable for me. I am 
 going to wait and see if the new Brothers in Arms is any better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZENOALPHA
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  I'll simplify it. In most respects, this game is more about refining the details than it is about 
 innovating them. However, with exception of the Brother in Arms series, this game manages to develop 
 a game that in many ways is superior than many of the more popular shooters in its genre. This 
 goes without openly admitting that there are a few technical mistakes and many missed opportunities. 
 In all, i am only comparing Airborne by the content made available on the disk. Side by side with 
 other shooters, it manages to stand tall, but not alone. I really enjoyed the game.
  PROS: 1. amazing physics engine 2. unpredictable A. I 3. nice detail 4. open combat 5. Hard but 
 not tedious expert level. 6. immersive
  CONS: 1. poor hit detection at times 2. moments when the only combatant is you (unrealistic) . 3. 
 good but underdeveloped MP 4. no co-op 5. could have used more time for DEV. 6. only six levels 
 7. an enemy boss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahid_xbox_360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  When you jump into the battle field by parachute Ah world war 2. as long as game developers make 
 games about world war 2 we would play it and accept it with open arms. Even sometimes I think I 
 was a soldier in world war 2 with lot of memories . cause I can even roam in some specific area 
 in my mind. When I saw some places in medal of honor airborne it was completely familiar to me 
 . medal of honor is a bit different from the other world war 2 games and thats because you start 
 every missions with a plane and parachute . but after you reach the ground everything is as same 
 as the other world war 2 games. Before everything I should say the game is really really very perfect 
 at music . I believe this game has the best music of first person shooter games the world have 
 ever seen . the music is honorable , epic and mature. Also the graphic is good in some cases like 
 explosion but it, s almost but not complete and it could be better. But it, s still the best graphic 
 in all world war2 games. Unluckily the game has got some problem with engine, s physic . what do 
 you feel if you throw a grenade by a wall and after explosion the wall be as same as before. Well 
 this was not a problem one or two years ago but when we had saw the games like gears of war , resistance 
 or also upcoming games like call of duty 4 then we would expect a better physic in next generation 
 games engine.
  the game looks good and if you are fan of world war 2 battle fields then this is a great game for 
 you. The game itself is a bit easy and it, s not a very long game because the AI is not very tough 
 . the soldiers will try to take cover most of the time but you can always take care of them by 
 your snipe . and maybe sometimes they would run toward you like a wild dog and you can kill them 
 by your rifle or shotgun .at last the game difficulty is reasonable . so if you are fan of world 
 war 2 then buy medal of honor but if you are just a first person shooter lover then HALO 3 is at 
 least enough for one year . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abattoir_blues
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  I think most of us are tired of world war 2 shooters and medal of honor may have been suited better 
 if it came out last year. It is still a good game that holds up as one of the best in the series. Lets 
 face it Medal of Honor had kind of become the least favorite series out of all the WW2 franchises. This 
 one defiantly brings something new with the whole airborne thing.
  
  At the end of the day it still feels like we have been there and done that. The game has a short 
 single player and really does not get very fun until the last couple missions. The game is pretty 
 opened ended and every fight is pretty different. The game does have pretty awful ai and you will 
 often see them just standing there when you are next to them, there is also some weird physics 
 in the game that cause your enemies to go flying when you shoot them. The games graphics are really 
 nice and it has a really nice sound quality.
  
  The multiplayer is really solid, using the airborne is alot of fun and ads to the games replay 
 value. at the end of the day MoH Airborne just feels like a game that could have been good in a 
 different setting. Its a rent for the shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevernight490
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Airborne is by far the best Medal of Honor game to be released. Singleplayer is good, especially 
 with the ability to jump out of your plane and land anywhere on the playing map. This allows you 
 to approach the mission from several different points. For example, the enemy controls a mansion 
 in mission 1, it is heavily defended and trying to get past the MG42 nests at the front is gonna 
 be hell. Why not just land on the roof and take the enemy by surprise? Also, the abillity to upgrade 
 your guns overtime is a fun system.
  
  Multiplayer is suprisingly good. With many buildings to enter and roofs to snipe from, you must 
 always watch your back. Also, because in some gametypes the Allies can parachute in, they can utilize 
 roof acess which the Axis can not climb up to. And there is no better feeling then shooting a guy 
 and killing him while he is dropping in his parachute.
  
  Its Medal of Honor with a Call of Duty 2 feel. Again, best in the series!
  
  I reccomend that 
 all WW2 FPS fans rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Graphics: The game looks quite beautiful. the lighting in particular is very well done and the 
 character models also look nice. Some of the scenes in the c-47 airplanes are stunning in visuals. 
 The graphics have some bland textures here and there, but overall the graphics are quite nice, 
 and the look and feel of the atmosphere is pretty cool. 8.5/10
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is excellent. The weapons all sound very powerful and heavy. All 
 the little noises help to immerse the player. things like you parachute opening, your boots clomping 
 on top of rooftops, the constant sound of c47s flying above you and flak tearing them apart. the 
 great sound carries over in multiplayer as well. it really is a treat! 9.5/10
  
  Gameplay: The control scheme is a little funny at first, but you can always change what control 
 scheme you want to use. The peak/lean system is awesome. the 360 thumbsticks are context sensitive, 
 so when you are behind cover, you can slowly peak up just barely enough to see over cover. in the 
 pc version though, you have to hit the w key to look out of cover and you are either all the way 
 up or all the way down. i like this mechanic on 360 better. The game runs at a pretty solid frame 
 rate, but it does have its moments of chaos where it drops a few frames. Many people complain about 
 the hit detection (along with professional reviewers) and beleive me, they are noobs! its totally 
 over exagerated! the hit detection is fine!!! if you want to see bad hit detection, play brothers 
 in arms (love this game though)
  the AI isnt the best ive seen before but i am playing the game on expert since i know its a very 
 short game. The AI isnt BAD per say, its just not as lethal as that in FEAR for example. its tough 
 for the devs though, with the open environments. they still flank, use cover, suppress you, and 
 sometimes in large groups on veteran are just a b*#&amp;$ to take out. it is a pretty challenging 
 game provided you play on veteran. 8.0/10
  
  Value: ok, so the campaign is wayyy too short, and its too bad because its a really fun single 
 player while it lasts. this is a big factor for a lot of people! the game was definately rushed 
 i admit. the multiplayer seems unpolished and is missing some key features. the gameplay itself 
 is very fun, assuming you get into a decent game. (no lag, full amount of players.)
  i find a couple of maps to be pretty poorly designed, but other than that i love the remakes of 
 the old MOHAA maps. there are only 6 maps and 3 gametypes. the devs need to release a map pack 
 and some new gametypes. they should also add more matchmaking options, and make everything toggleable. 
 such as the names above your enemies heads, the red x hit indicators, stuff like that. but heres 
 the thing. the more i play multiplayer, the more i love it. im addicted to it lately! yes it needs 
 a patch but if you can get into a solid game with decent people, the MP is a load of fun! 7.5/10
 
  
  i recommend this game to anyone who loves ww2 shooters and is willing to be patient and wait for 
 the patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tzar3
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Its been a while since I played a good world war 2 shooter, Medal Of Honor Airborne is fun and 
 will rock your socks off big time, the whole parachuting thing brings something new to the game, 
 you can land anywhere you want but it gets tough when you land near enemies. And its not as linear 
 as the previous games, once your out of the plane and land its time to start the war.
  You can steer the parachute to see which place you wanna start the mission. The graphics are also 
 lovely and very realistic of course, you see planes flying on the sky as the AA guns fire on them 
 and the whole ambient sound of battle makes you feel as if you are in the war yourself. I love 
 the attention to detail especially towards buildings.
  The weapons are pretty good once you start to upgrade them, at first they seem inaccurate and might 
 be a pain which can result in your death, it happnened to me. The weapons seem very real and the 
 sounds and recoil of the guns make it more fun and feel more real. As for the upgrade thing, basicaly 
 the more you use a certain type of gun, the better you get with it and will gain new parts for 
 it which improves its performence. The guns include the famous Thompson sub machine gun, the Kar 
 98 and other ww2 weapons you might of seen in other ww2 shooters.
  One thing that bugged me though was the lenght of the game, it should of been longer, I suggest 
 that you put the difficulty all the way up if you are an expert on shooters. Although short Airborne 
 sure is a fine game to come along quite a while, its a must have for any fan of ww2 shooters. The 
 level's enviorment are made well that could provide a challenge that everyone loves and droping 
 from the sky does add some interest and a little bit of replayability. Medal Of Honor is so far 
 a favourite of mine thats for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastheace
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  It seems you can't read a preview or review of a World War II-based FPS without hearing about how 
 many games there are in the genre. With good reason, too -- it's a crowded one. But just because 
 there are a lot of them doesn't mean there can't be some good ones. Medal of Honor: Airborne is 
 one such game. It starts off really slow, and the whole parachuting hook is little more than a 
 gimmick; but later on the game realizes its potential and gets good. There's not much of a story 
 to Airborne. It's WWII; Nazis need killing and the world needs saving. You're in the Airborne division, 
 so you'll be jumping out of planes and doing your part to swing the war in the Allies' favor. Before 
 each mission you're given a brief rundown on what's going on and list of objectives to accomplish. 
 Rather than spawning on the battlefield you'll arrive in style by parachuting out of a plane. As 
 you fall to the ground you'll want to maneuver toward green smoke, which indicates a safe landing 
 zone. In theory, parachuting into the level is supposed to open up a whole new style of play. You're 
 free to land wherever you want, but invisible walls prevent you from getting too clever, and nine 
 times out of 10, when you do land somewhere other than the safe zone you'll end up dead in a matter 
 of seconds. There are some special landing zones to discover and sometimes these areas will provide 
 you with an advantageous starting point, but because you find most of these locations when you're 
 already on the ground, they're of little use. Might as well jump.
  Once on the ground you'll take on waves of Axis soldiers over the course of the game's six levels. 
 Six levels might not sound like a lot, but each generally takes an hour or more to complete, so 
 it'll probably take most people around eight hours to finish the game. Your objectives are shown 
 on your radar and you're free to tackle them in whatever order you choose. Between choosing your 
 starting location and being able to pick what to take on first it might sound like there's a lot 
 of freedom here, but there's really not -- you can't start from many different places, and you have 
 to do the same tasks regardless of the order you start them. Mission objectives range from blowing 
 up AA guns to clearing buildings of enemy soldiers, taking out tanks, and detonating lots of explosives. 
 On their own these tasks aren't anything unique, but because the levels are so long and feature 
 so many objectives you often feel as though you're performing monumental feats rather than routine 
 tasks. The first three levels aren't very interesting. They're fairly linear, take place in unexciting 
 settings, and don't play to the game's strengths. Starting with the fourth level the game picks 
 up since you're given more freedom as to how you want to tackle the levels. You might decide to 
 climb towers to take out snipers (their position is given away by a reflection off their scope) , 
 clear the area of ground troops, and then make your way into a building, while a different player 
 might head to the building first, clear the ground troups second, and hide from the snipers rather 
 than kill them. The game's artificial intelligence isn't very good, but at least it's aggressive. 
 You can pick off guys as they peek around corners, but they won't just take it lying down. They'll 
 spray bullets in your direction without looking, and they're rather fond of blindly tossing grenades 
 over their backs. If you get too close or they get some reinforcements, enemy soldiers will charge 
 right at you and inflict serious damage until you can fend them off with your weak melee attacks. 
 You can pick where you land, but straying outside the safe zone typically means death.
  The controls are pretty standard on both the PC and the 360. A sprint button comes in quite handy 
 when trying to dash from one bit of cover to the next. Once you're behind that cover, the ability 
 to lean and fire is extremely useful, as is the ability to raise your weapon and aim using its 
 sights. As you progress through the game you'll be able to upgrade your weapons, earning bigger 
 clips, faster reloads, and secondary firing abilities. You can carry two weapons at a time as well 
 as a pistol, which isn't very powerful but has unlimited ammo. Grenades are often tough to come 
 by, but ammunition is plentiful, as are health packs, which are scattered throughout the levels. 
 It's a good thing, too, because once you start getting hit your health depletes in a hurry. While 
 most of Airborne is good, it does have its share of problems. Hit detection is terrible -- it's not 
 uncommon to hit someone with three or four shots before even one registers. Many of the automatic 
 weapons have too much recoil, making them extremely difficult to aim -- a problem not shared by the 
 CPU, who is more than capable of hitting you from across the level regardless of the gun. Your 
 fellow soldiers are sometimes quite useful, but other times they don't do anything at all -- or worse, 
 they stand right in front of you and block your shot. We also fell out of the level a few times, 
 though this was usually when we parachuted someplace the game probably didn't want us to. When 
 all of these problems come together the game can be extremely frustrating, as you're forced to 
 try the same part of a level over and over again in an attempt to find the best way to circumvent 
 the game's sometimes cheap tactics. Unlike the last Medal of Honor, MOH: Airborne has a solid online 
 component. Up to 12 people can hop online and play ranked and unranked matches on half a dozen 
 maps and a few different game types. The action's always fast-paced and for us, at least, lag-free. 
 Interestingly enough, multiplayer is the one area where choosing where you want to parachute into 
 a level actually lives up to the hype. As you descend you can see both friends and foes and, if 
 you're quick enough, can land in areas that are quite advantageous -- like right behind that jerk 
 camping on a rooftop with a sniper rifle. There are lots of different weapons, and they can be 
 upgraded, too.
  Airborne isn't a great-looking game, but it does run well and the visuals don't hamper the experience. 
 It looks best on the PC thanks to higher quality textures. Outside of a few nice-looking buildings 
 most structures are simple, and look pretty much the same, not only to each other, but every other 
 WWII game out there. There are only a few different types of soldiers and while they aren't very 
 detailed, you can tell one type from the next easily. At least, you can if you're up close. It's 
 tough to tell the good guys from the bad guys when you're far apart, and it's even harder to hit 
 them thanks to a lack of transition animation, meaning they might instantly jump from one position 
 to the next. Weapons look great, but explosions look embarrassingly last-gen. Not only do weapons 
 look nice, but they sound great, too. The rest of the game sounds pretty good as well. You'll hear 
 the familiar orchestral theme from previous MOH games, and there's lots of chatter from both Axis 
 and Allied soldiers. Medal of Honor: Airborne is a game that rewards those who are patient enough 
 to stick with it. The first half of the game is dull and just rehashes the same sort of gameplay 
 you've seen countless times before. But about halfway through, things pick up and gradually get 
 better and better until the last two levels, which are quite intense and a lot of fun to play. 
 The multiplayer isn't anything groundbreaking, but it's quite good and adds some value to an otherwise 
 short game. If you're tired of the genre, Airborne won't do anything to change your mind, but if 
 you're looking to fight for the Allied cause yet again, it's a worthy tour of duty. but the multiplayer 
 is good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DodgeDuty
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor was the one of the best PC shooters when it came out. Since Allied Assualt it has 
 been a downfall as each game gets worse. MoH Pacific Assualt was good, average fun game, but Airborn 
 has taken a step back. Enemies are crackshots. That's the major problem. The germans and italians, 
 always target you, no matter how far away, or how close an Allie is. The Axis side has some of 
 the best soldiers, while your teamattes are pathetic and get rifle butted all the time. There horrible. 
 The uprades to each weapon is a nice touch, but it doesn't seem to make a difference after the 
 first uprade, besides the sniper which gets a clip on grenade launcher, which is sweet. Graphics 
 wise is average for a 360 game. Grenades though are pothetic and don't even compare close to Call 
 of Duty. Replayability is ok. There are abotu 2 to 4 paths depending on which level your on. The 
 only reason to come back for more is acheivements, which are easy to get, especially on Casual. 
 Online is the only good thing, as the single player is roughly 8 hours.
  Overall, it's not even close to Call of Duty 3, and who knows what's going to happan now that almost 
 all of WWII is covered. (Japanese or German perspective could be an option) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cogo2112
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  MOH at first seems to be the a good filler between COD3 and COD4 using a different engine and all 
 but somewhere in the mix, in my opinion, they forgot some key elements. The multi-player is very 
 well put together. The parachuting after a respwan is refreshing and you can spend hours playing, 
 but I guess my main complaint is that the campaign mode has some issues.
  
  Primarily the enemies are INSANELY good shots. You can try a very strategic based campaign only 
 to have to battle a very unbalanced accuracy system. Not being disgruntled but it is hard to imagine 
 that you can not hit an enemy soldier from a distance with 100 rounds, but 1 crack shot sends your 
 health down 1 notch. The kicker was for me when I finally was able to round a corner and catch 
 3 enemies coming out of a building. I was thinking (in typical GRAW fashion) these guys are toast 
 , but instead they ran in circles, while getting pegged constantly from 20 yards away, and all 
 3 escaped with no injuries with one shooting me to boot.
  
  The play is fluent, the graphics are good, I see what they are trying to do but man is the game 
 a little tilted toward the AI, plus there is no prone mode.
  You will find yourself saying there's no way when confronting some enemies on certain levels that 
 brings the enjoyment of this game down about 2 or 3 notches.
  I bought it-but am trading it for Halo 3. I knew it was not going to be a block
  buster but I 
 was expecting a little bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sogsifu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Disappointed. Although better then the recent garbage the MOH series as come up with, t he game 
 is sloppy. Graphics are ok but gameplay is bad. Multiplayer compares to COD2. It can keep you interested 
 for awhile but if your used to COD3, you won't be impressed. The one good that they did come up 
 with was the Parachute aspect of the game which is very unique and is the reason that keeps you 
 somewhat interested in the multiplayer. Call of duty 3, even with all of its problems, still unfortunately, 
 remains on top of all the WWII shooters. You with think that the makers of MOH would at least try 
 to capitalize on the benchmark game (COD3) and make it better. But no, I quess they are not allowed 
 to play anything but EA games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GumbieuK
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best games to grace the MOH series possible with the exception of Allied 
 Assault.
  
  From the beginning of the game I was thinking to myself what is so different from previous games? 
 Well one of the obvious things is the addition of Airborne in which you drop into the battlefield 
 and start the missions from where ever the hell you like. It's very open and you can practically 
 drop in anywhere you like obviously you need to be realistic and not trying to start miles away 
 from the objective zones. Also the nice addition of weapon upgrades adds a new aspect to the game, 
 because there's always something to work for so it's definitely worth using weapons that you may 
 not even like. The typical MOH lean function also returns with great success .
  
  The first 4 levels are fairly average but as stated on most reviews the final 2 are where the game 
 really get's going, I'm not saying the beginning levels are poor because I still really enjoyed 
 them, but the game just gets hell of a lot more fun with the final two levels.
  
  The game looks visually good, the main game areas look great, player models look brilliant and 
 the shadows are brilliant, there are a small number of graphics hitches but that's nothing to really 
 worry about. Obviously when flying over head preparing to Parachute in the surrounding area's look 
 terrible but what can we really expect? There are also so pretty nice cut scenes thrown in.
  
  MOHA also sounds very good, the guns and grenades sound very realistic and adds a nice feel 
 to the game. Also running around with your squad you can here some chatter etc and occasionally 
 pick up some chatter from your enemies. One of the bad things about this game is the A. I. which 
 is uhhhh different I suppose. Most of the time it is ok but some times it's just completely ridiculous. 
 Numerous times through the campaign I witnessed the poor A. I.
  One example being the fact they run behind cover that is opposite you and they stare straight down 
 your face and do nothing. Several times I was able simply to just walk over and melee the A. I. 
 and provoke no reaction.
  
  The multiplayer in this is extremely strong, others have criticized it but I happen to think it's 
 very strong, great fun, rarely lags and the hit detection is just as accurate as the single player.
 
  
  All in all this game is very very good and any MOH fan will love this, if your not a fan it does 
 not really do anything different from most FPS's but I'd still recommend picking it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dogsounds
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  So, its that time again when EA release another instalment of the long-running Medal Of Honor 
 franchise.
  
  Many gamers bemoan the dearth of WWII shooters; they say the genre is milked to exhaustion, and 
 that everyone should just move on. Well, EA obviously dont think so, and I for one am glad. As 
 I have written before, I quite like the genre, and you can guarantee Ill never tire of it. And, 
 despite all the naysayers, people still buy the games. Perhaps what people are tired of is not 
 WWII shooters per se; just really bad WWII shooters. The Medal Of Honor franchise, has, over the 
 years, slowly climbed down from an exalted position to a less vaunted place in the minds of gamers. 
 When we first played Medal Of Honor on the Playstation, we were amazed by what the designers got 
 out of the little grey box. When we first played Medal Of Honor: Allied Assault, we were awestruck 
 by the beach landings and the immersion. It is no understatement to say that these early games 
 were buoyed by renewed interest in the conflict thanks to films such as Saving Private Ryan.
  
  But then, alas, as with so many things in life, gamers attention wandered slowly way from 
 the war, and onto other things. EA were plucky though; they kept the war machine rolling ever onwards 
 in the hope that the budding Allied troopers would keep coming back. Problem was, well, they just 
 didnt do a very good job of it. From the mediocre Pacific Assault to the lifeless Rising Sun, 
 and then the utterly abysmal European Assault, gamers were presented with fewer and fewer reasons 
 to actually cough up their hard-earned to play another instalment.
  
  When EA announced Airborne, they were up against it. The memories of so many bad games, the preference 
 by so many for the young upstart call Of Duty series and a seeming general opinion amongst the 
 game-buying public that EA just churned out unfinished nonsense meant that the developers were 
 pinned behind a low wall with hella incoming MG42 fire. They had a lot to prove; and a lot of opinion 
 to sway. So how did they do? Lets take a look. This review just covers the single-player campaign.
 
  
  In Airborne, you play Boyd Travers, a paratrooper in the 82nd Airborne in mid-1943. The game will 
 see you fight in 5 operations from the closing years of the war, from Sicily to Normandy, Holland 
 to the Reich itself.
  
  The gameplay itself is standard fare  carry out several objectives in each mission, fend off hordes 
 of Axis troops, try not to get too killed. As in most other Medal Of Honor instalments, you are 
 not tasked with managing or protecting your fellow soldiers. And thankfully, there is none of the 
 health-pack sharing nonsense from European Assault. However, what EA have tried to add to the mix 
 is a new level of open-endedness in this hitherto very linear genre, in the hope of spicing things 
 up. As you are in the Airborne, not surprisingly each mission begins with you parachuting into 
 the map, able to control your parachute and decide from where you want to start your fight. You 
 could drop into a safe zone, where you can be sure of supplies, allies and not being cut down the 
 moment your feet touch the ground. Or, you can drop onto the rooftops for some safe, sniping fun. 
 Alternatively you can be a demented maniac and drop right into the middle of a very angry nest 
 of Axis dudes. EA say this means that you can fight however you want, tackle objectives how you 
 want. Lets go through the game and take it apart, see how it stands up. Well cover the main topics 
 first.
  
  Firstly, we should look at this open-ended promise. The idea of landing anywhere and doing whatever 
 you like in any order you like sounds great. It certainly would add a new angle to the tired first-person 
 shooter genre. Well, it would, if it was actually as much of a liberation as it sounds. Its not 
 totally incorrect; there is a certain amount of latitude given to the player. In reality, you have 
 a certain freedom to land within certain areas of the map. By timing exactly when you jump from 
 the plane, and by careful control of the parachute, you are able to have a wide number of landing 
 spots. But there is still some restriction, to avoid you landing off the map completely and breaking 
 the game.
  
  Okay, so thats not so bad. You still have a number of options to play how you want, right? Wellagain, 
 not quite. Each mission has a set number of objectives, which must all be completed. For the most 
 part, you can approach them in whatever order you choose, although in some missions there are objectives 
 that follow a cutscene, and these are not available till you have completed the ones before them. 
 It would be cool to start Market Garden by landing on the Nijmegen bridge itself (and, no doubt, 
 face certain death) , but sadly that part of the map only opens up after a cutscene later on in 
 the level. However, there is still a certain amount of linearity to the objectives. Although you 
 can choose the order, to some degree the actual enemy encounters follow a set pattern, so you can 
 take the same course of action each time, somewhat. Having said that though, what freedom there 
 is still adds a certain variety to the proceedings, and it does give you the chance to switch things 
 around and keep gameplay reasonably fresh. In an interesting twist as a result, each time you die 
 you respawn mid-jump, so that if you died by being overwhelmed or using a bad tactic, you are given 
 the chance to try and approach the problem afresh from a different angle.
  
  The six (yes, only six) levels themselves are pretty good. Having said that, they are a bit lacking 
 up until the last two, where the challenge ramps up and the game becomes truly interesting. They 
 are the usual assortment of place charges on X/destroy radio at X/activate X, but they are spread 
 around enough to be interesting I guess there is only so much you can reasonably offer to keep 
 the objectives convincing for the era. Thankfully, there are no escort the bullet-sponge or time-limited 
 objectives. Phew!
  
  In terms of the enemies, EA has said that because of the start anywhere gameplay, they had to 
 abandon the old-fashioned way of scripting enemy locations and behaviours, as you can now approach 
 them from literally any angle. They created the affordance engine, which essentially avoids traditional 
 behaviour scripting by giving an NPC the intelligence to make its own decisions based on environmental 
 affordances. In theory, if an AI is under fire, it uses the environment around it for protection 
 and tactical advantage  it makes the most of the affordances the environment provides. If a grenade 
 lands near him, he will move to get behind something to give him cover. If you are laying down 
 fire in a doorway, the AI will try to path a different route to be able to get to you that will 
 avoid that doorway (and ideally your allies elsewhere) . Again, as with starting anywhere, this 
 is a noble intention, and EA kind of manage to pull it off, but as before, there are still traces 
 of the old-school way of doing things that are to be found. If the affordance engine worked perfectly, 
 combat would truly be unpredictable and awesome. And despite the repetition in the enemy locations, 
 for a big chunk of the time they do seem to exhibit behaviour beyond tighly-scripted actions. Where 
 it fails a little is that the AI seems to only have a limited choice of affordances available; 
 so the ingenuity of an NPC taking a clever path is somewhat dulled when five of his allies take 
 the self-same path. And you take them all out in the same way, as they seem not to notice those 
 before them being cut down. The intelligence of your allies is similar in that in can at times 
 appear both very clever and infuriatingly dumb. Often, your squad mates will just stand right in 
 your line of fire. More amusing is watching two NPCs shooting at each other, three feet apart, 
 and missing like their weapons have the kick-back of a mule.
  
  The design of the enemies is a little old fashioned, in that there are ten levels of badass to 
 them, the most feeble being the level one Italian Blackshirts (which is a little ironic) and the 
 hardest being the level ten Storm Elites  nasty fellows in black that wear gas-masks and carry 
 MG42s. A little bit silly perhaps, but then it wouldnt be a Medal Of Honor game without a little 
 diversion from reality here and there. Fortunately (or unfortunately, depending on your point of 
 view) the Storm Elites, although for some bizarre reason equipped with some kind of not-particularly-apparent 
 anti-bullet clothing, are easy to take down as long as you can stay out of their line of fire or 
 get some elevation on them and drop a few sniper rounds or a BAR clip into them. You will, however, 
 dread hearing that damn gun on the last level.
  
  However, despite these shortcomings, gameplay can still be great fun. The default control scheme 
 for Xbox 360 is clunky at best; I found that using Default Scheme 2 was a more intuitive and natural 
 way to play. One thing that does work well is the use of leaning and sprinting. You can use ironsights 
 to aim more accurately by pulling holding the left trigger. When you are in this mode, you cant 
 moveunless you hold the srpint button, but if youdo not, the left stick becomes a lean function. 
 You can lean to the left and right; pulling back on the stick squats you down, and (if you are 
 crouched) pushing up pops your head up from the crouch position. I actually found this incredibly 
 useful. Think of it a little like the cover mode in Gears Of War. Lets say you crouch behind an 
 object, above which your head sticks up just a little. If you go into ironsights mode, you can 
 pull back and get totally behind the cover. Then slowly pushing the stick up means that you can 
 pop your head up, take a few potshots at the Bosche, and then hunker back down again to reload. 
 Its actually quite flexible, and a welcome return from Frontline. Its also incredibly useful 
 when you are using a bolt-action weapon, and you can shelter whilst you load the next round. You 
 can also sprint  with no time limit. If you are crouched when you sprint, you will return to a 
 crouch when you stop  making nipping from cover to cover effortless. It is even awarded an achievement, 
 as it integral to the way you play.
  
  Weapons are the standard WWII fare, although now you can upgrade them with authentic era modifications 
 as you play. There is the usual assortment of arms: the classic M1 Garand, the lovely Kar 98 (which 
 actually outclasses the Garand in this game) , MP40, STG44, and so on. EA have managed to actually 
 include a new weapon in their line-up  the M18 recoilless rifle  effectively an alternative to 
 the tired old Bazooka, although sadly it is not seen all that often in the campaign. Each weapon 
 starts out as a basic model, and as you accrue kills it awards you up to three upgrades. For example, 
 the Thompson gets a front handgrip, for better accuracy, then a Cutts Compensator, to reduce recoil, 
 and finally a 50-round drum magazine forwell, more rounds. In a good move, these upgrades are 
 permanent, so once you have fully upgraded a weapon it will remain that way when you replay levels, 
 forever, unless you start the campaign over again completely. Many people have lamented the accuracy 
 of the weapons in this game  saying that sometimes a bona-fide killshot has no effect  and to 
 a certain extent this is most true at the start, where your weapons have no upgrades. As you upgrade, 
 generally most get better to a certain degree, although there still remain some issues with hit-detection. 
 It is most noticeable when sniping across a long distance; sometimes the shot seems to have no 
 effect at all on an enemy until you shift you position slightly closer to the enemy. This could 
 be explained as the range of the weapon, but then I find myself standing on the church roof in 
 Nijmegen totally unable to hit an enemy in a house across the street, when from the same place 
 I can hit a Panzerschreck-wielding goon on the bridge, halfway across town. Its frustrating, but 
 not the end of the world.
  
  One really neat touch with the weapons is the scoping. When you hold the right trigger, you are 
 looking down the scope. At first, your scope moves all over the damn place, so to steady your aim 
 you must hold your breath. Now, unlike Call of Duty where you basically have an on-off switch, 
 in Airborne there is almost a little mini-game feel to it. You have to gently squeeze the trigger, 
 and as you do, two markers in the scope move together, the more you squeeze, the closer they get 
 until they are locked and your aim is steady. You then pull the trigger all the way and BANG! And 
 the Jerry is gone. Thankfully, the designers stopped short of putting windage and gravity in there 
 too!
  
  For the audio, EA have managed a bang-up, top-notch job, and it is here that they start to recoup 
 kudos points. Ambient environmental audio is encompassing and in surround sound sets the atmosphere 
 just fine. EA have made a much greater effort with this game than in previous incarnations, recording 
 multiple sounds for each effect. The sound of a panzer rolling ominously by is no longer a thin, 
 repeated loop. Now it is a number of sounds meshed together, with an appropriate bassy boom and 
 considerable gravitas. As a tank shifts across the terrain, you hear appropriate heavy thumps and 
 clunks as it drops over obstacles, and all you are left thinking is this thing is very, very heavy. 
 Weapon audio is great, and each weapon has its own distinctive report, easily distinguished across 
 a busy battlefield. Distant weapons fire is appropriately muted (although the distant Thompson 
 sounds rather pathetic, much like a typewriter  I kept looking on the screen to see if objective 
 text was scrolling across or something) , and most interesting of all is the change you notice when 
 you duck behind over or when you scope a weapon  the sound becomes muted - with cover because 
 there is something between you and the weapon; with the scope because all your attention is on 
 your target. This game also has the most satisfying sound I have ever come across when you score 
 a headshot through a helmet. Combat dialog is not too bad, although sadly like other Medal Of Honor 
 games there is just not enough. Voice acting is well done, and it is amusing to see the same talent 
 voicing the Axis troops as in the other games of the franchise, and even the Call Of Duty games. 
 They must get around! But, in these days of games like Halo 2 sporting over 15,000 lines of dialog, 
 it is a bit disappointing to hear the higher-level enemies in the later levels simply saying Da! 
 Die Amerikaner! over and over. More attention is paid to the chatter of your allies, but it is 
 still thin.
  
  However, it must be said that of all the audio, the biggest disappointment by far is the soundtrack. 
 Despite a very good theme, not only does Michael Giacchino appear to have phoned much of the action 
 music in  it is not as thematic or as textured as his earlier Medal Of Honor work; there is very 
 little you can hum along to  a big chunk of the in-game music is actually recycled from previous 
 games. In the Market Garden level, for example, you will here several parts of Kleveburg, Emmerich 
 Station and even Manor House Rally, all from Frontline. Call me anal, but I really dont think 
 that is acceptable. A new game should have a new soundtrack. Re-using established themes is one 
 thing  and I applaud the fact that the same themes are used throughout the games in the franchise 
  but using the same recordings is just lame. Shame really, as the soundtracks for this franchise 
 were usually always outstanding. I would rate European Assault as one of my most-played favourites.
 
  
  Finally, onto the visuals. This game uses the Unreal engine, and it shows. Animations are for the 
 most part very well done, and death animations are totally unscripted. However, unlike most games 
 that ride on the Havok engine bus for their physics, in Airborne a body retains momentum and interia 
 when it falls. So, if you shoot a dude whilst he is running, he will collapse mid-run and carry 
 on forward, collapsing realistically. Shoot someone climbing over a wall, and youll see what I 
 mean. It avoids going from live state to death state with a jarring movement (Im looking at you, 
 Halo 2) and adds to the weight and realism of the NPCs. Sometimes a standing enemy will fly backwards 
 when shot, sometimes they will just go limp and collapse. There are some clunky transitions, and 
 sometimes an enemy will fly backwards a little too far from a pistol shot, but overall a lot of 
 effort has gone into the realism. The change in the depth-of-focus when sprinting is also very 
 pleasing.
  
  And the graphics? Well, some people hate them, some think they are good. My own opinion is that, 
 some feeble textures here and there aside, the graphics are actually pretty good. Not the best 
 ever, but good. Overall, yes, there are some poor low-resolution textures in there. But then you 
 have to consider that on some of the maps, the graphics engine is rendering half a town. And with 
 all that, I have yet to see any noticeable level-of-detail cheats. Character models are pretty 
 good, and environmental lighting on them is impressive. Notable as excellent is the scope effect 
  rather than just blurring the edges, the designers have created very convincing true optical 
 blurring, where focus is lost and the colours shift subtly to the red. It is an awesome effect, 
 and one I hope we see again. However, it has to be said that your character model is a little basic, 
 and sometimes does not change with the ambient lighting  on the last level, in the sewers, you 
 are in a room lit by red lights, yet your weapon does not appear affected. But then you pick up 
 on the little details: the amount of debris in Nijmegen; the subtle texture on uniforms. I was 
 amazed to see real-time reflections on the eyes of a dead enemy. To make sure, I zoomed the sniper 
 rifle in and walked around him, and the reflections really did move around too. Thats a ridiculous 
 amount of detail that no one will probably ever notice. It is also pleasing to see that the characters 
 do not appear to have that slightly greasy look that characters in games such as Call Of Duty 
 3 had, as if everyone was wearing rain-slicked gabardine. There are some texture clipping issues 
 here and there  most noticeably again in Nijmegen, where wall textures appear to flicker through 
 scopes, and where you will see mysterious semi-transparent walls in the middle of nowhere. But 
 nothing that will make you throw your controller down in disgust.
  
  So, overall, is it worth you spending your money on? The campaign is very short  youll probably 
 breeze through on normal difficulty in six to eight hours. Hit detection can sometimes be a pain. 
 And the designers have not really made good their promise of true start-anywhere, open-ended gameplay. 
 There is nothing really fantastically innovative about the game. However, the limited freedom you 
 do get within the game means you are able to some degree to try different approaches, or try different 
 weapon combinations. If you are an achievement whore (who isnt?) youll probably play through 
 all the difficulty settings to get the points, and there are challenges to be had. It is clear 
 that, although they may not have fully succeeded, the designers knew what the Medal Of Honor franchise 
 had started to become  a by-word for half-finished, rushed games  and worked hard to better that. 
 And although not perfect, their hard work shows.
  
  Basically, if you want every game you buy to be cutting edge, and be chock full of things that 
 are innovative and never-before-seen, then this may be a rental for you, at least to test the waters. 
 But dont panic, this is no Hour Of Victory shambles. There is solid fun to be had, and if, like 
 me you are a creature of habit and comforts and simply like battling the Nazi war machine, and 
 played Frontline over and over between Halo sessions back in the day, then you will want to pick 
 this game up for sure. It is clear, with a little more attention to hit-detection, visuals and 
 audio, and with a fully fleshed-out affordance AI system, this game could have been outstanding, 
 and could have put the WWII shooter back on the front pages.
  
  As it stands, it is a good game, with much to commend, but with just enough to take the shine away 
 and leave the future of the genre hanging delicately in the balance.
  
  Suck it up, Airborne, you still have work to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRookieGB
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 1:16 am PT
Review:  Hi, MOH Airborne to me is so much better than COD 3. If you own COD 3 trade it in when you buy 
 this. What wins the game for me is the realistic features of the game.
  
  1. its not that easy to kill germans from 100 yards away with a rifle, before in COD 2 &amp; 3 
 you could fire and forget. Yes you can still hit them in Airborne but its harder. The official 
 review states poor graphic detection, but I think they are wrong. You must hit the person to kill 
 them. Not shoot under their arm and hope it works like before.
  
  2. The graphics are superb, with realistic lighting and details. Also the movement of the troups 
 and the death when shot. For example my mate shot an italain in the crouch and we watched the poor 
 bloke colaspe holding his groin. Weapons and the firing is great.
  
  3. The upgrades to the weapons is good also. The feel of the game overall is great and it makes 
 you want to come back.
  
  4. The LEAN OUT Feature. this to me made the game. Rainbow 6, Ghost recon and Gears of War have 
 a hide and lean out feature. Although this isn't a total hide feature like those games it is still 
 very useful and a vital game improvement.
  
  Multiplayer has been a bit limited as I only gave it a quick go so this needs to be played more 
 to be reviewed. On my brief go I noticed no lag at all.
  
  So finally .... Want a WW2 game? The MOH is for me the best so far. COD is good online but graphicaily 
 compared to this cod3 is average.
  
  Worth the Cash.
  
  UPDATE: 21/09/2007 - Just played the 'Operation Market Garden Level' and the graphics are mind 
 blowing. The detail on the houses and the church is fantastic. I would say to me that this is a 
 'Saving Private Ryan' of the Game world. Its worth the cash for another WW2 game. Personaly I traded 
 COD2 &amp; 3 in to buy this, I don't need three WW2 games! Great to see developers starting to 
 use the 360 graphic power, just think in two or three years time! Cheers All 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jermwarfare
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  it definately has some issue's. hit detection is sometimes spotty, and the lack of system link (LAN) 
 is a real downer for me personally. which is why i havent got to try multiplayer as of yet (stuck 
 without broadband atm) .
  
  but the open nature of the gameplay along with the air dropping in is a great change from the linear 
 interactive movie we far too often get stuck with. i realize some like that type of game.... but 
 if i want to watch a movie i'll do just that. i love open, non-linear gameplay, and this is much better 
 than most in that respect.
  
  the lean/peek.... cover system is excellent as well. its a fluid system which allows you to peek 
 as much or as little as needed, and most importantly without being forced to stick to a flat object 
 to do so. lean out anywhere, at any time, from/at any angle, as much or as little as needed, with no 
 need to adjust your footing..... WITH NO 3RD PERSON CAMERA'S!!!!!
  
  .... i hate being forced to stick to a wall and 3rd person views btw. :)
  
  very innovative 
 in these respects and a solid game all arround.
  
  btw-i rated the difficulty as just right ,but i played on expert and the last few missions were 
 a little tough (especially the last) , but the first half of the game was slightly too easy imo for 
 the hardest setting.
  
  edit-
  
  p. s. i recommend switching to control scheme #2. it makes it easier to sprint and more importantly 
 to move (your feet) while using your gun sights...... makes everything else like the Halo  
 weapon, etc) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Well You heard my title and I stand by it very much How Many Medal of honors does it take to make 
 a good meadl of honor well it took them a whole lot... all of the medal of honors before have sucked 
 hard except frontline but even still it was nowhere intense as call of duty series has been. I 
 thank thew creators deeply for fianlly making good levels all around and not just making the first 
 level all dramatic like all your previous games. The singeplayer is fairly good with having you 
 pick your loadout and you parachuting into battle were ever you want. the online made this game 
 a rent or even a buy if you need a good Last world war 2 shooter. I would reccommend renting before 
 a buy though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jono8192
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  Airborne is the latest installment to the popular Medal of Honor franchise. Obviously everyone 
 knows that the one main difference in this game is the fact that you parachute into the level at 
 the start of each mission. This allows you to land almost anywhere, and also making the game completely 
 non-linear. You have so much freedom, with the ability to run over roof-tops etc. on the way to 
 acheiving your objectives.
  
  The main campaign puts you in the shoes of Pvt. Boyd Travers. You will play through six different 
 levels, ranging from the invasion of Italy in Operation Avelanche, to the liberation of Holland 
 in Operation Market Garden. Now, six levels isn't alot, but there is a good deal of replayability 
 as you can go back to find all the skill drops, to earn all the weapon upgrades, or just to try 
 alternative ways of playing the levels. The upgrade system seems a little stupid at first (You 
 can upgrade to a 50 round drum for the Thompson which will just magically appear on the gun) . It 
 doesn't create a very authentic feeling either - you have to upgrade to get a stripper-clip for 
 the Kar 98K which is ridiculous as they all had clips in real life anyway. However, once you have 
 upgraded certain weapons all the way, you will have a lot of fun. (I'm thinking of running round 
 a German trench armed with a shotgun with a 16-inch bayonet on the end :P) .
  
  The gameplay can be a little frustrating at times. It's really tricky to move in whilst looking 
 through the iron sights, as you actually have to press the sprint button aswell, as just moving 
 the left stick will only make you lean . Even once you get used to this concept, it's still a bit 
 awkward. The enemy AI isn't very impressive, either (Niether is that of your Allies) . The AI troops 
 will sometimes run straight past you to attack your squad, or sometimes completely ignore you and 
 not even realize you are there - even when you run into the room they are in.
  
  Graphics and sound, however, are very good. When in the air, you can look around and see for miles. 
 Huge bombed out cities, even the landing on Utah Beach are both some of views you will experience 
 whilst parachuting.
  
  The multiplayer is quite enjoyable. The same parachuting concept is present, however there is only 
 three game modes. This doesn't really matter as they don't get boring, and there is about 7 huge 
 maps for you to play on. If you want, you can land on the top of a cathedral and snipe at the enemy, 
 or land in a bombed out building and take them by surprise with your assault rifle.
  
  Overall, not a perfect game, but not bad. You don't have to be a die-hard Medal of Honor fan to 
 enjoy it, however you may want to rent the game first to avoid any dissapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxy234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  After some, how should i say, mediocre Medal Of Honor games recently. Medal of Honor firmly touches 
 down with Airborne. You take the role of Boyde Travis who is a member of the 88nd Airborne Division. 
 You follow the 88nd through its operational drops during World War 2, killing as many Nazi'z who 
 get in your way. But this is not your ordinary shooter. Each Operation begins inside a C-47 Dakota, 
 until you jump or get pushed out to begin a hour or so of mindless shooting. The parachute mechanics 
 are excellent and arnt to hard to master. This is were the game differs from other WW2 shooters 
 as were you land can determine how you approach the level. Meaning an infinate number of battles. 
 The AI of the enemy is also an achievement. As none of it is scripted. They respond to what you 
 and your allies do. They advance, flank, retreat and try to find elevation. Your allies are also 
 just as cleaver doing all of the above. But sometimes run into your line of sight. Which can get 
 annying when you are trying to pick a nazi out. The size and depth of the mission areas is incredible. 
 My jaw dropped when i loaded up the Nijamegen operation. Nearly every house is able to be entered: 
 And whilst you are parachuting down the whole city is visable in crisp detail. This goes for all 
 the other levels, wether it be Italian towns or industrial facilities. The detail remains incredible. 
 The weapons in the game feel and act like real weapons, with correct recoil effects for once. From 
 Thompsons to BARs theres a weapon for all situations. But the best bit is being able to upgrade 
 this weapons to nazi thrashing Uber weapons. From duel magazines to rifle mounted grenade launchers, 
 increase their effectiveness.
  
  Multiplayer is also as fast and as frentic with Germans taking pot shots at you as you float down. 
 The game can get very tough at some staages, espeically if you botch your landing or land in the 
 middle of a German platoon. But, if you die, you restart back up in the air, giving you another 
 option to attack them from another position or leave them all together.
  
  That really sums up airborne. You are given an immense amount of freedom to attack in any way you 
 want to. A great game i am extremely happy with
  
  Coxy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordsman117
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  When EA announced that they're developing another WWII shooter, it was shocking and promising at 
 the same time. Shocking because it's another WWII shooter and promising because of the non linear 
 gameplay that EA will incorporate for this particular game. For the most part EA is telling the 
 truth. Most FPS games are linear in nature; it follows a structured path and scripted events. Some 
 with better AI and some are just plain dumb. Usually there's a lot of killing involve. Most of 
 this is true for MOH: Airborne, EA's take on WWII genre. The promise of go anywhere, land anywhere 
 is true. In Airborne, you do get to land anywhere but that's about it. Once you land, it's another 
 generic shooter that requires you to finish objectives.
  
  This game plays like any standard shooter. The player has to complete the given objectives in order 
 to progress. It doesn't matter which order it is as long as it's done. There is also tough competition 
 with the enemy AI, they're not about to give up those objectives. When they fight, they really 
 give it they're best shot. Having a really good AI is challenging and at times, frustrating. The 
 Ally AI is helpful at times but mostly they're just cannon fodder.
  
  Its the same tired genre trying to make a living in a modern world. In this era, WWII games are 
 so over done. Weve fought in Sicily, Normandy and countless operations that helped win this war. 
 Although it does get some points with a different approach in every level, this is just not satisfying 
 enough. Thankfully, every level is challenging even on just the normal difficulty setting. Its 
 good because Airborne is such a short game, clocking only at eight hours of play. The graphics 
 of Airborne is fairly decent, nothing really shocking to see except if youre jumping off the plane. 
 The operation area is huge and quite a nice sight to see. The character models are not as sharp 
 looking as other games that have come to pass but the facial animation is quite impressive. But 
 there are some textures that looked like real crap. One instance is the back of the Sherman tank 
 in Operation Market Garden; it did not have any bump mapping or any thing to make it stand out. 
 It was just plain green.
  
  What MOH lacks for graphics surely makes up for the sound. The music of MOH is still as impressive 
 as the previous games. The orchestral scores still have that Saving Private Ryan appeal. The sound 
 effect for the guns still packs a punch. The voiceovers are still as great as before. Airborne 
 is a unique game in terms of how the levels are structured and addresses what some FPS games lack. 
 Although Airborne makes quite an impression with its unique play, its only downfall is its too 
 over crowded in this genre and a short campaign. Overall Airborne is a nice attempt to a genre 
 that is already dying but still proves that there are some WWII games that can still be good, if 
 only a short time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkscorcher
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Lately, ive noticed that gamespot, is rating all ps3 xbox360 games twice as hard as they have rated 
 first last gen games.
  
  how are they going to give prince of persia, CLASSIC, for xbox aracde, a better score than this 
 game ?? just rediculous, and by their review for what was BAD in this game .. i think they just 
 RuSHEd through the game, to quickly write a review. THis, is def the most innovative WWII shooter 
 since COD 1,
  
  now the ACTUAL REVIEW.
  
  Building up your experience. The gamespot reviewers say that hits dont register. They DO, its just 
 that with each weapon you have to build up experience using them.
  For example, the more you use your iron sights, the better your accuracy will become, which will 
 cause more hits to register, because NOW you will ACTUALLY be hitting things.
  
  and the more you use each type of gun, you will get experience that will lead to unlocking achievements 
 like the adding of a scope, or a better, hand grip, to lessen the recoil of the gun you use. so 
 if you start using a weapon you dont use that often, it will feel like this, overall gives the 
 game, a slight rpg feel, and will make you want to play the game, more than just simple xbox 360 
 gamer scores. because the experience you gain, actually makes you better.
  
  THE CONTROLS, : whats unique about this game is how easy it is to lean, slight duck and pop up. 
 around walls and cover. LEANING made easy
  when you hold down the trigger to aim down the sights, the left stick controls your position, so 
 moving it to the horizontaly controls how much you lean, the more you press to the left or right 
 the more you lean. making it easier to only slightly expose yourself, when in other games you only 
 have 1 level of lean.
  
  Ducking made easy
  
  also when holding down the left trigger, the left stick also controls how much you will raise your 
 head above cover, or hide all the way, so again, you can vary how much you expose yourself, unlike 
 other games where you cant control how much you expose yourself from cover.
  
  simple movement, :simple movement just feels more realistic kind of how ghost recon advanced warfighter. 
 feels,
  
  Again i haven't played through the full game, but so far, it feels like the best WWII shooter i 
 have played since the original CALL OF DUTY on PC.
  
  WAY BETTER THAN ORIGINAL, and FOR me , the BEST IN SERIES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msta0924
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely the best Medal of Honor game ever. The parachuting concept is awesome, the graphics 
 are pretty sweet, and the weapons customization is so cool. Unfortunately, the health system made 
 it really easy to die, even on the normal levels. Also, i was able to fully upgrade 2 weapons on 
 the very first level, and once theyre done upgrading, theyre not that much fun. Also, the accuracy 
 is HORRIBLE!!! i guess thats realistic but still, its really annoying. However, the game overall 
 is fun, even though there are only 6 semi-short levels. The multiplayer is fine, but singleplayer 
 is better. I hope EA decides to make another MOH, making it even better than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blakeptsa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. I went to best buy the day it came out, and i couldnt stop playing. One of its 
 few flaw was that it was super hard at some points; mainly, because when you die the enemies you 
 just killed come back. So if you die and you just killed 20 people and there was no checkpoint 
 then you had to kill them all again. The other one was the recoil on guns was a little ridiculous. 
 It only has six missions so that kinda blowed but the levels it did have were great and well put 
 together. I also liked how you can upgrade the guns, but some of the guns (panzershrek, and the 
 c96 pistol) are only on certain levels. I would definently get this game if you like shooters specificially 
 WWII shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarGameJunkie
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 13, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  After playing though four of the seven missions in MOH: Airborne, I was all set to give this a 
 pretty decent rating. However, after playing the fifth mission, and trying to play multiplayer, 
 this game is a horrible buggy glitch ridden mess and EA should be ashamed. It's not as bad as Hour 
 of Victory, but overall it's not much better. The first four missions are quite fun and the parachuting 
 adds a little bit, although not much, of a new twist to the game. The levels are much more open, 
 although I don't think they're bigger, than previous Medal of Honor games, and the graphics are 
 a HUGE step up over Medal of Honor: Rising Sun. The weapons will cause some gamers problems, but 
 I believe they're accurate to WW II. It's also fun trying to be accurate enough with each weapon 
 to get each of the three level ups for each weapon. The added incentive of an achievement makes 
 it even more fun. Although what a gamer needs to do to level up to each of the three levels isn't 
 spelled out at all and is somewhat of a mystery. Now, here's the problem with this game and it 
 begins with mission number 5. I've read about this issue occuring to enough gamers that I know 
 it's not just my disk. Throughout this particular mission I saw more clipping by the AI enemies 
 than I'd seen from each of the previous four. I should have known something was wrong then, but 
 I thought it was simply the same problems many FPS AI have. However, then I finished the ENTIRE 
 mission (and this is not an easy mission even on casual difficulty) and it WOULDN'T END!!! On some 
 disks the coding is done VERY badly and the cut scene and some of the enemies you need to kill 
 to end the mission don't load properly and show up. The ONLY known fix to this issue is to repeat 
 the ENTIRE mission and hope the game basically fixes itself and loads things properly. Now we get 
 to multiplayer. EA has not decided to provide a dedicated server to MOH: AB. This is a disaster 
 and it's quite difficult to connect and stay connected in games. EA should be ashamed of this and 
 the other issues with this game that show an extreme lack of quality control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warhawk556
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that Medal of Honor Airborne deserves better than a 7.0, it definitely earns 
 a solid 8.5. In a genre crowded with many terrible games such as Hour of Victory, Medal of Honor 
 Airborne has fun, intense gameplay with high replay value, and to top it all off, a soundtrack 
 thats as incredible as you'd expect from any Medal of Honor game. Basically you start every mission 
 in a C47 and have complete control of the parachute during the drop. Unlike what gamespot says, 
 i encountered no invisible walls inside the level. The levels are wide and non-linear and the battles 
 unfold a different way each time. Speaking of battles, you'll take part in all the massive airborne 
 engagements such as Operation Husky, Operation Avalanche, Operation Neptune, Operation Market Garden, 
 Operation Varsity, and the incredibly difficult fictional mission Der Flakturm . All the missions 
 allow you to deal with objectives in any order, and as you complete objectives you recieve new 
 ones. The enemies do their best to keep you from completing these objectives, the AI is certainly 
 no Einstein but at least they're it does know how to pull of a headshot and poses a challenge. 
 And if there are enemies there is always a means of dealing with them, which leads me to the selection 
 of weapons in Airborne. While it's not the biggest selection of weapons you'll see in a WWII shooter, 
 it does have every weapon you'd expect to see. You'll be able to choose your weapons before each 
 mission, you can choose from, the Garands, Thompsons, Colts, Springfields, BARs, STG44s, MP40s 
 and the like. Each weapon is upgradable three times as you gain experience from pulling off headshots 
 and such. Upgrades consist of a scope for the STG44 or a grenade launcher for the Garand. The weapons 
 all sound good, and hit detection is decent. Overall, Airborne is a good WWII shooter that i can 
 recommend to anybody who's not tired of WWII and is ready to go another round with the krauts. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirkophil
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  I am a big war game fan and this Medal of Honor suits me perfectly. Each level is set out like 
 a multiplayer arena so you can free roam round the level and do the objectives in any order which 
 you fancy. A huge improvement over the normal linear fashion of FPS games. The levels are huge, 
 and take a good couple hours each. Have nearly completed the game and have spent about 12 hours 
 on the campaign so far. Haven't played online yet but if uses the same levels as single player 
 mode then will be hectic. Dropping into levels via parachute puts a new twist on the action and 
 there is something very satisfying about kicking an enemy in the face mid-air! Graphics &amp; sound 
 effects are brilliant, and the AI is damn clever. Sometime frustratingly clever and you'll find 
 yourself getting ambushed on more than one occassion in each level. Overall if you are a war game 
 / FPS fan a worthy addition to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheekSqueaker
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Haven't played the single player yet, but the multi player is worth buying for. The graphics are 
 in great detail everything looks really good. The sound is good also, cool to be able to hear the 
 bullets whiz by. The maps are really nice and nicely set up, just wish there were more of them. 
 Parachuting in is sooo cool spawn anywhere you want, all games should do something like this to 
 reduce spawn killing. The weapons are really nice, I even like the Axis weapons. Having trouble 
 adjusting to the recoil of the guns, more than what i'm used to. Unlimited running in the game 
 is great!!! On big maps in other games, it's a pain to respawn and have to walk / limited run (COD 
 3 ) to get back to the action. Every game should do this. A couple of complaints though... when 
 I try to play ( in the morning it seems) the their server doesn't seem to be working to let me 
 play. Again , the recoil seems to be too realistic or even set too high. Although the Allies parachute 
 in, the Axis spawns causing too much spawn killing on certain maps, should figure a way for the 
 Axis to spawn like the Allies parachute in to reduce this. Only six maps? need many many more. 
 Should start with atleast 10-12 to start with then add more later. Because of the parachuting in 
 for the allies, too much rooftop battles in some maps, maps should be set up for some of this but 
 not as much. Need more game types a war type game (like in COD3) , a team deathmatch - where both 
 team spawn, and a team deathmatch where the allies parachute in. That's is three types and two 
 of them are basically the same. No game is perfect but this game has a fun multiplayer woth playing 
 over and over, a good time killer until COD 4 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awoneillz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  It seems you can't read a preview or review of a World War II-based FPS without hearing about how 
 many games there are in the genre. With good reason, too -- it's a crowded one. But just because 
 there are a lot of them doesn't mean there can't be some good ones. Medal of Honor: Airborne is 
 one such game. It starts off really slow, and the whole parachuting hook is little more than a 
 gimmick; but later on the game realizes its potential and gets good. There's not much of a story 
 to Airborne. It's WWII; Nazis need killing and the world needs saving. You're in the Airborne division, 
 so you'll be jumping out of planes and doing your part to swing the war in the Allies' favor. Before 
 each mission you're given a brief rundown on what's going on and list of objectives to accomplish. 
 Rather than spawning on the battlefield you'll arrive in style by parachuting out of a plane. As 
 you fall to the ground you'll want to maneuver toward green smoke, which indicates a safe landing 
 zone. In theory, parachuting into the level is supposed to open up a whole new style of play. You're 
 free to land wherever you want, but invisible walls prevent you from getting too clever, and nine 
 times out of 10, when you do land somewhere other than the safe zone you'll end up dead in a matter 
 of seconds. There are some special landing zones to discover and sometimes these areas will provide 
 you with an advantageous starting point, but because you find most of these locations when you're 
 already on the ground, they're of little use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silver_Fire
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 11, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Airborne attempts to be different from other WWII shooters by allowing you to parachute 
 into the battle and control where you start the level from. While these aspects don't have much 
 impact on the game experience, Airborne still provides a good shooter experience.
  You play as Boyd Travers, a member of the 82nd Airborne. Throughout the games six missions, you 
 will jump behind enemy lines in order to defeat the Axis. While six missions is rather short, the 
 missions are pretty long, and it took me about eight hours to play through.
  As mentioned, you start each level by parachuting over the DZ. Controls for landing are simple 
 to learn, but difficult to master. You can get a botched, flaired, or greased landing, with the 
 last one being fairly difficult to pull off. Every mission has green smoke, which indicates safe 
 drop zones. While you can land anywhere, you'll be torn to shreds by enemies unless you land on 
 a rooftop or safe DZ.
  The actual fighting is fairly solid. Most of the weapons feel nice, with okay sounds to them. There 
 are a few hit detection and clipping issues, but not enough to take away from it. Airborne features 
 an excellent cover system where, while aiming down the sights, the LS controls leaning around and 
 over corners. This makes pop-and-drop a lot easier, and you'll need it, because the enemies in 
 the game are far more accurate than they should be, even while on MG's. Their A. I. is alright, 
 moving from cover to cover and displaying some tactics. Your friendly A. I. is completely worthless 
 for anything other than bullet shields, and they'll die very quickly.
  Another interesting thing about Airborne is its hybrid health system. You have four boxes, and 
 if you get shot you begin to lose health. If the box isn't emptied it will refill, but if you lose 
 it, you need to find a health pack to restore it. Even on casual difficultly the game can be very 
 hard with the accurate enemies and heavy damage they deal, apparent in the later missions.
  All weapons in the game have three upgrades that you get by killing enemies. These can inculde 
 scopes, higher capacity magazines, faster reloads, and others. These upgrades are an excellent 
 help for Expert difficulty.
  The multiplayer is certainly the games strength. The action is fast-paced and fun, with up to 12 
 players. Two gamemodes feature the allies dropping in with the parachute, while the other is standard 
 team deathmatch. There have been many complaints about lag and the allies having an advantage, 
 but I myself haven't expierenced any of this.
  Overall, Medal of Honr: Airborne is a good game that is worth getting if you've got money to spend. 
 But with games like Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4 coming, people on a tight budget might want to pass 
 on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  It was good, but I would defeintly consider renting it or borrowing it. The game dosen't exactly 
 build the game around you were you land like they said it would. You could either be in the boondocks 
 or straight in the action, but when youre straight in the action you usually die right after you 
 get up. If you do some how grease a landing and find cover it is really quite fun and not to boring. 
 RENT, $60 isn't worth it. If you like COD you will like this game too. If you rent it you can beat 
 it because it is short and not put down $60 for a game that is worth more like $40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theafiguy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  The newest incarnation of Medal of Honor is very good indeed; it improves on several issues of 
 the old MOH games. The largest notable difference is that with all of the older games it would 
 seem the graphics would be about a year outdated; but in this game the graphics shine beautifully. 
 The moon shines into water on a cobblestone street on the first mission and it's just absolutely 
 beautiful.
  
  Beyond the graphics the game does other things better than the older games in the series. With 
 European Assault, EA decided to make the game less linear; but the game was as open-ended as it 
 was made out to be. With Airborne it truly isn't linear, you drop from an airplane to any part 
 of the level that you want. The safe areas are marked by green smoke but you can land in other 
 places throughout the levels for Gamer Achievements. The levels are all quite large and have multiple 
 levels (as in stories in buildings) to traverse. The downside the missions have is that you will 
 find yourself going back and forth throughout the towns, which is realistic, but tedious.
  
  The teamwork in the game is quite another nice touch. Throughout some of the later levels it 
 would be almost impossible to get through without the help of your squad. The AI is much more impulsive 
 and the thing I like the most is that reinforcements don't just randomly materialize; they actually 
 drop from the sky from more planes. The enemy AI hasn't seen too much difference from the current 
 day shooters; its still pretty basic. However the enemies later in the game show more cunning. 
 They move around more and fire their weapons just to get to cover. The last mission in the game 
 the enemies are just ridiculous sometimes.
  
  The guns in the game have notably increased in realism, meaning that the guns aren't very accurate 
 most of the time. The most accurate gun in the game, the Springfield Sniper, is very, very difficult 
 to aim. Most of your engagements in the early part of the game is mostly close-quarters but there 
 are times when you have to test your long-range capabilities. The greatest thing about the guns 
 in the game is that you can upgrade them. For instance the Thompson's 3 upgrades are a forward-grip 
 to increase accuracy, a spring that decreases recoil, and finally the infamous 50-round drum magazine. 
 All guns have 3 upgrades to them and are actually fairly easy to achieve, but if you ignore it 
 then you'll be facing issues later in the game. Also, once you pick up a weapon in the game you 
 can use it in your initial load-out.
  
  There are some cons to the game still though; the biggest and most depressing is the short length 
 of the game. It suffers from being almost as short as European Assault; just with pretty graphics. 
 The missions are all very different but somehow still feel eerily the same to the rest of the game. 
 I would have rated the game higher if it was just two to three missions longer. There is also the 
 nagging fact that despite how much this game is different from the other WWII shooters... it's still 
 a WWII shooter. We've seen most of these games before and although they are starting to get better 
 and better, the market is just flooded with WWII games. Overall this game has a strong single-player 
 game, but it's just so short. The game is worth the money indeed, Xbox Live capabilities are amazing 
 and quite fun. I chose to focus on the single player for this review however. Once again, it's 
 worth the buy (especially if you have Xbox Live) so go out and get it because last time I went 
 to Best Buy they were almost out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filmfreak1138
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  MoH: Airborne is a game that is a good game... but it has not hooked me like a CoD 2 or CoD 3... 
 It has fun online multiplayer... I like the feel of the controles and the look is very nice...
 
  
  The multiplayer sometimes has lag that is annoying... but the play itself is fun.
  
  While playing the game though... unless you are sniping... it seems that it is tough to aim and 
 shoot. It takes a few shots before i get a kill. That is the ONLY complaint... It like they can 
 take 10 shots before they DIE... Graphics are pleasing to the eye, SOUND is good, and the story 
 flows pretty nice.
  
  I do like how you JUMP out of your airplain and land wherever YOU wanna start your level... THAT 
 is a very cool addition.
  
  This is a good WWII game and I do think if your into CoD... then you need this in your library. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoystikJoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  After reading the review from Gamspot, I was reluctant to buy this game. Since I have always liked 
 the Medal of Honor games, I took a chance and bought it. Wow! I was blown away with the graphics, 
 the sound, and the whole presentation and gameplay! This is the best MOH game ever to hit the streets. 
 It isn't very easy, so don't be fooled by those who say it is a short game. The difficulty makes 
 for a much longer game than you would expect from six chapters, and each chapter has multiple objectives 
 to be completed. Not all the achievements are easy. Most of them are not easy, but I feel that 
 if you forked out $60 for a game, you should be able to get a modest amount of gamerpoints from 
 a game. Anyway, gamerpoints are not what makes a game good or bad. I see them as a reward for patience, 
 perserverence, and skill. I'm transgressing now... lol. Things I like about this game: You can 
 start the mission anywhere, land on whatever you want to land on from the air, apply whatever strategy 
 works best for you, and the in-game rewards (not achievements) are plentiful. What I don't like: 
 I find myself replaying the checkpoints multiple times, since the easy difficulty is harder than 
 normal compared to many games.
  The good thing is I don't mind replaying battles because there is so much to do, so much to see, 
 so many different ways to complete objectives, and the game is just awesome! That makes for a high 
 replayability value!!! If you liked Call of Duty, then this game will blow you away. It's a must 
 have for WW II fps fans!!!! It's well worth the $60!
  PS: Now, if EA will only release a patch for the Tiger Woods Challenge load freeze on the 3rd hole 
 of Henrietta Brockway at the Carnoustie course, I'll be a happy camper with EA! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: direktor
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  just as a said, it's a solid game, fun to play but not the kind of one that would get you in front 
 of your tv set for hours of fun, for the beginners in this kind of genre, it might be boring. Some 
 other games like: Call of Duty 3 or Brothers In Arms Hell's, might be more fun to play. This game 
 can give you a mix of feelings, and depending on the level of difficulty and the amount of hours 
 that you play, you might finish it too soon (so buy at least Call of Duty 3) or you might last 
 too long (in that case you might wanna give up in certain points of the game) . So it's fun to play 
 for the fans, might be boring for the beginners (not fans) , and if you want a action packed game, 
 please buy Rainbow Six vegas... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nucksfan
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I hate to give this game such a low score, but it shouldn't have been released until it was polished. 
 Why rush this game in September, just to beat the Halo fever? Shame on you EA, such a big publisher 
 should put the product before the profits, but you couldn't help yourselves. The frame rate drops 
 a lot in this game and yes, hit detection IS a problem. Friendly and enemy AI still needs work 
 and the multiplayer suffers from problems too.
  In its current form, this would be a promising beta version, so I can't recommend anyone to buy 
 this game. Rent this game, you'll enjoy it and teach EA a lesson! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaphas917
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Yes it is true it is the best world war two game out at the moment. But in no means does that make 
 it a great game. Even though it is the best world war two game out it never really had that much 
 competition. The only thing that differs this game from all other WW2 games is that now when you 
 start a mission you jump out of a airplane and land anywhere you want in the battle area. On a 
 roof, in a safe zone, in enemy controlled territory. And from there you are given a few different 
 missions. And you choose which you want to do first then second and so on. Which is nice instead 
 of having those shooters that are linear. Also as you kill enemies with a weapon that weapon gains 
 exp. And when it reaches a certain amount it upgrades. Every weapon has three upgrades to it. Some 
 upgrades increase ammo capacity, some increase damage, and some add some pretty new things that 
 a sub machine gun gets a sniper scope and some of the rifles get grenade attachments. Sadly this 
 game is very short. Each mission only lasts about 20-45 minutes. And since there is only 6 missions 
 that ends up being about 6 hours of game play. But you will probably end up replaying it, trying 
 to upgrade all your weapons, trying to gain all achievements and medals. The sound and graphics 
 to the game are beautiful. The guns actually sounds real and the environments look almost real 
 as well. All in all: this game is worth a rent. Not because it isn't worth the 60 dollars only 
 because if you aren't into online play that much then you will be done with this game in about 
 12 hours. But if you do like online multiplayer then pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molinaps3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  In the new EA Games and Medal of Honor series, Medal of Honor: Airborne is a pretty sweet game. 
 The graphics are just amazing i think even better than Call Of Duty 3 and Call od Duty 2. The sounds 
 of the guns and the rest of the awesome **** in the game is just a A++. The game only has 6 levels 
 (what the hell?) that was my reaction but you know what, the levels were sweet and long like an 
 hour or 2 depends (the last level i have to say at least two) . This game really blew me away just 
 everything. The guns were awesome and you can upgrade them like get more ammo for your thompson, 
 your get to launch grenads from your m1 grand (yea i know kick ass!) . And the new method of peeping 
 throw a corner and take out your enemies has a new meaning in moh: a its just the best and very 
 very helpful. The enemies are actually much smarter and give the deffenition of open a can of whopp 
 ass . And how they die is so cool like Freedom Fighters but better. The levels are two in Italy, 
 D-Day, Operation Market Gardern and two in Germany. So what im trying to say is, go out grab your 
 wallet go to the nearest game store and ask Hey I'd like to buy Medal of Honor: Airborne for the 
 Xbox 360 please and give him the $60. and have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Airborne is the newest installment of The medal of Honor Franchise. The franchise which need to 
 be re-designed badly. Well with Airborne comes a new step for MoH. And its a good one.
  
  The story in Airborne is simple. You are a 82nd Airborne solider and you play through six important 
 Airborne operations from World War 2. Being part of Airborne means you jump from airplanes. If 
 you haven't figured that out yet. Right when you jump out of your plane you have control to land 
 anywhere in the battle space, which makes it different from any other WW2 shooters, and any FPS 
 games out there.
  
  The gameplay in this game isn't perfect. The hit detection when shooting is down right awful. Even 
 when you upgrade you weapons. This can be frustrating. But for die hard WW2 shooter fans this can 
 easily be looked past. Every weapon in the game can be upgraded up to three times, you do not get 
 to choose any order that you gain these upgrades. Upgrading is simple you just use the weapon. 
 Head shots and Beat downs count more towards your upgrade. The Parachuting is by far the most interesting 
 thing in the game. Its easy to control and its fun to land on a roof and snipe the enemies bellow.
 
  
  The AI in the game is pretty good. They can navigate through the map according to where you and 
 you allies land. But you will notice that the enemies are a ton smarter than your fellow Airborne 
 friends. The enemy variations in the game are great. Besides the big guy with the MG 42. He can 
 be really tough on even the normal difficulty, but this does add some needed difficulty to the 
 game.
  
  The graphics in the is game are great. The games textures look great even when your close up to 
 them. The weapons look detailed and realistic. The character models look great, and have really 
 good animations.
  
  This MoH is hands down the best one in a long time. If your a ww2 fan or a shooter fan i recommend 
 you check this out. But if you are some of those gamers out there that cant look past small problems 
 with small game play glitches i recommend you rent the game, or just pass it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  After about two years of development time, EA finally decided to release MoH: Airborne, and it 
 looks like it was time well spent. As any gamer can tell you, the WWII shooter genre has gotten 
 pretty stagnant. For every outstanding game like CoD 2 or Red Orchestra, there's a dozen crappy 
 ones like Hour of Victory or The Outfit. Fortunately, though, Airborne does enough right to be 
 considered on the same level as CoD 2.
  
  First off, let me say this: I am an authenticity whore when it comes to WWII games. If a soldier 
 has the wrong division patch, weapon, shirt, ammo belt, etc., I'll be complaining about it. MoH: 
 Airborne has some such flaws, but thankfully, they are normally done for gameplay's sake, and are 
 forgivable for that reason.
  
  Gameplay wise, this might be better than CoD. The leaning in Iron Sights is incredibly useful, 
 whether you're peeking around a corner to spray a position with your Thompson or poking up to take 
 out a machine gunner with your Garand. It definitely helps you know when you're safely behind cover 
 so you don't get your head blown off. Cooking grenades is another valuable component, letting you 
 take out numerous enemies (or one tough individual) with a satisfying blast. Speaking of grenades, 
 I want to see more games with Gammon grenades in them. Frantically sprinting across a street to 
 throw one at a Tiger tank is far more exciting than the old  
 method, though you can do that, too. All in all, besides a few hit-detection problems, Airborne 
 plays as well as it looks.
  
  Which leads to the graphics. I don't know what game Gamespot played, but my Airborne is gorgeous. 
 The environments, characters, weapons, explosions, everything looks simply divine. The Market Garden 
 level alone is absolutely stunning, with hundreds of paratroopers jumping from dozens of planes 
 to the lush green fields below, and you take to fighting in a beautiful city. The sound is also 
 pretty impressive. Many of the guns have a satisfying report (especially the maxed-out 1911 and 
 MG42s) , and the constant screaming of orders and confusion rivals any other game in the genre.
 
  
  If there's any real issue I have with Airborne, it's the length. The 82nd Airborne fought in more 
 than six campaigns, and they weren't single-mission tasks, either. And how EA could have left out 
 their part in the Battle of the Bulge is a sin. The levels do get longer as you go, and there are 
 a ton of ways to play every mission, but it still feels short. I must say though, EA impressed 
 me with Airborne. While it isn't the new apex of WWII shooters, it's damn close to the top, and 
 as long as EA doesn't sequel the hell out of it, it will only get better.
  
  Congrats on this one EA, Medal of Honor is back on track. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunitman12345
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  I got Medal of Honor Airborne 1 day after it came out. As soon as I got it, I began playing it. 
 The first thing I noticed was the great graphics. They are very good, better than any world war 
 2 game I have seen yet. Then came the good part. Jumping out of the plane is fun, and I love being 
 able to control were to start. The actual fighting is very fun. You can look down the sights with 
 the weapons, and lean around cover. This feature is very helpful. Your enemies are very smart and 
 take cover and try to flank you. They do have stupid moments, but what game has A. I. that doesnt? 
 The death animations are very good also. The weapons are fun to use, and even more fun when they 
 get upgraded. The upgrades are usually very helpful, and make the game more fun. It gives the game 
 replay value, because you have to play a lot to get all the guns completely upgraded. The game 
 has only six levels, but each and every one of them is highly challenging and takes great strategy 
 and skill. Therefore, they each take about an hour or more.
  
  Overall, this is an awesome game. It brings the classic Medal of Honor series into the next gen 
 era, with its great graphics and revolutionary game play. I have played all of the MOH games and 
 I love them, but this is my favorite. In fact, it is my new favorite game of all time. I highly 
 recommend it to anybody who likes world war 2 or first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  The first thing I wanted to note is how great the game looks visually. It's one of those games, 
 where you just can't stop but look around and repeat the same mantra: WOW! The same goes for sound: 
 very realistic, well synced with vibrations of the controller. Movements of the character which 
 you're playing are also very realistic (although can get annoying at times, especially when he's 
 trying to get up after a botched landing :) ) .
  
  One thing I've found difficult is to stay alive. Either I suck at this game so badly, or the difficulty 
 is not very well balanced, but I found myself reloading last checkpoints multiple time, for every 
 effing checkpoint, sometimes dying within seconds after landing, while playing on a Normal difficulty. 
 And I was considered a very good player in Rainbow Six Vegas! :)
  
  Anyway, I think this game definitely worth playing, and delivers a lot of fun, which, in the end, 
 is what it's all about: Fun. I definitely worth the $60 I paid, and I also feel that it has a fairly 
 good replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OwNaGe_CRZY
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  I love the way that you are able to enter the battlefield from almost anywhere you like, and depending 
 on your landing, be battle-ready in a matter of seconds. Some landings will get your face handed 
 back to you with a side of shrapnel, but other than that, they can be a smooth ride. Also, the 
 ability to make precise leaning actions with the use of the left thumbstick while using ironsights 
 makes your day of ending Nazi-Fascism run along much easier. I remember back in the day when I 
 was playing CoD 1 where if I wanted to lean, I would have to lean the entire way, and not just 
 a smidge over to the left of right. This allows you to keep yourself behind cover, whilst still 
 able to shoot your average joe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  First of all let me start the review out pointing out a few series play statistics for myself.
 
  
  # of Medal of Honors played other then Airborne: 0
  # of Call of Duty game played: 1 (Call of Duty 2 on 360)
  
  I have played tons of FPS games 
 including the whole Battlefield series.
  
  Ok I will admit I bought this game on a whim as I thought the whole Airborne paratrooper thing 
 sounded really cool. A FPS game where you choose where to start at not the designers. I think the 
 concept more then satisfied my expectations. I think Gamespot and a few of the other sites have 
 not really given enough credit to this design. Most other FPS games you play nowadays all feel 
 like they are on a rail. A Disney ride where you start at Point A and end at Point B.
  
  I can see how this must have been a huge challenge for the designers to pull off levels that allowed 
 this sort of freedom. I will admit that on a few of the levels even though you do have freedom 
 to go and start where you want you are funneled into certain areas where you basically follow a 
 loose path the designers have set. But the freedom is astonishing and the whole parchuting gimmick 
 is well done. I will go ahead and hit all the main areas of the game real fast....
  
  Graphics are excellent. I guess in these post Gears of Wars days everyone can complain about the 
 graphics on other games but to me the graphics were very well done on this game. Yeah maybe they 
 could have done a bit more on some items. I would have liked to seen maybe one of the levels raining 
 or maybe seen a bit more shinyness on the game like Gears and Bioshock for instance has but overall... the 
 graphics are great.
  
  Sound is a mixed bag. While the sound is all very well done.... I experienced some sort of bug with 
 the sound. Sometimes the music would get crazy loud.... then other times the voice acting sound 
 would get super low. Something is bugged there.... perhaps will get fixed with a patch.
  
  Length of the game.... hmm this is a tough one. I played the game on Easy. It has 3 difficulties. 
 Upon completing easy I have 405 gamer points. Not bad. It basically took me 2 days to finish the 
 game on easy. I played about 3-4 hours one night and then about 6 the next. So maybe 10-11 hours 
 I guess. Im sure some people will finish it much faster but I wasted a bit of time on trying to 
 get some of the skill landings for extra points (Skill Landings are these things were there are 
 5 spots on each map that are difficult landings nad if you land on at least 1 on every level you 
 get like 25 points I think) .
  
  I played a bit of multiplayer and it seems fun but its hard for me to play online FPS games with 
 console controls. Its too frustrating. At least against the CPU its not as bad usually.
  
  Anyway... Personally I dont have a problem with a game being a bit short if I have fun. I like to 
 beat a game every once in a while. With this and Gears of War Ive actually beat 2 games recently 
 which is kinda nice.
  
  I can see myself playing this game more though. I actually believe I will start the campaign over 
 again on Normal now... it was that much fun. The levels are all interesting and fun in their own 
 way.
  
  The only gripes I really have about the game follows:
  
  - The sound glitch explained above.
  - I wish there was about 1-2 more levels and it would have 
 been perfect.
  - Some of the enemy ai is a bit.... goofy. But I played on easy so perhaps that explains it.
  
 
  Everything else is great. I actually enjoyed this game much more then CoD2. I took a skip on CoD3 
 so not sure how it compares there. But this game is great fun and the whole Airborne parchutting 
 thing really is cool. Makes the levels feel much more alive and less like a disney world rail ride.
 
  
  -Tekkor (gamertag: TekkorGC) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unlucky57
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  When i played the demo i thought this is gonna be a good game, and when it was released i just 
 went out and spent 60 bucks to buy it and it was money well invested. The single player campaign 
 was awesome because of the upgradeable weapons and choice of where i landed, also the enemies progressively 
 got harder and the missions more challenging. The Xbox Live Multiplayer is very fun because there 
 is very little lag. Either way Airborne turned out to be a great game, and i do not understand 
 why it only has a rating of 7.0 but thats what it is so whatever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: army-of_one
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Normally, I dont like MOH games. But this is different. This is to date the only medal of honor 
 game that I like besides European Assualt. You play as this dude named Boyd Travers whos part of 
 the 82nd airborne division. You start by doing Jump training where they teach you the basics of 
 jumping out of a plane and they actually score you on how well you did your jump. When you hit 
 the ground theres 3 kinds of jumps you can do: Botched landing, which is where if you land incorrectly 
 you fall on your ass and then have to get back up and take your weapons out. If you do a botched 
 landing, it takes like 10 to 12 seconds to become battle ready after landing, so if you botch your 
 landing next to an enemy, your screwed. Next is called a flared landing which is good. To flare 
 your landing you have to bend your knees before you hit the ground to slow your descent. You wont 
 fall on a flared landing and it takes like 5 to 6 seconds to get your gear out when you flare your 
 landing. The next kind of landing is probably the hardest. Greased landing where you hit the ground 
 running. You have to land at JUST the right angle and boom you hit the ground running and it takes 
 like less than a second to get your gear out. Gamespot is wrong about the campaign not getting 
 interesting until the last to levels. IMO every level exept for Operation Market Garden was great. 
 You can land anywhere in the level when you jump out of a plane. For example, from the air you 
 can see skirmishes between allies and germans going on on the ground. You can choose to land on 
 a roof for example, and pick people off with a sniper. Or you can land behind a fight and flank 
 the german soldiers, or at the green flares to get ammo and health, or pretty much anywhere in 
 the whole level that you want to. So b/c of this it makes this game have an insane amount of replay 
 value. When you bring up your ironsighs, you cant move but you can pop up from cover or lean around 
 corners which is pretty cool. The game also looks and sounds amazing. (only bad part is the explosions)
 
  
  There are tons of weapons and each weapon can be upgraded 3 times. For example, the first upgrade 
 on the mp40 is a double clip, the second upgrade is a 64 round mag, and the 3rd upgrade is a knife. 
 You get upgrades by doing things like getting headshots or killing 5 german soldiers in a row or 
 something like that although it takes awhile to get one upgrade. you can usually get like 2-3 upgrades 
 per mission if you kill every german you find. Also if you die it decreases your progress to the 
 next upgrade. Your upgrades are saved and permanent so when you upgrade your gun it stays with 
 you forever unless you make a new profile or something. You get 2 primary weapons, some grenades 
 and a pistol for each mission. You get to choose your weapon loadout before each mission also. 
 There are only 6 missions but each mission takes an hour or more to complete. But even with the 
 long missions, its still short. I beat it in two days. But the crazy amount of replay value makes 
 up for that. Now, about the multiplayer.
  
  The multiplayer on xbox live is awesome. Theres 3 gametypes:
  Operation Airborne, Team Deathmatch, 
 and Team deathmatch airborne. team deathmatch is well... team deathmatch. Operation airborne is 
 where allied soldiers parachute down like in single player and the axis team has to defend an objective 
 from the allies. Team deathmatch airborne is the same as team deathmatch exept for the allied soldiers 
 spawn in a parachute in the air. The multiplayer is really really fun and you can even upgrade 
 your weapons in multiplayer unless your playing in a room that doesnt allow upgrades. Unfortunately 
 most of the maps are based off the single player campaign so that kinda sucks. But it is really 
 fun trying to snipe allied players out of the sky and things like that. The multiplayer will definately 
 keep you coming back. One of the things about this game is the achievements are easy as hell. Ive 
 only had this game for like 4 days and i already have like 23 out the 40 something achivements. 
 If you don't like the medal of honor series, this game just might change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cejay0813
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  There are some things I noticed about MoH that make it stand out as a real awesome game.
  
  First, the Unreal Engine has done it again because the graphics are pretty amazing. Compared to 
 COD 2 or 3, it looks a little more gritty, less cartoony imo. Not to say that CODs graphics suck 
 by any means. The detail on the weapons is great and things like water and the metal glisten when 
 hit with light. Just looking at the lighting sheen of the gun in your hand is pretty cool.
  
  Second, the gameplay is really intense in SP and MP (if you got a good sized room with no lag) . 
 Enemies flood the screen and fire at you from all angles, and they actually hit you. Honestly this 
 was the most times I've died on campaign set to normal. Also things like sprinting, jumping, and 
 parachuting (of course) makes it really feel like you are a soilder running into battle. The original 
 lean and peek cover system works really well in the game. When aiming down the ironsights you can 
 maneuver with ease, and with a click of the LS you can strafe or walk back and forth while aiming. 
 GS complained about the hit detection but it's honestly like any other shooter nowadays where you 
 have to use burst fire instead of full auto a lot of the times. Its actually way more realistic 
 as far as hit detection goes. It's damn hard to hit someone across the map with the thompson or 
 MP40, but switch to one of the rifles and of course accuracy is spot on. Also when you actually 
 upgrade the weapons, the accuracy gets way better.
  
  GS had it right when they said that there is no story. You basically just take the role of some 
 guy name Travers, who seems to be a god on the battlefield. As Travers you basically just take 
 part in 6 different operaitions for the 82nd Airborne division. You'll blow up tanks, AA guns, 
 radio communications, and all of the other stuff you do in these WW2 shooters. What sets the game 
 out from the rest is the fact that you can do these things in any order you want on the level. 
 It really is go anywhere and do anything, from the rooftops to the streets. Overall if you're not 
 a risk taker, do not buy this game cause there is that chance that you might not like it. I recommend 
 renting first. That'll probably be all you need to conquer this game anyway, not unless you want 
 to play online. IMO the more I play it, the more I appreciate it. And the achievements are butt 
 easy to come by in this one so keep that in mind. GS score doesnt accurately reflect MoH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracon6969
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  While there is no co-op, which would have pushed this game into the low 9's, it is still a fresh 
 new approach to the WWII FPS. The weapon upgrade system is phenomenal, jumping out of the plane 
 and dropping into the war zone is spectacular, and the openness of the maps is stellar.
  
  Some of the battles that take place, even thought we've played most of them before, have a different 
 feel. This is most likely simply because you approach from the other side of the battlefield. There 
 are many great challenges to keep you coming back, such as the skill jumps (difficult to hit landing 
 zones marked by snagged parachutes) and weapon upgrades earned by an experience style system that 
 advances as you use a weapon.
  
  Overall there really isn't much that could be improved. The only things that are lacking are a 
 co-op mode and a lobby system for the multi-player. Other than that EA has breathed fresh life 
 into the WWII FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andydrew19
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing.... its not to far from call of duty 3 other that the graphics are alot better. 
 Also they have made it more tactical with adding the pop and drop feature and being able to tilt 
 out from under cover. i suggest this game highly. the mulitplay is really cool to although there 
 is no online coop which would have been amazing but some reason games that are released dont like 
 coop features which is stupid do to the fact all games now are  
 this game is deffenitly a good pick  
 soo if you like call of duty 3 or 2 you should get this game. the campagin is unique to adding 
 a free roaming feature in it which makes it weird at frist cause you can do what ever you want 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickrep1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  As a major fan of WWII FPS, I was excited about MOH: Airborne. The idea that you can jump out off 
 a plane, land anywhere on the map and complete your mission sounded like a winner.
  
  Though the concept is great the problem is that jumping out of the plane is only about 2 seconds 
 of the game for each board. After that you're simply running around another MOH, saying to yourself 
 been there done that.
  
  Though the board is open and doesn't force you to go on a set path you still have to complete your 
 objectives on the map, which ends up basically taking a certain path.
  
  Fortunately as gamers we live in the 21st Century and have the pleasure of a little thing called 
 XBOX Live. Here is where the game is worth it's cost. Instead of jumping out a plane being a 2 
 second endeavor it's a constant drill as every time you re-spawn as the allies it's from the sky.
 
  
  You can also play as the Germans constantly looking up to see where the next American will land.
 
  
  In all MOH: Airborne is worth the cash if you love Xbox Live, if not I recommend you enlist in 
 a different game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smylexx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  Everyone loves shooting Nazis, right? I know I do. In fact, even in games like Viva Pinata or OutRun, 
 i like to imagine that the enemies are STILL Nazis so that i feel happier about beating them.
 
  Anyhoo, in this MoH game the main difference to previous versions is the parachute-drop mechanic 
 allowing you to choose your starting point on the battlefield.
  This appears to work quite well and i imagine it will give you some additional lifespan out of 
 the game. The levels themselves are big - in fact they could best be described as mini-campaigns 
 as each one could easily take over an hour to complete.
  There are a range of weapons which can be upgraded by 'acheivements' which are unlocked by constant 
 use of the weapon. These range from 'improved accuracy' and 'less recoil' to 'grenade launcher 
 attachments'. A nice touch and, as well as the unlockable medals, again go someway to making you 
 want to replay again and again.
  The main reasons this game hasn't been given a higher mark is that the AI of the enemies is a little 
 random. Most Nazis will run around like chickens before finding a bit of cover they like then stay 
 there til you flank them or snipe them. They ARE aggressive but never attempt anything tactical 
 like a flank manouvre. The second (and most important reason) that the game gets a 7.5 is that 
 the hit-collision seems a little off. Often you're pretty darn sure that you just got a perfect 
 headshot but it isnt recognised. The best way of tackling the enemies is simply to spray the machine 
 gun in the general direction of them and kiss your rabbits foot for luck. With a few more months 
 of playtesting, this could have been a classic MoH game. Unfortunately, as it stands, it is merely 
 an acceptable shooter which is lucky to be coming out at a time where it has little competition 
 on the store shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norton1231
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  The campaign on moh airborne holds up pretty well. There is constant action and you are never really 
 getting lost. This campaign seems repetitive but which campaign doesn't get old. Even the almighty 
 Bioshock!!!!. You won't be too impressed with the multi-player (especially if you have played COD 
 3) . Your supply of weapons is pretty low. At times it seems sniping is a bit to easy. I'm not trying 
 to take cheap shots at this game but the jumping out of planes gets a bit repetitive also. All 
 in all it's a fine game. Nothing more than 8.0. This game is a lot like the other MOH's. You always 
 have this lack of satisfaction after you get done playing it. You may be pretty pleased with how 
 easy the achievements are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camp1301
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game. I wasn't too disappointed. The gameplay was pretty good as were 
 the graphics/animation. I like to run around and shoot things so it's not very hard to please me. 
 You do get to jump out of planes but there are only five missions so you do the math. One feature 
 of this game that I liked was being able to upgrade my weapons based on how much and how well I 
 used them. I only fully upgraded 4 of them as they were the one's I used the most. The Springfield 
 sniper and the Thompson were by far my favorites. My biggest complaint against this game was what 
 I like to call Uber-Nazis. You'll know them when you see them. These guys could take two anti-tank 
 rockets and keep on coming, come on now. How many headshots can one non-helmet wearing Nazi piece-of-trash 
 take before he falls to the ground? How about some realism from a history based game. All in all, 
 I enjoyed this game. Buy it? Better to rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt-slaughter61
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor, the original WW series knows how to get the job done! The Medal of Honor puts you 
 in the place of a Paratrooper, in which you have to land in the green smoke flares and kill every 
 nazi you see. They brought lots of new and entertaining ideas such as customizing your weapon from 
 more ammo better aim, etc. and you have the choice to do what ever objective you want, but in the 
 end you have to get them all done. Single player will give you quite a good fight on normal and 
 if you like WW2 games you'll definitly have fun blowing away enemies in this campaign since its 
 loaded with nazis. Soundwise- The sound is great its easy to tell if someones coming down those 
 metal stairs behind you on multiplayer which gives you time to prepare yourself and such. Graphicswise- 
 The graphics are pretty awsome, like i said if you still play call of duty then switch to this, 
 its better graphicswise and gamewise. Gameplay- The gameplays fun fast paced which is what i like. 
 People complain about only holding 12 people but if you can stay alive for 5 mins or more with 
 10 ppl in it props cuz you die pretty quickly The multiplayer is fun as hell, like i said fast 
 paced and you choose to be allies or axis depending on your fav weapon. Allies seem to have better 
 guns but they respawn in the air going down on a parachute and any axis in there right mind should 
 be able to kill him and get a acheivment. My only problem is there isn't enough maps theres like 
 8 or less im sure they'll have new maps out (hopefully free and soon) . Connection is average, a 
 lot easier to get into rooms and rooms fill up really quick unlike CoD3. Another good thing is 
 when you upgrade your gun on single player by killing nazies, they stay upgraded in MP so its unique 
 like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcs565
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. The graphics are incredible (except for the ugly sniper scope view) , the jumping 
 into combat is cool as hell, the controls are good, the enemy AI is really good (they will flank 
 you and not just stand there when you throw a grenade at them) , and the missions are tough but 
 not impossible. This game approaches combat from a reality standpoint: you can't just run and gun 
 like Rambo and not die. Also, all the weapons have upgrades which really adds to the game. There 
 are also lots of achievements for doing things like meleeing an enemy while on the run and killing 
 three enemy with one grenade. This game is a welcomed fresh approach to the run of the mill WWII 
 FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m34d
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I myself am getting tired of the WWII shooters. Wear it out please, as if there were more story 
 to tell. True most of my favorite games are in WWII they and this is starting to be one of those. 
 After a while you get tired of jumping out of an airplane that each time you go the redundancy 
 of being shot down gets old. But once you step out and that flare of sunlight hits your HDTV you 
 blow your wad.... sorry for the graphics lol. But I can't imagine what it would be like to jump 
 into enemy territory and see what you are able to see. The pure fact that you can land anywhere 
 in the battlefield and give yourself the best advantage just makes the experience all the more 
 awesome. I keep spending most of my time leveling up my weapons so I can fight better in the ladder 
 missions, so I keep playing the same levels over and over. It is worth the buy don't rent it buy 
 it. If you aren't saving for halo 3 buy this game if so wait but I would certainly rent this game 
 if your on a budget. Me im buying every game that comes out I have been expecting cuz i make too 
 much money for my own good but wtf who cares. Airborne brings Medal of honor back to life, no more 
 Super secret spy crap just pure visceral action. Cya on the battle field guys, look for M34dPunisher 
 the guy with the most kills haha or the guy teabagging you lol.
  
  Happy gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-SPECTRE
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 6, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  The A. I. in this game is terrible. Your own guys will run or stand in front of you blocking your 
 shot. Enemy A. I. with super accurate shots at long distance and you cannot hit them, even with 
 a scoped springfield. It is difficult to land most of the skill jump spots. you have to search 
 around for them on the ground. Once they are located you can try for them if you die in the level. 
 I did not like that you could not replay a level, the game forces you to continue the campaign. 
 Nice effort EA, you suckered me in, it will not happen again. Renter all the way on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Frontline will always be my favorite WWII game out there because it was my first 
 FPS I ever got. I played it ALOT. Especially the splitscreen multiplayer. After a couple of disappointing 
 sequels, we have this, and it is the first WWII game worthy of being the second best I've ever 
 played. I think it is even better than the whole Call of Duty franchise put together. Airborne 
 is that good. Onto the review. The game starts you off in a city, and you can go anywhere, anytime, 
 to do your objectives. Dropping in from above and landing is a good idea, and is used in a good 
 way. Upgrading your weapons is a really superb feature that gives the game an extra layer of awesomeness. 
 Your shotgun can be upgrading so that you can make enemies fly backward by a one hit kill from 
 50 feet away. Upgrading your pistol can make it shoot as fast as a BAR. Yes, those additions to 
 the game aren't realistic, but they certainly make the game more fun. The control may seem very 
 odd at first, but after you get used to it, it is the best FPS control ever. Even better than Halo's. 
 It also has the best "peeking gameplay" out there, and after an hour with this game, you will never 
 want to go back and use other FPS control schemes. Saving and loading are done great, as is the 
 check point system. Some people complain about it, but there isn't any other way to make it better 
 than it is. The level designs are well made and give the game the MoH feel. The sound and graphics 
 add to the experience. Forget what other people tell you- the graphics are amazing! Yes the textures 
 may seem muddy at times, and the game is no Crysis, but the graphics are still great. The sound 
 is also great. The music is the best in the series, and is taken from Frontline. While it doesn't 
 have the same affect as it did 5 years ago, the music only adds to the experience. The sounds of 
 explosions and gunshots are good, but sometimes the gunshots don't make any noise, which leads 
 me to my next part of the review.
  
  There are a number of glitches and problems in the game that keep me from giving it a higher score. 
 You see enemies respawn right in front of you, your own gunshots aren't heard, text is switched 
 around, and your allies sometime respawn with their legs still in the ground. Also, there is only 
 about 7-8 hours of game. These among other things, plague the game, but don't take away from it 
 that much and are pretty rare. There is also the absence of splitscreen. It kinda annoyed me, and 
 since I don't have Live, I can't play the multiplayer. I haven't played the XBL multilayer, but 
 from what I've seen of it, it is very fun. The Axis spawn on the ground, but the Allies drop in 
 and can land on buildings. The catch is that the axis can kill the Allies when their still in the 
 air. Overall, this is an amazing game that has the feel of the Medal of honor series. With great 
 gameplay, graphics, and sound, it is the best WWII game out there from the Xbox 360. It is the 
 best MoH game since Frontline, and is worth a rent if you like FPS's, and worth a buy if you are 
 a fan of the series. This concludes my review, and hopefully will give you my reasons of why this 
 game deserves a solid 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyrax897
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Another great Medal of Honor game to add to the collection I would say myself. The new stuff that 
 they have added since they're old MoH games is quite superb and excellent. Lots of great new ideas 
 and can be a lot of fun.
  
  The only thing that can get to be a little annoying is just the recoil and aiming. It can suck 
 from long distances and in the missions that take place at night but overall the shooting is quite 
 realistic and satisfying when you get a kill. The AI could you some minor tweaks since I have encountered 
 just a few times where an enemy didn't even know I existed.
  
  But overall this is a great game and worth spending the money on in my opinion. The multi-player 
 is pretty solid and quite fun so it should keep you busy for quite awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbas123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Well i was hoping high for this one cuz i was thinking omg, you can drop anywhere so the ways you 
 can beat one level are endless and yes i was wrong like many others, there are many safety zones, 
 and if you pretty much don't land in one of those safety zones, well you are toast for the most 
 part.
  
  it is fun however to an extent, although i am kind of bored of medal of honor games, i think they 
 need to really look into new gameplay features as well as another setting for the game.
  
  overall, i give it a 7.5 because multiplayer adds a whole bunch of fun, not the best multiplayer, 
 but still a lot of fun, and the game is pretty sweet even if you do have to land in those safety 
 zones. it is not that easy of a game and can be a good challenge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thadragon23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  This game is nothing new but it sure the hell is still an awesome game the airborne stuff is a 
 little different but not much. but it does add to the game in a positive way. The single player 
 is incredible and the levels are just huge if you really look at it almost every building you can 
 go in and every roof you can get on it's insane. The AI is perfect people have been complaining 
 about the hit detection but i haven't really noticed it to be any worse then other FPS. The multiplayer 
 is where this game shines the online play is just fun and addicting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hudren
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  The game is a blast and the multiplayer is fun. I did not keep up with the game info and I thought 
 it had co-op play. I realized they scrapped co-op after I bought it. Now my buds and I cannot hang 
 together like we did in GR and GRAW series. Me personally, I rather co-op play versus multiplayer 
 but some will see the other way. My own fault for not thinking they will change their mind mid-way 
 but the thought of jumping in next to a buddy in middle of a fire-fight and assisting him sounded 
 cool as hell, raise up the difficulty and go nuts. They even presented the idea in an interview 
 stating that... that would have been awesome if they kept it but I think the fact how the AI worked 
 and how 2-4 players work correspondingly would have been a massive undertaking, to say the least. 
 Overall, good game and a good try but without the co-op thought mentioned above I could not give 
 a higher rating due to lack of ingenuity that would have marked a difference between this game 
 and others like it. The comparison is too similar except when in multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhensley84
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure what game some of you played, but if you want one heck of a FPS, get this game! On 
 Normal difficulty, the enemy AI will actually call buddies for help, flank you, flush you out with 
 grenades, react to overwhealming enemy presence, etc. Also, I felt like every mission was as intense 
 as the next. From Operation Husky in Italy to Operation Neptune in Normandy, you can choose where 
 you land, what objectives to tackle first, and based on that, it depends on how many (if any) enemy 
 reinforcements will come, what type they are, and how difficult the rest of the mission will be. 
 The upgradeable weapons is kind of nice too, as you pick off your Nazi foes, you are able to unlock 
 enhancements to your guns such as the Thompsons Pistol Grip (for improved stability) , the Garand's 
 Match Grade Barrel (For improved accuracy) , and etc. This is definately a major contendor in the 
 WWII FPS arena, and the next gen graphics are phenomenal as well. From search lights, concrete 
 blowing apart, great character modeling and animations, and a feeling like you are in a war (From 
 C-47s dropping other troopers WAY off in the distance, to other battles taking place simultaneously 
 as yours) . The one lack this game has in no split-screen multiplayer. For a game of this magnitude, 
 that would have been nice atleast, if not a Co-op mode. But is is Xbox Live! enabled, so you can 
 play against your friends online. All in all, a solid game, with great values. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyek_1230
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  First off let me say that this is NOT the best shooter in years, but definantly one of the best 
 Medal of Honor games in years. In fact, it is the best Medal of Honor game.
  
  Welcome to the Airborne, soldier. Literately. You will experience none other than the most realistic 
 paratrooper jumps ever in any video game. Sure, you may have seen the camera jumping out of the 
 plane in a few games, but in this game you actually get to steer your parachute around the battlefield, 
 landing anywhere and everywhere your eyes can see. This makes the missions more exciting, because 
 you can land in a different spot every time you jump. If you wanted, you could play no level the 
 same way! You have two choices when you land; you can land in safe cover indicated by the green 
 smoke or smack dab in the middle of enemy territory with your guns blazing. It's your choice, and 
 that is what makes Medal of Honor: Airborne so deep.
  
  Where to start... how about with the Story Mode? As soldier Travers, you go throughout some of 
 the big operations of WWII, starting with Italy in 1943 and ending in the heart of Nazi Germany 
 itself in 1945. There are 6 total operations, but don't think that means the game is short. The 
 game is not short. Even though there are only 6 operations, there are several things to do in the 
 operations, and these several things could be called levels if wanted. The first operation (Huskey) 
 just took me an hour to complete on Normal difficulty. This operation will of course have nothing 
 to do (in time comparison) with D-Day or Market Garden which are later in the game. The final level 
 of the game (if you saw the demo played at E3) is infiltrating one of the legendary Flak Towers 
 in Germany. Just considering how big the Flak Tower is should tell you it would take an hour or 
 more to complete. The AI is pretty good, and the Germans (and briefly Italians) actually try to 
 shoot you! Operation Huskey was challenging, and I died once (in which case you just reload at 
 the last checkpoint) . The health is the same as all other Medal of Honor games. It consists of 
 a Health Bar with 4 slots, and a few hits will knock those slots off, resulting in death when dropped 
 to nothing. There are numerous cantine kits across the maps, however, that rejuvenate one slot 
 of health. FInding these is essential, since you most likely will get low on health atleast sometime 
 throughout the level. The graphics are up-to-date. They could be called Xbox 360 graphics. I was 
 very pleased. Your allies actually do stuff too, other than always rely on you to do the stuff. 
 Throughout most of the operations (depending on where you land and which paths you take) , you will 
 be accompanied by sometimes up to 10 or so soldiers. Your allies have good accuracy too; they managed 
 to kill a few Germans (even though you will find yourself doing most of it) . They are some help, 
 atleast.
  
  You have a compass at the bottom left-hand side of the screen that displays green dots for allies 
 and red dots for Germans firing. It also contains golden arrows that show you your objectives (which 
 could be several, resulting in 4-5 golden arrows) .
  
  This game is not all running through with guns blazing. This is one of the first games (since Brothers 
 in Arms I would say) where you must do some strategy and tactics. What weapons should I choose? 
 Where should I land? What objective should I head for first? Should I take the Germans head on 
 or try to sneak around them? All these questions you will ask yourself throughout the game. I think 
 I covered the Story Mode good enough, now to head for Multiplayer. One sentence: The Multiplayer 
 is just amazing. I probably played twice as much Multiplayer as I did the Story Mode tonight. You 
 can pick between Team Deathmatches and a Capture the Flag/War mixture (there were no regular Deathmatches! 
 *cries*) . Overall, the gameplay was fun, especially since you aren't fighting computers. In a total 
 of teams of 6, the Axis and Allied sides need to kill each other to earn points for their team. 
 it's the same deal. The positive plus however is the fact that everytime you die (and if you are 
 American) you get to land over and over. This may get repetitive, but it gives you a chance to 
 take another try at a battlefield. The fun part for the Axis soldiers (which is what I was most 
 of the time) , is you get to try and shoot down the Americans BEFORE they even land! It is hard 
 but if you manage to shoot em down then they have to just do it again (in which you may be able 
 to shoot them again. I shot down the same person 3 times in a row and heard him cursing through 
 the microphone hehe) , and as a one-time-thing only you get 10 Gamerpoints!
  
  Medal of Honor: Airborne is a must buy for WWII shooter fans or previous MOH or even COD fans. 
 The game is fun and very addicting. I wasn't doing good at first but after playing for a good 30 
 minutes I couldn't stop myself. This game definanlty deserves it's respect. Thanks EA for another 
 great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  Buy this game for the multiplayer alone. It is truly superb. Very well done. Maps mostly original 
 and nicely rendered. Not simply a rehash of the single player. Ramagen Map is excellent lots of 
 rooftop sniping. Very taught game with excellent battle action. Was I seeing things or were graphics 
 actually notched up several levels.
  
  Single Player Campaign:
  
  PLAY THE SINGLE PLAYER CAMPAIGN ON THE 'VETERAN' OR HIGHEST LEVEL. iT IS A MUCH BETTER GAME ON 
 THIS SETTING!
  
  This is an example of a game that is better than its reviews. If you love the WWII FPS Genre, as 
 I do, then this is going to be fun. Ok maybe it does not have the glitz and glamor of Call of Duty 
 or the tight squad based feel of BIA but the battle action is exciting and the approach is somewhat 
 novel. Historically it is, of course, absurd and rediculous but who cares really as we wait for 
 Halo, Army of Two, Call of Duty 4, BIA Hells Highway etc.... this will pass the time a bit. The 
 paradrops add a nice dimension to the game. But at its heart it is just a basic shooter and the 
 battles are pitched and exciting. The game has some objectives that make it a bit more than a raw 
 shooter. The weapons are good especially as you gain upgrades and the sniper rifle is quite good. 
 I found the set to be interesting and the graphics pretty good.. gets better as you go. It is particularly 
 interesting when you land in a zone that is hot with the enemy... you can get pinned down but if 
 you are careful you can escape to find your squad mates. I think what I like is the randomness 
 of your landings. On one occaision I ended up landing on a rooftop above the action and sould snipe 
 the enemy and drop grenades on them. Some of the early levels are fairly plain vanilla Last level 
 is a real trip. Too bad they could not make all the levels this interesting and exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mewt2021
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Medal Of Honor Frontlines, I lost interest in the MOH series. Call of Duty became the 
 better WW2 game. But now that CoD has left the 40s I decided to check out this MOH and let me just 
 say that this game is the reason people will rethink there opinions on the MOH series. Airborne 
 is the best Medal of Honor ever. The gameplay is so good it made me want to shed a tear of joy. 
 Being able to choose where you start your mission is a fun and interesting feature. Instead of 
 re-doing everything if you die you can change your plan of attack. The weapon upgrade system is 
 also a nice feature added to the game. This game should give CoD fans something to do until Modern 
 Warfare is out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strangekickass
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  The game is great! So far the first two levels are alright but it gets better! Go out and buy it! 
 Online great too, one of the best MOH games so far! The weapons is the best part. I like the fact 
 that they get better after you keep using them! It is kinda hard to aim but if you keep playing 
 then that wont be a problem anymore. I also love the fact that after you die, you appear again 
 in the air floating down. Now from there you can fix what you did wrong and just work with what 
 you got now. I like it and im so glad i got it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baondayko
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I thought the concept was good. Good graphics, killer sound, but the hit detection is horrible. 
 You can walk into a room and have to shoot a nazi in the back of the head four times to get a kill. 
 Gee Whiz. You would think the developer, or whomever tests these games would have noticed it immediately. 
 I noticed it within 5 minutes of gameplay. Oh well, maybe next time.
  
  I suggest people rent the game prior to purchasing. I had high hopes for this game. Maybe the PS3 
 version will have better hit detection? I really thing EA needs to start testing their darn games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Airborne is another game in the long running series of WWII first person shooters. 
 Each game was a lot of the same, dissapointing or not, but now, in Airborne, its a totally different 
 story.
  
  In Airborne, you take control of Boyd Travers, a paratrooper with the U. S. Army in WWII. As a paratrooper, 
 you drop onto a battlefield, not run in on foot. In Airborne you are given ultimate freedom on 
 where you go on the field, and each time shapes the battle in totally different ways. There are 
 also skil drop areas, five in each map, that offer replayablity. But going through missions themselves 
 in different ways adds enough replay value to it.
  
  In Airborne, the locations you go into are in Sicily, with Opertion Husky, Operation Avalanche, 
 invasion of Italy, Normandy, DDay, Operation Market Garden, the failed attempt to end the war early, 
 and Operation Varsity, invasion of Germany itself. Although this sounds brief, the missions are 
 long, with huge maps as your battlefield, filled with enemies and allies going ape at eachother. 
 Each mission could take an hour to even more.
  
  The enemies in the game had to be rewritten in entirely different ways since you had ultimate freedom 
 when paradropping onto the maps. Although you may think this is hard, it actually was pulled off 
 well. Enemies re very tough, and are good about flanking you, suppressing you, and surprising you. 
 There is a problem with them though, and that is that they are crack shots, and can beat the **** 
 out of you from long distances at times, which is frustrating, but as long as you go in from cover 
 to cover, you'll be ok.
  
  The gameplay, besides the enemies, is also improved. Parashooting offers more variety to it, but 
 theres one other thing. This isn't technically a running and gunning game. Your encouraged to use 
 the lean system, where you aim down your sites, unable to move, and then peak ou using the left 
 stick to take out enemies. It works well, and is pretty solid, and a great way to fight, and a 
 safer way.
  
  Multiplayer is also a lot different, You got three modes, two exclusively to air dropping to the 
 maps. Axis troops can have a blast shooting Allies down, but the Allies can land anywhere, like 
 the single player, and then turn the tables on the Axis. Its fresh and fun, and should keep people 
 coming back.
  
  Overall, MOH: Airborne is a solid new entry into the series. Although many areas have been seen 
 before, a lot of its new gameplay improvements are fresh and show that WWII first person shooters 
 are not yet dead. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
