-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mercenaries 2: World in Flames
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/mercenaries2worldinflames/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Co-op play can be a bit of fun.
 Causing mayhem and destruction is entertaining, though the game will often penalize you.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dozens upon dozens of bugs and glitches.
 Unsatisfying weapons.
 Awful AI.
 Repetitive missions.
 Lousy story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  4, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 7.2, 62 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 3,492 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Pandemic Studios
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Aug 31, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Broken, buggy, and shallow gameplay leaves Mercenaries 2's world in flames. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN" 
        Mercenaries 2: World in Flames Review for Xbox 360 
 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =               The Video Review               

 GameSpot's Aaron Thomas sets the world ablaze in this video review for Mercenaries 2: World in Flames. 
       Watch It   Watch HD 520p                 The Good            Co-op play can be a bit of fun 
  &nbsp;      Causing mayhem and destruction is entertaining, though the game will often penalize 
 you.                The Bad            Dozens upon dozens of bugs and glitches  &nbsp;      Unsatisfying 
 weapons  &nbsp;      Awful AI  &nbsp;      Repetitive missions  &nbsp;      Lousy story.       
                After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Bonus 
 Content    Posted: Nov 4, 2008 1:20 pm PT      The free "Total Payback" update adds a handful of 
 new features, including six more playable characters, cross-region support for online co-op play, 
 and cheats that include infinite ammo and infinite health. &nbsp;               

  Imagine a game with a huge, open world filled with dozens of unique vehicles and attacks that let 
 you cause destruction whenever and wherever you choose. Now, toss in game-crippling bugs, brain-dead 
 AI, unsatisfying gunplay, a lousy story, and repetitive missions. That's Mercenaries 2: World in 
 Flames. Mindlessly causing chaos can be enjoyable in short bursts, and online co-op play spices 
 things up a bit, but beyond those all-too infrequent bits of fun, Mercenaries 2 is a dud.  

           There are certainly moments when it's fun to blow stuff up.      

  You play as one 
 of three mercenaries -- all of whom have very similar storylines. The game follows your absurd quest 
 for vengeance on a man who hired you to do a job and didn't pay. Mercs 2's story is bad (as is 
 the voice acting) , but it's ultimately inconsequential and all of the cutscenes can safely be skipped. 
 The first few missions are designed to get you accustomed to the game's third-person-shooting action. 
 In the span of 30 minutes you'll shoot several different weapons, use grenades and C4, and drive 
 cars, boats, and jeeps as you secure what will eventually become your home base. After that, the 
 first few contracts you take on are fun, but that's mostly because the gameplay mechanics are new 
 and the thrill of destruction is still fresh.  

  It's after the first hour or so that you'll start to notice something's amiss. For a game that's 
 all about guns, actually firing one isn't terribly satisfying. Weapons feel weak, it's difficult 
 to hit moving targets, and the damage they cause is inconsistent. In fact, it's easier to hijack 
 a tank or grapple onto a flying helicopter than it is to destroy one. Heavier weapons such as rocket-propelled 
 grenades are great and can destroy almost anything they hit, but the amount of ammunition (which, 
 for some reason, you have to hit a button to pick up) is so limited that you won't be able to use 
 them often. Plus, it's tedious to have to go in a shop, purchase a weapon, go outside, call for 
 the weapon, and then wait to pick it up. Why can't you just walk into a store and buy a gun?  

 
  The game's version of Venezuela is enormous, but while technically impressive, its size is mostly 
 a detriment. There's not a whole lot to do, so you'll be tempted to make your own fun by blowing 
 up buildings and cars and terrorizing towns in a tank. While this might be enticing (and fun for 
 a few hours) , it's a bad idea if you're trying to actually make it to the end of the game. Not 
 only are you penalized for harming civilians, but one stray bullet can anger an entire faction. 
 Factions are your main source of income and can be essential to mission progress, but when a faction 
 is angry with you they'll quit offering you work and shoot you on sight. The large world also means 
 that unless you're in a position to use the instant transport option, it takes forever to get from 
 one place to the next. Roads wind aimlessly around the terrain; the GPS often gives bad directions; 
 random friendly soldiers will blow up your cars; and helicopters are frequently shot out of the 
 sky by missiles that rarely miss. To make matters worse, when you're killed after hitting a checkpoint 
 you typically have to go back to your home base or the outpost where you got the mission and then 
 travel all the way back to your target.  

  You'll eventually acquire the services of a mechanic, a helicopter pilot, and a jet pilot. The 
 helicopter pilot is useful; he'll drop off supplies and transport you where you need to go as well 
 as pick up the money and fuel needed for airstrikes. The jet pilot, who is a stereotypical drunk 
 Russian, drops bombs whenever you call in an airstrike. It's too bad that airstrikes are of limited 
 value, because you often can't get close enough or avoid being shot long enough to line up the 
 target. There always seems to be something you're supposed to protect or something stopping you 
 from transmitting -- it's just easier to go in and shoot everyone. The mechanic is just plain worthless. 
 She's supposed to use junk that you find hidden in boxes throughout the world, but unless you actively 
 search for them, you're not likely to find many, and she won't provide anything more than the car 
 she had when you teamed up with her.  

           It only takes one punch to kill someone.      

  Mercenaries 2 purports to give you 
 all sorts of freedom when it comes to how you exact your revenge, but in reality, your choices 
 are few. Yes, there are different factions and groups spread out across the map, but typically 
 only one of them has a contract that will help advance the storyline, and you can get nearly to 
 the end of the game before having to pick one side over another. Most of the contracts require 
 you to take over an outpost for a faction, and when the game does give you the chance to do something 
 else it's limited to annoying escort missions or out-of-place racing challenges. Each faction has 
 a set of high value targets (HVT) . You can earn cash by capturing or killing and then photographing 
 these targets. This is interesting the first few times, but the money you make for bagging someone 
 isn't worth the hassle. Factions get mad when you take out their people, and friendly soldiers 
 will often kill the guy you're trying to extract alive. Capturing outposts is extremely repetitive. 
 While the size and shape of the bases may vary slightly, the way you attack them is the same: Kill 
 everyone inside and call in a landing crew. This can be mildly amusing for a short time, but the 
 fun quickly grinds to a halt as the game's bevy of bugs and problems make themselves apparent. 
 Enemy AI is horrific. If you're injured you can just run behind a building to regenerate -- soldiers 
 won't make much of an effort to find you. They won't even go to great lengths to shoot you if you're 
 right next to them, often standing there oblivious to your shooting them. When you have to destroy 
 a specific piece of equipment or vehicle, sometimes the easiest thing to do is stand next to or 
 get inside of it and let the bad guys blow up the very thing they're supposed to be protecting. 

  The problems just keep on coming. Helicopters will vanish with you in them; turrets will float 
 in midair; people you're supposed to rescue will drown themselves or run face-first into the helicopter 
 rather than get in; and allies will shoot at you for no reason. Combat falls flat because shooting 
 guys takes longer and is more difficult than simply running up to them and killing them with one 
 punch; helicopters will often drop off support troops on rooftops, where they'll either get stuck 
 or plunge to their deaths. Enemy soldiers respawn in gun towers even after you've taken over an 
 outpost; they can shoot through walls and often appear out of thin air, too. Civilians will run 
 right in front of you when you drive, costing you 5 grand each time you hit them; your helicopter 
 pilot will sometimes fail to show up, or will drop your cargo where you can't get to it. You might 
 even be unlucky enough to have the game crash during a load screen; or to be told that you're dead 
 when you clearly have health left, forcing you to restart. You might even lose progress due to 
 a save game failing. The list of bugs and problems really is staggering.  

  Really, the only fun to be had with Mercenaries 2 is in playing cooperatively with a friend online. 
 You can chat back and forth during long helicopter flights, revive the other person when they're 
 killed by an unseen foe, and put your heads together to creatively tackle obstacles. But even co-op 
 has caveats. If either person gets killed, he or she has to be revived before the timer runs out 
 or else the game will end -- a problem when the other person is far away or in the middle of a long 
 hijacking animation. Your buddies can also cause you a lot of grief if they anger factions or kill 
 civilians, leaving you with a big mess to clean up. There are even more bugs than usual when playing 
 online, which is no small feat given the problems evident during the single-player campaign. And 
 lastly, co-op play makes the game (which, cheap deaths aside, is pretty easy) even easier.  

           The graphics have their ups and downs.      

  Mercenaries 2's visuals are inconsistent. 
 The Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions of the game are mostly similar, but the PS3 has some ugly 
 aliasing problems. The vehicles look good, and there are a lot of them. Some areas are very attractive, 
 and the varied terrain (cliffs, rivers, rolling hills) enhances the gameplay and will change the 
 way you attack a target. The game's bread and butter -- its explosions -- are generally disappointing. 
 Some of them look fantastic, but it's jarring how one animation transitions to the next when something 
 blows up. There aren't many different buildings to destroy, either, so you end up seeing the same 
 explosions and over again. While you can typically see far off in the distance, what you see isn't 
 very detailed. This isn't a huge problem when you're standing still or on the ground, but when 
 you're in a moving helicopter, the draw-in is obvious to the point of distraction. Clipping, hideously 
 blurry backgrounds in cutscenes, repetitive buildings, enemies that all look alike (right down 
 to the same terrible animation when they get shot) , and a drab color palette round out the package. 

  Mercenaries 2 is filled with bugs and glitches that are unacceptable in a retail release. Even 
 if it were possible to overlook the broken elements, you're still left with abysmal AI, repetitive 
 mission structure, unsatisfying weapons, and a huge world without much to do. Mindless, random 
 destruction provides some thrills, but there are so many better open-world action games out there 
 (including the original Mercenaries for the PlayStation 2 and Xbox) that there's no reason to spend 
 your time and money on this clearly unfinished game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (346 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: petros753
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 11, 2009 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Okay, for the first 6 hours or so i had fun driving around shooting things and looking at the pretty 
 graphics... After getting passed the "wow" factor i had to look at the Real game -_-
  
  This is where Mercs 2 Defined the word FAIL...
  
  So the game is buggy and repetitive... i 
 found myself doing a mission wich was like 20 minutes long just to fail at the final objective... 
 i waited patiently for the Checkpoint i thought i had then i realized... Oh my... IM BACK AT THE 
 CONTRAT GIVERS LOCATION!@!@!@
  
  -Game broken, me close console, throw Mercs 2 away in Garbage.
  
  this could of been a great 
 game!, but instead made me want to punch a ca.... i mean throw the game out the window.. 0. o
  
  The only thing that made this game into the hands of many Console users In my opinion is the 
 Explosions....
  
  5/10
  
  -Solid Smiley User Reviews 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Starmonkey98
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2009 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 World in Flames is a fun game but nearly as fun as the first games. Alot of people 
 will mention the the game is glitchy and just messed up but that is not quite true. Sure there 
 is gliches and bugs but not all of them are that bad actualy some of them will make you laugh. 
 Like one time I turned the game on and my character fell from the sky and landed in the middle 
 of no where it was funny. Besides the bugs this game is fun. Allthough civilians won't die it is 
 still a blast kicking a hillbilly. The gun play is okay and the enimies are dirt stupid. There 
 are a huge array of weapons airstrikes citys and vehicles. But in all you should defentily rent 
 this game before you buy it. If you are a fan of free roaming games or you like blowings things 
 up then this probaly be a game just for you. Although there is online co-op there is no way to 
 fight each other so don't get your hopes up about online play. The game is only Like $30.00.
  
  
  -Starmonkey98 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tharappereater
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2009 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 lacks a lot of the qualities that would have made it great. The biggest mistake was 
 the lack of the ability to take cover. When there are tanks, turrets, helicopters, and soldiers 
 all shooting at you at the same time it would have been nice to have some Gears of War type of 
 duck and cover system. Reloading wastes an entire clip and you also don't have the ability to roll 
 or crawl. You can however slide to safety under some circumstances. For some reason the creators 
 gave the ability to grapple on to helicoptors to hyjack them, which makes no sense but is fun to 
 do. 
  Mercs 2 is a fun game though. You can explore the entire world and take any vehicle. You have the 
 power to be able to work with other forces and gangs but you have to be on their good side. They 
 made the controls really weird though and are hard to get used to. They also made the game so that 
 you have to travel around a lot throughout the world to get to different missions. 
  The game is worth the price but it is annoying to p [lay for long periods of time because there 
 is only the campain to play on instead of games like Halo were there is also the online gameplay 
 which made the game so much better.
  Also; a lot of the achievements are stupid and hard to get because they made it so you have to 
 destroy a certain amount of objects and so you have to go throught the campain without missing 
 anything from certain contracts to get the gamerscore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Semaphore313
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 26, 2009 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2: World in Flames
  
  Mercenaries: Playground of Destruction was one of the great open-world games of last generation. 
 It combined the sandbox play style of the GTA games with the increased levels of destruction of 
 a military game. Players and critics alike got many hours of enjoyment destroying large chunks 
 of North Korea. Mercenaries 2 travels to Venezuela, and puts players in command of their own PMC, 
 out for revenge against the president they originally helped to put in power. Unfortunately, however, 
 the game fails to live up to the standard set by its predecessor.
  
  Graphics: Mercs 2's graphics are inconsistent. Still shots of various locations can look quite 
 good, but the moment you start moving things fall apart. One of the major issues is pop-in. Pieces 
 of the scenery were literally appearing about the time my jeep's tire ran over them. Little issues 
 like this stack upon each other to make the graphics ultimately underwhelming.
  
  Sound: Music and sound effects are both nothing so much as bland. They work, and nothing is particularly 
 wrong with them, but they don't stand out, either. The voice work, however, has room for improvement. 
 While the acting itself is not necessarily bad, the writing sounds like something from a bad action 
 movie.
  
  Gameplay: Much like the graphics, the gameplay is inconsistent. While the pure shooting sections 
 and the driving sections work decently well, missions, or really any situation with multiple factions, 
 don't work so well. While there usually aren't bugs that make a mission uncompleteable, the game 
 frequently neglects to tell you what exactly you're supposed to be doing. Friendly AI also has 
 issues, in that I've had the people I'm supposed to be protecting walk off of buildings and kill 
 themselves, causing me to fail the mission.
  
  Overall: Mercenaries 2 fails to live up to its potential. When it works it can be entertaining, 
 but abysmal production values and bad design choices ultimately doom this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRIV3R24
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Mercs 2 is an awesome game. To me, is seems like Grand Theft Auto and Call of Duty hooked up to 
 make this, awesome. Big, open sandbox game, many different cars, great gunfights, this game is 
 better than gamespots rating system shows. Big explosions make this game seem better than $30. 
 There are lots of glitches, but many can be very funny, like once over water in a helicopter, there 
 were random boxes and crates floating, and a few Allied Nations men on top of them shooting at 
 me. Theres many cars, boats, helicopters- half of them have miniguns on them. Great graphics and 
 the carjacking are very fun to mess around with. But what really caps this game off...
  The Nuclear Bunker Buster! big buildings falling down in Caracas is very fun, especially in a heavy 
 tank! You can take an armed helicopter and do fly-bys killing everyone in your path! Do co-op and 
 drive down the road in a tank while your buddy shoots out the top. 10/10 hands down must-buy game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 20, 2009 8:09 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Mattias Nilsson, Alright Voice Acting, Slightly Interesting Storyline
  
  The Bad: Glitches, Glitches, Glitches galore, In Game Lag, Stupid A. I.
  
  First off let me 
 say that if you are a fan of the original Mercenaries game, the stay far away from this one. It 
 is a waste of money, extremely glitchy, unfinished pile of garbage that should have been given 
 more time by EA. Now on to the review:
  
  Story: In Mercs 2, you play as one of the Mercs from the first game, who after completing a contract 
 for a client, is betrayed. Now he seeks revenge for this and "personal" reasons. It's kinda interesting, 
 but really is generic. 
  
  Graphics: Alright, personally I don't think it's next gen, but it's acceptable. 
  
  Sound: 
 The Music is kinda meh, but alright. As usual, Peter Stomare is hilarious as Mattias Nilsson and 
 the rest of the cast is back. 
  
  Gameplay: Okay, this is where most of the problems occur. This game is one of the most buggy game 
 ever made. You name it, it's got it: Laging Issues, Weird Falling through Objects glitches, Disapearing 
 Gunfire, Rockets, etc., and even some bad checkpoints that trigger, but when reloaded don't put 
 you right back where you are. It's even got some questionable production decisions like Gun Emplacements 
 and Vehicles having extremely limited ammunition compared to unlimited ammunition. How this got 
 through Play Testing, is beyond me. 
  
  Keep in mind, I've gotten all the patches available and the game is still broken and unfixed. It 
 is a disgrace to the Mercenaries name and was not worth the money paid for. It is not worth it... 
 so don't try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsattler
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I wish I could say more positive things about this game, yet I find myself on the negative side 
 after playing for 40-some hours... You should definitely rent this game, and if you can find it 
 for $20 or less, maybe you should buy it.
  
  I found the game extremely exasperating and annoying! And yet, I did find it fun at times, being 
 able to blow most everything in the game up was very satisfying. Launching a devastating attack 
 using any number of stored weapons was awesome (my favorites were the satellite missile and nuclear 
 missile attacks) . Unfortunately, you have to stand still to do this, not while on the move, leaving 
 you open for others to shoot at you. In the heat of the battle, not so much fun! And if you have 
 the misfortune to die, and you will, you are sent back to your headquarters without any of your 
 carried weapons - WTF? I worked hard to hijack those weapons and I don't get to keep 'em - again 
 WTF? One thing you can to do mitigate this is to save the game frequently - and you should if you 
 plan to have fun - as you can reload the save and keep your weapons albeit back at HQ and you have 
 to get back to where you were... This led me to a lot a wasted time finding other things to get 
 distracted doing and not being focused on the missions at hand - because it was such a pain in 
 the butt to get back to where I was and start all over again! 
  
  Plus the LONG waiting times to load the game (see below) ...
  
  On the buggy side, I found myself 
 on a number of occasions, stuck inside something you cannot see (like the middle of the fuel tank 
 you just blew up) . The only way to extract yourself, is to quit the game. This really sucks if 
 you just leveled the entire place and want to continue your rampage without having to start back 
 at HQ. I also found myself "swimming" on dry land after blowing up a rival HQ. Yes, I was "falling" 
 downward, with the map of the remains of the HQ above me (I was on dry land here) , falling, falling, 
 falling and then heard a splash. I could then swim to nowhere. And swim until I gave up and quit 
 the game. You'll find yourself doing this kind of stuff at the most inopportune moments.
  
  And don't even get me started on how long the load screens are - you know if you died and were 
 immediately taken back to HQ and could start up in seconds, I would be OK with it. But no, this 
 takes FOREVER. And everything between scenes takes FOREVERRRRR. For those that have played the 
 game, you know what I mean. If it was as fast to start the game or return to HQ after dying or 
 a mission ending as it was after you "Talk"ed or "Shop"ed with someone, OK, that'd be great but 
 the waits in this game are agonizing. Truly a missed opportunity by Pandemic. Next version, pre-load 
 this crap and don't make me wait!!!
  
  After all that ranting, you are probably thinking, why the heck did you waste 40 hours in this 
 game?? Like I said, I found this game to be pretty fun to play. I have not finished it and don't 
 plan to either due to the exasperatingly long wait times between game elements. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalmaggot46
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 6:32 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 7/10
  I think the gameplay factor of Mercs2 Is it's weakest Point. The Missions can get frustrating due 
 to Minor glitches and is quite repetitive, But the Free roaming and weapons are outstanding. It's 
 just stupid Fun to ride around town with a tank and Blow the *?!# out of everything you see. Oh, 
 and the Nuke: D: D: D: D: D: D: D: D
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Thge graphics of this game is AWSOME! It beats GTA4, CoD4/CoDWaW, and MOHA hands down. From watching 
 the first:  to The last "One Nuclear bunker buster comin 
  It is and Immersive 
 Graphical experiance and has you staring at the visuals throughout the game.
  
  Enemy AI 7/10
  Ok, some people don't like that they are so damn stupid that they dont know an 
 egg skillet from a stoner chipmunk, but i thought they were just stupid enough. This is NOT a simulation 
 like GRAW. This is an arcade style of shooter. You WHOOP @#$, Thats the point of the whole game, 
 for you to be a total badass.
  
  Sound 10/10
  Holy hell. It sounds amazing. It is like an actual warzone, especially if you have a 6.1 stereo 
 system ; )
  Nuff said.
  
  Voice Acting 4/10
  Boring, Lame, Repetitive
  Each Person has the same Lines but this is in NO WAY a Dealbreaker.
  
  General FUN 9/10
  
 This is a FUN game. It is FUN to kill every living being you see. It is fun to take an allied tank, 
 because you feel like it. That is the excuse for everything in this game.
  "Why did you blow up all of caracas?, Because I felt like it"
  "Why did you kill all the chinese?, 
 Because I felt Like it"
  This Game is FUN as all hell.
  
  You can buy it for less than $30
  I suggest you rent Five Days First, then Decide
  it is slow 
 to start, but once you get into it, it is FUN.
  -Metalmaggot46
  :DJuggalo Homies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zemenawi
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 9:25 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 was one of my favorite games of all time .......... this is the second time my respect 
 in the gamespot rating system has failed because they rate the system as if its at an adults standard......... 
 check the rating..... it's rated T for teen so I think this game is not really for an adult to 
 rate....... come there are no younger raters...... maybe then we could see how good a game really 
 is...... lucky I bought this game before I read the rating or it would have been another good game 
 I didn't buy because of gamespot's bad review I recommend this game for almost all genre-players 
 . Frankly I doubt gamespots rating system. Do you want to know who's rating I'd rather trust........ 
 my 7 year old sister and I'm not joking. All I have to say to gamespot's rating system is ............... 
 Oh No You Didn't!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xboxmerc
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2009 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun to play until you beat it. Then it just wasn't worth it really. It had some great 
 graphics and all but there are a lot of graphical and game play glitches. For example, you will 
 be driving your boat down a river lets say. You will see a couple boats driving around in front 
 of you and so you know to avoid them. But then, as the game loads more, it will put this HUGE oil 
 tanker right in front of you and you never saw it coming. Other times there are the cargo crates 
 and people walking around the oil tanker, but no oil tanker for them to be on. It is kinda weird 
 but the game is fun to play coop with. The game has a good storyline also that can get you hooked 
 on the game fast! There is more factions in this game than in the first one as well. You can play 
 the game through with one faction, then go play it again favoring another if you wanted. It is 
 a very open game. Lots of places to travel and many buildings to blow up. The world is very destructable 
 with all the air strikes and different weapons that you can use so that aspect of the game is nice. 
 There are mixed feelings so I would recommend to you that you rent it before you decide to buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: durge666
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 23, 2009 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that Mercenaries 2 is not a AAA game and that it was never meant to 
 be. Mercenaries 2 is all about explosions and destruction. Pandemic set out to make a virtual playground 
 and in that respect, they succeeded. 
  
  First things first, the story. Mercenaries 2's story is horrible. Sometimes it's cheesy bad, it's 
 funny how intentionally bad it is, but at other times, it's just plain horrible. Mercenaries 2 
 is one of the first times I've ever seen a developer utterly fail at creating a cheesy bad story. 
 Although, paying attention to Mercs 2's story is not required to play the game and have fun. 
 
  
  As for graphics, Mercs 2 can look absolutely stunning at times, but at other times... it can be 
 just plain bad. The plant life and water all look great and the explosions look utterly beautiful 
 (as I'm sure you've seen from the gameplay footage) . But unfortunately, there is some texture pop-in, 
 graphical glitches, and bad textures, although they are a lot more infrequent after the most recent 
 update Luckily, they're not quite enough to detract from the overall experience. 
  
  On to what really matters, the gameplay. The over-the-shoulder shooting mechanics in Mercenaries 
 are fairly good. Although they aren't the best, it's still a ton of fun to run around shooting 
 people with whatever weapon you have. And believe me, there are a lot of weapons. From your standard 
 pistols to an assortment of assault rifles, LMG's, shotguns, sniper rifles, and rocket launchers. 
 My favorite weapons would have to be the sniper rifles and rocket launchers. For sniper rifles, 
 there's silenced rifles, .50 cals, anti-tank rifles, anti-material rifles, and many more. For rocket 
 launchers, there's your standard RPG, there's an anti-tank RPG, and my favorite, the fuel-air RPG. 
 A few fuel air rockets and you can bring down buildings. They do have a delayed explosion though, 
 so you can't bring down air craft unless they're near a static object and you have to lead your 
 target if it's moving. 
  
  One of the best aspects, if not the best, is the destructibility of the environment. Everything 
 is destructible (except for rocks, of course) and it's all beautifully so. It's especially fun 
 once you've completed the game and have access to as many tactical nukes as you can afford. Each 
 nuke takes out an entire square block of buildings. But nukes aren't the only way to destroy buildings. 
 I think out of all the air strikes and weapons, C4 would have to be the most fun to use. Nothing 
 quite matches the feeling of sticking C4 on the support beams of every building in an entire square 
 block, then detonating them and watching everything just collapse around you in smoke. That's another 
 interesting thing. If you shoot at or stick explosives to the support beams of a structure, it 
 will do far more damage than if you did it to any other part of the building. 
  
  Another great thing about Mercs 2 is the vast selection of vehicles. There's all kinds of attack 
 helicopters, transport helicopters, faster scout helicopters, light tanks, heavy tanks, jeeps, 
 boats, missile boats, patrol boats, civilian cars and trucks, etc... It is a ton of fun to just 
 drive around in the monster truck with the jets that can lift it into the air briefly, almost like 
 a jump. There's even a sports car with homing anti-tank missiles, although the car itself is paper 
 thin and will explode if you so much as drive over a bump too fast, which is a shame because it's 
 so expensive and such fun to drive. That should be fixed in an update because it's just unrealistic 
 how weak this car is. 
  
  As for the campaign, it's a blast from beginning to end. There are a ton of really fun and crazy 
 missions, but there are also a bunch of horrible checkpoint races and there's even a few escort 
 missions, although they don't make the game unplayable or frustrating. They are; however, bumps 
 in a fairly smooth (albeit a bit windy and with no speed limit) road that absolutely need to be 
 taken out. Some other things that can be pros or cons, depending on how you manage them: throughout 
 the game (and after you've finished the game) , if you kill a soldier and his buddies see you do 
 it, they'll try to call their HQ and report you. If you fail to kill them before they can, you 
 will lose standing with that faction. Lose enough standing and they become hostile towards you. 
 Killing their enemies boosts your standing with them. You can also bribe them to become neutral 
 to you, for a certain amount of money. How much money you have to cough up depends on how much 
 you pissed them off. Once you are neutral with them, you can run missions for them (if you have 
 any left to do) to boost your standing further. If you don't have any more missions, the game will 
 turn into an unpleasant grindfest as you try to please all the different factions. 
  
  Another thing that might be a pro or a con for people is fuel. In order to call in airstrikes, 
 supply drops, weapon and ammo drops, or to get air-lifted somewhere, you need fuel. Fuel can be 
 collected by marking fuel containers for your helicopter pilot to pick up. These fuel containers 
 are scattered all over the map, but they do respawn eventually or after you enter or exit a building 
 (shops or your HQ) . However, the cons I just mentioned become a non-issue if you use cheats. There 
 are cheats to give you invincibility, ammunition, all supplies, all vehicles, refill your fuel, 
 and all air strikes (including nukes) . The best part about the cheats is that they can be used 
 in co-op mode! The one downside to using cheats is that as soon as you do, you won't be able to 
 get any more achievements whatsoever if you save the game so all you achievement whores out there, 
 I suggest you get all the achievements before using the cheats because the game will auto-save 
 periodically. 
  
  All in all, Mercenaries 2 is fun, plain and simple. It is not complicated or deep, it's just a 
 virtual playground of destruction (which, coincidentally, was the name of the first Mercenaries 
 game) . If you can look past the occasional graphical bugs, glitches, and the bad story, you will 
 find a lot of fun to be had in Mercs 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dethala
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2009 4:16 pm PT
Review:  You've probably read the Gamespot review of Mercs 2 and it was not very good, however the moment 
 you start playing this game you will realize that their review team is clearly clinging on to the 
 minor problems in this overall great game.
  
  If you enjoyed Crackdown, The Godfather, GTA or even Mercs 1 then believe me, buy this game as 
 it is somewhere between them.
  
  OK, there are two slight issues that I have with this game: 
  
  Firstly there are a few bugs, 
 however they're hardly "game-crushing" like gamespot says they are. Anyone who can moan for more 
 than a few moments about a few floating boxes and frozen baddies is just griping for the hell of 
 it. Most of the bugs are funny rather than aggravating.
  
  Secondly the AI is slightly brain-dead, enemies will occasionally start shooting a wall for no 
 reason or just stand there yelling at you but overall you wont notice it over the chaos of the 
 huge battles happening all across the South-American landscape the game puts you in.
  
  The game is set during a fictional coup in Venezuela, you make money and respect by doing missions 
 for various factions such as guerilla freedom-fighters, pirates and even oil companies. Whilst 
 as in the original there is one faction you cant negotiate with, most of the factions will put 
 you on missions to attack not only the main enemy of the game, but also each other and (reminiscent 
 of SC Double Agent) you should try to balance relations with all of them.
  
  During the early stages you assemble a small crew to assist you such as a helicopter pilot to keep 
 you in guns and vehicles or get you out of tight spots, you can purchase supplies for them to use 
 for you such as supply drops, air-strikes and even tactical nukes.
  
  The map is simply vast, about five times the size of the already oversized original, the missions 
 are a bit predictable and cliche but still very fun, and they're not all assaults or escorts, the 
 pirates may want you to smuggle goods for them or test out an experimental vehicle (these are ridiculously 
 fun) .
  
  All in all, Mercs 2 doesn't try to be a hyper realistic shooter like Rainbow Six or Ghost Recon, 
 it sticks to and expands on the brilliant and unique ideas of the original and creates an incredibly 
 fun experience that no one should pass up.
  
  9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epic_Oatmeal
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I won't go so far as to say the first Mercenaries game was perfect, but in a growing market of 
 GTA-clones it certainly stood out because of its unique setting, exciting gameplay, and obsession 
 with BIG explosions. I thought it was very much deserving of a sequel, so when I heard that Mercenaries 
 2: World in Flames was coming out, I was eager to get my hands on it. Even after it came out and 
 I saw the less than stellar reviews, I gave it the benefit of the doubt and thought that it couldn't 
 possibly be as bad as many reviewers said it was. Nothing could have prepared me for how utterly 
 disappointing Mercenaries 2 would turn out to be. It had promise, even after a dreadful first impression, 
 because you could see it expanded on the original Mercenaries formula as one would expect it to, 
 but due to genuinely horrid execution in every aspect Mercenaries 2 wound up a sloppy and frustrating 
 mess, and one of the most paradoxically unsatisfying games I have ever played.
  
  Well, that was a real lousy way to start a review, right? That's exactly how I felt when I began 
 playing Mercenaries 2. Venezuela is in the middle of an oil crisis, with various factions fighting 
 amongst each other for their own various reasons. There's the Universal Petroleum oil company, 
 the guerrilla warfare group fighting for Venezuela's freedom called the P. L. A. V., a small group 
 of Jamaican pirates who play no part in the main story, the Allied Nations (basically U. N. peacekeepers) 
 trying to help secure America's oil alongside U. P., and the aggressive Chinese army who's fighting 
 America for some reason... Like the first game you get to choose one of the three same characters 
 to play as, each with negligible differences; for the record I chose Mattias "Techno-viking" Nilson. 
 As the CEO of your newly formed private military contractor you're called into action by Roman 
 Solano, a man with strong governmental control in Venezuela that isn't necessarily explained well, 
 and after a simple retrieval job for him that acts as your tutorial he refuses to pay for your 
 services, and shoots you in the ass. Yes, literally, you get to see the character of your choice 
 wince in pain from getting shot right in the left cheek as he/she makes a desperate escape to safety 
 after Solano's betrayal that you could see coming 800 light years away.
  
  I would first like to point out that the story couldn't possibly be more shallow than it already 
 is, and it contains some of the most boring and uninteresting characters it has ever been my misfortune 
 to meet since Army of Two. Fiona Taylor is once again your support character and dispatch operator, 
 communicating all manner of information to you on the fly and offering you a handful of contracts. 
 You also come to hire a cocky Irish helicopter pilot, a local Venezuelan mechanic, and a pathetically 
 drunk Scandinavian jet pilot to work for your PMC. The game's constant attempts to be amusing and 
 funny come off as nails-against-chalkboard bad and over exaggerated, partly because not a single 
 character you ever meet is even remotely likable. You can't even develop a mutual relationship 
 to any of the factions' leaders like in the first game, because the number of jobs you get from 
 them is incredibly small. Even worse is it feels like the game is trying to force you to sympathize 
 for these over-zealous characters when your introduction with them usually involves them ranting 
 about what their group is fighting for. Even for the lesser contract givers within the factions 
 you're given a business card with their name on it the first time you meet them. I fail to see 
 the point.
  
  So, you go on to work for the various factions in order to reach Solano and exact revenge on him 
 by making him pay interest for his cowardly act of back sta- sorry, butt shooting. That's all it 
 is, a woefully generic tale of revenge bogged down by terrible dialogue and lame characters. One 
 of the things that made the first Mercenaries great was that it actually felt business-like, that 
 you really were operating in a PMC and working your way from the ground up to reach your ultimate 
 goal of verifying the Ace of Spades card and cashing in a hundred million bucks. Factions would 
 supply you with information about the number cards whenever you did missions for them, and capturing 
 them provided you with intelligence on where to find the next ace card, which was a believable 
 and motivating setup. This is not so with Mercenaries 2, as none of the contracts that progress 
 the story involve anything to do with tracking down Solano, only barely so on a meaningless superficial 
 level.
  
  Rather than having a deck of 52 high-value-targets, each faction you're introduced to has a number 
 of HVTs to verify, targets to destroy, and standing bounties to do whenever you want to, but these 
 serve no purpose other than to earn money and unlock ordinance, vehicles, and supplies to purchase 
 at that faction's shop. These side-jobs don't get you any closer to finding Solano at all, and 
 when money and shop items are completely useless (I'll explain that soon) it really discourages 
 you from going out of your way to do them, unless you're a completionist. One interesting idea, 
 though, are the wagers you can make with your PMC members, betting on your success in a variety 
 of challenges to test your skills. These range from shamefully easy, to cheap and controller-breaking 
 difficult exercises in self-control, which brings me to my next point: Mercenaries 2 is extremely 
 easy, possibly one of the easiest games I've played recently, but it suffers from terribly poor 
 gameplay balancing, leading to VERY cheap deaths and mission failures.
  
  Is there any enjoyment to be had in Mercenaries 2? I suppose there is, but only if you're patient 
 enough to wade through a serious lack of quality assurance. I could go on and on and on and on 
 about the loads of God-awful design choices, bugs, shoddy execution, and other things that all 
 come together to make your experience with Mercenaries 2 quite miserable and uneventful, but I'll 
 try to keep things to a minimum and focus on all the most important features worth mentioning, 
 for good or for bad.
  
  Everything about the combat feels unpolished, and it borders on being all around broken. You can't 
 crouch, which makes trying to take cover from gunfire a pain. You're always faced down by anti-air 
 defenses during contracts, apparently to help balance out how insanely powerful helicopters are. 
 Weapons are less accurate and reliable than a pistol without ammo you might find in Fallout 3, 
 resulting in gunplay that feels like a chore. That's exactly what playing Mercenaries 2 feels like, 
 a chore that you aren't getting payed for, and constantly being told that you're doing your job 
 wrong and being forced to start from the beginning. There's also a very small draw distance for 
 characters and objects, so in order to snipe a target without being detected you have to be within 
 about a hundred feet of them to see them, which is about how large in diameter your minimap is. 
 So, when it comes to combat you really have no other choice than to run in on foot with guns blazing. 
 The success of your mission objectives depends entirely on luck; there's basically no skill involved. 
 It's not hard at all to avoid killing an HVT you want to capture alive, but they'll more often 
 than not get killed by their idiotic AI partners. They don't discriminate whatsoever what they're 
 shooting, be it an ally of theirs' or an entire building, they'll still shoot at you if you're 
 on the other side of it, so you'll repeatedly fail objectives because your target was killed by 
 one of the millions of rocket-toting soldiers unintentionally collapsing a building on top of him.
 
  
  When you remain in a vehicle for a short period of time you become disguised as the faction that 
 vehicle belongs to, even as a civilian. There's no officers that immediately remove your disguise 
 this time, but instead hanging around any soldiers will slowly reveal your true identity measured 
 by a simple progress bar. It's ironic, though, that disguises serve no purpose during any missions 
 like the first game. The most it does is keep you from being attacked by any hostile factions as 
 you travel from one place to another. It all works fine in theory, but it still serves as a good 
 example of how much more shallow Mercenaries 2 is than its predecessor. One nice addition is that 
 attacking a friendly faction won't immediately make them hostile; someone has to report your actions 
 by radio and call in back-up, giving you a chance to maintain your reputation with said faction 
 and complete your objective at the same time. Unfortunately, whenever someone goes to report you, 
 you only get 10 seconds to completely kill them before his call gets out, and a new soldier keeps 
 trying to radio in every 20 seconds or so until you either run really far away or kill everyone 
 in the area. This isn't too important, though, because you can complete standing bounties for the 
 hostile faction to get their mood towards you up in no time, in turn rendering the ability to bribe 
 factions to make them friendly again useless. I sure have been using words like useless and unnecessary 
 a lot, haven't I?
  
  Getting a million dollars in the first Mercenaries felt like quite an achievement, and all that 
 money could be used to purchase stuff from the Russian mafia's black market, and this type of support 
 was always useful here and there. In the case of Mercenaries 2, you'll have a couple million bones 
 before you even get to your first mission for a faction. You can use the money to buy from a wide 
 selection of vehicles, supply drops, and airstirkes from each factions' shops, and they're added 
 to your stockpile to be used whenever you need them, a good improvement over the first game. If 
 any of these things were even remotely practical, maybe they wouldn't have seemed like a waste 
 of time to me. In order to call in support you'll have to destory any radio jammers or anti-air 
 batteries nearby, as well as kill literally every single hostile soldier in the area, and level 
 every building you thought about using an airstrike to destroy in the process. Having to do this 
 every time completely defeats the purpose of ever having access to support options in the first 
 place, ultimately making money useless. Airstrike support becomes even less tempting whenever you're 
 trying to capture HVTs alive, a problem that's gone unchanged since the first Mercenaries. At least 
 the ability to call your helicopter pilot to pick you up from anywhere and transport you to a friendly 
 base is a good feature. You also have fuel that's required to use these support options, but it 
 comes in equal abundance as money and everything else.
  
  I couldn't believe my eyes when I found out that airstrikes and piles of cash could be found scattered 
 around everywhere. No joke, there's an always respawning infinite supply of low-end airstrike munitions 
 just lying around in the most nonsensical and random places, and they can all be air lifted by 
 your helicopter pilot and added to your stockpile, yet another reason why money is pointless in 
 this game. At least the huge fuel tanks that can be collected the same way are found in logical 
 places, like bases and depots. Because all these things endlessly respawn, they hardly encourage 
 you to explore the game world. There's also 100 spare parts hidden everywhere, and by hidden I 
 mean just sitting around in open areas, but they just give you some money and unlock a few vehicles 
 you can purchase from your PMC's mechanic. These vehicles are pretty wild, but certainly not cost-effective. 
 I would also like to mention that my game contracted a hilariously bizarre bug, in which I started 
 re-obtaining all the spare parts I had already gotten whenever I traveled within eyesight of where 
 they were located. I've only found about 40 spare parts technically, but just from playing normally 
 I quickly had over 100 of them, unlocking all of the PMC vehicles I could buy. The bug still persists 
 even now, and I have no idea how it started or how to make it stop.
  
  Unsurprisingly like the first game, civilian casualties costs you money, a jarring restriction 
 for a game who's focus is on wanton destruction, but I'm thankful for the fact that the money you're 
 charged won't even put a dent of a dent in your wallet. For starters, you can't even kill civilians. 
 When you do "kill" them, they get right back up and continue on their way no matter what you do 
 to them. I guess it's even more weird that when a vehicle you're controlling gets destroyed you 
 emerge from it with full health, which means that jumping out of the vehicle before it explodes 
 is actually MORE dangerous... Anyway, civilians also have the absolute worst tendency to run out 
 into the middle of the road whenever you're driving around, ensuring that you have no time to react 
 and keep from plowing them down. The rest of the AI in the game isn't too bright either, as I'm 
 sure you've already figured out by now, but they sure are opportunists. You can't leave a tank 
 or helicopter around for one second without somebody, friendly or hostile, helping themselves and 
 jumping right in to shoot at some non-existent enemy, or you. The AI's driving is also ridiculous, 
 and by that I mean really dysfunctional; it's rather hard to describe. Vehicles also have a very 
 slick and floaty feeling to them, which isn't necessarily unpleasant, but can occasionally cause 
 problems.
  
  To finally finish up talking about the gameplay's design and sloppy execution, I'll talk about 
 the quicktime events. Except for light vehicles, commandeering an enemy APC, tank, or helicopter 
 requires you to do a button-pressing quicktime action. Should you fail there's no ramifications 
 or consequences, other than having to do it over again until you finally get it right. This is 
 really troublesome for helicopters, though, and I'll explain why. To hijack one you'll have to 
 get relatively close underneath it, aim at it, and use your grappling hook to latch on and retract 
 up to reach the cockpit, all while the helicopter is still flying around. It's bad enough that 
 this grappling hook mechanic looks nothing short of pitiful, but if you fail to do the quicktime 
 event you have to slowly fall all the way to the ground and repeat this long process until you 
 finally complete it. Oddly enough you can't die from falling from any height, the last 5 or so 
 of your 100 health points acting like a whole other 100 points, making it IMPOSSIBLE to judge how 
 close you are to death. During combat you'll be stuck in this near death state all the time, and 
 the constant red flashing and unnecessary pulsing of your screen will give you a serious headache. 
 The heads-up display is also a pain, focusing more on style than practicality, always obstructing 
 your view with unimportant messages whenever it can.
  
  Mattias's mohawk is a work of art, what else is there to say?... Alright, in all seriousness, does 
 Mercenaries 2's destruction at least look good? Yeah, it's pretty impressive looking, but from 
 a technical standpoint you can see it's very limited. Buildings collapse in huge dust clouds that 
 block out the change from falling building to pile of rubble, with a few physics objects being 
 thrown about for added measure. It's really irritating that these physics objects can instantly 
 kill you should they land right on top of you, so it's best to admire the destruction from afar. 
 The lighting, explosion effects, and water all look decent for what they are; however, it's impossible 
 to overlook the the lack of a full day/night cycle. The weather and position of the sun changes 
 abruptly depending on what area you're in, yet another noticeable carry over from the first Mercenaries. 
 While the game world also looks nice, especially when you're flying high up in a helicopter and 
 looking down on the lush Venezuelan countryside, it lacks the oppressive and immersive feeling 
 of war-torn North Korea. All the character models and animations are serviceable, at least, but 
 they won't make you like any of the characters anymore than you already do.
  
  The sound of gunfire and explosions is done well enough, and it's accompanied by rousing orchestral 
 scores by Chris Tilton, but the voice acting seems to have been dumbed down a few notches. In the 
 first game the voices were good enough for the time, but they've completely changed the three main 
 characters from calm, cool, collected, and somewhat respectable mercenaries to over-the-top, money-hungry, 
 and goofy sounding self-employers. They repeat the same handful of stupid one-liners with every 
 single thing they do or come across, and they get old before you even hear them for the first time. 
 I don't even want to talk about your extraordinarily obnoxious dead weight of a support character 
 Fiona Taylor nagging you to death and constantly reminding you about what city you're in.
  
  Mercenaries 2 unquestionably deserved the biggest disappointment award. I wanted to like it 
 because it was expanding on the Mercenaries formula that used to be so enjoyable, but it was just 
 VERY poorly executed and came across as shallow and unsatisfying (the ending is so bad that it 
 isn't even funny) . It's frustrating, tiresome, and boring to play, and the co-op doesn't help ease 
 the pain. Everything just feels slapped together without a second thought, almost like Pandemic 
 didn't care one bit about what they were doing. Once you beat it there's nothing worth going back 
 to, and I don't even recommend getting it in the first place. Like I said, developer Pandemic just 
 dropped the ball on this sequel, end of story, don't let this lackluster game ruin your good memories 
 of the first Mercenaries. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r3dmond
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 5:23 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the first screen shots for this game a few years back I was extremely excited. At this 
 point I had just finished Mercenaries: POD for the third time and was running through it again warily 
 mostly because I just wanted to get to the fourth map with everything unlocked and blow things 
 up for fun.
  Fortunately for Mercenaries 2 I'm going to stop the comparisons here because when comparing the 
 two Mercenaries 2 seems a lot worse then it really is. Overall the gun-play is unsatisfying but 
 you never play a mercenaries game for the gun-play you play it because of the sheer wanton destruction 
 that makes your mercenary the equivalent of a nuclear weapon. Albeit at times the game has some 
 schizophrenic visuals, enemies and physics but it's nothing too major. A few other things have 
 been nerfed significantly as well. The surgical strike is now smoke designated as are most things 
 which is insanely unhelpful. I accredit most of these problems to the fact that pandemic had a 
 really solid game, then EA said take parts N-Z out so we can sell it to the masses later. Of course 
 EA forgot that is it isn't a good game to begin with then 'The masses' won't buy it.
  On the plus side Mercenaries 2 offers things that you thought you'd get in mercs one but didn't. 
 One of these is Nuclear weapons. Albeit unless you cheat or beat the game you don't have any. Mercenaries 
 also offers Co-operative which, when I learned would not be in the first game troubled me deeply. 
 The only problem is that there is no split-screen so you can't play it with your friend when he 
 comes over to your house.
  The vehicle section here is so vast that you will be shocked and awed all at once. Instead of the 
 27 (I think) Cars/Vehicles in the previous game (that you could buy) You can buy almost all of 
 the drops now. The big downside is with some of the drops (Luxury and Sports car more specifically) 
 You don't know what you gonna get. Although the Ambassador is great to use to hammer various allied 
 positions in world in flames mode. Oh, right that.
  After beating the first game you got Playground of Destruction mode where you replayed the game 
 with all your previous shop items unlocked. Now you jut get a sandbox mode where there are no missions, 
 just broken dreams.
  In the end buy Mercenaries 2, just remember there are a few bugs, no split-screen and no Playground 
 of Destruction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladex00
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 2:27 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2: World in Flames is an explosive open-world action game set in a massive, highly 
 reactive, war-torn world. A power-hungry tyrant messes with Venezuela's oil supply, sparking an 
 invasion that turns the country into a warzone. But for you, international crisis is all upside: 
 You are a mercenary, and you profit from chaos. These are world powers with deep pockets, deep 
 grudges, and enough arms and ammo to start World War III. This is your kind of environment. 
  
  Mercenaries 2 features the latest and most dangerous in civilian and military tech, everything 
 from shiny new sports cars, to the future-tech satellite-guided bunker-busting mini-nuke. Tanks, 
 APCs, boats, luxury automobiles -- you name it, you can have it delivered to you in real time. 
 And if you run out of cash you can always 'acquire' the gear you need in the field. You are not 
 a soldier. You don't have to play by anyone's rules. You have your own code: you will fulfill the 
 terms of the contract, no matter what.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 provides a level of freedom that you can't find anywhere else. Every game, open world 
 environment or not, has sequences at some point that are designed to let you go along a single, 
 predefined path. That never happens here. When attacking an enemy location, you have the choice 
 to go in guns blazing on foot, have a tank airlifted in for you, steal a helicopter that is in 
 mid flight, or just drop a bomb on them and pick up the pieces. This is just a small taste of the 
 freedom and you can go about the destruction any way you see fit. Had it not been for the excessive 
 amount of glitches, this game could have been great. As it stands now, it is just a good title 
 that is still a lot of fun.
  
  The game is very easy to pick up and play if you have played any other action or open world game. 
 The weapons are the same that you have seen in every other war game. Commandeering a vehicle is 
 done with a single button press when in the right spot, almost exactly like Grand Theft Auto. Land 
 and air vehicles handle great, but sea vehicle are jumpy and unpredictable. This is made worse 
 because nearly every sea-based mission is a timed race through obstacles which you cannot predict 
 how your craft will react to. Air-strikes and bombs aren't as readily available as in the last 
 game, but they can still be used liberally. The game begins with a single contact, but more are 
 added as you complete missions, though usually there are only two to choose from. What is different 
 from other games is that many of these contacts will send you on missions against other potential 
 employers. If you attack a faction, they will eventually not allow you to work for them anymore 
 unless you pay them a bribe. There was a missed opportunity for the developers here in that you 
 cannot play the factions against each other by doing jobs for both. Basically, the best way to 
 play through is to do all the jobs for one faction, then bribe the other and do their missions. 
 If you upset one side, they will no longer allow you to buy their supplies, but the other side 
 usually has something equivalent. The mission variety is a bit lacking also. Almost every mission 
 is no more than go take over that outpost, go kill that guy, or go blow up that building. There 
 are a few glimpses of brilliance. Delivering the 'Devastator' in one of the first missions was 
 ingenious (I won't ruin it) . Also, escaping a collapsing oil rig with a tied up captive was intense, 
 but most of the mission quickly just become 'more of the same.' There are a number of side missions 
 that usually consist of checkpoint races. They are referred to as different things, like test the 
 prototype vehicle, deliver the items, or simply beat the clock. The delivery ones were fairly original. 
 They consist of transporting anything from rum to human organs. You are given a pickup truck with 
 supplies in the back and you have to make it to the destination in time without the stuff flying 
 out. The physics behind the items in the bed are very impressive. They slide around, bounce off 
 each other, and fly up in the air. As long as enough are left in the bed by the time you arrive, 
 you pass the mission. The entire game can be played as co-op, although the difficulty is not scaled 
 for a second player which makes the game much easier. If one player dies, the other can revive 
 them so being just mildly careful can lead to never having to restart at base. While it is a fun 
 game, there isn't much in the way of replay value since there aren't multiple difficulties. There 
 are hidden items to hunt for (which have a tendency to disappear from their spots when you are 
 looking for them and then reappear later) , and the rewards may be fun to mess around with but they 
 won't help you play the game better. The main enemy of the game doesn't actually seem all that 
 bad in the big picture and actually seems to want to help the country. Of course, you play mercenary 
 and he didn't pay you. Screw politics and give me my damn money.
  
  I did really like the way resupplying works. Everything, from bullets to bombs, must be purchased 
 from the headquarters of the faction that is selling the item you want and only a very few items 
 are available from multiple sides. It's a good idea to make sure you have bought everything you 
 want from a faction before you attack them, including a few of their spare vehicles to use as a 
 disguise once they don't like you anymore. Once purchased, the item is added to your stockpile. 
 At any time after this, the item can be airlifted to your location. Just make sure that there is 
 no enemy anti-air weapons in the area or you supplies will be lost and your money wasted. In addition 
 to money, you must also collect fuel in order for your helicopter to fly the items to you or the 
 jet to perform the air-strike. The only problem I have with the system is that you are unable to 
 sell items back. For example, I bought a bunch of helicopters to make it easier to get around. 
 I used one to complete a couple of missions and then unlocked the ability to buy a much better 
 helicopter. Now I was stuck with about ten choppers that I will never use. Even if they could be 
 sold at an extreme price cut, it would have been nice to get them off the list of supplies.
  
  While the game is an absolute blast to play, it is marred by an insane amount of glitches. 
 Several times I had to save and restart my Xbox 360 because the voices stopped working during all 
 mission briefings. A grappling hook can be used to steal helicopters and on a few occasions, the 
 running animation continued to play while I was in the air. Far more often than is acceptable, 
 I ordered one of my helicopters to be delivered and the pilot would land it on top of a box or 
 piece of debris. This would make him think he hadn't landed yet and so he wouldn't get out or let 
 me in. After a minute or so, the chopper would simply disappear from right in front of me, but 
 my money and fuel was not refunded. One of the more strange ones was when every time I called for 
 a supply drop during one particular play session, after the chopper left he reported being under 
 attack by an enemy I could not see and then the chopper damage bill appeared on screen. This would 
 have been incredibly annoying if it weren't for the fact that it actually gave me money when this 
 happened instead of taking it away like it was supposed to. Everyone in the game talks way too 
 much for the small amount of recorded statements that are in the game. This is really more of a 
 design flaw, but the hundredth time you hear someone yell 'Hey, it's the Merc,' you'll think of 
 it as a glitch. There are tons of other problems like this in the game, such as people hovering 
 in mid-air or invisible vehicle when driving at high speeds. None of these are game breakers, but 
 they are incredibly disappointing to see (let's hear it for EA's quality assurance department) .
 
  
  The graphics look great in some places and sad in others. The explosions are awesome and the environments 
 look very realistic, especially from the sky. Basically everything is destructible: buildings, 
 trees, the aforementioned oil rig. Drop a nuke on a city and everything is flattened. The only 
 thing that can't be blown up is the ground itself. On the other end of the spectrum, the tracer 
 fire looks bad, mostly because it moves so slow. Helicopters always make a loud, metallic bang 
 and throw sparks when they land (including the ones with tires) even though they are designed to 
 not do exactly that. Also, the swimming animation plays at about ten times the fastest speed of 
 Micheal Phelps. It just looks ridiculous.
  
  This is basically the original game with some next gen polish on it and a new location. I'm not 
 sure why there were so many glitches in the game since there was so much time for development. 
 Even with it's faults, the game is still a lot of fun and worth a look from any action junkies 
 that get a kick out of excessive destruction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartharachnis
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 11:22 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries 1 was, in my opinion, a really well done game. It gave me the feel of being a true 
 gun-for-hire... for the first couple of hours of playing it. Then it started to get repetitive. 
 "Go here, kill this target" seemed to be the only thing that there was to do. And if you did, you 
 were almost always working against another faction you were working for, that was telling you to 
 do the exact same thing against the first. When I saw that Mercenaries 2 had an online co-op mode, 
 I was excited. They brought a new element into an alright game. The storyline, too, looked as if 
 it would be better. This time, it was personal, something that hadn't been thought of had you played 
 the first game. But upon playing it, I found it to be the same kind of stuff: "Go here, kill this 
 man." 
  
  The game-play mechanics, at least, take away from the cheesy storyline. There's never a shortage 
 of VZ (Venezuelan) troops to kill, and it's always fun to demolish a building by calling in an 
 air strike or an artillery barrage. Being able to call in for transport also makes the long drives 
 across a huge map almost non-existent (provided you have enough fuel to call in the pilot) ; and 
 the added feature of extracting supplies, or cash, found on the map also makes a nice addition. 
 The graphics are also loads better than in the prequel, though anything on the 360 makes the PS2 
 generation systems look like the NES.
  
  Aside from getting extremely bored with the storyline, I found the game a fun way to get your "Kill 
 things" fix, and a good pass time on a rainy day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRAW2596
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2009 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 is the sequel to Mercenaries: Playground of Destruction. You can play any of the 
 three characters, Jennifer Mui, Chris Jacobs, and Mattias Nilsson. Basically your doing a bunch 
 of missions for a guy named Solano to rescue a top Venezuelan Army General named Carmona, one of 
 Solano's friends.
  
  There are tons of side missions using many weapons, vehicles, air-support, and air-strikes. There 
 are tons of vehicles including cars, jeeps, tanks, monster trucks, helicopters, boats, etc. Hijacking 
 vehicles is still in the game and it has been turned into a small mini-game by pressing the right 
 buttons when prompted to hijack the vehicle. Vehicles, Weapons and ammo can be called from anywhere 
 as long as you have money.
  
  There are a few glitches like turrets standing in mid air. The game weapons also feel extremely 
 weak against your enemies, it takes almost half a clip sometimes just to kill one guy. While the 
 weapons are too weak the explosions seem too big, the explosion radius is too big and will usually 
 affect you unless you are a great distance away.
  
  The first game is definitely better, but for fans of the series you might want to check it out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teksamurai
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I am a big fan of the original. This is the 2nd in the series and there 
 is game play improvement over the original. The ability for co-op is great fun with all of my friends. 
 Some of the missions almost require that you have another gamer with you.
  
  The problems on this game overrides the benefits. I have had the game totally lock, drop through 
 ground, and not be able to exit the water. I have completed several missions only to have to repeat 
 them because the game did not save them. The AI is weak. The enemies have weak tactics and ally 
 AI characters do not work with you to aggressive kill enemy AI characters. To maximize the use 
 of most of the vehicles requires multiple characters or gamers to man all the weapons and still 
 drive. In the end, the gamer is left alone while in story mode.
  
  The missions are very repeativtive as you move through the various factions to get the information 
 that you need. This gets boring quick.
  
  The finally seems to have been pasted on to the game just to have an end. It does not go with the 
 story or the feel of the game. Just a bad ending.
  
  FINAL WORD:
  Get it cheap or don't bother. I will continue to play the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macke4
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  This game was undoubtedly one of the biggest disappointments of the video game year for me. Mercenaries 
 was a truly great game. I've played it over and over. But this was just disappointing. The missions 
 were alright i suppose but this game's harmatia was the open world playground portion. Generally 
 in video games that have it this is the best part but Mercenaries 2 just sucked at it. I felt lost 
 almost all the time. It was almost impossible to find a car driving down the road when you where 
 in the countryside. Game play was alright though i guess. Whatever i was really let down with this 
 game and i wouldn't recommend anyone to get it. For those of you who played this one first and 
 are thinking about playing the first one, don't worry it is waaaaayy better. I personally think 
 that anyone who gives this game i higher score than i did is either being nice/sympathetic or is 
 just trying to be obnoxious and trying to get people who are seriously considering buying this 
 game to waste the money they already did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pezza02
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  MERCANERIES IS A GOOD GAME BUT IT DOES GET A BIT BORING AFTER A WHILE. THE MISSIONS YOU HAVE TO 
 DO ARE QUITE GOOD BUT IF YOU DID ALL THE MISSIONS IN A ROW IT TAKES YOU AROUND 8 HOURS, SO IT ISNT 
 THE LONGEST OF GAMES, ONCE MY FRIEND COMPLETED IT IN ABOUT 7 HOURS RUFFLY. YOU CAN GET IN A LOT 
 OFF CARS LIKE TANKS, NORMAL CARS, MOTORBIKES, AND HELICOPTERS. I QUITE LIKED THOUGH THAT YOU CAN 
 FREE ROAM AS WELL SO IT MAKES THE GAME BETTER. MERCANERIES ISNT A REPETITIVE GAME. ALSO YOU CAN 
 BUY THINGS FROM THE FACTIONS. ITS ALSO QUITE FUNNY BECAUSE WHEN YOUR IN A HELICOPTER YOU CAN PICK 
 UP THINGS WHICH IS QUITE GOOD. ABOUT MULTIPLAYER, YOU CAN DO MULTIPLAYER IN YOUR CAREER SO IF YOUR 
 STUCK YOU CAN INVITE A FRIEND TO YOUR GAME AND HOPEFULLY THEY CAN HELP YOU. THE GRAPHICS ARE FAIRLY 
 GOOD BUT NOT GREAT. MERCENARIES IS QUITE A GLITCHY GAME SO BEWARE YOU MIGHT GET STUCK A FEW TIMES. 
 I RATED 8.5 BECAUSE THE GRAPHICS ARE FAIRLY GOOD, AND IT ISNT A REPETITIVE GAME SO IT MAKES IT 
 BETTER.
  I HOPE YOU HAVE ENJOYED MY REVIEW ABOUT MERCENARIES 2 IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS PLEASE SEND ME 
 A MESSAGE AND ILL TRY AND ANSWER IT
  THANX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P_R_E_Y
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2, well sounded good i mean the first one was good for stress and guilty pleasure and 
 u blew up entire cities and bridges and well.... everything. No penalties, the only ones where 
 the cops or the army (can't remebr sorry haven't played in in years) but that was fun little known 
 a punishment.
  So why did they start to punish you? i was expecting the same gun-ho as the old one and realsise 
 you are restricted. I blew up a city and it cost me $50,000 .... why? well i killed people, innocent 
 people. Now i don't know if this stops (havent played it since better games came out) but why do 
 I get charged for doing what the first one allowed? Nuke, bomb and spay whoever you damn well please, 
 gimme some more of that. Not a fine, i want money to blow stuff up and get the biggest gun.
  Ok im focusing on the fine part I shall stop.... althought it is annoying.
  Graphic wise its 
 better, i would expect so as it took it's time to be released. But there is flaws, well we aren't 
 perfect. I have noticed when you are swimming a white ghostly skin/outline fades out you charracters 
 body then disapears, if this is supposed to splash effects... well it didn't turn out well. i haven't 
 really noticed others (cause i havent been playing it much.... if not at all)
  Sound, well i dunno why people comment on this type of thing.... guns sound like guns explosions 
 sound like explosions.... so no fault there..... why did i comment on the one thing i said was 
 stupid?.
  Story..... dunno what to say.... haven't beat it.
  looks like i'm done lol.... i havent reviewed a game in ages and i suppose i choose the wrong one 
 to start off with, try zero punctuation.... he does reviews pretty good and will point out bad 
 things in EVERY game, even crysis but admittingly it does have flaws.
  anyway i would maybe pick this up with a 2 for 30 deal at gamestation or something but don't rush 
 in.
  ( i hate spell checking so just stick with it :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 16, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Just wasnt that fun I hyped this game alot but when I finally got it I was a little dissapointed 
 the games developers boasted about fully destructible environments but the fully destructible environments 
 kind of suck and they can be frustrating especially during a mission the destruction just isnt 
 real enough and the developers also said you would be able to recruit your own mercinaries but 
 there really isnt much to that because the people that join your group are preselected and they 
 really dont come into play much other then dropping bombs and supplies and the AI is just stupid 
 and on that the game incredibly glitchy it will just freeze up for no reason at all like I was 
 shooting and then I was suddenly warped inside a building and couldnt get out I ended up killing 
 myself and the hijack cutsceane are really annoying the first time they are fun to watch but when 
 your in the middle of a fire fight and your getting shot at really dont want to worry about hitting 
 the the right button in some stupid cutscene but I guess the game has its moments when you get 
 to blow really big buildings and structures like the oil refinery and when you get the nuke but 
 other then that incredibly mediocre there just wasnt enough to make this game good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a-a-a-a-2-24-5-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  i for one loved the game even though there were a lot of glitches in the game i could get passed 
 that and looked at the game play it was easy most of the time and difficult at other time jsut 
 make sure that you have a hand helicopter aroiund another thimg about this game is that it has 
 a lot of hidden trophies but if you play through the whole game you should unlock all of them accept 
 for one witch you will have to look up the trophies are very easy to get but you get easy trophies 
 and you have fun while playing that is a double bonus right there so i say buy it you will have 
 fun you will show your friends up with all the trophies that you get and that platnuim trophy that 
 you should get also pick up alot of munitions because these will help y ou out alot in the long 
 run another thing is if you play online make sure your the guy that isnt driving because you get 
 a trophy for blowing things up in a 2nd hand gun you have to kill 200 objects so have fun i have 
 givin you advice now have fun and to burnout you have to press gas and brake and hold it for like 
 10 secs and you get your trophy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeliriumLP16
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 10, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  After reading endless amounts of mixed reviews, I decided to try Mercenaries 2 out for myself, 
 and alas, I too have a mixed review. If you were a fan of the first Mercenaries game then you will 
 more than likely be a fan of the second. I was initially impressed by the game, but as I continued 
 on I only became more annoyed and more importantly, dissapointed with the gameplay and overall 
 design. The game is riddled with bugs and glitches. In most cases they're harmless and may even 
 serve up a good laugh, but unfortunately that's not always the case. In some cases a glitch will 
 occur that severely affects your gameplay, leading to frustration and anger. Some of the missions 
 will inevitably cause the same reaction. Repetetive and frustratingly long tasks that usually require 
 memorization and trial and error to complete have probably lead to more than one broken controller. 
 There are many things left to be desired in Mercenaries 2, so much so that it almost seems to be 
 an unfinished prototype, not a shelf ready finished product. The design of the game is completely 
 illogical in some respects. When calling in airstrikes, there are different methods of targeting 
 (i. e. laser, satellite, beacon, smoke, etc..) as in the first game, different strikes call for 
 different targeting methods. But the method of targeting for most of the airstrikes in Mercenaries 
 2 is completely irrational. When calling in the supposed "Mother Of All Bombs" I was completely 
 shocked to see that smoke was used to mark the target... smoke that has to be thrown by the player 
 and only goes 20 feet away. As one might suspect, I immediately turned and high-tailed it to a 
 safer location, at which point the bomb was dropped, and I was filled with much dissapointment. 
 The "Mother Of All Bombs" seemed more like the "Mother Of All Letdowns" as the explosion was shockingly 
 smaller than I expected. This is the case for most of the bombs in Mercenaries 2, they are highly 
 underpowered, and undersatisfying and almost all of them have totally pointless targeting systems, 
 since they call for pretty much dropping the bomb on yourself. The ones that do use a laser or 
 satellite aren't much better though, as the laser will only lock on to targets that are surprisingly 
 close, and the satellite has about the same sorry range. All of this lead to my massive dissapointment, 
 and at the end of the day, you're probably better off just getting a nice solid 'copter or tank 
 to cause some destruction, rather than an airstrike. On to better things though, the vehicles in 
 the game are all very fun and interesting. There is a wide variety of vehicles in the game, all 
 with their own little quirks. Overall, Mercenaries 2 is addicting and a good fun play, but don't 
 expect anything spectacular, because like me, you will be completely letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magic8ball88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  How can you go wrong in a game where you steal cars blow up buildings and shoot stuff. this game 
 is just plain fun the story isnt great but its fun to mess around in it. any building can be destroyed 
 along with cars oil tanks and huge cargo ships. another cool thing in the game are hvts the factions 
 give you a list of people they dont like and you just kill them or try to capture them alive for 
 double the money. i would have given the game a ten but there are a few glitches. they dont effect 
 gameplay there just funny. that and when you beat the game maricaibo is destroyed for any of you 
 who dont want that create a new save file before you get the introduction to AN and China watch 
 it then make another save file because im not sure if the city will be destroyed at that point 
 and you will have the whole map unlocked. overall good game cant wait for the third. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soviet1917
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries fans rejoice! The new Mercenaries game is here, and it's just like the first game! 
 And by "just like", I mean "nothing like". Okay, so my major gripes with this game are many.
  
  1. Why the hell do all the Mercenaries look like they're drugged up in this game? Mattias looks 
 like an idiot as compared to the last game.
  2. What happened to the $100 Million dollars you earned in the last game?
  3. What happened to 
 the good old PMC (Private Military Company) that we knew and loved from the first game? This whole 
 "your very own PMC" is poop!
  4. The graphics are sub par.
  5. The glitches are many.
  6. The challenges are nearly impossible to beat on level 3.
  7. The game insults your intelligence 
 to a degree.
  
  Basically my hopes for a good sequel were dashed when I played this game. I beat it, and I refuse 
 to play it again. Save yourself some money, and don't even rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGrandMiG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I will admit, I was unaware of the terrible reviews Mercenaries 2 had been receiving. I played 
 the demo, and enjoyed it, so I figured I would give the full game a chance. While it may not necessarily 
 be the worthy successor to the first Mercenaries, M2 is a great game in its own right. 
  
  However, I would now like to refocus my review slightly. I would like to dedicate the rest of my 
 review now to shedding some light on the grievances that especially Gamespot has made of M2. I 
 hope this will help unsure gamers decide to get M2 or at the very least make them more informed 
 of M2. 
  
  First and foremost, one of Gamespot's major problems with M2 is its glitches and bugs. I have played 
 the game for more than ten hours, and I have yet to see any glitches of the sort Gamespot has reportedly 
 encountered. With the recent "Total Payback" update, it seems that most of these bugs have been 
 ironed out. Still, I know not everyone will have the same experience as I have had. Yes these bugs 
 may happen to you even if I have yet to come across any. I will admit though, I have come across 
 some bugs. In one example, I ordered a helicopter (I'm assuming the reader is familiar with this 
 process) from the stockpile and I was happy to see it come into view. As it was landing, however, 
 it suddenly disappeared! At first I was frustrated to say the least, but really no harm was done. 
 It cost me little oil to airlift the copter, and I was right outside the outpost where I could 
 just buy another one. The point is, yes these bugs should not be happening in a final product. 
 However, these bugs do not make the game unplayable. As for the corrupt save game glitch, save 
 whenever in doubt. I have not encountered this glitch yet, but honestly, it's never a bad idea 
 to save a lot. Anything can go wrong when playing a game, so rationally it is always a good idea 
 to save every now and then. 
  
  Now one of Gamespot's complaints really surprised me. They claim that the weapons in the game are 
 unsatisfying. I personally feel they must have been playing the wrong game. True, these are merely 
 my personal feelings, but I think as a diehard player of the first Mercenaries, M2 has some of 
 the best weapons around. I will concede that some weapons, such as the lousy carbine, are completely 
 useless. The pistol as well is a nice addition to your arsenal, but is hopelessly outclassed when 
 you could use a light machine gun instead. However, I can't help but laugh-out-loud every time 
 I use the grenade MG (seriously one of the greatest inventions ever) . The new portable grenade 
 launcher too is a fine piece of hardware. The sniper rifles too remain quite accurate and deadly. 
 If you are using a low-powered weapon, like the carbine, well just get your hands on a better weapon! 
 The LMG is one of my personal favorites, as well as the Russian sniper rifle. Overall, regardless 
 of what Gamespot has said, there are truly some powerful weapons at your disposal. 
  
  It is unfortunate that the AI isn't the smartest around. But then again, the AI in the first Mercenaries 
 wasn't that great either. Yes, sometimes allies will block your shot and you'll end up killing 
 them by mistake. Despite this, I have never seen allies attack me on their own will like Gamespot 
 has said they do. True, they occasionally shout, "Enemy spotted!" when they look at you, but at 
 least they are not shooting at you. 
  
  I'm not going to lie but the missions are repetitive. But again, the first Mercenaries had repetitive 
 missions too with the sporadic cool mission. Of course, you can put off the outpost missions and 
 do something else. You could go verify more HVTs for other factions, do other work for a faction, 
 go scour the land for resources, or go blow up the targets that the factions' need destroyed. The 
 sheer amount and variety of things to do in the game allow you to not do that outpost mission just 
 yet. Why not do that other contract for that other faction so you will then have access to a better 
 air strike? In my humble opinion, I like doing these missions since it's always a blast overthrowing 
 an outpost. Personally, aren't you always doing the same thing in these sorts of sandbox games? 
 M2 makes the same missions fun by always allowing you to approach these missions differently each 
 time and allowing you to utilize all of your kickass firepower. 
  
  While I hope my review made things a little clearer for the doubtful out there, I know that nothing 
 will ever be 100% liked. If you are still unsure about getting M2, why not try out the demo (Though 
 I think its way too short) ? You could try renting it if that's your sort of thing. Regardless of 
 what you do, I urge the reader to at least try to indiscriminately play M2. It doesn't matter what 
 others say anyway. If you like it, then who is to say that you can't enjoy M2 or any other "bad" 
 game? As that often hackneyed saying goes (I apologize if I have butchered it) , "Nothing ventured, 
 nothing gained." 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 40ozbastard
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  ... Stabbing you in the heart for being stupid because you thought she had potential. You expected 
 your love to get twice as strong and after years of waiting you are presented with disappointment, 
 and then are laughed at for wasting more money on her only to be let down. (Not that I have experienced 
 this... or have I?) I am a fan of the original Mercenaries, It really was a sleeper hit, didn't 
 have hype but the game kicked ass. Think gta military style. Story and game play kicked ass. Mercenaries 
 2 is a letdown because it's a sequel that when played makes me feel like it was too rushed. The 
 graphics are awesome, but the controls don't feel as solid as the first. Slightly tweaked game 
 play mechanics that seem to cripple the original game play features that made the game fun, in 
 my opinion made it worse. My biggest example is the airstike/delivery system. The first one you 
 spent money on air strikes, and got to enjoy the feeling of watching things blow up to all hell. 
 The second, for air support you have find fuel, and missiles across the battlefield, and use an 
 extraction helicopter to get the supplies. Which i think bugs me the most because it feels unrealistic 
 calling that guy in the chopper, due to game play glitches or poor design I don't know which, the 
 helicopter moves at times like a helicopter shouldn't, it sometimes flies through things, the pilot 
 doesn't worry as much about enemy fire as he should, which is fitting considering I've seen rockets 
 fly through the chopper. What also annoys me is this whole new "Taking over enemy installations." 
 missions. It is repetitive, and is fun the first 2 times, but quickly feels like a chore after 
 because its always the same. Every time. Every Location. There are lots by the way. I am not saying 
 this is a completely crappy game, you still blow stuff up and have co-op and get to hijack tanks, 
 blow up everything, and experience an in depth story. But I think it just is not as good as it 
 have could been. Beat the first mercenaries and you will know what I mean. The first is better 
 in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splatah_king
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Good game overall. Graphics are ok, story is sloppy, and gameplay is difficult to get used to. 
 
  
  Game starts out slow and gradually gets faster. Accuracy of weapons is horrible and hard to get 
 used to. Story is hard to follow and has no point. Mercenaries owners will wish they still had 
 one place to go to buy weapons, air strikes, and vehicles, they will also miss being able to order 
 those weapons via a PDA. The ability to steal supply's is a very innovative way to get air strikes, 
 money, and gas. Transit ability is great and speeds up those long drives to get across the map. 
 The Factions are all very diverse and all have benefits. Toon differences allow a slight specialization 
 to your style of gameplay. First mission needs to be longer and describe more things to you. needs 
 to be more diverse contracts from contacts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcflury
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Mercs 2 is one of the best games ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  it is better than the first one
  AND IF U LIKE TO BLOW STUFF UP, THEN THIS IS THE GAME FOR U!!!!!!!!!!!
  Has a really good storyline, though
 
  the first level is simple, get cars, blow up 50ft tall gates, and kill people
  
 
  
  highjack peoples cars and kill em!!
  fun stuff.
  ak47 sniper rifle
  weird glitches on the game
  peeps peeps peeper (this review should have 
 at least 100 wds by here!)
  there has been some screw ups but not that much
  no BLOOD! THAT IS SO MSDUP BUT IT IS STILL FUN IF UR BORED
  this review thing is getting annoying 
 
  keeps saying i need more words
  & it is missing something special 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buddyferguson
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  mecenaries 2 is a bout how good you are to your allys thay will like you or hate you you get loads 
 of cash in the game you get air stiks and a copter to and a mecanic wich she gives you hot rides 
 to buy this game is a bout greed and blowing stuff up have fun. when you play be cearful what messon 
 you are doing the xbox live is alsome you can play co op with your friends doing messons or jest 
 blowing stuff up. you shuld buy it or try it. but i wold like to play the 1st one and see wich 
 is better. but i cant tell you my self so get out there and play your hart out. some other games 
 that i like is wow, halo, runescape, and alot of other games. the sports bike is the coolest bike 
 there so far. the gps makes the game better to do messons and there are loads of fule and other 
 stuff. the rpg is a neat wepon to have to there are cheats for this game jest look them up. this 
 is a game that is not to hard so if you are not the best at video games you will like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingmoonraiser
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I did not expect much going into this game and I was pleasantly surprised. It is confusing getting 
 used to the mechanics of this game. The call-ins are hard to set up at first. And there is an added 
 resource gathering element where you have to accumulate oil to call in your special items like 
 tanks, supplies and air attacks. You also have to assemble a team this time, but the storyline 
 pretty much hands that to you. So overall a bit confusing at first, but a nice refinement over 
 the first one and the graphics hold their own. Probably the most dissapointing aspect is the lack 
 of creativity in dialogue. My NPC teamates say the same thing everytime I walk by them and it is 
 so annoying that it actually detracts from the experience. The pros in this one are the variety 
 of call ins, vehicles and of course the completely destructible environment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Indeed I have to agree with many of the reviews that I have read about this game. I did give it 
 "the old college try" and attempt to play this game, only to be in a world of flames. 
  
  First off the story (the little that there is) is paper thin and poor. We've gotten to the point 
 where a lot of these next gen games are better then a lot of movies. While I agree they are still 
 games, I would at least like a plot that a 5 year old can't guess at and get right. Granted the 
 action game uses all the cliches and that's what is expected from a game like this, but the plot 
 is the least of your worries. 
  
  The game is almost unplayable. The controls are wonky, poorly set up, unresponsive, and confusing. 
 I don't want to have to make a chart that I have to refer to in order to play a straight forward 
 action game!
  
  The graphics really need some work. There are up to par with LAST generation graphics, it's really 
 a wonder that the game didn't crash my 360. The lighting is all over the place, the animation is 
 cheap and poor, the details are non existant, and the hit ratios are way off. 
  
  The music is mostly forgetable and the sounds aren't anything to write home about. The AI is all 
 over the place, from very hitable to almost immortal. So the difficulty can vary from opponant 
 to opponant (and that's on the same level!) . 
  
  Basically I can only recommend this to people with no standards or fans of the first game. Thanks 
 for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamx30108200
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  -Huge map with lot of diverse terrains (maybe too big.. takes forever to go to some objectives)
 
  -Awesome explosions
  -pretty good view distance and nice scenery
  -zillions of vehicles (from helis to cars to bikes to boats... armed and unarmed)
  -many factions 
 + tons of side missions
  
  and the best of all:
  
  destruction like you've never seen before !! use your imagination to blow anything you want.
 
  
  Cons:
  
  -audio: always the same 4 lines over and over
  -missions can get pretty repetitive
  -weak story but who cares when all you do is killing and 
 blowing up stuff
  
  and the worst of all:
  
  Glitches all over the place, even with the patch.... usually I'm not fussy when it comes down to 
 glitches but when I have to reboot my xbox 5-6 times in a row in order to load my last save game 
 it can get pretty frustrating.
  
  Overall, mercenaries 2 is a pretty fun game that will keep you busy for a solid 40 hours, but due 
 to glitches this game can only be classified as good, not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jobc12
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  GOOOOOOOD: prity under rated in my opinion . I love this game and it is best when the Amaricans 
 and chinese come in in hore explosions everywhere, huge and awsome looking air stikes with every 
 thing you do makes you feal like you awsome and I dont even have xbox live vehicles are cool to 
 this game make you fial like a god PROBLEMS: gliches, and the button pressing sequences are nice 
 but at the end of the game when you want to HIJACK amarican or chinese helicopter or tanks the 
 times when you have to peres one button over and over agean is way to hard
  
  
  in all GGGEEETTTT IT NNNOOOOWW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZJM9
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 20, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  The Pros:
  cool vehicles
  good visuals
  good sound
  explosives
  co-op
  
  The cons:
  bad vehicle handling
  your character blurts out corney lines that aren't funny
 
  laggy co-op
  laggy single player
  repetitive missions
  un-fun missions
  crappy weapons
  not much to hold your interest
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  This game only held my interest for about five to six hours. Sure, you can run around and do whatever 
 you feel like, but what's the point if the gameplay isn't any good? The vehicles handle like concrete 
 bricks. Guns are terrible. Grenades do hardly any damage. Missile launchers don't lock on. The 
 missions feel the exact same. The destruction looks all the same after an hour. The co-op is less 
 than great. Few people actually play the game so unless you have a friend to play with, finding 
 a match may prove difficult. So, while the price is still over $20, give it a pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monteninja
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  i got my moneys worth with online play and single play. well over 60 hours of gameplay. very destructible 
 environment, its just a fun game. can get repetitive, with the missions, but once your attacking 
 you kind of forget that. i enjoyed this game much, it does have its share of bugs and glitches 
 though, how sad yes, also has a big big array of weapons and vehicles to keep a new feeling with. 
 also plenty of side missions and open world adds a lot of gameplay to it. you liked the first one, 
 you'll like this one more. be careful not to make one side too angry, so do missions in like a 
 circle to not have one too angry with you. i havnt played the game since i completely beat it, 
 first week it came out, but still, 60 hours of gaming? well money worth i think. and i know later 
 ill pick it up and beat the crap out of it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JokerCCXXII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I've played Mercenaries 2 for about 3-4 hours and I for one like the overall concept of the game. 
 The free roam world along with the audio and visual are quite nice. In free roam games I like to 
 customize and blow stuff up... this game has both of those features. The controls got to me at 
 first, but like any game after a while you get the hang of it. I also like that fact that AI is 
 smarter and calls out your location. I also think there is a sufficient amount of ammo and weapons 
 for your character, so you never feel like your screwed in a gun battle. The car handling needs 
 a little work, but manageable after a while. I think Mercenaries 2 is well worth a play, if you 
 ask me, go check it out today! Trust me when I say you won't regret it. I haven't even begun to 
 touch the multiplayer aspect of the game, but from what I heard its very fun and entertaining... 
 now all I need is a beer! LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1seAga1nst
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  Ok... to start, I have loved POD since the day I got it. I have always been dreaming about how 
 cool it would be if they made a 2nd game. Well here we are. 
  
  You hear alot about how the AI really sucks, yea... it does you should be thankful their shooting 
 back , But hey! you didnt buy (or plan on buying) this game to shoot people... You live to blow 
 the living hell out of everything!!! 
  
  To start im gonna tell you about the good things
  Really amusing explosions
  You get the satisfaction 
 of leveling the whole damn world
  Fun vehicals
  One of the few 360 games with cheat codes
  funny at times
  
  
  
  I am going to tell you 
 about the problems....
  Shallow story
  Not really a variety of weapons
  not very many main contracts.
  need a difficulty setting way to easy
  
  
  I will admit 
 there are quite a few bugs in the game but they are very minor. I love this game, Its Fun, Explosive, 
 and Addictive. Masturbation jokes aside, If you have ever been a fan of the series get this game.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandTheftC12
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  I really didnt like this game it was to repetitive and just plain boring. It showed good stuff in 
 the commercials and makes you think its good but its not. You can choose between these 3 mercenaries 
 when you first start off, and their stories are almost the same. Then you do one mission for this 
 guy and he ends up betraying you. Then i started thinking oh this is about to get good so after 
 i completed that mission it was some more missions after that when i started realizing this game 
 is not gonna get any better. So i took this game back it sucks and is not worth 59.99. So if you 
 think this game is good you should really rent before you buy or you might just get disapointed 
 like i did. So with that said i suggest you dont get this but hey your entitled to your on opinion. But 
 i think that you would have to be a die hard mercenarie fan to like this very boring excuse for 
 a game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Im_a_genius5995
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  The game is a total waste. I've tried 4 different CD's and all had the same problem: The game almost 
 never loads. When it does load, it often doesn't load right so you almost never get to play the 
 game. Then, as your driving along the road, you say a sea of green in front of you. You drive towards 
 it and you see that the world completely ends. If you keep going you fall down and you're pretty 
 much swimming in mid-air. There is no way to get back on land so you have to reset the game because 
 it wont let you quit. If you're lucky enough to get a game that doesn't have these inflicting glitches, 
 then it is a very fun game. When I was able to play, I found myself having a great time, but then 
 it freezes or I fall off the face of the earth and it leaves much to be desired. All in all, I 
 wouldn't bother with the game. Its a total meltdown. If you do decide to try it, keep the receipt. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fALConxxii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Lets start by saying this game got a 5 out of 10 from Game Spot. I think that is unfair and will 
 ruin how many copies this game sells. The reason is simply this. Game critics focus on the major 
 factors like graphics, sound, game play, etc. The thing is, it can still be a fun game, but that's 
 not what the critics review, So i will review in my opinion what i thought of this game.
  
  The game starts out as your character getting double-crossed and shot is the butt. You then complete 
 missions to find his whereabouts.
  
  
  Graphics: (8/10) Beautiful explosions and motion blur are nice, but the characters could use some 
 smoothing and there is a lot of pop-up.
  
  Sound: (6/10) Here's the annoying part. The soundtrack is pretty good, but the SAME SIX LINES are 
 repeated by he characters. This could possibly ruin your experience. So if you get this, go into 
 options and turn the voice acting off.
  
  Controls: (10/10) Nothing bad here. Straight forward controls.
  
  Entertainment: (8/10) If 
 your not old enough for GTA IV, then this game would suit you.
  
  Overall: (8.5/10) It could use more polish, but it is great fun, minus the terrible voice line 
 repetition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3rma
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks these guys are a bit harsh. Sure its got room for improvements but there were some 
 problems. Crazy gameplay = awesome, but i would have liked a cover system. I died a lot cuz of 
 the stupid amount of reinforcements (not saying any names, STUPID OLE AN, I WAS GONNA WORK FOR 
 THEM BUT AS SOON AS I LAND IN THERE BASE THEY START SHOOTIN THE CRAP OUTTA ME) It cracked me up 
 when i got shot in the butt then the last sequence was awesome i wish you could drive jets and 
 helicopters were too slow and the fastest vehicle was on water but the game isnt made of water 
 
  """"" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maidendude71
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2: World in Flames is underapreciated. Mercenaries 2 is a super fun game, with new 
 fearures such as hijacking vehicles, air strikes and piloting helicopters! and that is just to 
 name a few. With really cool missions such as hiring your own pilots, mechanics etc... or you can 
 find HVT's to verify to earn a bit more cash or you can blow up certain buildings with anti-aircraft 
 missles or RPG'S! or why not do both. Sure it has its negatives, but what games don't? It has a 
 fairly weak story and bad voice acting but that definetly doesn't over rule out the fun of Mercenaries 
 2. I wouldn't call it a masterpeice or difficult but I will recommend buying it!
  
  8.5/10 
  
  To sum it up in one sentence: An underrated game that is super fun, but with a few 
 minor adjustments this game can leave you feeling satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  When a game causes you to vehemently swear not because you're trying to overcome a difficult part 
 but because you inexplicably got stuck in a rock, the game has some serious design flaws. Mercenaries 
 2 is a fun game as long as you can avoid the often maddening glitches. It's got the free-roam gameplay 
 style of many action games, but it also borrows quite heavily from the plot of Just Cause. Once 
 again, you're in Venezula once again stopping a power hungry dictator from taking over the country 
 with a military coup. Different factions are competing for dominance and as a freelance mercenary, 
 you're right in the middle of it all. You start by building a power base, setting up your HQ and 
 then fulfilling contracts, destroying rivals' properties, and taking out High Value Targets (HVTs; 
 bounties) while tracking down the man behind it all. As you progress, you gain access to new weapons, 
 vehicles and support items such as bombing runs and artillery bombardments, all of which can be 
 "dialed up" to be dispatched right to your location in the field.
  
  The game boasts of a completely destructible environment, and this isn't far from the truth. With 
 the right weapons, you can completely level the city around you, and for the most part, objects 
 you destroy stay wrecked throughout the game. Graphically, the game is stunning. The vehicles have 
 a "real" aspect to them and there are some really breathtaking vistas that make it worth swiping 
 a helicopter just to take a look around. 
  
  Surprisingly, there's not a lot of meat to Mercenaries. The main story missions are over fairly 
 briefly, and the game relies on its scattered side missions to pad out the game. While it's true 
 that there are at good bit of bounties to bring in, targeted buildings to level, and oddball race 
 type missions to perform, you can get through the game without really doing any of them, and in 
 fact without uncovering the majority of the map, which is a little disconcerting. While working 
 for the different factions can flesh out the game in time, it doesn't really seem to add much to 
 the underlying plot; in fact, it seems that aside from the look and feel of each contact, their 
 missions seem nearly identical. The most challenging feature is that since each faction is rivaled 
 with another, you often wind up see-sawing your way between hostilities with your allies. Work 
 for one, anger another, appease them, annoy someone else, etc. Luckily, one of your partners can 
 pay off anyone hostile to you with a quick bribe.
  
  As you roam about, you'll notice that the different factions are constantly fighting one another. 
 This chaos for some reason always gets blamed on you: If they take out a civilian, you have to 
 pay for it. If your HVT gets wiped out in the crossfire while you're somewhere else, you lose a 
 substantial part of the bounty. This can get kind of irritating, especially since the AI in the 
 game is a little rough. HVTs will routinely blow themselves up if armed with RPGs; civilians will 
 wander into the middle of a battlefield; enemy soldiers will pitch themselves off roofs or drive 
 into the lake (you can swim; they can't) in their haste to get to you. On top of that, it's not 
 uncommon to get stuck in various spots - behind trees, inside rocks, on boats  if the surrounding 
 area gets too busy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ModernNinja
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 is not the next Halo, it's not the Game of the Year, and it's not an all-time favorite. 
 This game was put on earth for one reason, blowing stuff up. That's it. No in-depth storyline, 
 no revolutionary features, just blowing stuff up. And at that, it excels.
  This game is simple, mindless, fun. And it is fun. You can strap an artillary beacon to a truck 
 and watch the fireworks. You can carpet bomb a huge ship. You can nuke a castle. The explosions 
 are beautiful, and you'll want to watch them again and again.
  One of the most overlooked features of this game is the AI. The soldiers in this game are very 
 smart. The helicopters will actually put up a good fight. The people in turrets KNOW WHAT TO SHOOT 
 AT. This cannot be said for many other games.
  
  I know, yeah it's my first review, but whatever. This is just a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolboy4567
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  i dont believe what gamespot has given the game is fair it deserves to be up there with the rest, 
 as the story missions could have been a bit longer but they where good while they lasted. the multiplayer 
 is great and makes the game last longer as you, and a friend or anybody else can join each others 
 game to help them in 1 player. the main attraction is just to blow sh*t up i mean it never gets 
 boring with lots of airstrikes, at your disposal like fuel air bomb and cluster bomb to nuclear 
 bunker buster (nuke) . so in my opinion this game never gets boring and take it from me, you wont 
 be wasting your money on this game. if you like open world sandbox games like gta 4 then get this 
 game, if you where a fan of the last game then this one will just be like an update so my advice 
 is go and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d7rth_j0
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 31, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  An Honest Review of Mercenaries 2: World in Flames by an everyday gamer
  
  
  
  This my review of the disappointing mercs 2. I'll start out like I always do, describing what goes 
 on in the game most of the time, thus what you'll be doing. The gameplay is the most important 
 feature of any game, and that's why I always talk about it first. I will discuss some of the few 
 good points this game had, and if that's all yer here for, just skip to that. I've tried to spell 
 out the combat as best I could, and not sound too angry. I hope I stop you, a friend, or god help 
 us a loved one from buying this game. 
  
  They've somehow, after 3 and  YEARS of work, managed to make something that is nowhere near as 
 good as the first one. How you ask? Simple. They did 2 incredibly STUPID things. They weren't by 
 far the only issues I have with the game, even if they were fixed, the game would still fail by 
 a huge margin to meet the level of its predecessor. The controls are okay, basically the same as 
 what we saw in Mercenaries 1, but the aim is very heavy (meaning that the reticule moves either 
 fast or not at all, making it easy to overcorrect and no matter how you adjust the sensitivity 
 it won't go away) . On top of that, there is not one weapon in the game other than the sniper rifle 
 that can hit with any semblance of accuracy if your target is outside 30 feet. Even then, they 
 have an accuracy measure not in inches, or feet, but yards. Headshots are impossible to get at 
 ranges we normally engage at in shooter games, and so are body shots for that matter. When trying 
 to hit things from a distance you can burn through 2 or more clips easy. The blast radius of all 
 explosives is increased as is the number of explosive-wielding foes you will face, and unless you 
 use a sniper rifle, (not to snipe with, just to use) you won't be hurting them at all before they 
 wipe you out with massed fire. But do your rockets go where you want them to? Nooooo, they don't. 
 Instead they go off in some weird direction that will not hit what you aimed at. If you thought 
 the rpg in the first game was bad, wait till you see this. You can use up an entire drop of rocket 
 ammo and not land one hit on a building let alone a tank from a distance, and they'll reliably 
 miss at ranges of 50 feet or even closer. And of course it takes three or 4 to kill any more powerful 
 tank, and none of them can lock on and track anything. This of course makes tanks way too hard 
 to deal with, as the blast of their shells is so huge, they damage you with almost every shot, 
 even if your 25 feet from where it hit, even if a hill or wall was between you and the point of 
 impact. Tanks are also the only thing that can be accurate over a distance, at least and deal real 
 damage to other tanks and structures. Copters have accurate weapons usually (though their missiles 
 are inaccurate too) but aren't stable enough to aim well with, unlike the choppers in mercs 1. 
 I'm not trying to be some sniper guy who wants to wipe out everything before it sees me (though 
 that can be fun, if a tad unsatisfying) , I'd just like to be able to strategize it, hit it and 
 kill it, especially in a game about shooting things. You ending up running in, killing a few, running 
 back to recharge your health, rinse and repeat. 
  
  This brings me to the other big, 24-ounce beef steak I have with Mercs 2; the airstrikes. Unless 
 you are willing to play the game to almost the end (like I did, don't make the same mistake) you 
 will not get an airstrike that is long-range. What? You ask. A close-range airstrike? Yes. All 
 but a few of them require a smoke grenade or beacon of some sort to be thrown where you want the 
 strike. Since the characters STILL throw grenades like a first grader (I can throw better than 
 that for gods sake) you have to be right at your target to call in the strike. Now why would somebody 
 want to call in an airstrike? To kill something they couldn't of course (since you can't hit it 
 with your guns anyway) ! But if you have to be next to the target in first place, that kinda defeats 
 the purpose of the whole damn thing now, doesn't it? Most of the most useful strikes from mercs 
 1 (and I realize that I'm comparing it to it's predecessor a lot, just that theirs a reason for 
 that) like the tank buster, one that would shoot down enemy helicopters, the fuel air bomb, and 
 the cluster bomb are rendered almost completely useless here. If you need to be there, and it hasn't 
 killed you, why risk getting caught in the blast and getting killed while fumbling with wonky support 
 menu options, and both of those are way too easy to do. To equip it you have to stand still for 
 a second and click through the menu, and if a tank didn't kill you then, if will when you run away 
 and expose yourself to new firing angles. Unlike in mercs 1, you cannot equip it as a weapon and 
 run around till you find a good spot to use it. As soon as you select it, you throw the beacon. 
 Why can't I just choose a method of designation, having each one to pick from for my airstrikes? 
 Or instead of using the laser, why not just the binoculars? Then we'd use them for something. Nearing 
 the end of the game, you get laser and satellite designated strikes that you can use, but you still 
 need to be close (within 1500 feet for the laser) to call in the strike. The satellite designation 
 is a bit better, but you cannot hit things as far away as you could in, you guessed it, mercs 1. 
 One thing that you can't do anything in the game without doing is destroy an occupied building. 
 When the alarm goes off (or the game just has them appear for some glitchy reason) certain types 
 of buildings will become full or, you guessed it, rocket infantry. There are about 2 or three to 
 each side, and getting close is suicide unless there are a lot of convienent buildings close by, 
 but unless you have a tank (and most of the time you cannot call one in) you'll have to try and 
 get close and destroy it with c4 (easier than an airstrike, your right there anyways) , and thus 
 take massive damage and possibly die, having to go allllll the way back to your base. Though you 
 can save your progress at any time, you cannot start a loaded saved game from anywhere but your 
 base, which is about 5 minuts at least to from wherever you died, if your lucky. 
  
  Between the guns and the horrible smoke-beacon airstrikes, you'll never ever do anything without 
 losing all of your health and being an inch from death's door two or three times a mission. Because 
 so much of the fun in mercs 1 came from using strategy, airstrikes, and your own firepower to get 
 things done right the first or at least the second time, world in flames is very unsatisfying. 
 Due to all the problems mentioned above, basically every scenario plays out the same, as the insanely 
 short range everything kills any real potential strategy and planning you could do. And I personally 
 get bored doing the same, uninteresting thing over and over and over again. Don't you? Your shooter 
 skill matters little here, I mean, could Tony Hawk skate on a broken board? He might try, but the 
 board is still broken and it ain't gonna end well. So that's how the game plays people, sound like 
 much fun? Not so much, no. If you have a tank it can be kinda amusing for a bit, and there are 
 a few tricks to destroying enemy buildings, but they all make the game about fighting the gameplay, 
 not the enemies, and that isn't much fun. Especially since using the tricks only enhance the "I'm 
 doing the same thing again when I shouldn't have to do it in the first place" feeling. If they 
 had added a faction called gameplay and had it be the game's primary foe, it would have made perfect 
 sense. They even removed lots of the small parts of the old game that made it somewhat unique or 
 just complete, like stun grenades, stunning and pacifying normal infantry instead of forcing you 
 to kill them, little jumps to get air on when driving to the next mission, and getting out of a 
 car and leaving the occupants inside or on the gunner seat (instead they just jump out and immediately, 
 run away, and get killed) . Also, health and ammo pickups are always picked up and used whether 
 you were at full or not, and it is easy to use up an entire missions worth of stuff by accident, 
 especially since at lot of times it is all in one place. 
  
  
  As you play (or stumble) through Mercenaries 2, you are constantly reminded of Just Cause, and 
 not the few things that it did right, the things it did wrong. Turrets have a weird feel to them, 
 and vehicles show no real damage except for losing the hood and maybe doors. At least in Just cause 
 they sort of crumpled, and in mercs 1 the car looked like it had actually been hit. Heck, Just 
 cause had better driving physics, as Mercs 2's makes it feel like your driving on ice all the time 
 (and I live in Ohio so I know that feels like) . The mercs 2 vehicle set is better than mercs 1's, 
 but isn't as fun to drive. One more thing; In mercs 1 you could buy a support item that could refill 
 a vehicle's ammo, health, or both, thus extending the useful life of your vehicles greatly. When 
 blowing up s*** in a kickass helicopter you could use up all your missiles, and get hit by a few 
 sams or whatever, then fly a safe distance away and call in some more ammo and vehicle "health" 
 and get back to dishing out missiles and rockets with the same copter. Well mercs 2 lacks this 
 as well. Most vehicles only last you a few minutes, and I found this to extremely frustrating, 
 especially since there is no counter-measures to stop sams. You can sort of dodge them, but it's 
 iffy. Also, when you by a civilian car, it randomly selects one from all 15 or so civilan car models 
 in the game. If they all were fast, handled well, and drove basically the same it wouldn't be a 
 big deal, but most are slow and steer like boats, so rarely will you get one that does what you 
 want. Why can't I choose which one want? That would have been easier to program you numbskulls!
 
  
  In addition to utterly ruining the gun combat, the characters are even worse than before. I liked 
 them more when they were flat, cardboard cutout stereotypes. Now, in addition to being no deeper, 
 (and the voice acting is even worse than in the first game, the voices aren't even synced for gods 
 sake!) they constantly spew incredibly lame super cheesy one-liners that are guaranteed to make 
 anyone with more that one brain cell shudder. Duke Nukem' 3D has nothing on this. A few of Mui's 
 would be: "Ooooooooh! A tank, soooooo expensive", and "I looove money, especially other peoples", 
 or in the worst taste possible "ah, an ak47, favored by high schoolers and post office workers". 
 Yeah, way to give Jack Thompson more ammo, guys! Nilson says things like "I'll name my ammo, now 
 lets go kill a bunch of people" and even lamer stuff than that. Each character (except Mui) had 
 one that was actually funny, but they said them every freakin' time they had an opportunity. Mui 
 used the tank line whenever she saw or even got close to a tank, and every character did this with 
 their one-liners, and since they had a few for given situation, it got old fast like middle of 
 the first mission fast. And after that, it just grated on you. This didn't apply to just you, it 
 applied to all people in the game, who only said about three things. 
  
  Bad as it is, it does do a couple things right. You and can scavenge airstrike munitions out in 
 the field (which is basically like a free airstrike) . Instead of the Merchant of Menace shop that 
 you had in the first game, you purchase supply drops, vehicles, and airstrikes from a faction, 
 and these are added to your stockpile. If you run out then you'll have to go back to the store 
 to buy more. Each faction has a store and different items, so if you want something from them and 
 plan on betraying them, then buy a crapload of stuff. When you want something, you select your 
 stockpile from the PDA and your helicopter pilot brings it to you or your jet pilot comes to launch 
 the airstrike. Kind of neat. Since you have a support staff, including a personal delivery chopper 
 (he also picks up the airstrikes and fuel you come across) and jet pilot who handles all your airstrikes, 
 it actually makes sense that you'd have an airstrike on-demand whenever you felt like it. Though 
 you may get vehicles, airstrikes, and supply drops as rewards for doing a contract, you usually 
 have to pay for them, since you don't know what you'll face or need to do next. But because it 
 gives enough money to practically buy your own country, cash is never a problem. Not that I like 
 being out of money, but having to be frugal and think ahead, provided that is isn't overdone, can 
 really add a layer of depth to pretty much any game's gameplay if it involves commerce of some 
 kind. But whenever you use a support option, it uses some fuel, and you must also stockpile fuel 
 to make sure that you have enough to properly get things done. You get fuel by finding it, just 
 like airstrikes out in the open or in someone's base. Also, these resources re-spawn upon loading, 
 so you could technically collect, save, load, collect, save, load indefietly. But there really 
 isn't any need to do that. If you just pay attention to your fuel levels and be sure to re-stock 
 after using a lot of support, then you'll never have a problem, though it does get monotonous after 
 a while. There is always munitions and fuel that belongs to a faction, but don't take it if they'll 
 see you because they won't be happy, and will try and kill you over a 500 gallon drum of gas or 
 a measly cluster bomb. But lightly or unguarded stuff that belongs to the game's primary foe, the 
 VZ troops, will be available if you just hunt around. As you increase fuel storage capacity, it 
 will take awhile to fill up your meter again, so time could've been saved if some of those drums 
 had 1000 instead just 500 units of fuel. It takes too long to get a good capacity too. It would 
 have been nice if you could scavenge vehicles and unused supply drops as well, but I guess I can 
 live without that. 
  
  The other thing it does right (and the original did wrong) was faction betrayals. If you kill or 
 injure a member of a faction and someone else in the faction sees you do it, it doesn't automatically 
 reduce your standing. Instead, they have to radio it in, and it takes a few seconds for them to 
 do it, giving you the chance to stop them, and keep your betrayal secret. That's a good thing (and 
 some mods for the PC version of Mercs 1 added this to the old game) because this installment makes 
 you betray the other factions for one of them even more than game one. It is balanced out so that 
 you can't always get away with it, but it works better than it did before (or would, if I could 
 just KILL STUFF PROPERLY!) . 
  
  Sadly, as much as I like those moderate improvements to the Mercenaries formula, they cannot even 
 begin to cover up the game's many other massive flaws. I may sound unkind, but I sense the dumb-downing 
 hand of the "casual gaming revolution" in this serious step backward from Mercs 1. Making the game 
 harder without doing any work, by arbitrarily breaking a part of the gameplay critical to success 
 thus divorcing the gameplay from requiring real skill or thought, add in some flashy graphics, 
 and voila!. A "multi-demographic" game is born! I may be harsh, but I call em' like I see em'. 
 Because the makers of most of these dumbed-down games don't know better, it would be one thing. 
 But since this team delivered awesome content before I really cannot forgive them. Fix the aim, 
 guns, cars, airstrikes, and one-liners, and THEN we'll talk. It's almost as if you went back to 
 a good restaurant and ordered you favorite T-bone steak, and instead they brought you the grisly, 
 bony leftovers of one, and told you it was the same thing only better. That would be an inexcusable 
 thing for the chef to do, and you'd never go back there again unless someone told you it had changed 
 or you wanted to punch the chef in the face. However, if you look at who published it, well it 
 may not be the "chef's" fault. The latest big EA games titles like Burnout Paradise, though they 
 were solid contenders in their genre, have been underwhelming and lacking in the fun, depth and, 
 gameplay that made these series tick in previous installments. Again I smell the casual gaming 
 trend at work here folks, and if anyone seems to dig this trend, it's EA, so maybe we should have 
 seen this coming. 
  
  To start another paragraph with sadly, as you near the end of the game (last 5 hours od gameplay) 
 you unlock the functional airstrikes I mentioned earlier and the game actually becomes sort of 
 fun. Not anything close to the old game but still kinda fun. But you cannot play through the game 
 again with your stuff unlocked like in mercs1, so there goes any replay value or reward for slogging 
 through this sorry, half-assed excuse for a sequel. If you played and enjoyed the original then 
 give this a clean miss. It isn't the droid you're looking for. If you didn't play the first one 
 or you did and still think you may want to give it a try, then please rent first or wait for it 
 to get into the bargain bin. But have no fear, it won't be along wait for the $29.99 price sticker 
 to appear on the front of this box. If you like the look of Mercs 2 (and it is nothing like it 
 was advertised to be) , and haven't yet played Mercs one, then your time and money would be better 
 spent playing that (and the game really does stand up to the test of time, despite a few quirks) . 
 Even if the weapons were fixed and even the aim, the game still needs a lot of polish and more 
 of what the old game had before I will say it is better or even as good as the original. After 
 all that time waiting this is what we get. Sigh. At least it made me appreciate the first mercenaries 
 more than I already did. Well, I guess I'll go trade it in. What for? No clue. 
  
  So there's my rant on Mercenaries 2: World in Flames. If it were just another open-world game, 
 I'd give it a 6 out of 10 (10 being the best and 6 being mediocre) , but as a SECQUEL to one of 
 my favorite games I give it a NOTHING. It fails to even deliver the old formula that we loved, 
 and instead replaces it with a flashy, shallow, and even primitive by comparison shadow of its 
 former self that insults our intelligence and leaves us feeling empty. Despite the fact that the 
 box say: Xbox360, it plays like a bad 1998 action game. A classic "next-gen" title. The Next Generation 
 of Gaming. What a massive joke. And these flashy, dumbed-down, broken games are the punch line. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fugiex
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries experinece protraits the same situations and problems that other games face when coming 
 out with a squal to the original series of the game. With its inspired to cause destruction to 
 anything in the world and the high selection of the weapons this game brings alot of hype to its 
 name. But with all the destructions and weapons enought to carry this game to the best hit side 
 lines or will it face what other original serise squal games did in past history. The answer is 
 simple it can but theres only so much limits that it can reach before crashing and burning with 
 the last squal games in the past. 
  
  mercenaries takes the same fourmal from the orginal game to its squal with a much interesting story, 
 basically you have three mercenaries that you as the player can choose one each of them have their 
 own abilies which may help during a gun fight. Theres the sweden name mattias nilsson that can 
 heal faster rate, christopher jacobs can carried extra ammo for weapons, and theirs the girl jennifer 
 mui she just can run faster. The story begins in venezuela where your character the mercenaries 
 is hired by salano to rescuse general carmona which is being held by the venexuela army. soon after 
 that mission thats where the chaos begins, after rescueing his friend from being held salano trys 
 to be cheap and attempt to kill your character but fails. The mercenarie mind is set on revanges 
 after being betraded by the person that hired him, now he travels around many area of venezuela 
 working with many fractions in the game china, AN, rebels, pirates and the venezuela army doing 
 number of task which usually involed blowing up buildings, getting a target, and taking another 
 outpost from another fraction that already have it. Of course working with one of the fractions 
 will be your friendly down with the another one which is not different from other games that tryed 
 to bring this feature to it. But after you do all these task you get large number of weapons and 
 air support that should help you among the way for your main mission. Unlike the first Mercenries 
 game you doesnt work alone this time you have friends that would help you along doing these task, 
 either by travling to another area or air bombing a certain part of the map ! 
  
  Mercenaires interesting storyline and extention to travel anywhere in the map would attract anyone 
 to this game and enjoy the mass destruction set by the player, but it would also bring its unattractive 
 side along with it. Mercenaries seem like a unfinish game thats full with glitches and AI problems 
 which can be frustrated with the player that is trying to complete a mission or get an achievement 
 for a certain fraction. The glitches is everywhere! when you travel around you get a spare part 
 even when your not close to any of them leaveing you with a large amount of number then it suppose 
 to be, another fine example the eniemies would not fire at you they would let you run up to them 
 and hit them with your gun or shoot them which is not even challeging at all when they just sit 
 or stand there. The AI i only found some problems with them like there were times when the heilcoper 
 lands on a tree or a car, or when the a person on the street would run away towards the direction 
 where your drive and hit them losing money. 
  Mercenaries gameplay can easily be master by anyone when playing this game for the first time, 
 but there are times when the gameplay can be unresponsible and can be frustrated for a player at 
 times. Usually when i find the gameplay to be kind of unresponsible at time is during a hijack 
 of vicheles like heilcopers and tanks. which would lead to a mini game that has a certain botton 
 to press at the right time but sometimes when you press the right botton it doesnt work and leads 
 to your death of other eniemies gun fire from all around. Dont get me wrong i like the idea of 
 hijacking anything but there are time when you need to when escaping from someone or a from certain 
 death. The graphic is ok but not next gen protenal, some textures problems issuse, the framerate 
 suprisily holds well under the horrible condition. The voice acting is pretty well done no problem 
 there but the lines repeat over and over again which can be annoying and distracted when doing 
 something in the game. 
  
  What frustrates me the most that this game had the protential to to be one of the best game but 
 fell short of its goal in making a well destructed game with many of its problem in the game its 
 hard to find the good way to destroy something when its already partly broken. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2: World in Flames continues the story of three mercenaries from the original game, 
 but luckily you don't need to know anything about it to enjoy this sequel.
  
  Story starts in August 2010 in Venezuela. A mercenary approaches to a businessman called Ramon 
 Solano and he asks the merc to rescue a Venezuelan Army General named Carmona. Your chosen merc 
 does what he or she is told, but after a successful job Solano tries to murder you without paying. 
 Luckily you manage to escape and start planning revenge against Solano. Story moves forward with 
 occasional cutscenes, but it's not the story that pushes you forward in Mercenaries 2: it's the 
 destructible environments and explosions.
  
  Graphics are average, but at least colorful and since this game is big texture popping happens 
 all the time. At times it's so bad that a whole tank can appear from thin air right in front of 
 you. Glitches can be seen way too often and it's clear that Mercenaries 2 should have needed more 
 time in development. You will also notice that the time of day never changes: it's always around 
 noon in Venezuela. Explosions happen all the time and they are the highlight of this game: it never 
 gets old. Almost everything can be destroyed so how much you enjoy playing Mercs 2 depends on how 
 much you enjoy blowing things up.
  
  Sound design and music are functional, but not that remarkable either. Only occasional problem 
 is that AI characters sometimes repeat that same line of dialog over and over again. It gets annoying 
 fast, but if that should happen you can always shoot him.
  
  Gameplay starts by choosing one of three mercenaries from the original game, all of which have 
 their own appearance and voice acting. Jennifer Mui is the fastest, Mattias Nilsson has fastest 
 regenerating health and Chris Jacobs has most ammo to use. All characters follow the same storyline 
 that centers on your character of choice. This is a third person action game, but since all the 
 action happens outdoors the camera is never a problem. This is a rare achievement in this genre 
 of games.
  
  Controls are good and much better than in GTAIV in my opinion. Shooting is easy and most importantly 
 satisfying. Vehicles are fun to steer and there are a lot of them. Causing havoc by using air and 
 artillery strikes is always a pleasure to perform. Just remember that you can't shoot everybody: 
 every time you kill a civilian you will lose money. So have fun, but not mindless fun.
  
  Structure is the same as in any other open world game. You have a big open map to explore and you 
 travel to different locations to get missions and side quests. You get to do business with lot 
 of different sides of the same conflict and it will bring at least some variety to the overall 
 repetitive missions: go there, kill this, blow that structure up and come back.
  
  Enemy AI is almost non-existent: they fail to react even if you shoot at them, they shoot each 
 other, commit stupid suicides and so on. For me this wasn't a huge problem, since I was already 
 too busy in shooting them than paying attention on what they were doing besides shooting back at 
 me.
  
  What can really test your patience is the save system: there are occasional checkpoints between 
 different stages of a mission, but usually if you die, you end up doing those same things over 
 again from the beginning. Luckily there's one feature that makes Mercenaries 2 a lot easier to 
 handle: online co-op with a friend. At times it seems that this game was meant to be played in 
 co-op, because it makes an average shooter exponentially better.
  
  In the end I personally enjoyed Mercenaries 2 a lot more than I did GTAIV or Saints Row. Frequent 
 bugs, glitches and an abysmal enemy AI drop points quite substantially, but if you enjoy blowing 
 things up I recommend you to check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dire_Weasel
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  
  Stuff blows up real good: Literally everything but rocks and the terrain you stand on can be destroyed. 
 Skyscraper in your way? It make take ten c4 charges or a laser-guided bunker buster bomb, but you 
 can get rid of it in a spectacular fashion.
  
  Excellent variety of military vehicles: A huge range of vehicles can be bought or stolen from five 
 different factions including, helicopters, tanks, APCs, and boats. If you can think of a modern 
 military vehicle, it's represented in Mercenaries 2.
  
  Large, good-looking map: Mercenaries 2 has a nice variety of urban, jungle, desert and suburban 
 areas, all of which load seamlessly as you travel across the map.
  
  Fun, highly effective airstrikes that can level entire city blocks, or clear out tanks, infantry 
 or helicopters.
  
  Stockpile system for summoning vehicles and weaponry: Need a tank? Press a button and have one 
 flown in mid-mission.
  
  The bad:
  
  Terrible small arms combat: small arms combat at anything but short range is poorly implemented. 
 Equipping an RPG and then running up and using melee on everyone on the battlefield is not only 
 a viable strategy, it's probably the best strategy.
  
  Terrible AI: soldiers stand around and wait to be killed, and present absolutely no threat unless 
 they're armed with an RPG or sitting in a tank. It's also incredibly easy to exploit the faction 
 system and destroy an entire faction outpost while keeping the faction friendly to you.
  
  Bugs, bugs, bugs: Awful clipping and crashing are frequent. Certain achievements (Battled for Caracas) 
 didn't unlock for me. It's easy to get stuck in terrain.
  
  Repetitive missions: There are a few interesting story missions but the "normal" missions are very 
 similar; destroy an outpost, or "verify" (capture or kill) a High Value Target. There are also 
 a few easy races in a variety of vehicles.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Despite all the bugs Mercenaries 2 is actually fairly fun to play. Once you realize how the AI 
 works, you become sort of a mercenary god... able to shrug off damage and take anything you want, 
 at any time. If you don't want to even be shot at, you can simply disguise yourself as a faction 
 member, go straight to your target, and destroy it.
  
  I would describe this type of game play as kind of "old school" ... there's no question you're 
 playing a video game, and at no point does the game ever draw you in and make you feel like you're 
 in a living world. But, exploits are fun in a broken kind of way. It's pretty entertaining to blow 
 stuff up and see how much you can get away with against the awful AI. (Answer: Pretty much everything)
 
  
  Final Score: 7/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunkel25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  After reading some of the reviews of this game, I had to try to set the record straight. It looks 
 like the people actually playing the game seem to be enjoying it, but as usual, the "experts" don't 
 quite seem to get it.
  
  Yes, there are some bugs. Very few of them are gamebreaking, however... most of them are just more 
 or less in the "amusing" category. For example, in multiplayer, it is not unusual for your co-op 
 partner to appear to be holding one weapon, but is, in fact, holding another one. This is especially 
 amusing when the phantom weapon is a flare gun or airstrike laser. Every now and again, when hijacking 
 a vehicle, you can get stuck if the tank or chopper is destroyed just as you sit down in the drivers 
 seat, and the only recourse is to exit the game and come back in... however, since your partner 
 can usually stay in the game, it only costs you a minute or two. Annoying, yes, but shouldn't get 
 in the way of the fun.
  
  The other complaints... limited ammo? Yeah, of course. Should we have infinite RPG's? Airstrikes? 
 They can be quite useful and there are a lot of creative ways to use them... fly a chopper on top 
 of a targetted building, jump out, pop smoke, and fly away as an artillery barrage hits... good 
 stuff.
  
  If you liked the original, I think you'll like this one, as well. It has a few limitations, but 
 I think the new content and mechanics go a long way in making it just as enjoyable as the first 
 Mercenaries. It is hardly perfect, but as with many other "flawed" games, the important thing is 
 that it's fun, and Mercenaries 2 passes that test with flying colors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjaman5531
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 world in flames is a game for people who want to have fun. Its fun for the first 20 
 hours or so then it gets repetitive. My only problem is fuel when u wanna destroy an entire city 
 u find urself having 2 constantly stop and find fuel. Then if u take fuel from a friendly faction 
 they start shooting you!!!!!!!!!!!!! Another thing is its repetitive mostly all you do is go and 
 kill or capture HIVs (high value targets) for factions maybe you'll have to destroy a building 
 every now and again but it needs more mission choice. Now the good thing is its just plain fun. 
 You get to destroy almost everything and its fun to see yourself walking in a big city one minute 
 and then walking in a totally destroyed one the next. all in all 8 out of 10 could fix a few things 
 if they make another one. (they should put the setting in Japan or something lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  The first impression you will get from this game is that its great. It has good graphics, a somewhat 
 good story, nice action, and its free roaming. But soon you will realize that it doesnt change. 
 The missions are all the same basically, and there is nothing new to keep you interested. You take 
 the role of one of three mercenaries who get betrayed and want to get revenge. There are different 
 fractions that you will need to get in to gain information on where the traitor is. To do so you 
 have to do contracts for each fraction. The contracts are all basically to capture an outpost. 
 This is fun at first but then it gets super boring. Once you earn a lot of money you can buy upgrades 
 and different weapons that really help you in battle. The battle system works well and the explosions 
 look great. The graphics are good for the world, but the player models are lame and it looks like 
 your playing on a PS2. The vioce acting is bad and can get you annoyed. The free roaming acpect 
 of the game can be fun. You can take other peoples cars as well as boats. You can also shoot civilians 
 but it will coast you 5,000 every time you kill one. The world is big and nice looking. The enviroments 
 change based on the wealth of the city and the slums look real cool. Overall this is just an OK 
 game. The contracts are boring and repetatiive, but the free roaming and the combat are tons of 
 fun. If you like doing the same thing over and over again then buy this game. If you are not sure, 
 rent it and see what you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  Aaron Thomas' Gamespot review says that Mercenaries is abysmal and warrants a 5.0.
  
  Why?
  
  Well, apparently: "Mercenaries 2 is filled with bugs and glitches that are unacceptable 
 in a retail release. Even if it were possible to overlook the broken elements, you're still left 
 with abysmal AI, repetitive mission structure, unsatisfying weapons, and a huge world without much 
 to do."
  
  
  Let's see:
  
  
  Bugs? 
  About as many as you'd expect in any open-world game, where the AI and pathfinding are easily broken. 
 I haven't noticed anything yet in M2 that I saw frequently in M1. The video review is VERY misleading 
 on the bugginess of the game - those are not common occurrences.
  
  Abysmal AI? 
  You mean, like in the first game? The game doesn't need a smart AI to be fun. Part of the glee 
 is chasing down fleeing Chinese soldiers in a heavy tank, or ordering an artillery strike on an 
 unsuspecting friendly faction. Yes, it's a little frustrating when an AI faction blows up its own 
 base due to their overzealous attempts to fire rockets at you... but it's part of the game.
  
  Repetitive Mission Structure?
  There's more variety to the missions than in the first game, 
 though, admittedly, the story missions are thinner. It's a bit of a tradeoff. Either way, it didn't 
 strike me as markedly better or worse than the original game.
  
  Unsatisfying weapons?
  Aaron Thomas clearly didn't get even halfway through the game. Yes, the weapons used by the Rebels 
 and Mercs in the starting missions suck, but once you unlock the Allies and the Chinese, you can 
 get hold of weapons like the Fuel-Air RPG, which you can think of as a kind of tactical nuke launcher. 
 Even the rifles used by the Allies/China are better.
  
  And besides... the weapons aren't the point of Mercenaries! It's not a shooter game. Go hiijack 
 a vehicle or rain fiery death on someone if you can't achieve your goal using a pissy Automatic 
 Rifle. And here, M2 shines: you can get the fun vehicles more easily, more often, and earlier in 
 the game.
  
  A huge world without much to do?
  There's a logical fast travel system in the game, and it's easy to afford choppers from relatively 
 early in the game. There's plenty to do - yes, many of the things are largely the same, and there's 
 no story to them.... but, THAT'S EXACTLY HOW MERCENARIES 1 WAS!
  
  
  GameSpot allege that Mercenaries 1 was a vastly superior game. Why, when all of the criticisms 
 they level at World in Flames apply equally to the first game, which was rated so highly?
  
  
  Compared to the original, Mercenaries 2 is:
  - less structured (there is no rigid deck 
 of 48 system) 
  - encourages the use of airstrikes and vehicle purchases by allowing you to stockpile them, instead 
 of saving your money 'just in case'
  - allows you to purchase or hiijack cool vehicles (tanks, choppers, heavy APC's) much earlier on, 
 but still allows the difficulty level to ramp up appropriately
  - a little shorter and a little easier in terms of gameplay
  
  
  In short, Mercenaries 2 
 offers fundamentally the same type of gameplay as Mercenaries 1. There are differences... but the 
 only thing you can accuse M2 of doing wrong is not putting any effort into the story (and story 
 missions) .
  
  
  It's not perfect. But it's fun. Go play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heatherlewis
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  Like many, I loved the first game and was surprised and disappointed to see the sub-par reviews 
 (though few as harsh as Gamespot) pouring in after this game's release. After playing the game 
 for 20+ hours, though, I'm now surprised and disappointed with the reviewers instead.
  
  Since I had a free rental, and those reported bugs looked so quirky and interesting, I wanted to 
 see the mayhem for myself. 
  
  The bugs in my experience, however, were really underwhelming. I never encountered a broken save, 
 I only had one load screen 
  
  that froze (but no lost progress) , the helicopter quirks never affected me beyond mild infrequent 
 annoyance, faction quirks 
  
  were non-existent as far as I could tell, weapon behavior is very similar to the first game (go 
 back and play it) , and civilian 
  
  leaps into my driving path were both infrequent and inconsequential - no worse or weird than GTA 
 in frequency, and the $5K cost 
  
  per hit is trivial when your character is making tens of millions overall.
  
  The game's strengths 
 are quite impressive by contrast. It's more massive than the first game and more compelling in 
 many ways. 
  
  And the gameplay sticks to the original formula while adding more than it subtracts. The challenge 
 is about right, there's plenty to keep you drawn in until the campaign's end and beyond (for 100% 
 completion) , and there are tons of ways to strategize and play each situation. The air and water 
 elements far exceed the first game, and the armor/vehicle and commando basics are still solid. 
 
  
  The Gamespot review is the most shocking in everything I've read and now experienced with this 
 game. I can't help but think there was someone at Pandemic who pissed off the Gamespot reviewer 
 in some way, prompting an "I'll show YOU" response from Gamespot that was less about the actual 
 game and more about the emotion of an unrelated event or relationship. I'd love to know the inside 
 story and of course I can only guess at the reasons for the 5/10 harshness, but Gamespot has unfortunately 
 lost some of my respect. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZODIO15
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  Mercanaries 2 is a very addicting game the gameplay is very fun and alot of detail in the scenary 
 and alot of visual art in the grasslands. I love this game for 2 reasons. One open world makes 
 a video game a video game you can go anywhere and do anything you want when you want, destory buildings, 
 cars, people and the funny thing is the carnage you create stays there it just dosent dissapear 
 like other games like gta 4 or streets of la. Two the game has an amazing story line with funny 
 voice acting dialouge and cutscenes. Know for the kinda sort bad parts about this game. Well for 
 one the story is too short i gues the create didnt want to have a big story he wanted to have open 
 world or free roaming and alot of detail to side missions. This game has many ups and downs but 
 i tottaly would recomend this to anybody who like fun, adventure, comedy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off to tell you that this game is filled with glitches... inconsistent A. I., glitches, 
 and the game can freeze.. The characters this time around are not as funny and the missions are 
 a re-hash of the old ones and boring.... You can get alot of gamer points from this game.... even 
 though it sucks.... personally i hated this game and the co-op is ok to play with a friend online 
 to beat it faster.... all in all i thought the game was cheaply produced, boring, lacked interesting 
 factions (like the ones from the first-mafia, china, usa, korea north, south korea) and has a more 
 boring world.... Also the weapons feel weaker and the hit detection is horrible... I rented the 
 game and if you want to waste time it might be a medicore game to rent for a day... but i thought 
 it sucked even though some people thinks it goes well with the series i personally think it is 
 not that good of a game is is somewhat boring in my opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  So many games getting low scores lately. Many of this games high profile titles that became a letdown 
 for lots of people that based their expectations on other peoples opinions.
  
  I rarely buy a game that gets a score lower than 7 from gamespot but a little while ago I disobeyed 
 and bought Too Human. I didnt care for all the buzz surrounding this game for years now, I suddenly 
 felt as if I walked in a room with lots of people laughing and then I would get a smile on my face 
 and started wondering whats that great thing everyone likes in this room that makes all so happy. 
 Going to the point: I really didnt expect anything from Too Human but what it had to offer me and 
 aside some acceptable annoyances, I really liked the game.
  
  Pointers on Mercenaries 2:
  
  If you liked the first one, you will like this sequel.
  
  Ammo is not scarce as some people 
 say. They are just lazy.
  
  Doesnt has the eye candy of Gears of War but it has great graphics.
  
  Side missions may seem 
 repetitive but are optional and get you cash and ammo bonus and are fun to accomplish since blowing 
 stuff up is always fun.
  
  One punch kills may seem illogical but if you think about it it would be a hassle to have a fist 
 fight while 5 enemies and a tank are shooting at you.
  
  Coop is a riot with a friend.
  
  
  Mercenaries 2 is by no means a 5.0, it has some flaws as every game but as with Too Human: 
 Dont get biased with reviews and people who bash the gfame to follow the status quo. Download 
 the demo, rent it borrow it and decide for yourself. This is a game I wouldnt pick over Dead space, 
 Little Big Planet or many more coming this holiday season, but it was good fun while waiting for 
 the more hyped game to be released.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enjoi291
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 14, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Well, after playing this game a little bit, probably about 3 or 4 hours worth, I am already tired 
 of it. The AI are less than stellar, it's like sometimes they don't even see you walking past them 
 and you are able to shoot them quickly before they yell some random slur then start shooting. The 
 game is nothing new, it's the same exact concept as the last Merc game. The missions in the campaign 
 get very repetitive, mostly either deliver this here, or that there. Kill him, or her then blow 
 everything up. Blow everything up. That's it. There's nothing new or exciting about the game other 
 than the even larger open world. 
  
  At most I would give this game a 7/10 for graphics. I don't really feel they are worthy of next 
 gen, but that's just my opinion. If you're planning on getting Mercenaries 2, Rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Velocir3x
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of the original game. I played it could play it for days. When i heard that there 
 was a second one i was understandably exited. But once i went to the store and picked it up and 
 played it i was not disappointed but expected more. The graphics were much better than the original 
 and the explosions were phenomenal but i thought the people could have looked as good as the environment 
 does. It is hard to get used to and understand what to do and if you are new to the series it can 
 be extremely frustrating when it doesn't do what you want it to do. It has a good wide range f 
 vehicles which is a plus but the weapons are thin on the ground for choice and even though they 
 say they are two different weapons they are virtually the same. The fact that when you fall from 
 a helicopter onto land and end up with 3 health is unrealistic but with the massive amount of action 
 in the game you would constantly be dying and having to reload so even though it seems unnecessary 
 it's helpful. The storyline is pretty ragged and doesn't really flow. I expected it to be more 
 uniformed like in the first one. Also the game has lots of side missions which add length to the 
 game but make the faint storyline even fainter. In the end it was a good game not great. It provides 
 enough enjoyment but isn't the next cart topper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LotsOfGrenades
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries pits you in the Sandbox mold of being a hardcore mercenary (white dood, black dood, 
 a chick (is she asian?) . It's a sequel to a game that received the same mix reviews as this one. 
 But I will set the record straight. If you keep reading, I promise you will know if this game is 
 for you. But before you begin, forget what Aaron Thomas said. (He rated Mercenarie 2, lower/near 
 equal to Viking: Battle for Asgard. Let's remember Viking had no game play, crappy story, hack 
 and slash, non-addictive gameplay.)
  
  Visuals: 8.0
  Sound: 8.0
  GamePlay: 8.5
  Replay: 7.5
  
  Summary:
  You can choose from three characters, each which will allow you 
 a certain attribute: Fast Regeneration, More ammo, Faster Running. Other than that the only thing 
 else you get is their tripe lines they think is clever and really just proves how lonely these 
 3D sprites are. You start the game landing in Venezuela and using your basic controls: Shoot, Melee, 
 Airstrike.
  
  From there you learn you're a Mercenary with no morals unless they involve killing some South American. 
 Now from here, I will start with all the bad things, as to set the record straight.
  
  The game's bugs that have been mentioned DO HAPPEN. However, they have happened to me maybe once 
 every two hours and if you're any kind of mercenary you have more than enough money to make up 
 for it. So here is a list of Bugs/Oopsies/Bad Programming:
  AI: AI will destroy what they are paid to protect, ruining your bonus cash. But honestly, killing 
 the guy is a lot easier and losing some cash isn't a big deal if you are a real Merc. Besides you 
 can get back at them by artillery striking their home camp, going to their city, making some role 
 play story about how his family lives in some schlump house, and calling in a carpet bomb.
  Clip Glitch: When you call in some supplies (including vehicles) , the helo pilot will drop it either 
 through the Earth or it will just vanish before your eyes. This has happened to me once and it 
 seriously wasn't a big deal. I actually sacrificed another 26k to call him back so I could AA-Missile 
 his face off for being incompetent.
  Friendly AI: Probably the most common, your AI will either kill themselves, do nothing, or throw 
 themselves in front of your bullets. This has ruining three missions for me. But it didn't phase 
 me too much.
  
  So let's remember. For every bug, you can get your compensation by destroying everything they love. 
 I began hoping the bad guys would should there own captain, or shoot me down so I could crash their 
 helo into their captain.
  
  Now the good:
  The game wasn't made for you, Aaron Thomas, or anyone else to learn some political background of 
 Venezuela. This game isn't made for you to gain moralistic views of revenge, oil, and violence. 
 No. This game is made for you to have open game fun, traveling in a helo, and emptying payloads 
 of missiles into an innocent city. The game was designed to be fun, easy, and hilarious to all.
 
  
  No matter what kind of gamer you are, if you like video games, you will like this game. If you're 
 a failed blogger who empties their thoughts of politics into note-pad, this game is not for you.
 
  
  Now granted, you must spend 2-3 hours to get your basic hardware (2 pilots and a mechanic) . Once 
 you have these guys you can drive around finding some High Value Targets on your hit list, and 
 there're plenty of them. With every HVT comes some fuel tanks (which are a secondary necessity 
 to purchasing 90% of your merc supplies/airstrikes) and one or two randomly placed nearby payloads 
 of bombs and missiles (yes, they leave these laying around like Mario 1up's) .
  
  Now, I will admit, your airstrikes are over all useless as they require to you be nearby most anything 
 to have it bombed. However, you can hi-jack any vehicle with repetitive button mashing (for you 
 GoW fans) . And basically you will spend 75% of the game in some form of vehicle.
  
  The game isn't realistic AT ALL. However it is loads of fun which allows you to unleash carnage 
 with nearly no consequence. It's a great stress reliever and it's fun to just make believe there 
 is some other story going on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neenery
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  there are a few bugs but they can easily be fixed, the vehicles and the map is great, i also like 
 the new variety of rifles (except for sniper) , the campaign could have been a bit longer but there 
 is a ton of replay ability with friends (especially if you wanna show off, your vehicles) and there 
 is a bigger variety of vehicles for faction instead of the usual one per category. i also think 
 that it was given a harder review because of the extreme hype. and if your a fan of the helicopter 
 you will love this game. also there are reviews that say there are a lot of glitches, well the 
 only glitches i've encountered are : when i threw a smoke grenade in the designated area but it 
 says i didn't, the g. p. s can be a bit weird at times, and when you steal munitions, it gives you 
 the munitions but says there were non there, and you can pick up multiple munitions when you call 
 in the the helicopter to pick up one at a time. but overall this game is really good and if your 
 worried about the glitches they can always be updated out of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inferna_hermit
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 13, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  is it a game or some boring entertainment ?
  EA have a huge problem with his games one of the is bullets ,bad company was a good game but how 
 enemy can shoot u when they are far far far away from you ! or maybe it's a new military weapons 
 bullet follow you ,just like this game or Eidos Kane & Lynch . the gameplay of game becomes boring 
 after 2min, they has recorded a 2 voice for the game charcter he most of the time say this words...
 
  the graphic look like last version of the game on PS2 ,no draw ditance no effects not even a good 
 soty. don't buy this game you don't regret. i'm so angry why i bought this game ad why i played it 
 ,i jus wastet my time. the car controlles are bad very very unrealestic gameplay just play gta IV 
 for 5min and then play this *** you undrstand !!!
  
  Graphic : 2
  Gameplay : 2.5
  Story : i didn't see any
  Sound : 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick1nl
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 12, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 world in flames is one of the worst games that came out this year. It is full of 
 bugs poor AI bugs and above all the graphics are horrible. The graphics date from around 2004. 
 the only fun thing to do is to blow up buildings for 2 hours. meele the NPc's instead of shooting 
 them because this is more effective. Using the RPG is almost impossible because your'e always out 
 of ammo.
  
  When driving a vehicle the steering is very sensitive and the cars are slow the one car that is 
 fast is at your headquarters but it is destroyed within 2 minutes and will you cost 10.000.$ if 
 you buy a vehicle and let it drop off by air you have a good chance that the vehicle won't show 
 up at all or is stuck. the same with helicopters but even worse 9 of 10 times it won't show up 
 or is destroyed because it crashes
  
  shall I continue? NO this is an absolute waste of money and definately not worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miiplay16
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 12, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  Ok let me explain. If you've played this game then you'll understand. Its not a terrible game Its 
 just easy. The achievements go with the storyline and are worth 20 to 50 gamerpoints a pop. So 
 if you want to raise your gamerscore then I suggest playing this game. Don't get me wrong I liked 
 it but it wasn't good enough for me. If you like a first person shooter game like me, this probably 
 isn't the best game because it is in the third person the whole time. I like all the veicles you 
 can drive, fly, and boat, but it just isn't I game I can see myself playing over and over again. 
 I had to constantly start and stop the game because I got so bored with it. Anyways its an Okay 
 game so if you got nothing to do on a friday night go out and RENT this game 'cause I guarantee 
 you wont want to keep it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  Pros 
  * Does a good job of making you feel like a bad ass. * Explosions look sweet. 
  * Good variety of weapons, vehicles and various explosives to wreak havoc with.
  
  Cons 
 
  * Games pretty damn buggy. 
  * Some physics issues. 
  * Dudes in buildings with rocket launchers. 
  * Lack of Local Multiplayer
  
  
  The original 
 Mercenaries was somewhat under appreciated.
  In the end the same might be applicable to this sequel.
  While it's got some pretty big issues 
 when it comes down to it, it's incredibly fun and does a great job of making you feel like a bad 
 ass Merc.
  
  You start up the game and you get to pick from three characters each with bonus to a certain attribute.
 
  
  Mattias Nilson - former criminal turned Merc. He heals quicker then the other characters.
  
 
  Chris Jacobs - former army guy turned Merc. He can carry extra ammo.
  
  Jennifer Mui - former MI6 lady turned Merc. She can run faster.
  
  Game opens up with you doing 
 a mission for some dude and upon completion of the mission you get betrayed, shot in the ass as 
 you try to escape and of course you want revenge which pretty much sets up the game.
  
  Firstly you'll storm one of the dudes mansions and attempt to take it over to use as a base of 
 operations. This is where Fiona - your mission coordinator lady will hang out, as well as the other 
 recruits you'll find along your way.
  Now as she takes pleasure in reminding you - if you're ever lost and need some help as to what 
 do do, return to the PMC! Fiona can get on your nerves after a while. That accent. ARGH.
  Is she meant to be Australian? Do I sound that annoying? If so I apologize to any Non-Aussies I've 
 ever spoken too.
  
  You play through the game doing contracts for the various factions in hopes that you'll get some 
 information that gets you closer to your revenge.
  
  Mission types generally seem to be of the following.
  
  Kill this person. Straight forward.
 
  
  Verify this person. This generally involves knocking them out, cuffing them and calling in a helicopter 
 for extraction though if you don't mind halving your profits from the mission you could just as 
 easily get away with killing them and taking a picture of them instead.
  
  Destroy this building. Also generally straight forward. Use C4 or your Air Strikes to destroy buildings. 
 Baring in mind that Air Strikes require fuel and if you're low on it that can make these tasks 
 pretty difficult though not impossible with a little improv. Whether little improv means hijacking 
 an enemy tank to wreak havoc with or jacking a helicopter, picking up a fuel tank with your winch, 
 placing it on top of the building you want destroyed and then shooting said fuel tank well... That's 
 up to you. Some missions do let you get a bit creative, heh.
  
  Sometimes you'll need to drive a truck full of crates or rum or what have you and get to target 
 location without losing said rum or crates. Lose too many and of course you fail.
  These missions can be a right pain in the ass. It can take one enemy rocket or one bump in the 
 road and then BAM, your stuffs flying everywhere and you have to restart.
  
  Theres missions that require you to protect buildings, which can also be a pain in the ass.
  
 
  Theres also races, self explanatory.
  
  Some bonus activities you can do back at the PMC as well for a little money. A lot of money if 
 you feel like increasing the wager. Unfortunately the later levels of these tasks can be pretty 
 hard and require either great luck or precision. Completing all three levels of Fiona's Target 
 Practice related activities gives you new clothing, which is neat.
  
  Other activities in the PMC include race challenges from your mechanic.
  
  Winching activities 
 from your helicopter pilot, which generally require you to stack crates, whatevers around in order 
 to get a tool box above a designated point. Thing is theres a boundary you have to keep all this 
 in, so it requires some good maneuvering or you'll just waste time floating outside the play area.
 
  
  And Air strike activities from your jet pilot. Which has you blowing stuff up with air strikes. 
 Heh.
  
  Well how does it play? Mostly okay.
  
  Shootings a matter of pointing at what you want dead and pulling the trigger.
  You can use the 
 L-trigger to get a steadier, more accurate aim going but most of the time it's not necessary.
 
  
  Sometimes guns don't pack the punch you want them too. The bigger weapons, sure no problem.
  
 But if you're stuck with a pistol which you generally are when you die then it's something of a 
 problem because guys can take like several hits no matter where you shoot them before they go down. 
 Less of a problem with automatic weapons and what have you.
  
  In many instances any gun feels kind of unnecessary when you can run up to a dude and whack them 
 with your melee attack which is an instant kill.
  
  I suppose when you get the stuff that blows stuff up, you won't wanna use crummy guns anyway cause 
 explosions are sweet. They look terrific. Stand close enough to them and your character will kind 
 of try to block their view of it, shield themselves which is neat.
  
  The game plays solidly. But now we'll talk about it's issues...
  
  Theres some bugs. During 
 one of the opening cut scenes the voice cut out. Other sound remained. Just what the characters 
 were saying. This prompted me to turn subtitles on in case it happens later. Was kinda annoying.
 
  
  In another cut scene, the one introducing your Irish chopper pilot - well that one froze outright.
 
  
  Physics can be an iffy affair.
  Sometimes it feels like.. Well kinda like there aren't any and your just stuck to the ground in 
 whatever vehicle your cruising along it.
  More commonly however you'll hit a rock and be sent flying far, far, far away.
  It's amusing, 
 but kinda off.
  
  Dudes in buildings with rocket launchers.
  They're freaking annoying and whoever decided that this was a good idea deserves to be shot.
 
  Theres plenty of dudes out in the open to worry about without also having to worry about a building 
 which has a dozen dudes peeking out the windows, ALWAYS with freaking rocket launchers. Give them 
 some assault rifles or something for god sakes, but the rocket launchers are frustrating. Sure, 
 you can blow the building up and blah blah, blah but getting close to them when they're firing 
 rockets can be something of a feat.
  
  Also lack of local co-op.
  I'm fairly sure I read early on that the game would have both splitscreen and system link.
  I 
 could understand the removal of splitscreen. But system link? Goddamn it people.
  If you're games multiplayer there needs to be SOME form of local play.
  I'm tired of all the 
 pandering to the online crowd. I like playing with other people. In the same room. And I shouldn't 
 have to go online to do that. Online comes with lag. Local multiplayer shouldn't have lag. So developers! 
 System link! START PUTTING IT IN YOUR DAMN GAMES.
  
  Regardless of the games flaws it's still incredibly fun simply because you almost always feel like 
 a bad ass.
  
  Climbing over tanks to jack them.
  Leaping out of helicopters only to grapple to and promptly jack another helicopter.
  Narrowly 
 escaping gigantic explosions.
  Taking on hordes of enemies by yourself.
  
  You feel like a total action hero and that feeling makes this game worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynamix22
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  I was very excited about getting Mercenaries 2, not just because Mercenaries one was an awesome 
 game, but because you can blow the sh*t out of everything. Well, too bad even that doesn't work 
 out that way. The game has a boring storyline and charecters, so I wouldn't even bother telling 
 you about them. The gameplay was fun for the first 10 minutes (yes, I actually loved the first 
 mission) , but after that it gets boring and repetitive. I left the game on the shelf after some 
 more missions. It is glitchy. By glitchy I mean VERY glitchy. The sound is awful, and the only 
 fun you can have with this game is by blowing stuff up. But that's kind of complicated. Every building 
 has its own health-bar kind of thing, which is really stupid.
  
  All in all, Mercs 2 is just unpolished and unfinished. If the game would be released some time 
 early next year, maybe it would have been a lot better.
  
  5.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkened_skys
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Most of the time you spend will be spent clearing outposts, capturing HVTs and destroying targets. 
 Achieving these objectives is almost impossible without making the opposite faction angry at you. 
 Getting the faction happy again is a matter of bribing them with a few million or getting their 
 rival faction angry at you. The missions are fairly easy until the later levels and even then you 
 should have no trouble completing them. There is not a lot to do unless you want to collect spare 
 parts and complete wagers. Some missions sound frankly ridiculous but they can be achieved. You 
 will never want ammo as there is always some laying around. Overall Mercenaries 2 is worth playing 
 but by the time you get to the later levels you will pretty bored of it and just be playing in 
 the hopes of reaching the end. Play Mercenaries 2 as it is worth playing but don't spend your money 
 straight away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: figsnake12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  Many of the problems that merks 2 encounters were already in the original, it's just that with 
 stunning gameplay etc nobody really noticed or cared. For example; in front of the AN base in the 
 original there is a aluminium mesh bridge crossing over a valley. Allied armoured cars, and APC's, 
 cross over it on queue. If you blow the bridge with an airstrike or C4, the cars will not stop, 
 but simply drive power the edge and plummet to their death. Mostly these things were met with humour 
 rather than anything else. 
  
  Despite the original's real war, greyish graphic attitude (very similar to games like GTA4, Cod 
 or Metal gear solid 4) it still had a badass and fun attitude, connected mainly with the games 
 overly violent, aggressive character (technically you could choose from three characters, with 
 different advantages like speed, stealth, foreign languages, how many bullets they can absorb etc, 
 but Mattias Nilsson was always the flag character) Mattias Nilsson. The games physics engine was 
 also exploited in an all time favourite; "C4 fun", in which up to eight pieces of C4 could be placed 
 on vehicles, buildings etc and detonated for spectacular effects. The winch added to all helicopters 
 also allowed you to create vehicle pyramids, or use an enemy vehicle as a giant, sometimes flaming, 
 flail. 
  
  Merks 2 obviously builds on these elements of the original, though its title "world in flames" 
 is no more violent than the originals "playground of destruction". However, despite the fun of 
 the crazy killing sprees and C4 fun, the "real war" aspect of the original is what really brought 
 it down to earth. The entire thing was a serious war game with a funky face, with propaganda, issues 
 with civilian casualties and so forth. I think this was the real strength of the original, a larger 
 feature, maybe, to the mindless killing sprees. Merks 2, however much I would like it to, does 
 not embrace that aspect of "real war" as much as the original did. Still, better than most of this 
 next-gen rubbish. 
  
  Oh and one last thing:
  THIS GAME IS NOT A GRAND THEFT AUTO CLONE 
  
  I think that more or less every free roaming 
 game with guns has been accused of being a GTA clone; maybe people just don't know what else to 
 call a free roaming game that incorporates anything more advanced than a spoon.
  
  Is oblivion a GTA clone? NO. 
  So neither is this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nj3c
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  this is a good game. i have rented it and it is very fun. it is sorta a cheap knock off a gta in 
 a way. this a game to kill some time not to sit down a nd play perfewsly (along time) like halo 
 3, bioshock, and call of duty 4. this a good game but not recomended for hardcore games but the 
 average gamer instead. if your going to buy this for more than fifty dollars your crazy. this a 
 42 dollar game. the gun selection is small and there alot of technical glitches. the phisics engine 
 isnt that great either , it is almost impossible to knock someone off there motorcycle. also once 
 you beat the first couple of missions you can only tag and bag hvt which are specified targets 
 you can take dead or alive for $$$. in conclusion rent this game dont waste your money when you 
 could but Star Wars : The Forced Unleashed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bwags
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries: World in Flames is FAR from being a perfect game. It's far from even being considered 
 a great game. In my first 3 hours playing, I'd already earned 15 achievements just by collecting 
 money and doing what other games would consider menial tasks. In addition, I also saw 2 of my helicopters 
 and 3 cars blow up for no reason as well as watching enemies get splattered with bullets but never 
 dying and the charred remains of a blown-up helicopter floating in the air. And those are just 
 the one's I found funny. The control scheme is just terrible. The aiming system is so inaccurate 
 that you'd have to be Jesus Christ to get a headshot. The single player compaign is filled with 
 what I consider side jobs in GTA and the graphics are blocky with horrid voice acting to boot.
 
  
  With all the bad out the way, this game has some of the largest and most enjoyable explosions I 
 have ever seen! I have never been more excited to throw a grenade at two fuel tanks and watch them 
 explode, taking down a nearby building! The best way to enjoy this game is the multiplayer mode. 
 This game has the multiplayer that GTA should have had. While taking on the campaign in a duo makes 
 the game even easier, it's none the less satisfying to shoot two RPGs at one building and watch 
 it collapse as you both gain money for the destruction. The same can be said for manning a gun 
 turret on a chopper while your friend is unleashing hell with the guided missiles. 
  
  Mercenaries could have used another 6 months to a year for polishing, and it DEFINITLY shows. But 
 if you have a friend, or make friends easily online, or know someone who has an xbox, at least 
 rent this game so you both can bask in destruction! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tertius2347
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  So maybe it's just me but I don't remember being told I would get anything more than a re-hash 
 of the last Merc game. If you bought this game expecting any revelations then your just as bad 
 off as anyone who went out and bought Fable: The Lost Chapters. You bought a Mercenaries game. 
 I wasn't aware that plot had anything to do with it. I just thought it was about blowing stuff 
 up. Oh yeah there's a ___ load of cash involved too. Hey if GTA can make it for people whose idea 
 of an awesome gun is a MAC-10 why can't there be a game for those of us that want readily availabe 
 military hardware? As far as being shipped full of bugs I haven't encountered anything worse than 
 has gotten through into any other recent game. The lapse of QA is universal as far as I can tell. 
 While this is not a good thing it is affecting all game not just this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fitzycent
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  a complete and utter waste of time and money!
  
  This game has more glitches then TV has channels! what a piece of crap. I can not count how many 
 times i had to restart a mission cuase i got 'stuck' some where. not to mention every time you 
 go to do a mission at the end you get blown up and have to restart. the multiplayer sucks, co op 
 sucks and gameplay sucks. this is a big pile of manure packed into a cd. wish I wouldn't have bought 
 it. 
  
  the first game was downright addicting and this one just stank. a complete let down all around.
 
  
  if i'm lucky I'll get ywenty dollars from the pawn shop for this game. then again everyone and 
 their mother has pobably dumped this hunk of poo on the same pawn shop. So I might get ten dollars 
 fo it.
  
  
  
  it sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks 
 sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks sucks 
 sucks sucks sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phhstom1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  Well first off i have to say that if you like me were an avid fan of Mercenaries: Playground of 
 Destruction, you will most likely find this game fun and a good start but feel that there is something 
 that isn't quite right. 
  
  Well you would be right, according to developer Pandemic for the last 12 months the game has been 
 getting polished. All i can say if what the hell were they using to polish and bug test this game. 
 The official release version was packed full of countless bugs and glitches. Some of these minor 
 and others were game breaking. Luckily because us aussies got it later though we got a patch for 
 it as soon as we started playing. 
  
  Anyway on to the main part of the game.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  All i can say is dissapointing. Compared to other modern third person shooters 
 the graphics of this game just aren't up to par. Thats not to say they are crap. Compared with 
 the first game they are a massive improvement.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Not to shabby, the sounds do enhance the gameplay. The sharp rapport of a gun bing fired or whine 
 as artillery rains down upon you can be thrilling. However the AI will often be shouting things, 
 the bad thing is that each faction only soldier only has about 5 lines. s over the time you play 
 it you will grow quite fustrated of hearing the enemy shout "hey look its the merc!"
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  If it weren't for a piss poor story line and lack of engaging contracts this 
 would be a 10. However theres nothing quite like blowing up an oil rig or making a car bomb. Yet 
 both of those pale in comparison to ordering a nuclear weapon. However the AI don't seem to have 
 a single brain cell between them and the vehcile physics just seem a bit wierd. However with total 
 destruction to any building in the game you can't go wrong. Especilly with the new introduced factors 
 like Fuel.
  
  Longevity: 7/10
  With three character to ply throgh you might get excited however they have basically the same story 
 behind them and only basic quote changes. The destruction will keep you coming back for a few weeks 
 but after that it might begin to gather dust. The online co-op certainly makes the game last longer 
 but it is the perfect game for local splitscreen co-op.
  
  Hope my review was useful
  Phhstom1
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bark00000
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 1, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  the pros: 
  -if your bored and into causing mayhem for everyone, this is your game
  - many weapons, vehicles, and ways to blow crap apart!
  - fairly good story that at very least 
 keeps your attention to the end
  - very easy to pick up and play anytime for as long or as little time as you please
  
  the 
 cons:
  - vehicles are often useless for more that about 1min of actual combat, whether you get blown up 
 or just run out of ammo...
  - really unlikeable characters (whether it be matias' cliche attitude or fionas constant bickering...)
 
  - I know i have entered your camp, you know i have entered you camp... now does every npc have 
 to call that out a million times until i leave?
  - frustrating AI both friendly and hostile
  
  
  
  
  this game has given me many hours 
 of enjoyable destruction. unfortunately about 90% of that time was with NO SOUND! not that the 
 sound didn't work, infact it worked TOO MUCH! i couldn't go more than five min without hearing 
 some comment over the radio or coming from a nearby soldier. this normally wouldn't be a problem 
 except for the fact that the NPC's only had maybe at most 5 phrases that they would repeat CONSTANTLY! 
 not to mention the fact that no matter how many times i tore apart the same bridge, fiona always 
 felt the need to give me the run down on the small, two lane son of a ****.
  
  
  that being said most of this game was actually pretty decent. 
  
  fairly good graphics, not 
 amazing but on par with most other games these days.
  A story line that wasn't overly complicated and allowed you to wreak as much havoc as you desired.
 
  
  
  one of the major let downs however was the lack of diversity between factions. i felt like i was 
 doing the same mission over and over again for every faction.
  
  
  all in all i really enjoyed this game but will probably never play it again from start to finish. 
 I will absolutely fire it up again if i ever just want to cause mayhem or drop an air strike on 
 someone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kollawona
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 is a great game. Its a decently long game if you have fun with it. The story kind 
 of sucks but thats because there really isn't any cinematics. Its just you and some other person 
 talking with not many emotions or pointless things to say. The game is fun is you have a good friend 
 to play with. Playing it alone is kind of boring and hard. The downside about playing Co-Op is 
 that you can't go further than 500 feet apart which can be really annoying at times. The graphics 
 look ok but its enviorment make up for it. Whats always fun about this game is that you will be 
 driving and you will see a random wat happening in front of your eyes and its fun to go in there 
 and join the war thats going on. 
  
  
  The driving is pretty broken and every car goes about the same speed. Also alot of your vehicles 
 will break really easily. The helicopters take a long time to fly where you want to go and even 
 though everything is indestructible its takes alot of ammo in diffrent things to break a small 
 building. So you may unload missiles from a helicopter and nothing will happen to the building 
 really. Also sometimes when you do break a building and your are on it or next to it you will get 
 glitched under the map or in the rubble of the building.
  
  This is a good game and should be bought if you have someone to play with. If your going to play 
 this alone than rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is very frustrating. The designers went overboard with the use of rocket launchers. About 
 1 out of 3 enemies are blasting rpgs at you and with the many explosive barrels and fuel containers 
 scattered about the place this just plain ruins the game. You can call in air strikes but your 
 basically calling them in on yourself. The airstrikes and supplies require fuel wich is scarce 
 in the game and most of it is guarded by enemies who blow it up with their stupid 
  RPGS before you can get to it. The map is huge and its not a good thing travel times can get rather 
 long at times. The game has a very weak story and little variety of missions. There are about 3 
 things you do in this game. Take over a few outposts and call in about 10 sets of friendlly commandos 
 until the set number finally decide to go into the building instead of shooting the 50 call tripod 
 all day. Run errands or drive a race for each faction which was ok once but all missions have 3 
 stages the only difference being the need to be faster. Then there is the storyline with a few 
 missions. There are lots of vehicles to use however none hold up for too long and the button game 
 to steal vehicles gets old after a while. I got achievments I didnt earn and still dont have some 
 I have. The sound turned off once while I was playing. To some up this game is full of glitches 
 very repetitive and the AI is very frustrating. With so many things wrong its not worth buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redmagic123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Mercs 2 is worth a rent but really nothing more, I would recommend anyone that likes blowing anything 
 and everything up play this game but really after that this game has almost nothing. The story 
 of Mercs is absolutely terrible and most of the time you feel like why am I doing this, what is 
 the point? The co-op mode is by far the best part about the game, the fact you can bring a friend 
 in to help you with the same boring missions over and over again really does make the game more 
 fun. Also considering it is a sand box game you can just stroll around the world and cause total 
 destruction if you so please at any point in the game, my personal favorite is destroy any and 
 every building that comes in my vision.
  
  I do believe that Gamespot's 5 rating is pretty low though there is really no replay value and 
 the story is horrible, that doesn't automatically make the game bad though as this is still a fun 
 co-op game, great for free roam fun, and at least worth a rent in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bomberpilot101
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Ok, you have the "oh no you didn't" commercials, the face of the action-digging, money crazy, bad 
 a$$ on the front cover, but (for me) this is a big let-down. In other words, this is not worth 
 your $60 bucks. One VERY annoying thing, for me, was the glitches that plague this game. If you're 
 ok with that (I'll be suprised if you are) , the voice of Fiona when you walk past her at your little 
 "HQ" will make you want to shoot her or something. Yet another anoying aspect of this game is the 
 sometimes utterly s t p i d dialog. Ok, the storyline is much the same as Mercs 1. A corrupt ruler 
 taking over a country and putting the lives of millions at risk. You work with different factions: 
 The PLAV (the gorilla army) Universal Petrolium, (the oil giant) the Pirates (modern-day Jamaican 
 pirates) The Chinese (that hat the A. N's guts) and the A. N (who hate China's guts) . The game contains 
 less than 15 MAIN story missions, and a little more than 20 (forgive me if I'm a little incorrect) 
 SIDE missions, each with 3 levels that get pogressively harder. Again, this is a lot like Mercs 
 1 with better graphics and a WAY shorter story. I beat it in about a week (I played it a little 
 more than an hour each day) . This game (especially if you pick Mattias) is almost too easy. So 
 to come to a conclusion, this is Mercs 1 with a few more weapons/vehicles in a different country 
 without a deck of 52. (If you've played Mercs 1 you know what I'm talking about) Mercs 1 is backward 
 compatible, so you can play it on your XBOX 360. So have more fun when you buy a $12 game than 
 you would have with a $60 dollar one. By the way, I recommend Mercs 1 far mor than 2. Don't waste 
 your hard-earned money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishfighter29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Usually I agree with Gamespot on most of there reviews, but this time I think that they may have 
 been a bit harsh to say the least. Like you, I have been playing games for many years now and I 
 have come across some bad games in my life, as well as some good ones. That being said, I rate 
 this game as one of the best I have ever played. The gameplay is solid, the story line is to the 
 point and the game is just plain fun. It has some of the coolest action that I have ever seen. 
 And the explosions, man! Get the game and nuke a building and tell me if it is not one of the coolest 
 things you have ever seen in a video game to date. The environment is very well done and darn near 
 everything in the game can be destroyed. All the things that Gamespot said that makes the game 
 "bad" are things that make this game so worth it. To sum it up, if you require a deep storyline 
 then this game is not for you, but if you enjoy just pure, whole sale chaos and destruction then 
 buy all means, go pick this game up, you won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paleblack01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  I wanted to buy this game really badly when it came out, but decided to rent it first. my first 
 hour of playing it was extremely fun. As I progressed in the game longer, I found that somethings 
 that could have made it a lot better, but it didnt have. After I beat the game, I was pondering 
 weather or not to buy this game. i did. This is not a bad game in any way at all, but EA did not 
 create what we all thought it would be. if you liked the first game, this is something completely 
 different, but fun. the features are great and easy to catch onto like finding free oil, bombs 
 and cash, though i did get annoyed trying to find oil tanks I could steal without getting a faction 
 pissed off at me. The game is exciting and fun begining to end and I highly suggest it to intense 
 shooter game lovers, just rent it first to see if you think its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Incrognito
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2: World in Flames is kind of a toss-up for a lot of people (not including me) . I'll 
 admit that the game has flaws, but surely if you look at the bigger picture, it accomplishes what 
 it set out to do. That is, it provided an open-ended and vastly explosive experience. Sure, it's 
 more than a little annoying trying to get people in your helicopter and sometimes your allies can 
 be very fickle friends (i. e. they will report you for apparently no reason) . But when you get past 
 these flaws, the core gameplay is just as explosive and varied as the original game. Do I want 
 to go in, guns blazing from my Gunship, or do I want to sneak up and drop a MOAB on those sons-of-*****es. 
 And nothing can be more fun than blasting away an oil rig or dropping a gunboat from 2 miles up. 
 There are times in this game where you will utterly waste an area of the world and simply stand 
 there and think, "What have I wrought?". Those are my two cents, spend them wisely 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coffeeisgood33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Well.... My friend (not going to say his gamertag) describes this game incredibly. I've never played 
 this game, only heard my friend talking about it. So one night, after the LONG wait of MY FRIEND'S 
 xbox 360, HE finally receives it. (im capitalizing HE and MY FRIEND to tell you I'M NOT THE ONE 
 WITH THE BROKEN XBOX) After HE received it, he HAD to use it. So he got on, blah blah blah, "goodnight". 
 The next day he rented a game to ENJOY HIS EPICNESS OF THE XBOX 360!!!! He rented Mercenaries 2. 
 (no crap) SO he got home and played it and chatted with me over his headset. He kept repeating 
 "THIS GAME IS SO FRIGGIN' AWSOME!!1!!11!! one!!!" Heres some things he said while we were chatting:
 
  
  "OMG I JUST DROPPED A NUKE ON THIS BUILDING AND THESE GUYS ARE PISSED"
  
  "Dude, im using my grapple hooky thing and hanging from a choppah!"
  
  "THIS GAME IS EPICZ"
 
  
  "Holy sh! t a tank"
  
  "I'm riding in meh choppah droppin' bombs on da buldins"
  
  Ok, In Order, NUKES, GRAPPLES, EPICNESS, TANKS, CHOPPAHS!!!! This game sounds totally awesome! 
 I'm considering renting it after i return this gay game "Lost Odyssey". Don't get it, IT SUCKS!!!! 
 But Mercs 2 Sounds insanely awesome. Like awesome that you can masturbate to the action in the 
 game. THATS HOW AWSOME IT SOUNDS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuroganeki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a really fun game. The game might not be innovative, but fun. It's a serious improvement 
 to Mercs. The environments aren't boring like the first game. The graphics have seriously improved. 
 AI now actually Takes cover. There is a wider verity of weapons, vehicles, and missions. Gameplay 
 is meeting with quality expectations.
  
  
  AI: 8.3
  Graphics: 9.5
  Verity: 10
  Gameplay: 9.7
  
  Total: 9.6
  
  d
  fada
  f
  d
  fa
  sd
  f
  a
  sdf
  a
 
  df
  
  asd
  f
  asf
  as
  df
  as
  df
  as
  df
  as
  df
  as
  df
  asd
  f
  as
  df
  as
  df
  asd
  f
  asd
  f
  asdf
  
  asdf
  as
  df
  as
 
  df
  sad
  f
  sad
  fa
  sdf
  as
  df
  asd
  f
  asdf
  as
  df
  sa
  df
  asd
  f
  asd
  f
  dsa
  f
  as
  df
  a
  sdf
  as
  asd
  f
  asd
  f
  asd
 
  f
  as
  df
  a
  df
  a
  sd
  f
  asdf
  a
  sdf
  as
  df
  as
  df
  asd
  f
  asd
  fas
  df
  
  asdf
  as
  df
  asd
  f
  awd
  fa
  sdf
  as
  dgv
  sa
 
  drf
  asdf
  
  asdf
  
  sad
  f
  sad
  f
  sad
  f
  asd
  xf
  asdf
  as
  df
  asd
  sad
  
  sad
  sad
  f
  as
  df
  asd
  fa
  sdfsa
  df 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th1993tom
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  This is a great game so don't be fooled by the gamespot review. Basically you will like it or you 
 won't but in my view it is a great game. It improves vastly on the orignal and gamespot must have 
 played a VERY buggy edition since i've had very few bugs in my hours of play so i don't know what 
 to say. This is mainly a fun game so especially if you were disassitfied with GTA4 you will like 
 this and the free roam is excellent with the new additions of avaible pick ups making it more free 
 roam over the original. Co op is also a gem espcially with a friend though the matchmaking system 
 could be better as there is nothing better than destroying an outpost with a gunship before droppig 
 a nucluer bomb on one soldier for a laugh!
  
  Overall a very good game but not too serious and especially a bargin for about 25 to 30 as i 
 got it. I would recommended this game but it would help if you had friends to play it with.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steven_Beynon
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 is simply about blowing **** up, end of story. For anyone who's played the first 
 game, should come expecting the same type of game, just on steroids. The playground of destruction 
 your dropped in is almost completely destructible, and it's your job to finish your mission in 
 anyway you see fit. From air strikes, to tactical nuclear weapons, to just kicking down the door 
 and kicking ass with an M16, World in Frames is a fantastic set piece for one of the greatest action 
 game of this generation. So what can be wrong about a game that's primary focus is giant explosions, 
 and where rockets are ubiquitous? Well, Mercenaries 2 simply lacks polish, and it absolutely destroys 
 what could have been an achievement in its genre. The AI is dumber than dirt, and the game just 
 has a stigma to where every five minutes you question an aspect of the game, and wonder why it's 
 the way it is. For example, fire hydrates are more deadly to a tank than a charge of C4. Also, 
 while cruising down the bright would of Venezuela you'll see the same six-or-so cars repeated over, 
 and over. Some times you'll witness a traffic jam, but all the vehicles stuck are the same gray 
 car driven by the same nonwhite guy. Things like that, are just lazy and don't meet the standards 
 of this generation.
  
  Mercenaries 2 is a huge game with loads of stuff to keep you busy, some missions are pointless, 
 and some offer something actually cool to do, like attack a castle full of rifle friendly pirates, 
 and sink it to the depths of the ocean. Luckily, the co-op experience is a blast rivaling that 
 of Crackdown's. This proves that blowing things up with a friend will always overpower the stench 
 of a low-quality game. The co-op is drop in, drop out and uses the hosts game world to play around 
 in. While the difficulty doesn't scale to compensate for an additional player, it doesn't matter. 
 If Pandemic didn't bother to incorporate some basic AI beyond the standards of the N64 classic 
 Goldeneye, then if co-op scaled it would just add cheap explosions, and more enemies most likely. 
 Did I mention it's impossible to die because you control a super hero with one-hit melee kills, 
 and can survive an artillery strike with 5 points of health? This sequel to an unexpected surprise 
 is a perfect example of a depressing game that under six feet of dirt lies a game that isn't an 
 unplayable poor excuse for a current generation game. Co-op is a cheap thrill that I highly suggest 
 you and a buddy rent together for a weekend, but beyond that, Mercenaries 2: World in the Toilet 
 has no buisness taking money from your wallet, until you local Gamestop has it in the bargain bin. 
 Steven 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pilot872
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I just don't get it. Mercenaries 1 was one of the best PS2 games I've ever played. On 
 the other hand, Mercenaries 2 is one of the worst games for the Xbox 360 I've ever played. Would 
 someone please explain to me what the heck happened here? Ever since I completed the 1st Mercenaries 
 I've been waiting for an awsome sequal. But I guess I was just wasting my time by waiting for such 
 a terrible game. So, let me just get to the point here. I havn't completed the game yet but I think 
 I'm pretty close but I've played enough of this game to tell you that the story line is very sloppy, 
 and feels like it was put together in a matter of probably a week or two. And as Gamespot clearly 
 pointed out, this game has glitch after glitch after glitch... Now, I guess I will give this game 
 a couple of possitives. The Insane destruction can get pretty fun (espicially when you drop Nukes 
 on citys) . And the multiplayer can be somewhat fun to. I bought this game and I kinda feel like 
 a moron. Although this game would probably be a good game to just rent for a couple of days. So, 
 if you have learned anything from my review it's to stay away from this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldFalcon25
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries set the precedent for all games of its genre, taking the air of Grand Theft Auto and 
 turning into a beast of a military smash fest.
  
  Mercenaries 2, however, seems to have taken the original glory of Mercenaries and dumbed it down, 
 instead opting to up the graphics and the explosions over immersing the user in a struggle to win 
 over various factions while inevitably defeating the Venezuelan Army.
  
  The game starts out well enough. You (with your specific merc of choice and his or her own special 
 ability, such as more ammo or better healing) meet up with some random guy that apparently you're 
 friends with, then get a job to free a general of the Venezuelan Army. Not bad, right?
  
  WRONG. After freeing Mr. General, you get betrayed, do not get any cash, and get shot in the behind! 
 Now, you and your operator Fiona go on a revenge trip, first by taking over the leader's mansion, 
 then working to find out where he's hiding.
  
  Now, if anything positive should be said for Mercenaries 2, it would be the graphics. The sun steadily 
 sets over the vibrant mountains, giving a golden hue to the tips of the waves. Explosions flourish 
 with color and vehicles pleasingly turn into balls of flame when destroyed.
  
  Basically, that's it. Besides shooting at people and blowing stuff up (which is mighty satisfying 
 in itself) , bugs and glitches run rampant within Mercenaries 2. I have seen cars launch into the 
 air with absolutely no physical contact from anything. I also enjoy how, when I save a friendly 
 faction's troops, they report me and I lose face with said faction.
  
  That's the last time I help them.
  
  The new "Destruction on Demand" system... excuse my being 
 unprofessional, but it does not stand up to the previous title and simply sucks. The player can 
 only have three weapons, supplies, air strikes, or vehicles on tab at any time (not three of each, 
 just three) . In order to call in something else, players must access the GPS and data menu (by 
 pressing select) , go to his or her support options, find the desired item, place it on the "instant 
 support list," (whatever the hell it is called) then call it in.
  
  Did I forget to mention that players must find a helicopter and a jet pilot to be able to call 
 in support and air strikes respectively? Oh, and the fuel! I neglected to mention that each strike 
 or support option costs fuel, which gamers can acquire by destroying vehicles, calling in the helicopter 
 pilot to steal gas tanks, or expanding his or her existing fuel supply. Plus, players must first 
 PURCHASE their supplies at an arms dealer (each faction has plenty of them) THEN must have enough 
 fuel to use said ability.
  
  Here is a bonus! You can DESTROY YOUR OWN FUEL EXPANSIONS, FORCING YOU TO BUY ANOTHER!!!!
  
 
  YES!!!
  
  Thank you so much, EA and Pandemic. That's $60 wasted.
  
  -Matt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsky999
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2... I played this game's prequel back when it first came out and I enjoyed it a great 
 deal. Causing destruction any way you wanted in war-torn North Korea was highly enjoyable, and 
 this caused this game to be high up on my wish list and I had high expectations.
  So, a few years (and delays) down the line, I received this game the day it came out, and immediately 
 got to work.
  
  Where to start? Well, the story, to me, seemed to be much more shallow than its prequel. Put simply, 
 playing as one of the mercenaries from the original game (3 to choose from, all with different 
 abilities) , its your job to put down a tyrant who has used a coup to cease power in Venezuela, 
 who happened to scam you into a doing a job for him without paying you, and then tries to kill 
 you, and theres a war for the VZ oil as well. Thats as much as I can give away without spoiling 
 the story (it seems common knowledge that this is the story) , but to be honest there isn't much 
 to spoil. The whole coup thing seemed stale to me, having played the original, perhaps if the story 
 had had more depth then this would've been forgivable.
  
  Game play is Mercs 2's strongest element. Its FUN. Pure, simple, unadulterated fun. The underlying 
 element is once again simple, in order to capture said tyrant, you must work with factions warring 
 in Venezuela in order to gain money and information. With the money, you buy equipment, vehicles 
 and airstrikes you can use whilst working on "contracts" for the factions. So, make money, buy 
 stuff with money, use stuff to blow other stuff up, which makes you more money. The circle of merc-dom 
 is complete. Whilst this seems simple, in many ways, it isn't. Missions are open-ended, and whilst 
 this isn't a new idea, Mercs 2 has a decidedly different flavour to it. Let's say you need to kill 
 an enemy officer. There are so many ways to do this its unreal. You could snipe him sneakily, charge 
 in guns blazing with a tank, call in a bomb on his position, or even drop something heavy on him 
 using a helicopter. And the options don't end there...
  And you don't have to be in a contract do do these things. Mercs 2 is free roam, so when you're 
 bored of protecting VIPs delivering packages to someone, you can explore at your leisure, shooting 
 whoever you want in the face. Also, along with the main story missions, there are side missions 
 in order to earn more money and items to buy, which you can use in other contracts.
  
  What about these items? There are HUNDREDS. There are plenty of weapons, rifles, machine guns, 
 rocket launchers. Airstrikes are many and varied. Vehicles include jeeps, buggies, tanks, boats, 
 APCs and helicopters. Good job as well, because the map is huge, and not only huge, but relatively 
 detailed, and is far from empty. Free-roamers will find plenty of outposts to storm, I can assure 
 you.
  
  What about the technical side of things. Unfortunately, this is where Mercs 2 falls down a bit. 
 The graphics aren't as bad as some would claim, but they're hardly up there with Halo 3 or CoD4. 
 You'll definitely want a HDTV 
  to enjoy this to the full. Glitches... you've heard everyone complain about them. This game has 
 more than its fair share, but once again, contrary to popular belief, hardly any are game-breaking, 
 but the annoyance is great when a vehicle you order disappears when it is delivered, and I've been 
 stuck in my share of rocks.
  What's more, Mercs 2 is repetitive and very short. Going through the story non-stop will get you 
 a 5 hour playthrough, leaving you with nothing more than a coaster, I highly recommend doing side-missions, 
 which unfortunately gets boring. Also, this game is insultingly easy in places, and this helps 
 shorten the life-span.
  
  So, in the end, this game is short, repetitive, glitchy, but man, is it fun. If you wont buy it, 
 do yourself a favour and rent it, but i do suggest fans of the original get this, whilst not up 
 there with its older sister, this game still kicks ass... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsunami666
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  I can understand some of Gamespot's hits on this game. Sure, it can be buggy sometimes, but its 
 nothing that ever made the game unplayable, and sometimes the glitches are incredibly entertaining. 
 Like blowing up a vehicle at watching it fly high through the air. Gamespot's claim that your friendlies 
 will fire on you is a bogus claim. I don't think Gamespot actually understood the mechanics - if 
 you steal from or shoot a friendly faction, they will open fire on you and attempt to call in reinforcements, 
 which is to be expected. If you are camouflaged as another faction, other factions will shoot at 
 you. And lastly, if a faction in hostile towards you, they will shoot at you.
  
  The Gamespot review should be revisited, as it is an irresponsible bit of smear which does not 
 reflect it's subscribers or other reviewers. I'm glad I read the user reviews when deciding to 
 buy this game and not just Gamespot's. 
  
  If your still debating on buying this title, as yourself this - do you want to blow things up through 
 a wide variety of weapons including tanks, artillery, helicopters, air-strikes, cruise missiles, 
 thermalberic RPGs, boats, and many, many more? Do you want a GTA style sandbox to run rampant in? 
 If so, buy this game. The story line isn't great, the military situations are almost bogus (i'm 
 a former Marine myself, and the military tactics in this game are horrible) there are a few glitches, 
 but at it's core, it's a FUN game. And isn't that what games are supposed to be? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malificusx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2: World in Flames dosen't have a whole lot of flames, but it's still fun! I'll hit 
 the negatives first. The story isn't the best, the cut scenes suck, all the dialogue is the same, 
 the AI sucks, all the side missions are repetitive, the racing missions suck, and that's about 
 it.. oh and it has no replay value, so rent this one! 
  
  BUT ITS INCREDIBLY FUN! Underneath all of these problems is an addictive shooter (until you beat 
 it, then its boring) with massive amounts of explosions (but not many flames.. well they last for 
 like 20 seconds) . 
  
  (This review lacks the multiplayer, because I myself have not used it. But it seems it would make 
 the game even more fun.)
  
  Your out for revenge on this guy named Solano because he betrayed you and one of his buddies shot 
 you in the ass. So your going to have to run around Venezuela blowing up buildings and killing 
 random people for any of the different factions in the game. Once you do enough missions and get 
 enough info on Solano, you go and take him out. The End.
  
  BUT WAIT THERES MORE!
  
  The good thing about this Solano guy is that he has a badass villa, which you take over and make 
 your primary HQ. From here, you get introduced to new factions as you progress and can wager money 
 for easy cash in training exercises. You also get a few team members who chill here while your 
 out blowing up bridges and what not. You get a chopper pilot (who drops in items for you and drives 
 you to outposts) , a mechanic (who builds you monster garage like vehicles when you acquire hidden 
 parts scattered around the world) , and a jet pilot who will bomb anything you tell him to.
  
  Theres a handful of factions you get to work with, each of them have a unique look and their 
 own set of vehicles and weapons. They offer about 1-2 story missions, along with a handful of silly 
 repetitive side missions.
  
  There are tons of vehicles and weapons ranging from dingy boats to Escalades with mounted gun turrets. 
 Your allowed to carry two weapons at a time and a handful of C4 and grenades. The best thing about 
 this is that you can have any of these dropped in to you at any time by your helicopter pilot. 
 As you progress each faction you work with will allow you to purchase their vehicles from their 
 shops. You can also fly helicopters, and every chopper sports a winch. You can drop these winches 
 and transport vehicles with you. So if you're playing with a buddy he can hop in a tank and you 
 can fly him around while he destroys things mid-air. 
  
  Even though all the side missions are repetitive, they are still fun. There are bounties called 
 HVTs (High Value Targets) which you can either kill for some cash or capture and get double the 
 $$$. They're placed all around the huge game world so it's fun to travel everywhere and take these 
 guys out. There are also destruction missions where you have to blow up buildings, which are pretty 
 easy. In order to unlock some shop items, you'll have to participate in some level based side missions. 
 A few involve you delivering stuff from point A to point B, and others are timed race events. These 
 suck because you have to do them 2-3 times to unlock everything they have to offer. Plus, they're 
 boring and sometimes frustrating. 
  
  Overall Mercs 2 is really fun and addicting, but once it's over.. it's over. Buildings don't respawn 
 so once you drop a dozen or so nukes on Caracas.. the fun is gone. But, there is always the drop 
 in/drop out multiplayer where you can hop online and fly tanks around with your buddies. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdelp78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. I can't believe Gamespot gave it such a poor review, but I'm very very happy 
 I didn't watch the short-sighted video review before buying this excellent open world game. It 
 reminds me a bit of GTA San Andreas with all of the different vehicles you get to use, although 
 in this game you can order them up at any time, you don't have to try to infiltrate a naval base 
 to get to them. There are motorcycles, 4 by 4 vehicles with jet boosters, land rovers with cannons 
 on top, and tons of helicopters and boats. You've got to fly the Anaconda, it has 80 missiles and 
 can take down any structure (or tons of buildings) . It's funny that Gamespot's reviewing idiot 
 pans the AI in this game, I wonder if he was one of the game reviewer's slobbering over GTA IV. 
 At least in this game the AI will actually follow you eventually unlike in GTA IV where they are 
 basically glued to a spot or on a rail the whole time. The difference in this game is that all 
 the times they hit you don't really hurt that much, and at worst they'll blow you up and you'll 
 just go down to 3 health left. In fact you will never die on a first explosion or fall from hundreds 
 of feet in the air. This is actually a great game mechanic because, even if it's not realistic, 
 it keeps it fun. Soon you figure out that as long as you keep moving and shoot whatever dude is 
 shooting at you when you are in the "red close to death zone" you'll find it's really tough to 
 die. But if you do die, you lose whatever weapons and vehicles you've purchased and go back to 
 home base so there is a penalty to keep you on your toes. Of course in general when you die, it 
 will be during the course of a mission, in which case there's a handy restart mission option, so 
 you can restart and any resources (like the expensive anaconda that you used in the course of that 
 mission will be returned to your supplies) . Also, the reviewere referenced having to start so far 
 away between mission checkpoints, I only found this annoying once, and at least there are checkpoints 
 in between huge missions unlike the beloved GTA IV.
  
  This game is fairly innovative in that you can destroy every single building. I mean if you see 
 a huge imposing enemy castle somewhere in the game, chances are you'll be destroying it some time 
 in the future. The different factions are pretty interesting as well, and there are some fairly 
 innovative missions, like putting a bunch of stuff in the back of pickup truck and having to deliver 
 it through gunfire and trucks trying to ram you without it all falling out, using the physics engine.
 
  
  Mercenaries is a unique game in that you can take up contracts against other people you work for 
 and get those people angry at you. This forces you to make some tough choices some times and requires 
 you to be creative when attacking your "allies". I really enjoy this dynamic of the game. I'm looking 
 forward to using the "radio jammer" vehicle and hoping it will keep the faction from "radioing 
 in" to their bosses and thus hurting my stance with the faction.
  
  There are some pluses and minuses versus the first game in the series. The major plus is that the 
 draw distance is excellent, so you're no longer flying around in a dirt cloud in the helicopters. 
 One pet peeve I have with the game is that if you save, it doesn't save your actually position 
 in the game, you always start from your home base, this is an understandable by product of an open 
 world game in that it would take way too much info (and memory space) to save the state at any 
 time, but it would be nice if they started you at the nearest helipad or something. Another nice 
 thing is you can be transported to any base you've taken over at any time in the game. I sort of 
 miss all of the cut scenes when you talk to faction leaders. There are much fewer of them, mostly 
 because most of the missions aren't "unique" ones. This is something that the reviewer brings up, 
 and something that does get a little tiresome is taking over bases gets a little repetitive, although 
 I've taken over about a dozen of them and I've yet to use an air strike to take one down so I suppose 
 there's still other options to try. This is where the reviewer is so wrong, there are so many ways 
 to take on missions, and some missions are so tough as to require you to use the air strikes. And 
 the "out of place" driving missions are well designed and lots of fun. I've only encountered one 
 bug in my 37 hours of play. This game has sucked up so much of my time that I've had to censure 
 myself from it until I get some work done. Don't listen to the reviewer, if you liked mercs 1 you'll 
 love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaMOi1
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  What can i say, Mercs 2 is a diasppointment in so many ways. The glitches are disgusting, how anyone 
 could release a game this glitchy i dont kno. But the glitches are like a bad neighbour, you put 
 up with him, try to ignore him and get on with your life, or game in this case...
  
  And when you do just that, Mercs 2 reveals itself to be a highly playable, enjoyable experience! 
 Ive had more fun with this game than i ever had with GTA4, infact this has been one of the best 
 games ive played in a long time, and certainly the most fun ive had playing CO-OP since Crackdown!! 
 (technical issues aside.. Grrr) 
  
  The sheer brilliance of having the player chopper in his own supplies, vehicles and airstrikes 
 as a game mechanic is simply wonderful, and all the more reinforces the notion of freedom and choice 
 this game offers. Like wise within the game world the opportunity for the player to tackle things 
 his/her way has real depth. 
  
  For me its here that the game shines. 
  
  The opportunity to swim across a river to a enemy camp on the other side of the jungle, obscured 
 by one of the bigger patrol boats docked just off shore -- to then swim up to the Patrol boat unseen 
 and sneak onboard, up the ladder, knock down the first guard- to then man the 50 cal, and immediately 
 begin unloding on the enemy onshore is a satisfyng experience indeed. Experiences like this are 
 available to the player in Mercs2, however the execution is not always as smooth as you would like. 
 The AI will often spot you without you necessarily giving away your position. Mechanics like this, 
 im sure would encourage many 'less creative' players to just take the ''run and gun'' approach, 
 and who would blame them? The irony is, that in many ways Mercs2 ecourages creativity in tackling 
 the world, but in others stifles it..
  
  Perhaps even more could have been added. A stealth mechanic is sorely missed, and would have added 
 yet another choice at ground level for the player to strategize. I would have like to have seen 
 a knife for silent takedowns. In a game this rich in player created opportunities, stealth would 
 have added another sweet layer of tactics available. 
  
  The missions could have been more fleshed out, more varied. You start the game with putting down 
 listening posts and then chasing down a van with a UP hostge in. I had my co-op team mate drive 
 close to the back of the escaping van with me standing on the bonnet of the car he was driving. 
 When he got close enough i leaped onto the back of the armoured van, which then inititated a quicktime 
 event, which ended with me kicking the driver of the van out 'Indiana Jones style'. These are great 
 gaming moments indeed, which Mercs2 is in abundance. However, the glorious allowance for creativity 
 in this game is often tapered with a not so glorious execution. But it works, for the most part. 
 But after a promising beginning, Mercs2 does rather decend into one generic mission after another, 
 followed by a story mission. This I point out for the benefit of those who didnt like the Outpost 
 missions and the .. other Outposts missions! But for me, I really didnt mind too much. Even though 
 the generic missions can be almost identical (different local) , i enjoyed very much tackling everyone 
 one a different way. Its worth pointing out at this stage that Mercenaries 1 offered more varied 
 missions than Mercs2 does.
  
  High value targets made great sport! However why none of them attempt to peg it away in a jeep 
 or something is baffling, and rather disappointing. Yet another reason (of many) to scrutinize 
 how far Mercs2 has actually come from the original.
  
  In conclusion, Mercs2 is a ... Great game? Well technical issues aside and theres loads, its a 
 very good game. One that could highly benefit from updates, patches and downloadable content! Because 
 i could play through again, but with everything reset... hmm not so sure. Fresh missions and fresh 
 content would be good. 
  
  Nonetheless, with all the disappointment surrounding this game, Mercs2 has fought off the grave 
 and proved that buried underneath a wealth of bugs is a rather excellent experience to be had. 
 One that deserves the support of its creators!
  
  Recommended for: The creative player
  
  Note: Its worth pointing out that the large part of the negative aspects of this game are technical 
 issues - ones that could be fixed via a Patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marmin
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  If open world, sandbox, type games are you're thing or you just like to drop bombs on unsuspecting 
 military types try this game.
  
  It has its share of glitches and bugs which can cause some frustration, but overall the game was 
 entertaining and the over the top destruction was a blast especially with a friend.
  
  Give it a try, this game in no way deserved the same rating as 'Too Human'. Both games had their 
 flaws, but also had their triumphs. 
  
  Graphics: Good but not great, after playing games like MGS4, Bioshock, GOW, GTA4, you really need 
 to shine in this department to get any sort of glowing praise. Explosions are great, but the rest 
 of the game could have used some more TLC.
  
  Gameplay: 3rd Person controls. Rough spots include trying to call in an airstrike on the move (as 
 moving closes the menu opened by the D-pad) , as well as accelerating with the controller's face 
 buttons.
  
  Sound: Loud; and better in surround. SFX are great, music can take a hike. I didn't have a problem 
 with the campy dialogue.
  
  Take it or leave it. Its a fun game that deserves more than a 5.0.
  
  -N 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteghost0615
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  This game has revolutionized explosions, it has revolutionized, Free-Roam Multiplayer, it is by 
 far the newest of the new. I recomend this game to everyone. I realize this game isn't everyones 
 cup of tea, but it's even good for those people to own it.... if you don't like the game just go 
 around and blow stuff up, kill people, do stunts, do what ever..... if you love this game, you'll 
 wonna go around and blow stuff up, kill people, do stunts, do what ever, but with friends, and 
 in a story mode. This game rocks, and everyone should play this game for atleast 15 hours. There 
 are alot of people who complain about glitches and this game having bad graphics, but i havent 
 seen a bit of either. This game has the most beautiful landscape i've ever seen. If you want a 
 vacation, don't pay hundreds of dollars to go to the bahamas, just take a helecopter, go up, and 
 enjoy how the day progresses. Absolutly beautiful sunset. Also, so far the only things that i've 
 found to be wrong are these; When fiona has set tanks as targetsk, it doesn't count as destroyed 
 if you've hijacked it. So if there are takes waiting nearby for the tank you just took to be destroyed, 
 you have to get out and blow it up once you've had your fun. Kinda lame.... plus if you see a copter 
 or are in one, when it gets close to the ground the wind always looks the same, its just little 
 bits of dust swirling in little mini circles.... not very creative. One other thing that is lame, 
 i'd like it if more of the air strikes were laser or satilight, i'm not a big fan of getting out 
 of a helicopter, throwing a beacon and then getting back into the copter to descover that the beacon 
 went to the helicopter (which was behind me) instead of to wear i wanted to throw it. But other 
 than those few things i'd give this game a 9.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokefortyaday
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  Ok so this game should be more fun than it is, big weapons, big vehicles, big payloads big explosions.
 
  
  Unfortunately one of the game problems is some of the things it tries to do, don't quite work.
 
  
  I am only currently working for 2 factions, and find constantly that I am annoying one then the 
 other, without doing too many side missions, so i am paying bribes to clear my name and being able 
 to progress.
  
  My decision now is to go as far as possible with one faction, pay the bribe to the other faction 
 then do all theres.
  
  Certain things like the stealing of items you find do not seem to work that well, u ask your chopper 
 to come in, and then he's picked it up half way home and he says he can't complete the drop cos 
 he's under fire, and yet still you are awarded your oil, cash whatever.
  
  You can also repetitively steal the same things as they respawn.
  
  The parts hidden items 
 are also a problem, if you open one on a mission and then die, when you restart you will see hidden 
 item is unopened again! Has this also been reset in your HQ, or on your achievement list? Who knows!
 
  
  Other than these issues tho, the game still has its fun moments, the RTE/animations when hijacking 
 tanks can be comical (the first time you see it)
  
  You can choose anyway to go through a mission, one i had to snipe people, in encamped bases, this 
 is quite an early mission and quite difficult, eventually i had enough money to get an attack chopper, 
 it was a hell of a lot easier that far away from the action, mission complete and now moving on.
 
  
  I'm sure when i get further into the game I will get bored of some of the cutscenes and definately 
 the scripting of "comedy lines" there appears to be very few witty comments for the game to choose 
 from. I think about 5 in total from my character, how much more can i take of this verbal diorhea!
 
  
  OXM said the best open world game since GTAIV, well i can't think of many others released in the 
 meantime.
  
  Vehicle pop up and texture load in is abysmal.
  
  But after all this, blowing stuff up is inherently fun, so if you like that, then its worth playing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow9669
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  The game is endless fun for me i just love calling in bunker busters on a city and watch the hole 
 city become a leveled war zone i don't mind the crappy AI just makes getting achievements much 
 easier i haven't rilly seen any big glitches so the games just awesome for me. another thing in 
 the game i like is the grapple hook you get because in the first merc game it was almost imposable 
 to get a chopper without having some dam luck thow yes the little button mashing game you do to 
 hijack cars tanks and choppers gets old fast i don't mind doing it.
  
  Overall the game to me is put together nicely well maybe because i never care about glitches and 
 all thow problems the experts are looking for im just playing a game to have fun and i had lots 
 of fun in mercs 2.
  
  so i have to give mercs 2 9.0/10
  
  hope to see you in co-op 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  I wasn't a huge fan of the original Mercenaries. But I've been looking forward to this one for 
 a long while. Mercenaries 2 is the equivalent of a loud, dumb actionmovie. With explosions that 
 Michael Bay even would find over the top. And it's a lot of fun. The story, or what little there 
 is of it, is ridicilous. "You work for this guy, he won't pay you, he shoots you in the ass and 
 now you want revenge". Simple enough, and it's not like this game needs a complex story. All it 
 needs, is explosions. And there's lots of those alright.
  
  Right of the bat you can choose between 3 Mercs. Yes, it's the same 3 from the previous game. They're 
 not that different. One is faste, one finds more ammo and one regenerates health faster. But of 
 course you're most likely gonna pick the swede Matthias Nilsson. He is once again voiced by underrated 
 actor Peter Stormare. You might know him from Prison Break, Constantine and some Michael Bay movies. 
 The voice acting varies from good to... not so good, what's worse is the constant repeating of lines. 
 You'll hear Fiona say the exact same thing every time you go into the headquarters. But the explosions 
 sound good, and that's what matters right?
  
  In Mercs 2, driving is now fun, and Venezuela is bright and fun to explore. Gone is the murky grey 
 world of from the previous game. Yes, there are a couple of bugs in this game. But I didn't encounter 
 that many. And they were minor, except one where the autosave didn't work properly. So I had to 
 replay the same mission 3 times, but it was one of the best so it didn't matter. The game is fun, 
 but just a bt short. 5 more missions or so would have been nice. I was surprised to see it end, 
 especially when the very last mission is the easiest in the game. No, it is, if you're sneaky. 
 There's also a co-op multiplayer option, unfortunately I haven't been able to try that out just 
 yet. But it sunds like a lot of fun.
  
  If you liked the last game, and open world games in general, I suggest you get out and get yourself 
 a copy of Mercs 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2: World in Flames is the newest game in the series. The first game in the series was 
 well received and made a big fan base. The second game must live up to it's predecessor and also 
 bring some new innovations. It is pretty much a GTA clone. I didn't wanted to say this, but that's 
 how things are. There were some pretty good GTA clones in the past years, the one that comes now 
 in my mind is Scarface, which was pretty good. Mercenaries 2: World in Flames is also pretty good. There 
 are some problems, but it's a lot of fun. Graphically it isn't so good looking, it looks far worst 
 than GTA IV. It sounds great, voice effects are good and the music is adequate. The gameplay is similar 
 to any other third person shooter, it doesn't stand out in any way but it makes you keep playing 
 because it's a lot of fun. Just going into a mansion to kill everyone inside and around it just 
 to get money, yep, you are a mercenary and it's awesome. The storyline isn't impressive but it will 
 keep you going not really for the story itself but for the fact that the game is a lot of fun.
 
  There are also some bad things with the game. The graphics look a little outdated. And that's a 
 bummer because the game doesn't look very 2008. Besides the graphics the AI is pretty bad. They won't 
 really take cover, they won't think they're attack and they'll mostly stand still and wait for you 
 to take them out, sometimes not even shooting at you.
  If you think you can look past these things, it's a pretty good purchase, and the multiplayer is 
 great. But if you don't already own GTA IV you should get that first.
  
  My Score 7.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smalls5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  Well I loved Mercenaries so the instant Mercenaries 2 came out I was there and I was not disappointed. 
 This game really is fun, but it seems that the makers didnt put much time into it they just kinda 
 made a totally destructible environment, some vehicles, bombs, incredibly stupid enemies, and a 
 mercenary looking for revenge together and let you have at it. Although it IS lots of fun it just 
 doesnt seem as "polished" as something such as Gears of War or Call of Duty 4. For one, guns really 
 arent much fun. most of the time you find yourself either rushing a tank and jacking it because 
 it takes like 5 tank shots to kill you, or just saving your ammo and beating every single person 
 in an area down without getting hurt. The AI is incredibly stupid. half the time your like "What 
 the heck, are these soldiers drunk?" because they suck so bad. But that doesnt mean this isnt a 
 fun game because it is. I think its an amazing game. The explosions are actually the most realistic 
 ive seen in any game and I've played almost any shooter out there. The Visuals are equivalent to 
 that of GTA 4 if not better. Although it is a bit spotty in places. I do beleive this was a sort 
 of GTA just the hijacking of cars and random killing people reminded me of it, but it was much 
 more explosive and fun. If you liked the first one or any game that you can blow people up and 
 get paid to level a city, you would LOVE this game. Its totally worth it, even though gamespot 
 gave it a FIVE?!?!?!?!? its pretty amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like Mercenaries 2. I really did. I never got a chance to play the original, 
 but I was always interested in the overall concept. Not to mention that I am a sucker for sandbox 
 games, because I love all the little things that you can do once you have completed the game, and 
 such. While the concept of Mercenaries 2 is an interesting one, sadly the story is very shallow, 
 the graphics are buggy, and teammate AI is dumb as a stump. All of these things take what could 
 be a very good game and turns it into a very mediocre game.
  
  The plot in Mercenaries 2 is quite simple. You are a mercenary who has been screwed over. You completed 
 a job for a Columbian business man and then they do not pay you, and they leave you left for dead. 
 They then take over Columbia and you are left with nothing more than some weapons and revenge in 
 your heart. This is pretty much as deep as the plot gets. You eventually start taking jobs for 
 companies and other types of factions that are located in the game world. Of course there is betrayl 
 and all the stuff that you would expect from a game like this, but it isn't fleshed out enough 
 to make the story interesting, especially with GTA IV's wonderful plot still fresh in so many minds.
 
  
  The missions have you doing things from taking over buildings for factions to bounties and some 
 of other stuff in between. This is where the first of the game's main problems start, in the missions 
 themselves. In many missions you will have to call in for support. This rarely works. I would call 
 in for support about three to four times before the support would actually show up, and just because 
 they showed up doesn't necessarily mean that they are going to do their job. You see in the missions 
 where you have to take control of outposts, you have to call in suppport, and then they go and 
 take the outpost while you cover them. So once you finally get the support to come chances are 
 that they will run wild, and they will not go into the outpost like you told them to. This means 
 you have to call in support for a second time, and I even had to call them in three times just 
 to complete a missions. Normally buggy teammate AI doesn't bug me so long as it doesn't interfere 
 with me completeing a mission, but in this game it did interfere which is just unexceptable. Also 
 many missions have you driving long distances to get to your next objective. The car controls are 
 not very good and you do more sliding around than actual driving. If driving is such a big part 
 of this game, it seems silly that the quality of the driving gameplay is so bad.
  
  One good thing that I can say about the gameplay is that the shooting and everything works fine. 
 The game was made by Pandemic studios, and they are the ones that made the Star Wars Battlefront 
 series and gunplay reminds me quite a bit of those games which I liked.
  
  The graphics in Mercenaries 2: World In Flames are very disappointing. There are tons of little 
 bugs scattered around the world. At times the game can get pretty blurry and pop-up can be bad 
 at times. The character models are probably the best thing about the graphics in this game.
  
  The sound in Mercenaries 2: World In Flames is probably the best part about the game. The celebrity 
 voice-overs are great as they got some celebrities to do the voice-overs. Peter Staramore who played 
 the wood chipper guy in Fargo does the voice for Nielson, and I loved him as the character. While 
 the voice-overs are great, the comments that the characters make get old by the end of the first 
 level, so they can get a little monotonous by the end.
  
  In terms of value in Mercenaries 2 it really all depends what you can put up with. If you can put 
 up with the buggy AI and look past the decent at best vehicle controls, than you will probably 
 have a good time blowing stuff up. I personally could not, but I do know of some people who enjoyed 
 this game. Not to mention the co-op over Xbox Live is a nice addition. I played a couple of the 
 levels over Live and it does make it a little easier to deal with the bugs at times. 
  
  If you can deal with the buggy A. I. than you will probably love this game. I feel that deep down 
 Mercenaries 2 may be a good game, but in its current buggy state and high retail price, that good 
 game may be hard to find.
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  Graphics: 6/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Value: 7/10
  Tilt: 5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh-Fu
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 19, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  In short Pandemic fell short on its promises of giving up an exhilarating and immersive experience 
 but they manage to get things down very well "destruction" and fun"
  
  Mercs 2 offers up a pretty meaty game campaign and a fully destructible world for to play in, "the 
 sandbox is no fun unless you can bulldoze your little brother's castle right?" Right! 
  
  You choose from 3 Solders for Hire as you start off for a quest to make money and get even from 
 a job gone sour. 
  The Mercs don't have much of a difference between them, but you will want to play as Neilson for 
 his crazy accent and arguably the better perk out of the three. 
  
  The game does a good job of leading you through the beginning of building your team and making 
 contacts. The Help system is very friendly and the GPS system is a great upgrade from the original 
 game. After you get your crew settled and some of the primary missions out of the way the world 
 really opens up. You have a lot of side goals and challenges to complete if you so choose. The 
 problem is, after a good hour or so of some destructive side fun you may just find the actually 
 missions more entertaining, which after a while lack variety as well. 
  
  So it's a good thing you can be creative in how you complete your missions 20 bunker bombs in and 
 it still isn't getting old. There is also some tedium in outfitting your player, you will spend 
 a good deal ot time driving or flying to different HQ's to stock up and there is no real way to 
 tell which faction offers which item this can become frustrating. Also Mercs 2 seems to use an 
 older physics engine. While it's fun to punch someone and watch them go flying it's not fun taking 
 fall damage from running down a hill. It just seems a bit outdated. The graphics are fairly clean 
 and get the job done but again here is the same case... outdated. This is also a plus because aside 
 from some texture popping the graphics do a great job of holding its frame rate through all the 
 chaos.
  
  The Sound however is just downright annoying as hell. The scripting is short and repetitive, Fiona 
 encourages you to talk to her every two minutes when you're out causing havoc, it's a real let 
 down. The music is a good score but all the sound effect sound flat and uninspired. Fortunately 
 the dialog can be pretty funny at times making the cutscenes worth a watch.
  
  Mercs 2 is also a blast with a friend and integrates very well in the single player game. It's 
 worth a look if you enjoy killing with a buddy.
  
  All in all Mercs 2 isn't that deep or rewarding thanks to some dumb AI... really dumb AI, however 
 if you remember why we play games it's for entertainment and Mercs 2 definitely entertains.
  
  GRAPHICS AND DESIGN: 7
  SOUND AND MUSIC: 6
  GAME PLAY 8
  REPLAY AND VALUE 7
  
  OVERALL: 
 7
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LosDaddie
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 19, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Disclaimer: I paid $20 for Mercs2. So, my opinion of this game may differ (greatly) from someone 
 who paid $60.
  
  Mercenaries 2 is a solid game that would've been a great game last gen. I can't describe exactly 
 how I feel about Mercs2 other than it just has a "last gen" feel to it.
  
  As always, let's do this the Kotaku-way
  
  LOVED
  
  Blowing Stuff Up: If you like blowing 
 things up (like I do) , then Mercs2 is worth a look at. You get to blow a ton of things up in Mercs2 
 and it's always fun. And the explosing are greatly animated.
  
  Hijacking Vehicles: You get to hijack everything from tanks to boats to helicopters by performing 
 a God of War-esque button pressing sequence. My favorite was tossing pilots to the ground after 
 a successful helicopter hijack.
  
  Outpost Raids: You can elect to raid rival outposts for the faction you're trying to get info from. 
 I found this raids to be great fun as I got to kill everything in sight.
  
  Co-Op: Mercs2 really shines in co-op mod. Every vehicle has a gunner seat (yes, helicopter have 
 them and it's really fun) . Seriously, play this game if you like co-op.
  
  
  HATED
  
  AI: Really, really dumb AI in this game. Seriously, it's a joke and makes the game feel like a 
 last gen game.
  
  Blowing Stuff Up: While causing explosions is fun, the process you need to do in order to call 
 in an airstrike is horribly implemented. You have to press UP on the d-pad, cycle through your 
 equipped airstrikes, select the airstrike you want, and press A to to toss a smoke grenade marking 
 the airstrike target.... all the while standing still and not taking any damage. Yes, horribly implemented.
 
  
  Ragdoll Physics: If you fail a hijack and get tossed off the vehicle, your character flails around 
 like a ragdoll..... just like last gen characters did. You almost feel sorry for Pandemic for keeping 
 this in the game.
  
  Story & Voice Acting: Horrendous on both accounts.
  
  
  Conclusion: For $20, this was a fun experience, especially in co-op. But in the end, you're left 
 wondering what took so long for this game to come out.
  
  
  SCORE: 7.0/10
  
  Time Played: About 11hrs
  
  Achievement Detail: 615 points
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RSF_Valkyrie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  Honestly, I am usually really hard on games even when they get a lot of hype like this one did. 
 I gave Spore a 7.0 rating while a lot of people loved it. That being said this game is awesome. 
 While it didn't have a couple of the things I loved in the first one it still had it's own flavors 
 that weren't in the first one. In the first one I really enjoyed the various cards you had to find 
 and how a lot of them had their own flavor when bounty hunting them. This one presented the same 
 but on a much smaller not as innovative way. I did really enjoy being able to grapple up to helicopters 
 and doing the little mini-game to take over them instead of just being able to take them. I really 
 loved this game and recommend it to anyone who enjoys blowing EVERYTHING up calling in reinforcements 
 and just annihilating anything in your path. I've already beat this with Jennifer Mui and going 
 to beat it with the other 2 as well.
  
  So in closing:
  
  Graphics: 9 - They aren't the best I've seen around but they were really neat. Venezuela from the 
 gamers eye. The neat explosions you get from blowing big stuff or oil containers up was a nice 
 touch.
  
  Sound: 6 - The music was ok, but the constant babbling you get from the enemy soldiers made me 
 wanna throw the game out the window a few times. They say the same thing over and over again sometimes 
 10 times before you eradicate them all.
  
  Difficulty: 8 - The game was fairly easy to get the grasp of if you've ever played the first or 
 any GTA style games. But the challenge from just trying to go on a killing rampage is intense. 
 I went into the main Chinese base and went on a killing spree that got harder and harder until 
 I finally was KO'd. It was insanely fun.
  
  Gameplay: 9 - As mentioned before it's an easy game to pickup and the multiplayer aspect of it 
 can be fun. The replay value on this is a 10 easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  The first Mercenaries for the Xbox was awesome! Tons of game play, and cool missions, but this 
 version, just haven't been updated enough to make worth $60. You go on a bunch of mission, similar 
 as the first one, but they are more silly then the first game, and not very interesting. You have 
 a lot of weapons to fire, but It's very hard to aim and you will get frustrate quickly trying to 
 use them. The game is fun though, if only because you have huge world to drive around in, and destroy 
 stuff, but the missions that comes with the games are boring and not much fun to play. You seem 
 to do the same missions over and over again.
  The graphics have been updated, and there are tons of things blowing up, but after a few missions 
 you can tell this is a very shallow, and not very fulfilling game, not $60 fulfilling any way.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: socky1101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  I bought this game the first day it came out and i loved it at first but there were some major 
 let downs: NO FLYABLE AIRPLANES, you get to use the nuke once (i think) , and the glitches were frequent. 
 The pirates at first glance would have easy task no way trying to drive a truck with rum in the 
 back of it and people shooting at you is not fun especially when you have to start over again. 
 The damage system is load of .... and now i hate EA. But besides these problems there is some good 
 things about this game its fun to blow stuff up with MOAB is always fun, better location than the 
 first mercs and some funny catch pharses AT FIRST. Overall rent it dont waste $60 like i did because 
 games are now just too expensive. And even if you try to sell it back you will get $20 and then 
 they will sell it for $40. One more complaint i have is that the trying to call a daisy cutter 
 or a MOAB in by smoke is really, really, really just freaking stupid, i m supprised that the nuke 
 is a laser instead of smoke. Plus the AI probably just came out of kindergarden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TH3_WR417H
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  Ok, so Mercs 2 is finally out. Well I know what your gonna say it was given a 5.0 on this site... 
 Who cares what it was givin, this game is a must if you like action... I mean old school movie 
 action. Its like a late 80's early 90's Arnie film feel to it. So yes some of the missions are 
 a bit bland, but you can power through this game pretty quick as in the first Mercs game. The real 
 gold mine in this game is playin it online with a mate. Just knuckle down and work together as 
 a well oiled machine, and this game is easy as. There is nothing better then finding out your mate 
 is only starting the first mission so you can work through it together. The mess you can cause 
 between missions is crazy, you can do stupid stunts and show off in front of one another. The air 
 strikes are so much fun to watch, could of been a better way of calling them in during the game 
 though, nothing worse then missing the last push of the A button on the Nuke. But that is the only 
 problem I have with the game. All I can say is, if you like Mercs 1 then you'll like, or even love 
 Mercs 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8ball234
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  The fun is enough to make you forget about it's flaws.
  
  The action in this game is ridiculous, even if you are facing the "Special Olympics" of AI. Tossing 
 a grenade gives you far more satisfaction than it should. The destructability in this game is unmatched. 
 To put it simply, this game blows up real good!
  
  It does have it's share of flaws though. As mentioned above, the AI is painfully stupid. Enemies 
 will stare at you blindly, while you shoot them in the face. They will attempt to turn a stationary 
 turret 360 degrees, while you cap their dumbass from behind. They will miss "point-blank" shots. 
 They will, well, uhm, plain suck.
  
  The graphics look nice enough. It does have some big clipping issues though. The satisfaction of 
 a building being blown to bits, makes up for it though.
  
  Better than expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twentymooseman
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  If you like open world games like assassin's creed you'll probably like this. Mercs 2 has gotten 
 some bad rep by critics but if you are just an average gamer who doesn't pay attention to every 
 little detail and bug, you'll probably be able to enjoy this game. It is by no means outstanding 
 but doesn't deserve the crap it's been getting from critics.
  but onto business now
  
  Good
  enormous world for you to explore. fun to blow things up (which is really all that matters, 
 right?) . most bugs and glitches are funnier than they are annoying. lots of bombs to use. some 
 cool vehicles to reek havoc with. ocasionally funny dialogue. bad ai makes the game easy. lot's 
 of bounties. lots of money to be made. good music.
  
  Bad
  some weapons such as the sniper rifle and shotgun just feel like crap and leave you thinking "why 
 do i need a sniper rifle when i have an rpg." it is not always clear on what to do next. bad ai 
 makes the game easy. 
  
  i would suggest you rent this game and get a feel for it first because it isn't a game that will 
 please everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pilot_2023
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I just got finished reading the GameSpot review and I'm almost wondering what game they were reviewing, 
 because the one I read about isn't the one I bought. I will grant that the GPS system needs a lot 
 of work and that the one-hit-kill pistol whip is a little strange, but I haven't experienced any 
 bugs like what the GS reviewer suffered. No disappearing helicopters, no idiot VIPs, no disinterested 
 enemies, no friendly fire. 
  
  Venezuela is large and wonderfully rendered; depending on what factions you befriend there are 
 enemies to fight all over the map. It is actually quite easy to change faction affiliation by picking 
 up HVTs, destroying targets, and killing enemy faction soldiers. While the GS review would claim 
 that none of that extra action is worth the time, completing those bounties allows you to buy better 
 equipment from the factions. I might be able to understand a 5.0 score if you don't unlock the 
 MOAB, Daisy Cutter, or the Diplomat Heavy Tank (copyright-infringment-free name for the Abrams) . 
 
  
  Overall, this game has been underrated by the official reviewers. If you're a fan of the first 
 game or just explosions in general, this is a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yojoe153
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Well Mercenaries To Succedes In A Few Areas, Generaly It Was A Total Letdown For me. I Saw All 
 These Videos Of guys Running Around With Nukes And Blowing Up Everything, But All I Got Was a Game 
 With a Boring And Repetitive Story, And Not So Good Graphics.... Well Not That Good For a Ps2 Game 
 (besides Explosions) 
  Well The Good Side To This Game Is The Explosions. It's Always Fun To Drop A Nuke On Your Base 
 and Then Only Have To Pay To Repair The Car Lol. Well i Guess Another Good Thing Is The Co-Op Because 
 There Is No Lag And Its Fun To Drop More Bombs With Friends To WOO BOOM BOOM. The Good
  1) explosions
  2) co-op 
  The Bad
  1) The Story
  2) The Graphics
  3) that annoying as crap 
 commercial
  4) Everything  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 51st_highlander
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I waited long and hard for this game and when the time came where i started to play i thought to 
 my self did i just buy the right game ?
  ok so the creators got merc one right so they thought they could do well with an other one they 
 didnt take the time with game play ok yeah sure the fun factor is in the seeing massive explosions 
 with your kick ass air strikes but after seeing them a few hundred times you start to think is 
 this it ?
  we were expecting alot faster blood pumping gameplay 
  they done a tricky thing with using 3rd person shooter 
  you expect high expections for the xbox 
 360 and ps3 for your character to move alot better than they do in merc 2 
  when you explode out of a helicopter you seem to just stay still in the air for a few minutes.
 
  the graphics are terrible but graphics are not important what is important is gameplay and they 
 failed on that 
  therefore they should of gave us better graphics atleast.
  
  A fun game but it has not moved the world and has not changed the history of gaming its just an 
 other one in the crowd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrhart24
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 17, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  The first Mercs was an incredible game. I played through it twice and put many hours into it. Mercs 
 2 got announced and I grew excited.
  
  Pros: The graphics are awesome and the draw distance is what really impressed me. Even from far 
 away, up in a helicopter, the terrain looks pretty good. The explosions are fantastic too! Sound 
 is decent. Lots of vehicles to drive. Still a very fun game to run around blow up everything. Taking 
 down a large ship or an oil rig is one of the most rewarding experiences I've encountered in a 
 game. Watching an oil rig slowly sink in flames is a great gaming experience. The use of money 
 and oil to call in air strikes and support and what not was pretty fun. It's easy to get the oil 
 but just takes extra time.
  
  Cons: The first Mercs let you hijack any vehicle with ease. Mercs 2 does in the beginning with 
 a simple button mashing minigame. However, when you finally encounter some tanks and choppers that 
 are worth taking, you must use Jedi foresight to anticipate which buttons to hit next. For those 
 of us with carpul tunnel and tendonitis from years in front of a PC, our fingers aren't that fast. 
 It takes me, honestly, 5+ tries to hijack a decent chopper. Very frustrating. It's easier to call 
 one in... and then have it get shot down by anti-air rockets almost anywhere you go. I also have 
 to agree with Gamespot's reviewer that it is easier to walk up to an enemy and hit them with your 
 rifle than shoot them.
  
  To sum it up, it's a decent game and I'll eventually make it through but there are some very frustrating 
 parts. The mini-game really irritated me and I haven't been the game yet because I continue to 
 put my controller down in frustration. Also, the continuous attacks from reappearing rocket troops 
 gets annoying. This was something that occured in the first game and was not fixed. In the end, 
 go check the game out but I don't believe it's worth the 60 bucks. Wait until it drops or rent 
 it. Or you can borrow my copy since I'll be busy playing Lego Batman soon. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gizzo0316
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  This game feels like a demo its stiff and i think the impact or bullets could have been a little 
 more realist the whole game people are blowing things up and getting shot in the face how about 
 someone lose a arm or a leg or something driving a car feels like you are not even touching the 
 ground, On top of that car show no damage done to it just catches fire when its had enough. Other 
 than those flaws the game was ok it has a nice interactive world along with a wide selection of 
 weapons to cause mayhem. the game was good but not what i thought it would be when i went to buy 
 it. I would recommend the makers of the game to add more detail to it and make the story lines 
 more believable. They ahd the right idea they just didn't use the necessary tools to make this 
 game all that it could have been. i like the game myself but for others it is very hard to over 
 look like detail. I just enjoy destroying a building or two, once in a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_fan391
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game is just not finished, this is probably the most pathetic game i've ever seen, and 
 I think the designers should be ashamed (lol) but on the other hand this is still a fun game that 
 is somewhat underated. The gameplay is pretty fun and the storyline is lame however but there are 
 many things to do in this big, beautiful environment. The gunplay is fun but only if you actually 
 hit your target becuase the bullet seem to hit everywhere but where you aim at times. The game 
 is pretty short, i've been playing 7 hours and i'm about 50% through. The explosions look good 
 and there's lots of different gun packages and air strikes and vehicles available to buy. The graphics 
 now are simply pathetic, they look like PS2 and the glitches are shocking, one time for example 
 I was actually invincible somehow which is a good glitch but still pretty sad. Overall I wouldn't 
 buy this game until it's 30$ but I would rent it just to try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  The first Mercenaries for the Xbox was awesome! Tons of game play, and cool missions, but this 
 version, just haven't been updated enough to make worth $60. You go on a bunch of mission, similar 
 as the first one, but they are more silly then the first game, and not very interesting. You have 
 a lot of weapons to fire, but It's very hard to aim and you will get frustrate quickly trying to 
 use them. The game is fun though, if only because you have huge world to drive around in, and destroy 
 stuff, but the missions that comes with the games are boring and not much fun to play. You seem 
 to do the same missions over and over again.
  The graphics have been updated, and there are tons of things blowing up, but after a few missions 
 you can tell this is a very shallow, and not very fulfilling game, not $60 fulfilling any way.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bromley90
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 16, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  i feel that mercenaries 2 could of and should of been better , with all the hype surrounding the 
 game i expected it to be alot better graphic wise , gameplay wish and i also expected it too be 
 more fun ... but this is not the case . the games has to many faults such as glithces , ai and 
 poor graphics . and one of the most annoying things about this game is the boring missions , it 
 feels like everytime you go on this game you are forcing yourself to stay on the game for aslong 
 as possible when really after a couple miniutes you are bored . the only time this game is fairly 
 fun is when you are on a motorbike , or cruising with a friend on the online co-op mode , but other 
 wise from that it is a very disapointing , annoying and boring game , hopefully if they bring another 
 mercenaries out they will improve all the subjects i have spoken about and also make a online mode 
 other than co-op . which they should of done for this mercenarues . that is all :X 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warlockdemon19
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  First off i wanna say gamespot, this has to be your worst review ever... i mean you have made reviews 
 that were just dumb, and earned you the title of being biast, or made people think you get paid 
 off for your reviews but can you explain this one?
  
  Gamespot decided to give this game a 5, mainly because gamespots team doesnt have fun playing games, 
 they must sit there with guns to there heads and a swat team telling them to hurry up you have 
 5 minutes get this review done so we make money.
  
  listen up cause heres the real review of this game, im sceptic on playing games, if i pay 60 bucks 
 it better be f-in worth it for me..
  
  
  
  *graphics* Merc 2 didnt lay down a very impressive mold for me in regards to graphics, i mean its 
 not bad, but it isnt no artwork show neither. cars and tanks, helis, most buildings all look good, 
 but its when your up in a heli that the games graphics degrade alot, but its forgiving due to the 
 scale, and the fact that all these buildings tanks, trees, are soon gonna be crumbling over at 
 your feet so... technically, that IS impressive.
  
  *sound* ahh heres my thing, sound, im somewhat of an enthusiast when it comes to sound, and you 
 know what, its great, on my reciver the sound is excelent, i hear helis and jets flying around 
 me, cars, people chatting, the footsteps are just the right volume. one problem, is the machine 
 gun form the attack copter sounds a little loud compaired to everything else in the game, but maybe 
 thats just my setup who knows..
  
  *Gameplay*
  
  FIRST OFF, i wanna say gamespot says traveling around venizualla takes alot of time, no thats flat 
 out not true.. when your 2 hours in the game or sooner youl have the opertunity to get yourself 
 helicopters.. and there dirt cheap... moving on this is merc 2's strongpoint, and teh reason it 
 desurves so much mroe than a 5, the story IS crap, cause it bassically doesnt have one... u get 
 shot in the ass, time for revenge, thats the story lets leave it there, but when u think about 
 it, your a mercenary... why do u need a story? and who gives a **** the gameplay in merc 2 is very 
 addictive! especially co op, the game runs very well for a drop in drop out co op game, i havnt 
 seen any lag. going from mission to mission together is fun, but so is trying to unlock all shop 
 items, and getting oil to use them, and doin challenges, you can do absolutly EVERYTHING this game 
 has to offer in coop..
  
  
  *conclusion* i didnt mension glitches, because i havnt seen any worth really bad ones yet.. iv 
 seen 3. 1 a gun was floating about a foot in the air.. another i got stuck in a florr for 1 second, 
 another was awsome, because i became invincible for about an hour. the game does suffer from glitches, 
 but looking at what it is in a whole makes up for them..
  
  the game is very very fun, and very addictive, i really urge people to at least rent this game, 
 dont expectan epic story, but expect a surprisingly long game, with addictive gameplay, lots of 
 explosions one of the BEST coop games iv played in a long time, gta4 got boring fast for me, this 
 one i cant seem to let up.. i was happy to pay 60 bucks for this title
  
  
  THE ONLY REASON this game lost points from me is because of the glitches, and they are not THAT 
 BAD, iv seen way worse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karmazyn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Merc 2 is an awesome addictive game. I can not stop playing it. Fantastic explosions, wonderfull 
 gameplay...
  
  ... wonderfull gameplay, hundreds of vehicles to drive. Tons of thing to do. Probably the most underrated 
 game in the history of gaming. Def MUST BUY!!! Thank you Pandemic for this Masterpiece.
  This game will never gets boring. The vehicles look like this in real life and they are not. The 
 details Pandemic put into this game make you feel real. The districts you are going to visit in 
 a game are like a real war zones. Factions are great. Each faction have an unique style of presenting 
 their intrests in fight for Venezuela. GO guy this game you won; t be dissapointed.
  THE BEST GAME OF THIS SUMMER SEASON:
  ADV:
  - wow tons of vehicle
  - great explosions
  
 - HUGE world
  - ADDIVTIVE GAMEPLAY 
  - good graphics
  - great vehicles design
  - Value for Money
  
  CON:
  - some minor glitches ( there is not many of them and they won't 
 spoil yor fun ) ; I clocked 45H playing Merc so far and I have not encountered any serious problems.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalkiel666
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV in military style with so many annoying glitchs it takes the fun out of the 
 exploration of the game and just becomes annoying.
  
  
  I am on my 2nd play through. The first time I used the girl Jen. Missed most of all the Spare parts, 
 the HVT's and the buildings. The game seemed normal, just that it had the ANNOYING AI's repeating 
 the same thing over and over and over again. And the AN Faction, God shut the hell up you hippie 
 waste owd's.
  
  So I said okey, I'll get the Game Guide and go back and do it all. 2nd time Im using Mattias. So 
 okey Now this game is even more annoying the 2nd time through. Not only was the 1st time though 
 annoying to the fact that It had some seriously stupidly rediculous missions that had to be done 
 over and over and over again, but now I have to do them again and I seriously don't even want to. 
 But I am obsessed with getting all my achievement points. The only problem is the spare parts are 
 not were there suppose to be. There not even in the glitchy game. HOWEVER, if you were to goto 
 the menu Info Score stat's I now have 97/100 spare part's collected. Hmmmmmmmmm How is that possible 
 when I haven't even opended the map up yet? Hell I only have one Faction open right now, and that's 
 Universal Petroleum. 
  
  Then back to the annoying AI's. Every time I go back to a city or cross a bridge here comes annoying 
 Fiona telling me the same crap I already heard several hundred times. I really don't remember GTA 
 IV being this annoying. 
  
  So how am I suppose to unlock all the Garage toys from Eva if I can't collect the Spare parts when 
 there not there? Well I don't rightly now. 
  
  So in reality, was it worth the $59.99? OH HELL NO!
  
  RENT IT if your just going after Achievement 
 points.
  
  DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY ON THIS GAME!
  
  Thank you for your time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OoogieBoogie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 isn't as amazing as the first game was on first play through, however it still is 
 awesome. The support system has been over complicated compared to the first game, which only required 
 that the player use their PDA to order the air strikes, vehicles, and supplies they need. Mercenaries 
 2 requires that the player go to each faction individually to buy support and to make matters worse 
 the player is only allowed three self purchased support items at once slowing things down for players 
 who want to use all the cool new support items. The gun play has become rather loose compared to 
 the first game. Shooting now requires more spraying than aiming which helps to speed up the pace 
 of fights however it makes accurate shooting an impossibility. Hijacking has been made a frustrating 
 continuation of struggle because of the Simon Says game play that has been added on slowing the 
 pace of game play and making vehicle play rather uncomfortable. The cut scenes are edited weirdly 
 but get the point across. The destroyable environments really pay off in this game as the cluttered 
 mass of jungle will soon become a burning wreck of rubble as the player lets loose the power of 
 the new air strikes. However destroyed buildings are still hard to drive through as the models 
 have predetermined rubble patterns that leave jagged indestructible road blocks. Faction relationships 
 are too touchy now with the call in feature where a faction soldier can call into their leaders 
 for any random reason and that faction will immediately go hostile toward the Mercenary right afterword. 
 Faction play like the last game is less of a choice and more forced upon the player that may not 
 actually want to help any of the factions in the area but aren't required to. 
  Overall game play is fast paced and on the edge, weapons, vehicles, and air strikes are awesome, 
 characters are more developed, and the relaxed theme is refreshing compared to the constant Tom 
 Clancy vibe all other modern war games have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  In 2005, LucasArts and Pandemic studios, successfully released Mercenaries: Playground of Destruction 
 into the world. Then, 3 years later, EA Games and Pandemic set Mercenaries 2: World in Flames, 
 loose on the world.
  
  You take the role of one of three mercenaries whose contracted to perform a break out. Upon completing 
 the contract, you are betrayed and thus, wreak havoc on the unsuspecting citizens of Venezuela 
 and working for various factions looking for vengeance.
  
  The graphics aren't the greatest we've seen on the 360 but let's face it. The fire is pretty and 
 the scenery can be gorgeous. The sound quality is fine but could be a lot better.
  
  Let me say this right off the bat. Mercenaries 2: World in Flames, is filled with a plethora bugs 
 and glitches. Some of the achievements are glitched. Co-op some times causes a player to switch 
 characters. I've noticed that helicopters will spin in place. Outposts are glitched which in turn 
 prevents some players from getting an achievement. Your character will sometimes hold a pistol 
 like it's a rifle and there are many more.
  
  With that said, there are plenty of good things about the game. Each character has their own special 
 attribute, Jen can move faster, Chris carries more ammo, and Mattias regenerates health faster. 
 It's fun to explore the virtual world of Venezuela. You can find fuel and munitions in some of 
 the oddest areas. There are plenty of missions and it's incredibly fun to single handedly tear 
 through a small outpost of soldiers for various reasons. When you're not doing missions or exploring 
 you can destroy things. Some factions offer various targets for you to destroy or you can do it 
 for fun. Call in an air strike on a building and watch the magic as debris flies everywhere and 
 the buildings crumbles to the ground. If that's not your thing, you may also hunt down the High 
 Value Targets (HVTs) offered by each faction. Maybe you want to do some of the challenges each faction 
 has to offer? There's always something to do. There's also a wide variety of cars and weapons. 
 Some of the hijacking sequence often active some quick time events, so be prepared when hijacking 
 a heli or tank to hit some buttons.
  
  Aside from the glitches, there are plenty of bad features as well. The A. I. in Mercenaries 2 is 
 terrible. They all seem to have enhanced vision and always spot you no matter where you are and 
 they constantly stand out in the open. Bases are filled with RPG troopers and since the enemy has 
 their enhanced sight, they always get to the alarms before you even do anything. This causes the 
 buildings to become active and your character is then bombarded with explosive projectiles, which 
 in turn, will usually end up killing your HVT if you're not fast enough. HVT's will often end up 
 killing themselves just trying to get to you. Helicopters feel slow, though they do offer an advantage 
 when going from A to B.
  
  To be honest, this game is a lot like Too Human in terms playability. It has plenty of issues but 
 it's still very fun. There's a nice amount of replay value and you can always hop on Live and do 
 some Co-Op with your friend if solo gets boring. It's at least worth a trip to your nearest Blockbuster. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: learcrew
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  After a long line of 360 games that punish the player over and over for failure, Mercenaries 2 
 give the player exactly what he wants with an orgy of glorious destruction! You could never say 
 that this game will raise your blood pressure as it firmly believes in minor punishment, kinda 
 like a slap on the wrist for failing a mission. Rather than sending a moral message to the gameplaying 
 community, Mercs2 provides you with an amazing anti-hero Mattias who takes great pride in his work 
 and seriously enjoys blowing stuff up and seriously injuring his fellow man in the name of MONEY 
 (and fun i guess!) The graphics are fantastic in places but weak in others, sound effects and music 
 are solid and dependable but the gameplay is fantastic fun. I would recommend this game to anybody 
 who enjoyed the first and that would want a lot of fun but not a serious challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dclgspot
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  Seriously, I take my glasses off and it's a better game. How rubbish is that!
  
  Cut scenes.. Hello artifact city. Flashy pixels abound everywhere. Hair looks like it's heaving 
 with lice. All the characters have false, hyper-white, teeth, it would appear, that move completely 
 out of synch with their mouths and flap around like mad, surreal crabs.
  
  Each character has a special ability. I've been playing as the girl and her "special ability" is 
 to be able to run marginally faster than normal. Not that this makes any difference because you're 
 pretty much indestructable. You can be in an exploding helicopter, falling from thousands of feet, 
 get blown into the air the crash explosion, land in a position that would only be possible had 
 you torn every ligament in your body and then just get up and start running again.
  
  Enemy soldiers shoot at empty, burnt out vehicles. You get caught in the crossfire. Huh?
  
 
  You airlift in a tank and your character say "Hmm, an enemy tank, should I steal it or nuke it". 
 What?
  
  Tell you what, this game is a beta. It's incomplete and has been rushed out by bean counters saying 
 "can you play it? Fine, then ship it".
  
  So much is wrong. Just WRONG!!. A jeep overturns with a gunner in it. He carries on shooting whilst 
 he's upside-down.
  
  You can shoot people when standing next to them and they won't even turn around.
  
  An executive 
 I was supposed to rescue followed me by running away and falling off a building in the opposite 
 direction to the way I was running and, amazingly, had a conversation with me as I was trying to 
 find my way to him from the other side of a building.
  
  That said, I keep on playing, just hoping it will get better and to see just how bad it can get.
 
  
  The sniper-rifle, for example. Doesn't work. Just doesn't. You zoom in and the target goes out 
 of focus. You shoot him in the head and he keeps on standing there. Shoot him in the arm and he 
 flies of a building.
  
  This game is so unpolished it might as well be a rock in my garden.
  
  Still, at least I don't 
 have to wear my glasses to play it.
  
  Oh yeah, one last thing...
  
  You want money? Jump into someone else's game and just wait for them to collect. I managed to get 
 2mil for doing nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbborger
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  10 out of 11 users doesn't even know who Aaron Thomas is.
  
  You know whats alot of fun? Blowing crap up, and that's what this game is all about. The game is 
 not perfect, but it definitely is not a 5.0. The guy who reviewed this game (Aaron Thomas) looks 
 like he should get back to leveling up his hello kitty character on his pink game cube. Look and 
 see what most of the users are rating it and go from there. Between PS3 and 360 around 3,000 users 
 gave it an average of 8.0. Im not a mathematician, but I would say a lot of people would agree 
 that Aaron Thomas should get back to to hello kitty's island adventure. I would agree in a heart 
 beat that the AI is brain dead, but it's entertaining when you're going around dropping bombs on 
 everything. I cleaned my review up so hopefully I wont receive another email about offensive content.... 
 ive been a member since 2003 and this is one of the worst reviews ive seen on gamespot.... So in 
 the end if you liked mercenaries 1 you'll probably love 2. Forget gamespot; s review on this one 
 go with the critics or users.
  
  1 out of every user who read this now knows who Aaron Thomas is. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandon_cronk
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 14, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  There are so many flaws that detract from this being a good game. Everything in this game has flaws 
 that are difficult to look past and distract from the core mechanic of getting to free-roam and 
 blow everything up. There are moments of joy when you take down an entire building full of bad 
 guys followed by hours of:
  
  Tanks dropping through piers and falling into the water
  Bad AI that will shoot an explosive gas tank in front of them and take out everyone including you. 
 Motorcycles that have the same physics as cars. Tanks that can't shoot in one direction and move 
 in another. Enemy buildings that spawn unlimited numbers of rocket launchers. Being punished for 
 hitting pedestrians that jump into your path. Challenges that can't be completed without playing 
 CoOp.
  
  Overall, the game feels less like strategy and good aim will cause you to win. Luck is a major 
 factor here since enemies have the same weapons as you and spawn in infinite numbers and 9/10 when 
 you die it will be because of a newly spawned tank or rocket launcher behind you who takes you 
 out in one shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyMonkey
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  I'm sure there are many people who thought about getting this game, but were concerned with what 
 they had heard about it being buggy and what not. And while the game does have its bugs, they are 
 really just to small to notice when you get into it. 
  
  One thing about the critic's reviews that is true is the story; there really isn't one. But come 
 on, Mercenaries 1 didn't have that much of a storyline, and there's only so much you can do when 
 the whole game revolves around blowing crap up. And it's just that, Mercenaries 2 is all about 
 blowing the living hell out of everything that gets in your way. In other words, if you're looking 
 for an indepth storyline, you might want to try a different game. 
  
  The gameplay is pretty solid, and there really isn't a boring part in the game. (The stockpile 
 feature takes care of that quite nicely.) It's true that the guns don't feel very powerful, but 
 that shouldn't stop you from having a good time.
  
  The ability to roam the whole gameplay area, (Which is very, very large.) allows a much more entertaining 
 experience.
  
  Overall Mercenaries 2 is definitely worth getting if you're looking for a game that is rich in 
 explosions and mindless violence! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gedz16
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Out of this world, this game is awesome and exspecially if you liked the first Mercenaries you 
 will love the second one. I love this game its so cool because you could do pretty much anything 
 you want and i know what your thinking its just like GTA4 i could do that anyways but this is much 
 different cooler vehicles, weapons etc. Now you can play with a friend to and he could drop out 
 and in when ever he feels like it and it won't hurt your saved game how awesome is that. Once you 
 get this game you will never stop its so addicting and fun you will never want to put down your 
 controller  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th3warr1or
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Despite what the fool of a reviewer gamespot has says about Mercenaries 2, Mercenaries 2 is everything 
 I wanted a more. Sure, it doesn't have Halo3, Gears of War or GTA4 graphics, nor does it have the 
 BEST storyline, which in my opinion was WAY better than Halo3s. But since when was mercenaries 
 about storyline or graphics. THIS.. IS.. DESTRUCTION. At it's prime. Halo 3 in my opinion was terrible. 
 Now I am a Brigadier in Halo so don't come telling me I hate Halo3 cause I suck at it. Anyway. 
 So what if the Graphics are bad. NO other game [save Mercenaries: POD] gives OPEN world game play, 
 and FULLY destructible elements. MERCENARIES 2 Does NOT deserve a 5.0, period.
  At WORST, it is an 8. If you enjoy blowing the hell out of things, then this game is spectacular.
 
  
  Overall, I would at least give this game the following.
  Graphics: 7.5
  Gameplay: 9
  Replayablity factor: 10 [over 150 hours gametime and 3x completion of game]
  Driving controls: 
 7
  Fun Factor: 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alblood1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  ok so lets start with this mercenaries got rubbish scores. but is it still worth the buy? i say 
 yes. if you have live then its completely worth the money you will spend hours with friends blowing 
 stuff up killing people and just doing funny stuff. for some strange reason the game is very funny 
 to play on multiplayer.
  
  Graphics
  i would rate the graphics in this game 7.9/10 there impressive especialy if you get a helicopter 
 and fly up in the air and look down at the scenery. but during multilayer you will experience glitches 
 on the shadows and textures but nothing unbarable. 
  
  controls + gameplay 
  The controls in this game are pritty simple you will pick them up almost instantly. so nothing 
 to worry about there. (gameplay) the gameplay is fun but the missions get a bit repetative the 
 normaly consist of. capturing an outpost for a faction, defending a building or blowing up buildings 
 but it is still fun to do. The AI is kind of lacking in this game but since ur normaly fighting 
 lots of enimes at a time its forgivable.
  
  Overview
  This game is a defenat purchase if you have live and freinds who own the game. i dont think you 
 can do split screen though. If you dont have live the borrow it from a freind first to try it out. 
 but you should have hours of fun playing this game
  
  I rate this game 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaturalXX
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  O. K. Mercenaries 2: World in Flames was one of my holiday games but I decided to get it before 
 because I was so excited. . . .that didn't last long though. This game is broken! You play as the 
 same three mercenaries from the first installment and you blow things up basically. If you remember 
 the E3 coverage of this game, they loved it. The semi-nuclear missiles, the destruction the fire, 
 the whole game looked like a masterpiece until you actually play it. There is way to many glitches, 
 bugs and the enemy AI is so bad that it got to a point that the enemy was trying to kill by pointing 
 their weapon in the opposite direction (there wasn't any ally troops in the other direction) . As 
 of glitches and bugs, when you take a helicopter and fly in the air, there would be machine gun 
 turrets floating in the air or a tank would be in the air. Even the voice acting is terrible. The 
 voices are sissy compared to the first installment. Just like the first game, it's repetitive (what 
 isn't these days!?) with the blowing up of cars and missiles. Even taking the tanks are repetitive 
 because the scene is always the same. You would think that throwing a grenade into the tank would 
 blow up the devices necessary to operate the tank or use the cannon. I would consider this a rental 
 in my opinion. I got rid of my Mercenaries 2 file and any data in my hard drive for Gears of War 
 2 or Star Wars The Force Unleashed. This is a game that is half done and half disaster. Mercenaries 
 2 puts its OWN world in flames with a 4.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: addicted456
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 14, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  Okay, most Games Like GTIV Halo 3 I received as gifts.
  
  This is the first major game I bought for 60 plus bucks.
  Why, well I loved Mercenaries too. 
 Secondly Pandemic has had great games in the past.
  
  I selected J. Mui. She was cute and reminded me of the first game. Well lets start the review.
 
  
  When I got to the great part, the part involving two major super powers the characters stopped 
 talking.
  Now this occurred in a crucial part of the game. The missions. You know the no plot missions where 
 you get something in writing. Now in Merc one you looked forward to the grit, the spit and character 
 of your paid factions.
  Here, well it's just away to get more money to blow stuff up. Not that I needed it. I mean I had 
 more than 12 million by the 60 percent mark.
  
  So I said glitch, get over it.
  Then I went to shut the console off. Now this game has auto save. Which is one reason this is a 
 one not a two, caz I lost money on this game. Plus since it's on my credit card, I'm paying interest 
 on this piece of. Oops family values.
  
  
  So the next day when the game froze, no it's not my system, NCAA football ran the next day. I tried 
 and tried to get the game to load myauto save."
  
  Tried three times.
  
  Now since this silver surf disk, will sit, hopefully someone will sit on it and crack it. Then 
 I will be spared the misery of picking another character and wondering when I complete another 
 67 percent of the game will I get another lock up.
  
  Now on to the game.
  
  2. The talking, hey it's the Merc, hey I hate my job.
  
  3. The Sunday release should have 
 been a warning.
  
  4. The fact I could not find the game at Target on a Sunday should have been another warning.
 
  
  5 Manual, well sometimes there is a back story in a manual. My son said no dad. I still haven't 
 read it.
  
  6. The lack of a parachute. While the "Merc" can now swim, she often falls out of things. I mean 
 you have to tap buttons to hijack anything that flies. But the stupid programmers didn't do this 
 for say boats. Just tanks and flying things.
  
  7. You have read about the stupid AI, hey yeah it's the Merc and she's killing us say the factions. 
 This is only part of the game that saves it from a zero score. The reinforcements do arrive, and 
 yes unlike the regular soldiers, do try to find you and kill you.
  
  
  8. The shopping. You would think in a game that well tries to be SCARFACE, tropic thunder and Just 
 cause and Grand theft Auto you could change outfits easily.
  
  
  9. The premise. They shot me in the ass, and I just love it here. Well you may like it until the 
 game freezes.
  
  
  10. Repetition, repetition. You would think the software, script and cgi guys said No NO NO. When 
 the marketing guys said, we are sending you back to fix this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 13, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  I waited a while for Mercenaries 2, the follow up to the shallow but entertaining original. The 
 name of the game is still destruction but this time around there's a massive amount of bugs and 
 not enough was added to make the single player mode seem fresh. Luckily the co-op is tons of fun.
 
  
  Graphics this time around are give and take. From afar the game looks pretty bad. Everything looks 
 like just plain colored polygons with low res textures on them. Up close is kind of the same story 
 as sweat on the character models looks more like body glitter and damage to vehicles looks like 
 a pixilated mess. It's the mid range where thing look pretty good but then again the game suffers 
 from pop up. Luckily for this engine, slow down isn't a problem no matter how much explosive goodness 
 you unpack in a short amount of time. Other things like messed up physics and some collision detection 
 issues round out Mercenaries 2's graphical engine problems.
  
  The AI in the game never really poses a threat until it starts respawning or just overwhelms you 
 with tanks and choppers. It's about at a Nintendo 64 level of AI; they'll run for cover and may 
 try to flank you but most of the times they reload while standing in plain sight or shoot pistols 
 at tanks. The pedestrian AI is even more daft as they do very little to get out of your way and 
 even more to get in your way. At $5,000 and later $10,000 fines a pop, it can get annoying after 
 a while.
  
  Voice acting is adequate even though it seemed that the devs tried their hardest to include every 
 kind of clich accent in this game. You got the tough black guy, white bread American, cocky British, 
 punk Swedish, drunk Russian, and even a wise guy Irishman. If they threw in an Italian they'd either 
 have the most diverse cast or the start of a really bad joke. The Chinese voiceover was putrid 
 and the voices for the Allied Nations were downright annoying. 
  
  When it comes to the sound effects, the game does a bit better. Everything sounds good except for 
 the top speed of cars. At this constant speed, the game still sounds like the gear restarts and 
 speeds up again over and over. It's just another annoying thing that doesn't seem right. The music 
 is fitting so it's not like the sound is all bad.
  
  Gameplay is a step up from the originals offering quite a bit more variety but it's unfortunate 
 that other sandbox games have also raised the bar a long time ago. What Mercs 2 offers are the 
 typical racing missions, assassinations and demolishing places for the most part. None of the missions 
 really deviate from that formula and when they do, like the mission where you're helping a guy 
 get rid of important documents, it's really a breath of fresh air. There's also side missions that 
 involve blowing up buildings, bets you can make with your merc part that serve as little challenges 
 but other than that there's not much to do that hasn't been done before.
  
  In my opinion the destructive part was ruined by the fact that you have to run missions for a certain 
 faction to unlock vehicles, bombs and weapons then you'd have to go to that store and buy them 
 for your stash in order to use them. This introduction of a middle man is a waste of time and I 
 preferred the originals way of doing business much better.
  
  The single player portion offers a bit of fun but it's the co-op that truly shines on this game. 
 There are a few things that hamper the co-op experience such as the lack of cutscenes and a tethered 
 radius to ensure that the players don't get too far apart but other than that all of the explosiveness 
 and fun is multiplied tenfold by adding a friend to the mix. Portions of the game where targets 
 are grouped in a small area are pretty much tourist stops in this portion and shouldn't be missed. 
 A friend and I went to a mountain complex and it was an amazing view watching us tear these camps 
 apart with all this explosive beauty.
  
  It's too bad the game doesn't have much lasting appeal outside of the main story. Mercenaries' 
 biggest disappointment is how fast everything is over. Blowing up buildings for nothing is only 
 fun for so long. Hopefully Pandemic can see where they went wrong with this one and fix these issues 
 in another sequel but at this point I wouldn't care if this was the last I saw of the Mercenary 
 crew.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmaniac
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  The reason that I rate this game with a 8.5 is because at the beginnig you think is a good game, 
 the weapon, to still a tank, to call air support, that's fun, but when you start playing it more 
 than 2 hours you start to wake up from the "dream" and you see the true. The game have a bad story 
 mode, bad graphics and bad weapons. All is so easy that you think the hole game is going to be 
 like that and you get mad because you buy a bad game.
  
  I read other commentaries that say that this game is better than GTA 4 they are crazy GTA 4 is 
 better than this game. GTA 4 have a better story mode, better weapons, better characters, this 
 mercs could kiss nico belic ass because he could kill then so easily.
  
  Now that I play it I will rate it with a 3.5 or a 4 it doesnt worth more than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andurilmat
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  when you first put on mercs, 2 you are treated to bright colours and nice sounds, then you realise 
 the average graphic, but saying that, mercs one didn't push any visual limits, but i played on, 
 after an hour or so i started to get annoyed at the small gameplay bugs, such as getting stuck 
 in rocks, the bikes that never fall over, the HVT that get killed by friendly fire when you fly 
 within radar range of them and my personal favourite vehicle deliveries that arirve and then disappear 
 in to thin air sometime they dont even land - not nice if you just spent $750,000 on a helicopter 
 and it just disappears. so you play through the missions that are very easy, infact the hardest 
 parts in this game are capturing HVT's and the PMC challenges. so you save your game and turn it 
 off secure in the knowledge that your game is wating for you, this is not true - this game constantly 
 messes up your saves and refuses to load them, so and when it does load up - if your lucky you 
 may be awarded with a load of acheivments that you haven't unlocked, this happens frequently with 
 mercs 2. so next you sign in to xbox live and download the patch and success your saves load again, 
 so you play on getting even more frustrated by vehicles dissapearing and airstrikes not happening 
 and the comepletely messed up hijacking mini-games, which range from easy to to impossible even 
 on the same vehicle type. then there are the occasions when the game just freezes, i wish i could 
 say that these instances are rare but this game just keeps freezing and freezing and freezing... 
 and then your save games stop working again. but despite all of the games bad points there is a 
 really fun game at the heart of it, whats not fun about obliterating a city with a nuclear bunker 
 buster ,if you were a fan of mercs 1 i recommend you wait till this game gets a price drop as it 
 not worth shelling out 40 for if your not a fan of mercs hang on till ther's a pricew drop, hopefully 
 by then the game will be playable, this game was hardly readdy to ship, in my opinion its still 
 a buggy beta version but with some patches to sort out the game this could end up being a very 
 good game.
  
  Graphics - 6/10
  gameplay - 7/10
  playability - 1/10 - due to bugs
  replay value - 3/10
  difficulty - 4/10
  
  overall 4.5/10 - the bugs just kill the game for 
 me i hope more patches are released as when i want to play mercs 2 i don't want to have to start 
 a new game every time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nster81
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 13, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2: World In Flames... Blowing crap up never looked better in a video game than this. 
 That's the problem, only looked. The demos at E3, etc., were so preset, the developers had everything 
 at their disposal. Unfortunately, I never got anything cool past the RPG Rocket Launcher. Even 
 with this, the gunplay is probably the weakest ever in a game. You get put down so fast by the 
 overwhelming AI that just knows how to shoot. Vehicles. Hijacking them used the same animation 
 every time, even the same button combos. Driving is very, very bad. If you come a cm too close 
 to a small rock, or for that case, a pebble, or a sidewalk, etc., you lose 10% of your vehicle's 
 health. It's a terrible way to get around, but better than getting destroyed quickly by almost 
 everything else in the game. In terms of voice acting and humor, that was about the only good part, 
 besides the explosions. The story was, or course, pretty dull. The graphics were so buggy and smeared 
 at most times, it was frustrating to get stuck onto something. Co-op isn't different and might 
 have well not have been in the game. All in all, I would say the only thing keeping EA up is their 
 repetitive, but popular sports franchises.
  
  Gameplay: 5/10
  Graphics, Game, and Character Designs: 6.5/10
  Story: 4/10
  Voice Acting: 9/10
  Replay Value: 
 4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  SIMPLE QUICK REVIEW:
  Good:
  -Cool Explosions
  -Plenty of opportunities to blow stuff up.
  Bad:
  -Horrid AI
  -Very repetitive and uninteresting
 
  -Causing destruction usually gets you penalized
  
  The handbrake on your car doesn't even slow you down. It only gives your car soap-bar handling. 
 So if you're first reflex is to use the handbrake in hairy situations, you're screwed.
  
  It's pretty hard to die. I jumped out of a helicopter a few hundred feet up and survived. You don't 
 even lose health if your vehicle explodes. You can run around in the middle of an enemy-infested 
 base, do your objective, run out of it, without even killing anybody and you will not die.
  
  It feels like a Michael Bay movie. Filled with explosions, bad dialogue, and a bad plot.
 
  
  The characters AND their accents are all annoying.
  
  Don't buy this game. Don't even rent it. It was very disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienhunter187
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 13, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  No doubt many of us have had the insatiable urge to blow something up. Don't lie, you know it's 
 true. After a hard day's work of being yelled at by your boss or judggling classes in school, calling 
 in an airstrike and dropping a tactical nuke on a Venezuelan town sounds like a plan.
  
  Of course you could never do this in real life. Imagine how hard it would be to get hold of a tactical 
 nuke. Let alone, finding the means to detonate it safetly.
  
  But fear not, EA has heard your call. And for the low price of $59.99 and an Xbox 360 or Playstation 
 3, you can drop all the happy bombs you want to on those poor digital souls. "Mercenaries 2: World 
 in Flames" is the epitome of sandbox gameplay in video games. You can go anywhere, do anything 
 and blow up anything you want. See that capital building in the background? Have a tangent to blow 
 it up? Call in an air strike from your drunk pilot and watch it crumble into a pile of rocks. If 
 you're really methodical, or just plain bored, you can tell your Irish helicopter pilot to drop 
 off a box of RPG ammunition and continue shooting the building until it blows up. Or, you can crash 
 cars into it until it blows up. 
  
  At its core, "Mercenaries 2" is just about blowing a bunch of stuff up and listening to the corny 
 80s dialogue while you're doing it. There is a story though, however thin it might be. You have 
 a choice of playing as one of three mercenaries: Mattias, a Swedish-born former biker with a love 
 for destruction and 80s one-liners; Christopher, a jaded former Delta Force operative with a sound 
 moral code and Jennifer, a former MI6 operative who became a mercenary for the cash.
  
  You teamed up with an old friend to help initiate a military coup d'tat in Venezeula. Hugo Chavez 
 is never mentioned in name throughout the game. But you start off thinking the coup is going to 
 be a good thing. After you go through a series of tutorial and training missions, you're greeted 
 with an ugly CG movie showing you getting betrayed by Solano as he takes control over the country.
 
  
  Obviously, betraying a mercenary is not a good idea. And like the majority of the 80s movies that 
 "Mercenaries 2" is based on, you start a bloody quest for revenge. Eventually, you'll pick up different 
 allies throughout the game like your helicopter and airplane pilots as well as a mechanic. The 
 helicopter pilot can pick up different items you find on the island like air strikes, bombs and 
 other explosives as well as oil and money. The airplane pilot drops bombs and airstrikes and creates 
 massive explosions. Your mechanic is fairly useless. The major addition she brings to the game 
 is allowing you to grapple helicopters as they fly by and jack them. 
  
  The gameplay is standard for third-person sandbox games like "Grand Theft Auto." You can carry 
 two weapons at a time with limited ammo. Your is in the bottom left corner of the screen and is 
 shown as a number. It starts off at 100 and lowers when you take damage. Get hit too much and the 
 screen goes red and you start hearing your heart beat. The game also does some kind of zoom in 
 and out feature with the camera that can give you a headache if you've been playing very long. 
 Luckily, the health regenerates fairly quickly. You'll need it when there are 20 or 30 soldiers 
 shooting at you at the same time. 
  
  You can hijack just about any vehicle in the game on land, sea or in the air. Most of the smaller 
 vehicles like passenger cars or motorcycles can be stolen with the push of a button. The larger 
 vehicles like tanks and helicopters have a QTE sequence that you have to go through before you 
 can take possession of it. While the gameplay is fairly solid, it's still lacking in a lot of areas. 
 
  
  The melees are extremely overpowered and can kill with one hit. There's no crouch button in the 
 game. Instead, you have to push a button to zoom in on the gun, which then causes your character 
 to crouch slightly. Jumping is extremely floaty. Either these mercs are former basketball players 
 or they're fighting for a Venezeulan country on the moon. There's just no weight to the characters. 
 
  
  Fall damage is another thing that seems to be fubar. Jump off the side of a mountain and land, 
 you might not take any damage. Slide down a small hill and hit a rock, your health might fall 20 
 points. It's completely random and untested. If you're low on health, just hop in a vehicle and 
 by the time you get out, you'll be back to normal.
  
  If there is one feature that puts "Mercenaries 2" above similar games, it's the destruction system. 
 Anything and everything can be blown up and razed. Entire oil fields can be utterly destroyed with 
 a simple artillery strike. Though, the unpolished framerate will drop to a snail's pace crawl and 
 you'll miss the majesty. While blowing everything up can be fun for a while, it does get boing 
 and monotnous after a while. That's why you can bring a friend in to alleviate the boredom, if 
 only for a while. 
  
  When you sign into the game, it creates a server that anyone can search for and join at any time. 
 The co-op feature is seemless and people can come and go without any hitches in the game, except 
 the problems they cause. 
  
  "Mercenaries 2" plays factions against each other in the game. You'll work with the guerrilla army 
 as they attempt to overthrow the new regime, the United Petroleum company as they try to capitalize 
 on the oil coup in the oil market, pirates who just want to cause chaos and the western allies 
 and Chinese. 
  
  It sounds like a fun setup, except it's not. Steal one tank of oil from United Petroleum and you'll 
 anger them to the point where they'll hunt you down in their territory and try to kill you. That 
 will also lock out any missions you still have left for them until you please them again by blowing 
 up one of their targeted buildings or capture one of their fugitives. Blow up a pirate ship and 
 the friendly waters of Venezeula won't be so friendly. It doesn't help that the majority of the 
 missions pit you against another faction. And the smallest action will send them into a rage. 
 
  
  The characters are more like caricatures. Their personalities are over-exaggerated to the point 
 where they're almost insultingly stupid. Mattias, the main character of the series, sports a ridiculous-looking 
 mohawk and is voiced by the always over-the-top Peter Stormare. He says some of the dumbest things 
 in the heat of battle like "oh, snipers... really bad snipers," which sounds dumb enough when there's 
 no one sniping at you. Developer Pandemic obviously didn't playtest the dialogue during the Q&A 
 process. 
  
  Every time you leave the mansion in the game, you're told over your communicator about the roads 
 that travel all over the island and things that you can do while you're out and about. While the 
 information might be somewhat useful when you first start the game, hearing it when you're leaving 
 the mansion to go on your final mission is very annoying. It gets even worse when you enter another 
 area of the island and are told the entire backstory of the guerrilla army or the United Petroleum 
 company.
  
  Even with the awful voice acting and dialogue, there are some profound sound effects throughout 
 the game. Hook your Xbox 360 or Playstation 3 up to your digital stereo surround sound system and 
 you can hear a war going on around you in 5.1 digital sound. After destroying a building, the entire 
 room will shake as the structure crumbles and kicks up a cloud of dust. Sadly though, it seems 
 as if Pandemic spent the majority of the three-year development period polishing the explosions.
 
  
  Graphically, the game is serviceable. It's not ugly by any means. But it's not as impressive looking 
 as other sandbox games like "Grand Theft Auto IV" and "Crackdown." The graphical disappointment 
 is countered by the amazing destruction system and immense size of the gameworld. The island is 
 utterly huge and is still undiscovered by the halfway point of the game. The only problem is the 
 lack of things to do. You can hop in a car and drive around for a while or grapple a helicopter 
 and kill some time. But the missions are sparse and repetitive. 
  
  While the game is fun, there are some insane annoyingly-bad design choices. Airstrikes and bombing 
 runs are cool, but you have to get so close to the target to mark it that you'll either get shot 
 up really bad, or you'll get caught up in your own blast. Either way, you could easily die. And 
 if you don't die, you'll probably get stuck in the rubble and have to spend five or 10 minutes 
 squatting and crawling around until you're lucky enough to find a hole. 
  
  The A. I. is completely braindead. Many of the missions require you to escort someone who makes 
 Forrest Gump look like Stephen Hawking. Try to get them into your jeep and they'll just stand next 
 to it or run into the hood continuously. Try to shield them from fire and they'll run into the 
 middle of the battlefield. There's just no end to the stupidity. 
  
  "Mercenaries 2: World in Flames" is a good game that had the potential to be great. No doubt, it 
 will sell well and provide a lot of fun hours for owners. But the small things just hold it back 
 from its potential. 
  
  Annoying bugs and glitches like disappearing vehicles and non-existent mission objectives can make 
 you pull your hair out. But if you can get past the problems, you can probably find a good game 
 buried in there somewhere. It's a lot of fun in small doses. If you try for much more than that 
 or look for something more than what is there, you'll come off feeling disappointed and cheated.
 
  
  "Mercenaries 2: World in Flames" is available on the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3 as well as the 
 Playstation 2 and PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ikill29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Merc's 2 is a great game if you enjoy wanton destruction, big explosions, and a lot of sarcasm. 
 You can travel virtually anywhere in the environment, destroy anything you see in the game (which 
 is highly encouraged as game play proceeds) , steal pretty much any vehicle you can find, to include 
 tanks, cars and a variety of military helicopters (usually in flight) , all in all a great game 
 for some violent stress release. The alternate challenges in the game include target shooting, 
 piloting helicopters, racing, and blowing stuff up, which is always good. There are several additional 
 items to be found randomly in the game to include large bundles of cash, various air strikes, fuel, 
 and spare parts, the spare parts unlock new vehicles built by your mechanic. The game play is mission 
 oriented, basically playing different factions against each other through out the game. (reminiscent 
 of GTA 2) Mercs 2 uses an engine similar to GTA 4, unfortunatly without the ability to seek cover. 
 The game is a little buggy, usually while its loading the next scene after you've been playing 
 awhile. I found the bugs and glitches to be annoying, but it has less bugs and glitches than say 
 Oblivion IV!! All in all a fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecrazystud
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  If you liked the first Mercs. and GTA then you'll love this. A fun game with a decent story to 
 keep you going. The best part of Mercs 2 is the co-op play. It can be a lot of fun... sometimes 
 too much. One drives and the other is on a turrent dropping the A. I. You have a variety of weapons 
 to choose from like: Air Strikes, Tanks, Weapon supply drops, and even Helos as well. Each faction 
 has it's own style of weapons and I reccomend everyone of them. Not really life like but who really 
 cares. The great thing about games is walking into combat on fire and still killing the enemies. 
 You can bet and increase the wager with your team on some challenges. A lot of the challenges are 
 easy but there are a few I haven't been able to beat. End Result......8. It's fun, it's creative, 
 and it's better than GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreengoTheJeep
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Huge dissappointment! The GameSpot review is spot on in my opinion. Before you even get to what 
 the developers intended, there's all the bugs. I say this with all sincerety, I have played less 
 buggy beta versions of games.
  
  And bugs aside, whoever rushed this game prematurely to market didn't make a mistake. Why? Because 
 this game was doomed from the start and any more time in development towards a game that isn't 
 going the right direction is wasted time. This game is like going hunting, not finding any worthwhile 
 game, and shooting tin cans to fill your boredom. Once you realize you're playing the same mission 
 over and over and the opposing AI are as challenging and entertaining as shooting garbage bags, 
 you resort to blowing stuff up. Then it becomes apparent that no matter which of the stupidly easy 
 methods you use to level buildings, they all fall the same.
  
  There's a huge crowd out there that insists this game is fun because you get to blow stuff up. 
 All I can say is, "easily amused." Unless you so totally suck at gaming and are looking for a beginners 
 game that lets you wreak havoc without being challenged, wait until this game appears in the bargain 
 bin for less than $20. Because if the Halo series, Gears of War series, GRAW, and Rainbow 6 are 
 all $60 shooters, then this game sure as heck does not measure up to the $60 price tag.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gebakkenkoekjes
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  Just pure fun, blowing up entire citys destroying everything around you!
  It could have been a lot better though it just feels unfinished, it gets the 8 for the concept 
 and the fun exeprience. if this wouldn't be the thing my vote would be around the 4.8
  Still very much worth a look when it's in the bargain bin.
  Quests are some times stupid and 
 too long by that's just a matter of flavour.
  Tanks own big time, and when you finished it use a trainer that way the game become's lots and 
 lots more fun!
  By the way exploding money For The Win! .
  
  Mary had a little goat and if it goes on this way I'll never get the review online though. mkay? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saab33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  I had no real great expectations for this title. I did not track its production closely at all, 
 but as it got closer to release I liked the concept of a massive open game world that is highly 
 destructible.
  
  It released here in Australia later than in the US and I was disturbed about the average reviews 
 it was receiving but beyond that I didn't like the sheer volume of complaints gamers were making 
 about all of the glitches they were encountering and the supposed ugly graphics. Nevertheless I 
 got a copy.
  
  Firtsly about the glitches. Yes it is glitchy. But someties the glitches are just stupid funny. 
 I gave an order for my helicopter pilot to come out and pick up a big pile of cash. I watched him 
 fly in and then get his winch stuck on some object just over a fence that was just behind the pile 
 of money. I looked on as the pilot tried helplessly to pull the helicopter back up. I laughed a 
 bit and thought 'well, I've got better things to do, best of luck pilot boy!'. I ran off down the 
 road. After running some distance I turned around and could still see the bloody chopper bobbing 
 up and down above the tree's, still stuck on the fence.
  
  To me, Mercs 2 is just a good way to escape into meaningless fun activity where you don't have 
 to master any skills or be really focussed on what you are doing. 
  
  The shooting is fine once you get a feel for it. But it does remind me of Just Cause. There are 
 plenty of guns and some are more deadly than others. Many of the guns you will pick up from fallen 
 enemies though are not very accurate and bullets tend to spray all over the place. You can get 
 your chopper pilot to drop off a new supply of preferred arsenal and this is a great feature but 
 more often than not you can get away without doing so. 
  
  The explosions are one thing Mercs 2 does extremely well on. They are very satisfying and lots 
 of fun to watch. Observing devastating chain reactions that are set off from blowing up a truck 
 or a building is great. The damage the environment takes can be enjoyable to behold but at times 
 it can seem like everything is made out of cheap, brittle ply wood. Even things like big heavy 
 ceramic pots that hold huge plants in them can be smashed apart easily with one hit from the but 
 of your weapon. Tree's blow apart and snap with little resistance that is totally unbeleivable. 
 
  
  Perhaps that is a good way to look at this game. The whole thing is oriented to way over the top, 
 unbelievable action and destruction. Nothing seems very real in Mercs 2. Infact to embrace this 
 game you have to look at the gameworld as one big toy, do what you want with it. There is no real 
 sense of trying to connect with the personality and character of your Merc. There is no comparison 
 between this game and GTA IV, they do very different things. GTA IV puts a big emphasis on realism, 
 Mercs 2 does the opposite and both games achieve these ends to a good degree. Mercenaries 2 is 
 not about having an immersive visceral experience based on the characters and the unfolding story 
 in the game. It's all about raw, axplosive action. Equip bang-bang toy, aim at said target, watch 
 the mayhem, laugh and then do it all again.
  
  The vehicle collision is utterly underwhelming. You can be smokin down the road in a Semi and smack 
 into a guy on a motorbike and he will just glance off you, maybe beep his little horn or yell something 
 through his helmet, but you can't run the bugger down. Vehicles do take damage, get set on fire 
 and explode. Looks good too, but the driving is merely functional and somewhat shallow. However, 
 flying helicopters is fantastic and the view of Venezuala from the sky is quite magnificent. Also 
 delivering a payload of pain from the clouds is really enjoyable.
  
  What about the graphics? Well, initial impressions may have you thinking this game is not that 
 great. But the more you play and the more you see the game world in action the better the overall 
 presentation becomes. It is not breathtaking but it certainly is adequate. 
  
  Lastly, the thing that for me is a let down with this game is that it seems like it was in development 
 for quite a while and may have even been delayed, also it's a sequel, but the end product is far 
 from spectacular, and makes me wonder what it could have been.
  
  Mercenaries 2 is more than a mediocre game that provides momentary amusement. It is game full of 
 hollywood stye explosive action. It is fun for the most part but is totally devoid of making you 
 really feel like you are part of something bigger. Perhaps thats exactly what the developers were 
 going for. This game is more about silly fun than anything more substantial and thats fine with 
 me. br / 
  
  If you have a thing for serious destruction then you will like what is offered here. If you just 
 need a fix for a braindead open world shooter that lets you do crazy stuff, then you also will 
 find something to like with Merc 2. But if you are looking for a top notch experience bristling 
 with innovations and immersive gameplay and you reckon Mercs 2 World in Flames will deliver this, 
 I suggest you rent it first. That way its kind of like taking the veil off of the bride your parents 
 arranged for you to marry where you still have time to respond when the preist says 'does anybody 
 object to this marriage?'
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirrelking666
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves more than a 5. There I said it.
  
  I don't know what you expect when you rent/buy this game, but if you are looking for action, oodles 
 of explosions, blowing buildings/vehicles/people up, then this my friend is the game of your dreams.
 
  
  Yes, missions are a bit repetitive. Yes, the small arms fire is not 100% satisfying. Yes, the AI 
 is not incredible. But were you looking for an RPG with Mass Effect style dialogue? No, you wanted 
 to blow stuff up with tanks. And holy crap is it fun to do so.
  
  There are so many different vehicles that are fun to go into action with, a major problem you have 
 is choosing which one you want. There are so many things to do on those "long rides" that you sometimes 
 get lost playing an hour just filling your pockets with money by capturing targets and loot.
  
  Is the story immersing? No. If it had been, the score would be higher than 7. Is this game 
 fun? Yes. That's why it deserves a score of more than 5.
  
  P. S. This game really makes blowing inconsequential stuff like houses fun. And for that alone, 
 it deserves more than a 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYFranc
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why Gamespot gave this game such a bad review. Mercenaries 2 is a fun game with fun 
 missions and you even get to use a nuke!
  
  Still, I can understand that the voice acting can be better. Plus, some people probably wish buying 
 stuff was as easy as Mercenaries 1. But for people who treated this game like it should be a blockbuster 
 summer hit, just chill!
  
  You get to blow up a lot of stuff, you get the same characters from the first game and you even 
 get new vehicles to travel in. A variety of new missions and you get a ton of money.
  
  I hope they fix the multiplayer feature soon. Look, if you want a true blockbuster game, buy GTA 
 4 or even Rainbow Six: Vegas. If you like blowing stuff up, buy the game. If you trust your instincts 
 about this game, go with it. Viva la Revoltion! Viva Mercenaries 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomcage
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  more of a response to gamespots criminal review score than an actual review
  This game is all about fun if your the type of person who likes to blow stuff up whilst laughing 
 maniacaly then i suggest you buy this game.
  Sure the game is not with out its flaws it does posses its fair share of bugs
  -inconsistant 
 draw distance (things popping up out of nowhere)
  -terrible AI that seems a lot worse or more noticable than the first game
  -voice acting and 
 the story (neither are really needed for this game to work anyway)
  
  Whilst i support anyone who would argue that GTA4 is better Mercs 2 has something that i believe 
 GTA4 didn't really have and that was a huge sense of fun. The only thing that limits mercs 2's 
 fun is ones imagination i even had a laugh at some of the Garry's Modesc glitches coming out of 
 a shop to find the helicopter i was riding in some how now stacked perilously on a seris of stacked 
 crates (why the game decided to stack the crates on its own and place my chopper on them i able 
 unable to fathom)
  
  However if one can ignore these superficial failings and if youv'e got a friend to play online 
 with your in for one of the best (and quite stable and lag-free) co-op experiences money can buy. 
 Whatever problems or derivative missions that are present in the single player game are completly 
 glossed over when a buddy joins. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadeninja
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I played the first one, and liked it, so I expected to get the same explosive amount of fun out 
 of this game, and low and behold, I got it. Though missions are repetitive, I thought it was fun, 
 when you think about it, all games are repetitive. The story is not incredible and the one-liners 
 your character delivers can get annoying, but it didn't bother me too much. Yes, the game has a 
 little bit of bugs, but none of them are game breaking, or frustrating. The A. I. is not too bright, 
 but I can accept it because there is only one of you and a bunch of them. When you are getting 
 attacked by a guy in a tank, some people with rocket launchers, other people on turrets, and regular 
 soldiers shooting at you, albeit missing a lot, smart A. I. would constantly kill the fun. Online 
 co-op is extremely fun, going around blowing stuff up with a friend is an experience that few games 
 can mimic. In the end, this game is just plain fun, and I believe is worth a look, because there 
 is nothing like blowing up and sinking an oil rig with a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheStuffJMI
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  I don't have any clue why they gave it a 5 rating. Definintely better than a 5. Graphics arn't 
 epic by any means but they are up to par with GTA4 graphics. Some minor bugs at times, like enemies 
 not even shooting at you when you shoot them. But a large scale map with lots of different things 
 to encounter definitely gives this game at least a 7 if not more. I have enjoyed doing random things 
 in the game, like searching the map for hidden large hotels and factions hiding out in the mountains. 
 There arn't even roads to some of the hidden places, so it's fun to explore. The story line isn't 
 the greatest, but lets get real for a second... this is a game soley meant to be played to blow 
 things up and have a good time in doing so. GameSpot needs to rethink their rating for sure. Not 
 sure what game they were playing but it couldn't have been Mercs 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salaczar45
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  ok i know some people dont like this game and that's fine but if u just like sandbox games to blow 
 things up make friends and enemys, money for killing people, big massive explosives, you will get 
 this game. This game in my oppinion and freaking love halo is better than halo.
  THE GOOD:
  Great gameplay Great AI
  
  THE BAD:
  Graphics are decent but to colorful like to much color
 
  Some glitches
  Storyline is a bit shabby but alright
  
  THE AMAZING:
  Amazing explosion (everything in the game pretty much blows up
  Amazing HUD
  Great co-op
  
 Great GAME!
  
  Bottom line:
  it may not be just as good as GTA 4 but catches up with alot of games
  IN my oppinion a must 
 get game
  It is sort of like UNcharted Drakes graphics and shooting but way more fun
  
  I really dont know why GAMESPOT gave this a 5; i knew they were harsh but not this harsh
  GAMESPOT 
 u underate games.
  THis is a game for all ages and is fun for all ages
  
  Fun with playing with friends and alone
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adorable21
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 11, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Now before i really start this i want too say i am a fan of Mercenaries =3 it was a really really 
 fun an original game. NOW that being said, Mercenaries 2: World in flames is an awful excuse of 
 a sequel now i know when i heard it was coming out i was pretty excited because the first game 
 was really good =] . Problem with this game is it feels very un finished or rushed because the graphics 
 are not that great (not that i expected them too be) . But also the voice acting is just annoying 
 in the game the characters never SHUT UP. They cut scenes go too fast and look awful. It's sorta 
 funny seeing the character get shot in the ass. They deserve it for being in such a bad game. The 
 graphics remind me of "just cause" only thing is that game is a bit older and also IT'S A GOOD 
 GAME. Oh well if your a fan you might like it i didn't buy into the hype but oh well ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btwillett2003
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 11, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Look, this is not the greatest game in the world. It does have its' downsides and upsides. So what 
 if it has a small story line or what not, it has guns, tanks, helicopters, airstrikes, etc. The 
 game is just pure fun. You can start up and instantly blow something up, shoot something, and drive 
 something. Yea they could have spent more time tweaking the game to make it a solid game for the 
 critics.
  
  BUT the bottom line is: The game is still really fun to play and blow stuff up. So it deserves 
 a 7 or maybe 8 but not gamespots crappy 5 rating. Where the hell do they find these guys to review 
 the games anyways.
  
  As to this being a short review and has to be 800 characters long, aldkgnas a; lighaw l; akbhaop 
 l; kfbnaorh blah blah blah alkbnaeor ;lakbheorb da; lkj ;alkdfj al; kdjf learn how to review :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMagicMan188
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Merc2 Big Trouble is the Grahpics are like 4 years ago over all . The Big thing is droping Bombs 
 and watching them blow everything up. Driving in the Game feels like a old G. T. A. Game its not 
 bad but not Great. With this being 2008 we the players want it all with Games, Games like Bioshock 
 Fallout3 Gears 2, Merc2 dont hold up with the heavy hitters. Being a 7.5 score in my book its a 
 toss up buy. I did buy it myself and over all happy with Merc2. Few Bugs in the Game but not many 
 i have seen. Gamespot Score of 5.0 dont make any sence in my view better then a 5.0 score. Story 
 in Merc2 is ok i like it the Music is good nothing Great. So give Merc2 a rent and find out for 
 yourself. thanks TheMagicMan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shooter589
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  Well this game is game is fun like all the explosions make the game worth playing, the story of 
 it is pretty weak because all the characters have the exact same story which should have been different, 
 you can get some pretty good fun from the button mashing when you hijack an enemy tank or helicopter, 
 pretty cool side missions where you go and find enemy targets of high value that you can either 
 kill and take a picture to verify or kidnap and call for extraction, pretty cool how they use the 
 whole fuel thing because if you have no fuel you cant call for support actions like have supplies 
 or vehicles dropped or call in air strikes, enemies are pretty easy to kill off if u have big weapons 
 or air strikes, calling in air strikes or artillery strikes are probably the best thing to see 
 in the game cause the blow up everything, enemies buildings, trees etc..., some pretty fun mini 
 games to make easy money in are worth playing i would recommend this game to RENT not buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limafoxtrot
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 11, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  This game is an odd one. As a co-op game it is a blast to play. Open environments, lots to do, 
 many vehicles and a passable story given the franchise. I haven't had this much co-op fun in a 
 long time. The sense of humor in the game is pretty good (although they need 4 times the number 
 of lines) .
  
  HOWEVER - this has got to be one of the buggiest, most unpolished releases I've seen on a console 
 in a long, long time. From AI getting stuck in rocks, to constant lock ups, to spotty hit detection 
 there is plenty of frustration points. 
  
  There are also a host of tiny issues that just make the game feel unfinished. From resource pick 
 ups that tell you both you got an item and that there was no item available (how does that get 
 past testing?) , to wearing an unlocked outfit in some cut scenes but not all of them, to vehicle 
 damage that makes no sense its almost like the developers didn't care if it was done or not. 
 
  
  Oh on the car damage - its so bad you fall off a cliff and talk no damage, yet the arched bridge 
 to your base routinely takes 10-20 point (out of 100) out of your car at moderate speed.
  
  As with many average games missions get a bit repetitive, but the chaos you are causing often covers 
 it up and when running with a mate - its all still fun. Solo it wear on you a bit though.
  
  I don't want to go on and on with issues but they are a plenty - and while most don't break 
 the game - over time they mar the fun tremendously. If you are looking for a great destructive 
 romp with a friend - this game is great for a rental. Its a lot of fun, even if short lived. At 
 the end of which I find myself thinking what a game this could of been had it had some testing 
 and polish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badbakerboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  Ok in my opinion this game has a great story line that you can really get into but lets not kid 
 ourselves this is really just a game that you play if you want to see and be the cause of video-games 
 largest explosions. The main story line is pretty quick if you want to just do contracts but if 
 you do the building destruction and HVT contracts you can really get allot of gameplay out of this 
 with a bit of practice you can get through this game in about 15 hours 100% but i think well just 
 be finishing the game and then showing our friends our NUCLEAR BUNKER BUSTER just to show off. 
 Im just going to show my mates all the cool stuff i can do now iv unlocked huge explosives and 
 my personal favorite the fuel air rpg. Thanks for reading.
  
  This is my first review so don't post bad comments please
  
  
  XBOX LIVE gamertag
  FKxKreed 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rynair9
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, Mercs 2 has fair graphics and the impressive explosive visuals had it moments. 
 But when you competing with games like Call of Duty 4 and Gears of war. You must bring you A-game. 
 I dont consider racing your car against a clock to meet someone or having to take over outpost 
 after outpost the best way they could went about this potentially great game. No longer can you 
 rely on graphics to propel your game into instant classic status. Nowadays with so many publishers 
 out there you need not only excellent graphics, but also good music, storyline, multiplayer, co-op 
 and most importantly replay value. To sum things up you need a good bang for your buck. With games 
 like Fable 2, Fallout 3, GOW 2 comin out soon. Save you $60 dollars and rent it till you beat it. 
 Which will be about 8 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  For me I was going into this game thinking it would be like the first and that it was only gonna 
 be a time killer until Gears2 and fallout 3 came out. But, it actually turned out to be a good 
 game.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are amazing. Not gears level, but for such a massive world they are dang good. The 
 character models are great and the explosions are repetative but pertty. The destruction needs 
 an update though. P. S. alot of glithes.
  
  Sound 
  
  The sound is great. Especially the explosions. Guns all sound the same and voice acting is mediocre 
 expet for Matias and the guy whos name escapes me. The audio does screw up on occasion so sorry 
 for the perfectionists out there I did that for you.
  
  Story
  
  The story sucks.
  
  Gameplay 
  
  The gameplay is repeatative but rewarding at the same time. Blowing $@%* up 
 is the name of the game and is the main highlight (with the exeption of the amazing yet annoying 
 Co-Op.) The vehicular hijacking contact sensitive moments I could have done without.
  
  Overall this game is motha$%#&ing kick ass and you'll love it
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  Sound: 8.5
 
  Story: 4.0
  Gameplay: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10679
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  what can i say. the game mercenaries deserves a better score than 5. this is because i found the 
 game to be more entertaining than the overrated GTAIV. Its a shame that games like these get poor 
 reviews because the person playing is not good at it. 
  
  The funny thing about how reviewers tend to complain about repetitiveness of game which they are 
 not good at but completely forget about it when the game suits their difficulty. For example GTAIV 
 is one the most repetitive game ever created as each mission requires to kill someone or fetch 
 someone and that game last for 100hrs compared to mercenaries 30hrs. The bugs that the reviewers 
 mentioned was non existent when i played it. There are bugs in the game but the bugs don't really 
 effect the game. some of the bugs that i have experienced , actually help me to complete my contract. 
 Well if you want to compare bugs than GTAIV has plenty. One of the bugs that i experienced in GTAIV 
 caused me to replay the mission again. AI in the game seem to pretty intelligent to me . Compared 
 to GTAIV the AI in Mercenaries is definitely smarter. For example in Mercenaries , if you leave 
 things like helicopter the enemy will hijack it and use it against you. that kind AI can't be seen 
 in GTAIV especially in the shooting where your shooters have to survive in order to complete the 
 mission. The AI refuses to follow your instructions like to run away or hide and as result they 
 die. 
  
  the point is that the game shouldn't get a bad review if you personally hate the game because you 
 are not good at it because there are people who believe what the reviewers say and tend not to 
 buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alstevens83
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  World in Flames is the follow up game for Mercenaries: Playground of Destruction, which was a hit 
 for the PS2 and Xbox in 2005, and the story is simple. You play as one of the three mercenaries 
 from Playground of Destruction. Christopher Jacobs who's talent is extra ammo, Jennifer Mui who's 
 talent is extra speed and Mattias Nilsson who is a quick healer (however if you have played Mercenaries 
 1 then you would know that already) . The main over bridging theme of this story is revenge after 
 being shot in the arse (no I am not joking here you actually get shot in the arse) and being ripped 
 off by a wealthy business man you decide to set up camp in Venezuela and decide to dish out your 
 revenge any way possible. Also like another EA based shooter Army of Two you have the tech support 
 Fiona Taylor giving you support and information through out your missions.
  
  The first mission that you play acts as a basic tutorial mode and also sets up the world of the 
 game. The Game graphically might not blow you away at first however once again like alone in the 
 dark the after effects like fire ripping through the trees will leave you shocked and Personally 
 if your playing it on a scart lead then it wont be as impressive as playing it on a 720p or even 
 a 1080p HD TV. Also a good thing, which was included, was the chance to blow away well everything. 
 For example someone was hiding away from myself in a tank and within ten seconds the woods and 
 the tree that he was hidden wasn't there any more. I think nice little touches, which has been 
 brought in since Uncharted and even more recently Bad Company.
  
  Game play stays the same to the first game which is basically you get a mission and in later missions 
 you can choose who to work for unless you have annoyed the wrong people and then it's up to you 
 to get from objective A to objective B by any means. If I had to sum this game up by comparisons 
 then I would say it reminds me of GTA meets Army of Two or any other PMC based game. Basically 
 you can highjack anything car's tanks boats choppers and motorbikes the works. With Tanks and Choppers 
 there is a mini game where you have to press the right buttons in time or bash one button till 
 you have completed that part. Also the actual game is massive upon looking on the PDA I counted 
 at lease seven or eight islands which means that you are going be playing this game for a very, 
 very long time.
  
  In this game you can call in Air strikes either via smoke marker laser (like in last years film 
 Transformers) and your new toy the PDA. The PDA helps list the objectives, acts as a GPS/Sat Nav 
 and general work within the game. The air strikes are stunning and also the after effect of the 
 tactical Nuke is something to see.
  
  Finally there is Co op on the game via the PSN network which means if your mate has the game and 
 wants to help blow anything and everything up and also I would have thought there was other online 
 modes (I will be honest I haven't put the online modes up just yet) also the main killer of this 
 game which is a problem is seems like there is a lot of bugs within the game and glitches. For 
 example I killed a rocket guy in a hut and he jolted around for a minute as his replacement tried 
 his hardest to re spawn into the same place, while that is actually funny to see it's disappointing 
 to see a big game company like EA would release a game where these flaws are quite regular
  
  However there are some bad points and the main one for me is back to the graphics. Sure it 
 looks pretty and nice, however I don't know it feels has moments were it looks like my old PS2 
 could run the game, but saying that it's a lovely game to look at and I am sure having people over 
 watching you play would be drawn into it in the end.
  
  While there Co op online I feel that not including a split screen mode on the game so you can play 
 with your brother/sister or friends playing is a big let down for me. I mean the whole fun of Army 
 of Two or Gears of War is the fact you can have a friend over settle down with a few beers for 
 a night of laughing and joking as you pop some poor solider in the face with a AK 74, also the 
 AI of the troops seem to be basic and very basic at times so predicting when they are going to 
 come out of cover to shoot is easy to work out at times. Also they do not seem to understand the 
 idea of a flanking move which in a sense is a good idea because well if they did that and you was 
 trying to regenerate your health then you would be looking at the game over screen a lot more times 
 that you already do.
  
  Also I know some might think I am picking at faults however I wish they would have included a side 
 arm like a Colt 1911 or a Desert Eagle because having a primary weapon and a heavy support weapon 
 also talking about weapons the guns which are used does not have the same constant power example 
 with one press of the trigger you can pick someone off with a head shot on the other side of the 
 river and then well you can be in close quarters gunfire and hit them in the head and they don't 
 go down. . Also the additional dialogue for the support cast (like the general public and army/PMC 
 ect) seems to have the same five lines just said with different accents and voices.
  
  In a whole baring some problems that EA should have sorted out before releasing it, it is a good 
 game. Not a bad game by any means but there are some parts of it, which could put people off from 
 buying it. For me looking and thinking of the review I can say I enjoy playing it even though the 
 bugs and poor AI can be well a joke. I feel that the game could have done with a split screen co-op 
 mode because well lets face it these sort of games should be done with a friend (s) . However with 
 all these problems aside it is still a very good game, not the greatest I have ever played but 
 it will make a change if your bored of playing GTA 4 or any game like Gears of War, Army of Two 
 or even Bad Company.
  
  This game gets 6.5 out 10 for me if EA had worked on it a bit longer and got rid of some of the 
 bugs and weapon problems then it would have given a 7 or maybe an 8.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pompandpedantry
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  As someone who played the first Merc extensively and purchased Merc 2 on release day, I can tell 
 you that almost all elements of this game have proven to be disappointing.
  
  The graphics are average at best. The dialogue is repetitive and contextually irrelevant. The AI 
 is the opposite of intelligent. The NPCs love nothing more than running out in front of your vehicle. 
 You get to play an unstoppable force of nature taking on corrupt factions in war-torn South America. 
 Unstoppable that is, unless you encounter a bush or some anti-personnel shrubbery. The vehicle 
 and supplies acquisition process has taken a step backwards. Motorcycles that can knock down trees. 
 Poor mission design. The story is not compelling. The voice cast includes scrawny Phil Lamarr yet 
 again playing a burly black soldier bad-ass (it hasn't been believable yet, why would it start 
 now?) . 
  
  On top of all these legitimate reasons to pass on this game, the game experience is marred frequently 
 and consistently by bugs and glitches. Hovering objects, invisible objects, suicidal target objectives, 
 spontaneously exploding vehicles, achievements that randomly occur, clipping, freezing, improperly 
 rendered graphics, etc. etc.
  
  Pass on this one. Do not reward EA and Pandemic for a poor gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ztd89
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  There's not a whole lot to say about this sequel to one of the most flawless games I've ever played. 
 They've stripped away some the best aspects of the game (Deck of 52, anyone?) and replaced them 
 with terrible voice acting, repetitive gameplay, and an uninspired storyline.
  
  The glitches are numerous, obvious, and widespread. There was a moment in my experience in which 
 I proceeded to walk up to a vehicle and the car subsequently flipped over upside down within a 
 split-second. That is not permissible behavior in any video game.
  
  I've also noticed that regardless of your character selection, Nilsson, Mui, and Jacobs all respond 
 to other main characters during the cut-scenes in the same fashion with the EXACT SAME DIALOGUE.
 
  
  The storyline is plain dumb: every faction is fighting for control of the oil reserves, there's 
 one "bad" faction attempting to kill you throughout the game, and everyone else will either befriend 
 you or show hostility based on how you respect or disrespect them (or in some cases, how much you'll 
 bribe them to win said faction back) .
  
  When it comes right down to it, it's simply the fact that the first entry's execution is far better; 
 the concept isn't bad by any means, this stinker just irrefutably taints the series. This endeavor 
 to create a sequel as great as the first is absolutely pathetic in every way imaginable. It fails 
 on many fronts and I'll gladly choose my copy of Mercenaries: Playground of Destruction for the 
 original Xbox over this garbage any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  Mercenaries 2 has had a very bumpy ride ever since it launched its had poor reviews and has been 
 called broken and glitchy by critics and gamers so heres my review for the game enjoy.
  
  Single player
  
  In mercenaries 2 your goal is to kill solano who shoots you in the ass and 
 does not pay you and basically your objective is to work with factions until you can track him 
 down. The game world you play in is pretty big you have skyscrapers jungles villages all can be 
 blown up to your hearts content and its a pretty impressive achievement but the game does have 
 it flaws for example at times the game does look like an xbox game and at times a decent looking 
 game but the textures are very poor i really think they could of polished it more but there you 
 go. The enemys you encounter are not dumb but are not challenging in the least to kill but its 
 still fun to constantly melee them. The game has tons of side missions that weirdly are a lot of 
 fun to play i constantly went to the next just to airstrike again oh and that brings me onto the 
 explosions which are fantastic you can see they really wanted you to go WOW everytime you called 
 one in. The thing i forgot to mention was you can play as 3 different characters chris mattias 
 and jen all are pretty different and all play different but my personal favourite is mattias but 
 i like his personality. You need fuel to use your airstrikes etc but there is tons scattered through 
 the world for you to find and some other things to collect.
  
  The game has 165 vehicles to use but the civ cars are constantly cloned you hardly see much variety 
 and the rare veloce is not as good as i hoped but the real stars for me are the bikes they feel 
 great especially the dirt bikes which can really just go anywhere and are easy to use and also 
 great when you just wanna go off roading. The helicopters have perfect controls but most feel like 
 they can not surpass 5 MPH and make travelling in the air not as quick as you may have expected 
 but they have missiles so you know lol.
  
  The most exciting thing is the nuke which never seems to get old you can constantly use it and 
 just not tire of that mushroom cloud which is stunning to see everytime.
  
  My biggest complaint is the constantly repeated voices i can't stand to listen to "Yes sir we did 
 no sir yes the mercenary" you get the point its the games only real flaw but you get use to it 
 eventually. The big complaint from everyone seems to be that mercs 2 is broken its weird then that 
 ive only witnessed a few glitches but nothing more but hey maybe im lucky.
  
  CO-OP
  Mercenaries 2 is a good laugh with a friend and the most impressive thing is hardly any lag at 
 all even with skyscrapers falling to pieces and its easy to join and help you friend.
  
  Good
  
  Over the top
  large and fully destructible world
  amazing explosions
  impressive 
 co-op
  
  Bad
  constantly repeated voices 
  minor glitches
  
  Verdict
  Mercenaries 2 may not be a proper next gen game but its over the top explosions make it one of 
 the most fun and enjoyable games i have played for a while even with its flaws its reminds us what 
 made games fun in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wooly_mamoth
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  Mercs 2 is a game that even with bad reviews still sells but why is this, DESTRUCTION AND FUN. 
 This game has everything that gamespot simply could not grasp FUN. The game is set in Venezula 
 with a bunch of mercs out for revenge over this dictator who didnt pay you. This story is a simple 
 one but quite enjoyable (i need to nuke the bunker) and gets you looking around the map for stuff 
 and money. The world is huge which helps the game massively for appeal, and driving through it 
 is not really a chore and you can play 'how many glitches can I this'.
  
  This brings me swiftly into the bad parts of the game, the glitches are just annoying and frankly 
 funning in most cases (Choppers spawning in trees and tanks shells that go through solid buildings) 
 and can be good when roaming but just irritating when doing a mission. Also the lack of ammo for 
 some things like RPGs and C4 can make the gameplay more survival than run and gun which makes stuff 
 like building bounties boring and not really worth it. Then there is the AI, the AI is as awful 
 as the BFBC AI but these ones have no concept of following people and long drops (some just drive 
 off broken bridges and die) .
  
  But all of these make people play because it is so bad that it is good, I bought this because i 
 needed a non serious destruction game and a free roamer. This does that with some fun on the side 
 (Misha and Eva are so funny) and i will probable keep this until Fallout 3 anyway due to the big 
 booms and the retarded AI. Achievements are very easy and only a couple are difficult ($1 billion 
 and 50 vehicle driver headshots?!) and will keep most people hooked to see what they have unlocked.
 
  
  Overall, buy this game in a month or so as some patches and maybe the fighter jet DLC will be around 
 to make this game better and more unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: checksum1
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  To be honest I didn't play mercs2 very long. Some key factors made me just want to put it down;
 
  
  the graphics; were essentially xbox graphics, and I know they made a huge 'sandbox world' but what's 
 the point if you can't pull it off visually? games with the 'original xbox' graphics look should 
 not be released. it almost looks like a port from an xbox game.
  
  The aiming; was ok until you zoom in for a shot. As soon as you zoom in your reticle movement sensitivity 
 goes from normal to really really slow. It's jarring and annoying. Try the shooting in COD 4 or 
 even GTA4 and you'll realize how weak this system is. But if you really have a lot of patience 
 and WANT to like this game then I think these points can be overlooked.
  But for myself , I can't overlook issues like this . why? because mercs 1 was waaaaaay better in 
 feel, style and execution than this game is.
  
  The driving also is very floaty. And when you crash into another car there is no damage modelling. 
 even if you're riding a motorcycle and you crash head on you won't get thrown off your bike. you'll 
 just bump the other car and keep driving. This may sound like nit picking but when you add everything 
 up it just gave an overall cheap feeling to the game. what is this, Outrun??
  
  but if you can overlook the faults and get into it, i'm sure there's lots of enjoyment to be had 
 blowing s*** up.
  
  
  I just think games like this , nowadays, shouldn't get a pass. Especially when they're charging 
 full price!! if you really need to play it , rent it first. or even better, get a copy of mercs 
 1 :)
  
  SCORE:
  if this game was $20: 7.5
  
  full price: 3.5
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HistoryRules123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  The only things I have with the game are the limited ammo on all of your vehicles, bodies disappearing, 
 and having to buy new vehicles every time you run out of them. Who agrees that you should have 
 at least unlimited ammo on your vehicles? I used up all of my rockets and machine gun ammo in like 
 5 seconds, and it's not much fun in a helicopter without rockets. 
  Another thing is that nearly all new genereation systems don't have dead bodies disappearing. I 
 have always hated that, and I wish the bodies stayed there in the game for a while, until you walk 
 away from the area.
  Lastly, I think it's really annoying to go and buy new vehicles every time you use them up. Can't 
 you just have an infinite amount? I don't care really about realism in this game, I just want to 
 blow everything up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timinwyoming
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I felt that the graphics were better in the first Mercenaries game but overall the graphics aren't 
 too shabby. This game offers great game-play with a world that is entirely destructible. You can 
 hop in any vehicle that is seen in the game, big or small, which I felt is a great plus! The world 
 is open to explore with many missions and mini missions available. I'm disappointed with the low 
 score that GameSpot gave this game at a 5.0 being mediocre. GameSpot almost always rates these 
 games accurately but I feel they failed to accurately score this game. I agree more with the user 
 score of 8.0. I personally score this game around a 8.5 just below Grand Theft Auto, Bad Company, 
 and Call of Duty. If your looking for hours of fun and destruction, I would recommend this game 
 to anyone. Mercenaries is a game that grows on you once you get into the game. There are a lot 
 of similarities with this game and Grand Theft Auto, with the various missions that you are able 
 to select and the wide open map that your able to explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Y2k17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I have not played very far into the game, but so far I like what I have played. 
  
  The graphics have improved (obviously) and that in turn makes the explosions more enjoyable.
 
  
  The voicing is kind of lame and flat. Mattias is alright, Fiona is good, Ewan is pretty good as 
 well. 
  
  The controls are somewhat difficult. Maybe it's just a matter of turning the sensitivity down, 
 but it's hard to shoot at moving targets.
  
  I love the environment though. It's as if they smashed Mercs 1 and Far Cry 1 into each other. 
 
  
  I'm not too thrilled about having to go to stores to buy supplies. It kind of ruins what was the 
 best thing about Mercs 1, being able to make decisions on the fly to suit your destructive needs. 
 Now you have to be more responsible and plan things out or at least come prepared and where's the 
 fun in that.
  
  Overall, though, this game is going great so far and I recommend it to anyone who liked the first 
 or anyone who is on the fence. If you like gaming for the storyline, though, I would recommend 
 that you broaden your horizons and venture out to playing Mercs 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twikee86
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  At the start of the game I was not surprised to see that the story line was not a work of art. 
 After all mercenaries is about big explosions and lots of gunfire. When I first started I was hooked 
 on the game, and stayed hooked til the end of the story.
  The straight up PROS: 
  -Good music. It flows nicely with the type of game and setting.
  -Great explosions, and lots 
 of them. Mercenaries is a very destructible game. It's a bundle of fun to stock up on air strikes 
 and attack helicopters and level an entire city.
  -Co-op. Co-op mode is a somewhat iffy subject in M2, so its going in both pros and cons. It's great 
 fun to go around with a friend and complete the story, or even just free play and ,together, blow 
 as much up as you can and piss off all the factions.
  -The achievments. They are easy to get just playing the story. All of them go with the game and 
 are a blast to get (Pun Intended :) ) .
  -A multitude of weapons/store items. This game has an amazing variety of items to purchase and 
 pick up. Each air strike is unique and B-A-utiful. There are also quite a few weapons and vehicles.
 
  -Picking from 3 mercenaries. I have only experienced 2 of the mercenaries, but it is rather interesting 
 to catch the small differences in dialogue and also to take on other tactics in the battlefield. 
 It's a nice touch in the game.
  
  The downright CONS:
  -All guns seem to have the same accuracy. Whether it be the carbine, AK, automatic rifle, or light 
 MG, they all seem to have bad accuracy. It takes me around 15-30 shots to kill one enemy (Infantry 
 of course) . 
  -The graphics. The graphics are nowhere near as bad as to distract from the gameplay. This con 
 is not a big one. If your like me, and are in it mostly for gameplay and not necessarily the graphics 
 then you'll enjoy this game just fine. They are by far not the best, but definitely not the best.
 
  -Co-op. The major problem with co-op is that frigin' red circle. In co-op its set up so you cannot 
 travel too far from your partner otherwise bad things happen. Also in co-op you can only work on 
 one persons game at a time, there is no function allowing a strictly co-op game only that you and 
 your friend can save and load up anytime together.
  -The dialogue. The dialogue is not too horrible, but is not top notch. It feels as if the characters 
 are being forced to say their lines, and it doesn't flow too well. There are ,however, some funny 
 moments throughout the conversations in the game.
  
  Neither Pro Nor Con:
  -The difficulty. The game is easy... it's that simple. Some people have problems with this. I don't 
 mind. It's a game of massacres (too put it violently) , hundreds of people dieing because of you, 
 and all kinds of stuff being blown up, it doesn't need to be hard for you to enjoy it. The difficulty 
 is neither a pro nor a con in my opinion. 
  -Replayabilty. Some people will want to play this game for a while, others will only want to play 
 the story and maybe blow up a city or two after, and be done with it. 
  
  Well, there it is. Mercenaries 2. I enjoyed but not all people will. If you like large explosions, 
 destructible environments, and more large explosions. And if you don't mind the graphics and shallow 
 story, then you'll like Mercenaries 2. 
  
  ....... BOOM! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALBNCState12
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Overall this game is pretty good. Graphics could be better, but arn't bad. Cars should be more 
 detailed. Explosions are impressive. Some of the air strikes are too similar. The guns arn't that 
 impressive and some sound too alike. Shooting a gun should feel more personnel. I have already 
 beat the game and it was too easy. It could also be longer. As long as you have a helicopter the 
 missions are easy. The story was good in my opinion. There should have been more variety in the 
 missions. Enemy AI isn't bad for this game. Nuclear Bunker buster should do more damage, and the 
 distanced the laser can go to designate a target should be increased just for this air strike. 
 The secret parts located throughout the map are too hard to find. They, mercenaries executives, 
 should at least release a map with all their locations. I enjoyed playing the game. It is one of 
 my favorites. Hopefully they will make the minor changes needed for mercenaries 3 in India. If 
 you liked the first one, you will like the second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grubish360
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is very glitchy, I once was driving a boat with my friend on Xbox live, and another boat 
 some how was jammed into the boat I was driving. Your health gets taken down easily, but once your 
 at 1 health, it seems like you can't die. You can jump hundreds of feet out of a helecopter and 
 you won't die. There's a lot of destruction in this game, which makes it great. Multiplayer is 
 a plus, but its only online. One thing I hate is you need to collect oil, and bombs to use airstrikes, 
 which is really annoying. You need oil for anything you order. The GPS is horrible. The nuclear 
 bunker buster is a win though. It looks amazing on the Xbox 360. Another bad thing is when your 
 driving civilians will always run in front of you causing you to hit them and a kill them. When 
 you kill a civilian you loose money. The grappling is awesome. It makes it a lot easier to hi-jack 
 helecopters. Rent this game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edge426723
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 9, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  i purchased Mercs 2 the monday after it came out. i had high hopes for this game seeing that Mercs 
 1 was a blast. but after almost three and a half years in the makeing they mandged to create a 
 Lame ass story that revolves around you getting shot in the ass. a fith grader could of thought 
 of a better story line. second was the voice acting. the three main characters Voice acting is 
 great but every other person in the game is horrible. you adviser fiona never shuts up and repeats 
 the same three lines every thirty seconds. what i took particluly annoying was the AN soldiers 
 who seem to all come from california and just got boared surfing. the UP mercenarys never shut 
 up and the other faction do much the same. next up is the actual game play. i found that when i 
 was driving a heavy tank that even in the most unrealistic game will lay waste to any thing but 
 in Mercs 2 i hit the guardrail and took 10 vehicle damage. walking can be dangerous. i jumped two 
 feet and took 10 damage. overall this game should not have been released until at least march next 
 year. too many bugs to even put up with a rent if you really want to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEANMACHINE15
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  Mercs2 is an explosive action game set in war torn venezuala which any thing can be either blown 
 up set alight and nothing can stand up to u to stop you so basically ure pretty much untouchable.
 
  
  You have the choice to play as 3 mercenaries who can do different things. you have mathias nillson 
 who is sweedish and just loves to blow things up and he can regenarates health quicker, you have 
 chris jacobs an american mercenary who is a hearty larger than life figure and always reacts with 
 a wry smile smile or a sarcastic remark, and finally you have jennifer mui who is a chinese female 
 who can run faster and is the most expensive mercenary on the earth and she focuses on nothing 
 else apart from herself and money.
  
  Hired by ramon solano, the richest man in venezuala you fight your way onto an island where the 
 leader of the venezualan army, general carmona, is being held captive against his will. once liberated 
 he joins forces with solano and conspire to overthrow the goverment but 
  solano doesnt pay you for the job you did for him and he declares himself president, while you 
 declare you will get your money or your revenge even if the whole country gets blown to pieces.
 
  
  This is your kind of environment. Mercenaries 2 features the latest and most dangerous in civilian 
 and military tech, everything from shiny new sports cars, to the future-tech satellite-guided bunker-busting 
 mini-nuke. Tanks, APCs, boats, luxury automobiles  you name it, you can have it delivered to you 
 in real time. And if you run out of cash you can always 'acquire' the gear you need in the field. 
 If you see it, you can buy it, steal it, or blow the living crap out of it. Play your own way, 
 or play with the help of a friend in the new cooperative multiplayer mode. You are not a soldier. 
 You don't have to play by anyone's rules. You have your own code: you will fulfill the terms of 
 the contract, no matter what.
  
  Not everyone in the world of Mercenaries is as honorable. Everyone will try and screw you, given 
 the chance. They think they can get away with it, because they don't know rule #1: EVERYBODY PAYS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomie
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 9, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  I recall a great deal of concern when EA began snapping up developers in the last year or so. Would 
 the corporate giant squash the creativity and innovation of smaller studios as they were brought 
 into a larger entity. I recall a fun and enjoyable game from a few years ago on the original Xbox 
 that was abandoned by a publisher with a history of not caring about anything except what carried 
 a certain movie franchise's title.
  
  Now, let me tell you about today. I am disappointed by Mercenaries 2. The English language does 
 not have the words to adequately express the depth of my disappointment. I love sandbox games, 
 and I look forward to almost all of them. I love the GTA series, but I don't expect other sandbox 
 games to live up to that franchise's benchmarks. Mercenaries 2, however, is clearly the type of 
 experience that no one wanted in the wake of EA's developer buyout spree. If this game is the result 
 of noninterference with a developer, then send in the corporate goons. Please. I don't know what 
 EA's expectations were for this title, but I do know that sequels get made because they usually 
 make money.
  
  Let me save you 59.99 plus tax.
  
  This game will not bring back your fond memories of the original. The sequel keeps the original's 
 charcters, faction mechanics to a degree, title, and "blow any/everything up" idea; but that's 
 it. The characters' special abilities have been changed and shuffled around. The faction system 
 is silly as you progress the storyline. And as for destroying anything in the game, that seems 
 to depend on what that something might be.
  
  Environmental destruction brings its own kind of satisfying element to any game like this. Seriously, 
 who doesn't want to drop bombs on buildings and watch them crumble into smoking ruin? Mercenaries 
 2 delivers this experience, hard. But after getting caught and stopped by a bush or fern while 
 sprinting through a HOT LZ for what seems like the millionth time in this game; I would trade all 
 my bunker busters, artillery strikes, cluster bombs, tank busters, recoilless rifles, RPG's, air 
 fuel rockets, C4 satchels, LMG's, assault rifles, grenades, tanks, helicopters, and unlockable 
 costumes for a machete. That's right, a machete! Or a knife! Or a Zippo! Anything that could defeat 
 the native flora of Venezuela.
  
  Also gone is the deck of cards. Instead of giving you a list of targets in a deck of cards, each 
 faction has a list of targets they want captured or killed. Instead of advancing the story, these 
 captures advance each faction's shop inventory. After the second faction: yawn.
  
  What went wrong? What happened in beta testing? Was it more important to put product on shelves, 
 than quality into the game? I won't bother you anymore. This is less a review than it is a rant 
 of frustration. I feel tricked. I feel used. My friends have played this same game, and lived with 
 the glitches and bugs. I won't, not any longer. To Pandemic and EA I say this: Don't let this game 
 be an indictment of your merger. Don't let this game become the first of many that roll a critical 
 failure. Don't become the publisher, EA, that let's all other things besides your core titles suffer 
 from negligence. This game could've been good, and that's what really hurts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catdadanddog
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  What really pulls this game down is the bugs and it is so riddled with bugs that it feels like 
 a test copy. Blow apart a building and the enemies that were inside still shoot at you from underground. 
 Cut scenes have missing audio. Choppers, crates and parts of things stick to the sky as if they 
 are glued there. I don't believe the game was ever polished. Manual saves are a waste of time because 
 you can't go back and reload them. There isn't even an option to load a manually saved game. When 
 the game is running smooth it is fun to play. But the bugs are ever present right up until the 
 end. There is no new game plus to let you test out your acquired toys, but you can run around and 
 screw with the remaining factions.
  
  Over at the pandemic website forum there is a sticky topic where you can post the bugs you have 
 encountered to the developers so they can "address them." This may be the new form of game testing. 
 You buy a retail beta and report problems to the developers website. They "address them" and then 
 offer a patch for 1,200 MS points over live. 
  
  Pandemic let the players down on this one. Took their money and ran. The game does not deserve 
 praise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BUD007
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  5.0? come on this game deserves hell of allot better then that. This game does have its minor bugs 
 and glitches but its still a great game. The story is alright, and its fun working for the different 
 factions. Pretty much everything in this game is destructible, you can use rocket launchers to 
 air strikes or just use a good ole fashion tank to blow stuff up, and any vehicle can be hijacked, 
 also hijacking helicopters is allot easier now as well using the grapple hook you get. There's 
 more though that it could use like being able to store vehicles at your PMC base for example. You 
 can choose from 3 characters and each has there own special abilities, like one of them is faster, 
 other one is stronger and the other can heal faster. Over all, I thought this was great game with 
 allot to do in it. Its worth buying or renting just to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcraine
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I'm amazed that GameSpot gave this a 5.0. When I compare it to Alone in the Dark, which got a 6.5 
 (sure... it's a different style of game, but the ratings are supposed to account for that) I'm utterly 
 dumbstruck. Alone in the Dark actually does SICK. It is chock full of bugs that directly affect 
 gameplay, is virtually uncontrollable, and so chopped up that I just gave up on it. Mecenaries 
 2, on the other hand, at least keeps you coming back. Sure there are bugs, but nothing that makes 
 it unusable. Personally, I would like to be able to alter the controls to switch them around, I 
 much prefer using triggers for acceleration and braking rather than buttons, but I can get used 
 to that. The sound effects of some of the guns is a little cheap, but the explosions are great. 
 And virtually everything is destructible. There's a wide variety of weapons to choose from and 
 some are very cool. Using artillery to destroy buildings is pretty awesome. The story is tolerable. 
 It's not Mass Effect, but it's substantial enough to keep things moving along. Once you get used 
 to the setup (the use of factions, restocking and refueling, etc) the game starts getting better. 
 As you move through the story and acquire additional partners who provide you with additional capabilities 
 which make the game more interesting and are required to continue through the story. 
  I'm usually down with the GameSpot reviews, but this one is way off. If you like explosions and 
 open worlds then this is a good game for you. There's also a co-op mode for 2 players, which is 
 pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Chozo
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I don't know what game the people who reviewed this game with a rating over 5 are playing. 
 This game has the most ridiculous bugs and glitches (though sometimes funny such as swimming in 
 the sand) . The graphics are pretty pathetic at this point in time. It looks like a ps2 or regular 
 xbox game to be honest. There aren't nearly enough variety of weapons, it takes forever to die, 
 and it gets boring rather quickly. If you are in a car and it explodes, sometimes you won't even 
 lose health. You just fly out of the car and land on the street. Sometimes you will hit someone 
 with a vehicle and they will just slide to the side as if you drove beside them. The voice acting 
 is awful and the lines that the awful voice actors say are even worse. I got this game for $20 
 bucks because I know someone that works at EA and he got it for me and I still feel ripped off. 
 The gamespot reviewer hit the nail on the head when he said that it is a broken game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSgt_Mapp
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot has been pretty hard as of lately when reviewing games. Gamespot laid the smack down on 
 the review for Too Human but I am going to open my mouth and write a review for gamers who just 
 want to blow up anything in sight for no reason at all. Mercenaries 2 has improve from the first 
 Mercenaries game on the Oringal Xbox. My only problem with Mercenaries 2 is I run out anmo to blow 
 up things! The Graphics are good to go! This game has some of the best detial to life like water 
 that I have seen so far on a nextgen console. The sound is perfect no complaints there. The A. I. 
 of the game is perfect because I am in the Military myself and have seen combat. The A. I. in this 
 game and intelligences of the enemies in Iraq are about same so it is perfect to me! The story 
 is not strong at all but really you know what needs to be done. Blow trash up and get paid. If 
 you don't get paid, well blow some more trash up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Mercs 2 is a sequel to a sleeper hit called mercenaries (in which you were in a sandbox North Korea 
 and blow anything up) in this game you are in a MASSIVE sandbox Valenzuela in which if you see 
 it you can climb it, go to it, blow it up etc etc but it was held back for month to iron out allot 
 of glitches yet I don't see anything fixed at all 
  
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The game is basically like the first one a open sandbox world that anything can be destroyed and 
 every car or vehicle can be hijacked and if you kill civilians you lose 10 K but there is a difference 
 from this game first you have to recruit 3 people a helicopter pilot who delievers your stuff, 
 picks up stuff for you and like in GTA acts like a taxi and picks you up and sends you to certain 
 spots in the game, second person is a mechanic who is basically useless she just makes custom vechicles 
 from parts you find hidden randomly all over and they are overly priced and not worth it in the 
 end and finally a jet pilot who (you guessed it) drops bombs
  
  also another difference is in the 1st one in the first game you basically had an unlimited amount 
 of airstrikes or vehicles (provided you had the money) but now you need to either find the airstrikes (randomly 
 hidden all over like the spare parts) or buy them or buy vehicles from certain shops that each 
 faction opens up so you want that Chinese tank? go find the outpost that sells it a buy it then 
 you have to send out your smoke beacon and your pilot delivers it to you also there is fuel consumption 
 that basically you need fuel to do everything you want to drop a bombing run? make sure you have 
 enough fuel to find fuel you have to steal it (via helicopter) from factions or the Venezuelan army 
 BUT if you do steal it from a friendly faction they will shoot and report you so run away fast 
 
  
  
  The gameplay is fun it is mostly run and gun it is kinda hard to die and basically you do missions 
 for 5 factions the more missions you do the more they like you and give you more stuff to buy a 
 cool part is you can betray friendly factions without any consequence how you do it is start killing 
 and then one person in the army you are attacking will "report" you to who is in charge you basically 
 have 10 seconds (it is timed) to kill them or run far away then the next person who does it then 
 the next etc etc so basically you could have killed a whole division and if not reported the faction 
 will still like you also remember the deck of 52 well they replaced it with HVT's (High value targets) each 
 faction has a certain amount and you can do them any time you want and you can capture them for 
 the full price or kill them and get half how can I forget online Co-op you play the whole game 
 with a partner online which to me is amazing
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  The game's graphics aren't that bad as people say when you call in certain strikes some are amazing 
 to look at while others (like the laser guided bomb) aren't that impressive the jungles look good 
 the buildings are decent looking the civilians look weird the armies are good and the guns look 
 good long story short not the best looking game BUT it also isn't the worst
  
  
  
  
  Sound:
  
  The game has some weird sounds and I'll explain sometimes the strike don't sound 
 loud enough, the guns don't sound that good I mean the SAW (a huge machine gun) sounds like a silenced 
 weapon also the voice acting is solid and they do use the same voices from the 1st game BUT the 
 problem is everything is repeated over and over again I can quote everything I am about to mute 
 the game from it 
  
  
  
  
  Pros:
  
  Everything can be destroyed, just a blast, tons and tons of side missions, when you finally get 
 the nuke its awesome, factions don't immediately become hostile when you shoot them, the sheer 
 size of the environment, quick transport saves a bunch of time 
  
  
  
  
  Cons: (there is many so bear with me)
  
  Too many glitches from people stuck inside walls, to 
 friendlies shooting at you for no reason, wonky physics, car controls like there are on ice or 
 oil, brain dead A. I. makes HVT captures impossible (they kill there own guy they are suppose to 
 protect, respawning enemies in certain building causes frustrating deaths, when units report you 
 sometimes they are too far away to shoot so the whole 10 seconds are up and the whole faction hates 
 you, if you fall like 2 feet you lose health even if you land in water, vehicle damage is weird 
 you don't damage your car if you run head on into a tank BUT damage it by lightly touching a wall, 
 very repetitive missions, very weak story line, camera angle while driving is sometimes too low 
 or high, when you die you start out with only a pistol with 15 rounds, trying to find the right 
 goddam outpost that sells what I want, can't buy a gun from outposts but actually the support drop 
 that has it, very annoying one liners over and over again 
  
  
  
  Overall:
  
  The game is basically a mess lol but it is very fun I don't know why but the game is a blast I 
 actually spent two hours just walking and attacking china and hijacking boats if you can tolerate 
 it then go for it because it is a great game I feel the good somehow in a way out weighs the bad 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diyman251
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I find the game spot reviewer score quite low, as they may have only played a couple hours at most.
 
  Not all games can be scored just on a quick play.
  This game takes a little while just to get used to and build up your arsenal of ammunition, once 
 you have, you are on your way.
  What makes this better than the last Mercenaries it that it is less confusing to tell between your 
 friend and the enemy, then of course you can become friends with all the factions after building 
 up your money or bribing them through fiona.
  
  The most frustrating part is clearly when you die you you are placed back at the first outpost 
 that you control in the game, and will have to go back to where you where before, but you can use 
 you helicopter to take you from a to b more quickly by a pilot, even though it cost you some fuel 
 which is what the game is all about. 
  
  as you get further on this game it gets a lot more interesting, more islands open up, and a lot 
 more bigger jobs which mean even bigger explosions, and a lot more money, and when you get you full 
 team at your home base things get even more exciting as you are given a pilot, mechanic, and a grapple 
 hook to hijack helicopters.
  
  I was not expecting to much from this game, but was pleasantly surprised as to how hooked i was. I 
 am over 50% through the game and still no where near bored, a comment was mentioned about the fact 
 that when you are in a big fight you end up with no chance and keep dying, this is not the case 
 and if you just think of a good strategy there is no problem. Its also been mentioned that you may 
 as well skip the cut scenes because they are rubbish, they may well be but they do matter and you 
 may get lost and confused if you do miss them as there are hints and tips to the game.
  
  The problems the game does have is with some of the AI who do just stand there and get stuck with 
 in the game, but this does not take the fun out of the game, also when the helicopter comes in for 
 a pick up for fuel or ammunition and cash it will also get stuck and will not move for a while, a 
 little frustrating at times.
  
  So to sum up this is a great game for some one who loves blowing up everything in site, shooting, and 
 using loads of vehicles, if you liked crackdown, then i feel this is 10 times better, maybe over 
 priced a bit considering a lot of games bought over the internet are know around the 35.00 (u. k) 
 or less at times on certain sites, The graphics are also still not up to the so called next generation 
 graphics, but still a lot better than merc 1 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkytheWiz1
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for the goods/bads, scroll down. If you're looking into ALL factors as to why 
 I'm giving the game a 7.0, then please begin here:
  
  Now that I've beaten it...
  Gamespot's 5.0 is sounding more correct (though, still lower than what it should be) .
  
  I'm 
 personally saying 7.0 now, down from my original 8.5 (given after 10 hours of gameplay, even before 
 being introduced to AN and China) .
  
  
  I've done everything.
  Shooting challenges, racing challenges, escort challenges, transport challenges, HVTs, target buildings, 
 outposts...
  The only thing that I have not done (nor do I -really- want to spend time doing now, since it's 
 really the only thing left) is searching for the 100 maintanence parts.
  
  Without a World In Flames mode (basically, you restart the game with EVERYTHING you have at the 
 end of the game) , I have no real reason to continue anymore. Even if it is released as DLC, I still 
 won't be able to get it (I don't have Xbox Live) . I'm burnt out on calling in random airstrikes 
 and making random factions angry with me (I actually just beat the game today, I've spent the majority 
 of the time just fooling around, I currently have 42 hours of gameplay under my belt, about 12 
 hours of which were because I really didn't have anything else to do, other than college homework) .
 
  
  
  THE GOOD AND THE BAD, BAD FIRST:
  The glitches, though not game-disrupting, are continuing to add to the annoyance-factor. (And, 
 no, Fiona. I don't want to go back to the PMC and talk to you. Leave me the **** alone.)
  Such glitches are...
  -Ewan not picking up/delivering.
  -Some airstrikes not going through.
 
  -Spontaneous vehicular explosions. (Sounds fancy, eh?)
  -The ragdoll physics, when you're blown out of a vehicle, prevent you from moving until after you're 
 done sliding. Not a problem? Try sliding down a 300m hill at a meter per second. It's annoying 
 not to be able to move while being shot.
  
  
  The glitch list DOES NOT include those that are preventing people to play the game at all or cause 
 errors in co-op play (neither of which I have personally seen) .
  
  
  Some new problems that should've been left alone
  (Like they were in Mercenaries 1) ...
  -Wasting 
 a clip when I reload after 2 or 3 shots (yeah, it's realistic. If I wanted realistic, I'd go join 
 Blackwater. Mercenaries is about un-realism... or can you personally call in a nuke?)
  -No WiF mode, like I stated already.
  -Lacking in number of missions (I don't consider getting 
 outposts as "missions." I consider getting all of these outposts as "repetitive.")
  -The RPG AI leaning out of houses. It's incredibly annoying how they'll still shoot you when you 
 stand next to them at the window.
  -The button-mashing sequences, though a nifty (yes, nifty) idea, gets really reptitive when, everytime 
 I finally get hold of the vehicle, it gets blown away (or out of the sky) by other vehicles, requiring 
 me to repeat the process if I'd like another vehicle.
  -Merchant of Menace was awesome in the first game. While I love seeing my stockpile grow, I hate 
 thinking to myself during "missions", "No, I can't use that now... it's the only one I have left."
 
  -As someone else pointed out, the Pirates faction seems almost pointless, as if they were supposed 
 to have some significant influence that was forgotten to be implimented.
  
  
  IMPROVEMENTS over the first include:
  -Better graphics (though, they should be. Mercs 1 was on 
 PS2 and Xbox)
  -Better explosions
  -More variety of vehicles, guns, airstrikes.
  -Ability to transit
  -The PMC/stockpile
  -I personally enjoyed the recruits and their humor, 
 though some of seen this as negative.
  -Motorcycles, boats, ability to swim
  -99% destructible enviornments that actually fall apart and create debris instead of just falling 
 down.
  
  I'm not trying to rant or bash the game (hence why I posted what I saw as improvements as well) . 
 I'm giving my opinion, my own "review," I guess.
  
  
  If there's a Mercs 3, I'll probably rent it, until I'm sure that it's a Mercs 1 game with JUST 
 improvements.
  
  
  
  To those who try to tell me not to whine, complain, moan, etc...
  I paid money for a game that 
 was promised to be an improvement over the first.
  As hundreds of people have stated, there's not much improvement.
  "Oh, but the game was rushed..."
 
  "Oh, but the developers worked their butts off, sweated and bled for this game, etc., etc., etc."
 
  I know... but the game isn't even polished to Mercenaries: Playground of Destruction standards, 
 which were on PS2 and Xbox. This should be an ALL-AROUND improvement, but isn't. The first game 
 didn't have the hype, nor the publisher (though, God, why did it have to be EA?) and it was still 
 a really good game, missing 95% of the glitches from Mercs 2. And with the extra 8-9 months of 
 delay... what did they fix?
  
  Thank you, and, hopefully you are able to enjoy Mercenaries 2: World in Flames. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paulmp3bbb
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 8, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  This game does not have one or two bug but many. I had gained 15 different achievements including, 
 Game Completion and 1 Billion by simply turning on my 360. Not only is it nearly impossible to 
 die but you also have to obtain fuel and pay for your airstrikes/supplies before you can use which 
 is extremely difficult to do. Before you can do this you must find someone selling these items 
 which may have to be unlocked before you can even do this.
  
  Granted it has its advantages but when you can get stuck between cliffs and the edge of the map 
 I say "What A Disgrace".
  
  Now I've heard people complaining about this game and some people just love it, but they haven't 
 all played the first. Mercs 1 was one of my favourite games and I was extremely happy when I found 
 out about a sequel, but this was "A COMPLETE LETDOWN".
  
  Both EA Games and Pandemic are great game publishers but "EA And Pandemic Should Be Ashamed of 
 Them Selves". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armydude101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  If you've played the first one, you should know what to expect. This game is over-the-top, huge 
 world exploding action. It's a blast to play, but it comes with a price, a price that clearly needs 
 to be lower than $60.
  
  I own the Xbox 360 version, and I have to say, everyone is being a little too harsh on this game. 
 Yes, it is bug ridden, but about 99% of the time it's not a bug that would stop the game (Personally, 
 I have yet to experience one) . The missions do get repetitive, and sometimes while doing a race 
 type mission it gets almost impossibly hard to finish because of the lousy AI that randomly blow 
 you up, but it is still achievable.
  
  Co-op is a blast to play, although that is bug ridden as well. Based on personal experience, the 
 EA servers for Mercs 2 fail miserably; the only people I can play with are my friends, and the 
 occasional random person that joins my game. But, if you have a friend that also has it, prepare 
 for some fun.
  
  I would strongly recommend renting this game, but that's it. Rent it, don't buy it. It's not worth 
 the $60 dollar price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 8, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  For developer Pandemic and publisher EA, releasing Mercenaries 2 at the front-end of the holiday 
 rush seemed like a wise decision on their part. The first game, released in 2005, was well received 
 by critics and gamers alike for its over-the-top but solid gameplay, impressive storyline and diverse 
 and eccentric cast of characters. For the second game, the guys at Pandemic promised a bigger and 
 better playground of destruction, with more explosions and, of course, more fun. They did deliver 
 on the bigger part, but sort of missed the boat on the better part.
  
  Mercenaries 2 is a botched-up, bug-riddled mess of a game. One has to wonder what the testers on 
 this game were on to miss all of the glitches that oftentimes hinder the gameplay in frustrating 
 and annoying ways. You'll start off by picking your Merc from the cast of returning characters. 
 Each one has a special ability: Mattias Nilsson's health regenerates faster, Chris Jacobs can carry 
 more ammo and Jennifer Mui runs faster. No matter who you choose, the storyline will remain exactly 
 the same throughout the course of the game. Bottom line, you get double-crossed by Ramon Solano, 
 a power-hungry political figure who takes over as dictator of Venezuela after a militaristic coup. 
 After hiring you for a job, he doesn't pay up and even tries to kill you, which is a big no-no 
 when you're dealing with a mercenary. You'll then go on this ridiculous quest for revenge which 
 will eventually bring you face to face with Solano. The premise is out of place for a game like 
 this, making the story an ambiguous mess.
  
  As you try and find where Solano is hiding, you'll need to take on jobs for the different factions 
 in the game so they can give you information on his whereabouts. Although they drive different 
 vehicles and offer different types of supply packages for you to pick up, all of them possess the 
 same braindead AI. In fact, every non-human controlled character in this game has the AI of a lemming, 
 if not worse. Soldiers from a friendly faction will often lunge themselves in front of your bullets 
 or rockets, making said faction hostile towards you and often bringing the mission to an abrupt 
 end. Enemy soldiers will just stand there and not notice you even though you're standing right 
 next to them. Even worse, they will disregard their own faction's equipment or companions just 
 to gun you down. As for Venezuela's denizens, they'll casually run in front of your car when you're 
 driving down the road, costing you some money each time. Instead of running away from danger, they'll 
 rush right into it and most likely die from your bullet fire or artillery strikes. All of this 
 horrendous AI make the game more frustrating than it should be.
  
  As for the gameplay proper, there are some fun moments to be had, if you disregard a host of other 
 annoying glitches and bugs and some repetitive sequences. Launching an artillery strike on a building 
 and watching it crumble to the ground will leave you in awe and put a smile on your face. Sadly, 
 that feeling fades away much too quickly because the buildings or structures crumble in the exact 
 same way every time. Your Mercenary also has the ability to hijack tanks and helicopters during 
 the course of the game, but once again, these scripted button-mashing sequences are recycled throughout 
 and are identical each time you decide to hitch a ride. Of course, since this is a third-person 
 shooter, you'll be packing some heat. Although there is a wide variety of guns to choose from, 
 the subtle differences between them aren't enough to differenciate one from another. The fact that 
 you need to press a button to pick up ammo is ridiculously annoying to boot. Overall, the shooting 
 and driving mechanics work well and are very easy to get into.
  
  Sadly, other annoying bugs hinder some gameplay mechanics which should've flowed seamlessly. For 
 starters, the map is huge and, even though your helicopter pilot can pick you up anywhere, he can't 
 drop you off where you'd want him to, meaning that you'll have to find other ways of transportation 
 to make it where you want to go. If you die, you'll respawn at the faction's camp for which you 
 were doing the contract for, or you'll respawn in your home base, which means that you'll have 
 to trek all the way back to your destination once again. Speaking of your helicopter pilot, he 
 will sometimes deliver supply crates on top of buildings, out of your reach. At other times, soldiers 
 will glitch in a window or next to a vehicle, making it impossible to kill them. I've even seen 
 a helicopter disappear in thin air while I was riding in it.
  
  There exists one saving grace to this game, it's the online co-op. Having a human counterpart playing 
 with you makes a world of difference and adds an extra coat of fun to the proceedings. Those long 
 car or helicopter rides can be spent chatting with your buddy, for example. The online is lag-free 
 and works extremely well, although the same bugs and glitches from the single player component 
 will always be present while you play. If it wasn't for the co-op, this game would've fallen under 
 the "bad memory" section of my video game stockpile.
  
  In the end, there's this uneasy feeling that Pandemic and EA rushed this product onto store shelves 
 to benefit from the early seasonal rush, making it a tangled mess of bugs and glitches that could've 
 easily been avoided with just a little bit more care. The bad voice acting, cringe-inducing story 
 and ugly graphics don't help matters any. This game could've been so much more. Thankfully, it's 
 quasi-perfect online mode is there to save the day and make us temporarily forget how broken the 
 actual game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinmichael111
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game if you like the genre, and especially if your a fan of the previous installment. 
 I felt I should write a review on this game since the Review posted on this sight is a joke IMO. 
 The graphics are decent, the sound is good, the story sucks, coop is great fun, and this is one 
 of those games thats good to play through on a rent, or if you have money to spend its ok. Online 
 has been positive for me. I have it set up where any of my friends can join my game, not the genral 
 public. With that, I have had no issues with connections, lag, or whatever people are saying is 
 so bad about this title. 
  There is a lot of things to do in this game aside from the main story which really isn't much of 
 a story. There have been numerous other releases as of late getting scores far above a 5, whats 
 mercs 2 got, and they just down right suck. Too human also got a poor review but abased on the 
 genre its not that bad! I used to like a 2nd opinion from Gamespot but between mercs2 and too human 
 reviews, I now am reviewing this website... Lets see, I give it a 5/10. 
  If your not sure about paying $60 bucks, rent it, well worth the time as it will be fun for most 
 people unless they are anti explosion type people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante_tha_don
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  First part of mercenaries was one of best titles served us on original xbox. Game with idea GTA 
 goes to war was brilliant. Now couple years later we got the same game with different setting. 
 Venezuela instead of Korea is biggest difference. Root of the game is the same. We work for different 
 fractions to earn money for big boom weapons. This time its revenge on president and his people 
 who betrayed us and shoot in the bottom.
  Gaming experience is nice but lacks some deepth. We have here free roaming game where you can choose 
 sides and do different missions for them. Its somehow similar to Just Cause wit tropical environment.
 
  The thing that killed World i Flames is number of bugs and different glitches that may happen 
 at any time. When it happens most of the time you have to restart game because you are stuck inside 
 tree or other object. 
  This plus repetitive gameplay destroyed thing that could possibly 
  I still had a lot of fun playing this one but more people would rather stick with GTA4 and wait 
 for dlc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kappassah
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  I should start off by saying the game isn't bad, it's pretty fun and co-op is worth looking into. 
 
  
  The single player, though, leaves much to be desired. If you're fortunate to have your game load 
 up without crashing, you'll find that the gameplay is shallow. With the addition of the stockpile 
 feature, and the fuel features, Pandemic took the best part of the game, the explosions, and made 
 them complicated and not worth the trouble. Even the nuke is less than satisfying. The vehicles 
 are fun to drive and mess around with, but they die very rapidly because none of them seem to have 
 any armor at all, even tanks. That being said, though, the game is still easy. Most of the time 
 you can get by by simply running into the action and shooting everyone, because even when you get 
 down to low health, it becomes very hard to kill you. This cuts back on frustration, but like I 
 said, it makes the game a little too easy. The story is... decent. It doesn't really make sense, 
 but you won't care by the end of it. 
  
  The co-op is what makes this game at least worth playing. Co-op isn't a whole bunch of fun, but 
 it's kinda fun to mess around with a friend. Unfortunately, if you're lucky enough to find a co-op 
 game to join, you'll likely get kicked. Also, some like to join your game, kill your allies, make 
 everyone mad at you, and then back out, leaving you to clean up the mess, so you really only want 
 to play with someone you know. Its a breath of fresh air, but still doesn't make up for the lack 
 of content in the rest of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Captaini
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  If you liked the first Mercenaries you will like this one as well. Lots of weapons lots of explosions, 
 satirical storyline, and over the top combat. I loved the first Mercenaries (still play it from 
 time to time) and I LIKE (not love) this one mainly because of the obvious bugs that should have 
 been corrected before release, and I don't find the main characters as humorous as in the first 
 game. I miss the Russian Mafia. Fiona keeps referring to Josef in Korea..... since I haven't finished 
 the game yet I'm hopeful he'll make an appearance.
  
  I think Gamespot's review was a bit harsh and even a little inaccurate. However it appears they 
 were sending a message to the industry that for $59.99 we ought to get a cleaner end product. So 
 at at the end of the day the editors are trying to look out for us gamers, even if the review was 
 a little too tough in my opinion. Yes there are a lot of bugs and glitches in this game..... obvious 
 ones that I can't believe weren't cleaned up before release. But I've been playing this for a week 
 and while the bugs can be annoying they aren't showstoppers and they haven't stopped me from enjoying 
 the game. Some of things you will encounter:
  
  1. NPC's getting stuck in walls and you not able to kill them from either side. Especially annoying 
 if they are calling in for reinforcements or to rat you out to their faction leader.
  2. Helicopters on resource pickups sometimes just hover and don't complete the pickup
  3. On 
 one model of patrol boat you get stuck in the cabin and can't get out unless you blow it up while 
 you are in it with an RPG or C4.
  4. HVT's sometimes couch in a place that is hard to get to.
  
  Having said that the gameplay 
 is still very addictive and fun. I like the challenges..... it's a clever way to develop skills 
 and earn money at the same time. I like the fuel based resourcing system. As the reviewer said 
 there isn't a lot of RPG ammo laying around but it is extremely easy to purchase and have delivered 
 so I don't see that as a problem. Yes the mission structure is a tad repetitive, but that's not 
 a bad thing if you are enjoying what you are doing, which I am.
  
  Bottom Line..... if you like pyrotechnics, guns and explosions, driving like a madman (or madwoman) 
 get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asmodiar
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what it is these days with gamespot's reviewers but you just can't trust most of their 
 scores anymore. They must be extremely casual gamers that don't really take the time to settle 
 into the game before rendering judgment. I could see this game getting a 7/10 at worst, but I'm 
 giving it a 9/10 because I got most of what I expected and wanted.
  
  I'll be the first to admit, Mercs is missing a few things. There are a few glitches in it, but 
 they aren't gamebreaking and they never force you to throw your controller in frustration and give 
 up. Mostly there's a floating decal here, or an invisible parts container that gets picked up there. 
 It maybe could have used a better story, but otherwise it does what it sets out to do.
  
  It has you tear-assing around Venezuela and blowing sh*t up in no time.
  
  The guns are good, 
 that's one of the comments in the review that got me the most. They might seem "weak" if you don't 
 get far enough in the game to be working with carbines and prototype rifles (you get the carbines 
 rather quick...) , but that is because they have realistic scatter, an AK-47 or a SAW at extreme 
 long range is going to be hard to hit with. You take a carbine, you will quickly lay waste to any 
 soldier you point it at. But take note, Aaron: a headshot always kills and three dead-on accurate 
 bullets will usually take out an enemy.
  
  Furthermore, you don't have to pick up the ammo (pay attention Aaron Thomas) there are regular 
 pick-up ammo containers that you touch to get, and then there are scattered weapons that you have 
 to pick up to get the ammo out of if they match the weapon you currently hold.
  
  As for ammo being sparse? Most rifles have from 30-40 rounds in a clip and you can carry between 
 9-14 clips depending on the weapon, the average enemy will expire after firing, at most, six rounds 
 directly at them from an automatic weapon, including the ones that miss due to scatter. And if 
 you want to be more accurate? Do like you're supposed to with a firearm and fire in short bursts, 
 do that with an accurate rifle and the enemies aren't a problem. 
  
  Rocket launchers are extremely powerful and fun, with the late game rocket launchers destroying 
 tanks or buildings in a single direct hit (and the Chinese fuel rocket launcher has a very cool 
 delayed ignition that you have to see) , and even the lowly RPG takes out a tank with 3-4 direct 
 hits, and other more lightly armored vehicles in a single hit. If that ain't enough for you? There's 
 always a tank buster air strike.
  
  The vehicles are fun to drive (especially the motorcycles) .
  
  Everything in the environment 
 can be blown to smithereens. And you end up blowing up some amazing stuff like castles and huge 
 oil rigs.
  
  It's not quite as expansive as Grand Theft Auto IV, but it does something that Grand Theft Auto 
 doesn't always do:
  
  It keeps you in the action about 90% of the time you're playing it. You never get bored listening 
 to NPC exposition and you seldom end up spending more than a few moments getting from point A to 
 point B, and trips around Venezuela are seldom uneventful.
  
  Add to that about 30+ hours of constant escalating devastation and you'd probably consider yourself 
 having got your money's worth.
  
  All and all this game is like being a gleeful twelve years old again, and playing with the best 
 collection of G. I. Joes you've ever seen with a video game controller.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiger626516
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  Got the game for PC and to say the least the game is good but has a lot of major flaws. Fact I 
 got the PC version should of placed the bar higher for standards than the consoles. The graphics 
 are to say the least not as good as it could of been. Very pixelated at times and word sync is 
 out of tune. At resolution of 1400x1050 with everything maxed and AA 8x you would hope graphics 
 would of been better. The sound is awful. Having not the greatest sound card in my PC the sound 
 is not to good, compared to other games which sounded good on my sound card. And the Controls are 
 one to get used to. Moving the mouse around his head turns not his body so to fire you have to 
 wait a second for him to step turn to fire. Controlling a vehicle is awful, trying to turn makes 
 an over turn. Also the AI is quite dumb. I walk into a allied section and all I hear is "there's 
 the enemy". Odd? I am on allied section but being called an enemy. Hmmm....? Once you collect a 
 something outside, just have to zone to get it to repop (can we say unlimited support items and 
 money pallets) .
  
  Now the plus sides. The environment reminds me of Crysis where alot of the bushes interact with 
 you. Story seems good and has some humor in it (getting shot in the butt) . Game play is like Grand 
 Theft Auto but in the jungle. The fact I can blow up buildings is kinda cool. Blowing them up with 
 pedestrians around not so good, but funny to hear the chick yell at you. Stealing her car she yells 
 at you and quite humoring. In all the game is not to bad but could have been better especially 
 for the PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getthemost
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I see how you might say that this game is a waste of money or time, but trust me, it's not. The 
 world is HUGE. You really can do just about anything. There's tons of vehicles from tanks and helicopters, 
 to cool cars and sport bikes and choppers, to jet skies and inflatable boats with guns on them! 
 You can swim and drive all kinds of water vehicles. I saw a cargo boat in the water that a civilian 
 was driving, so I was curious, can i HiJack this? So I stole a patrol boat and got ahead of the 
 cargo boat. I jumped off it and let the cargo boat get by me. I climb up a ladder to get on deck. 
 Then I climbed a few more ladders to where you drive it at the top. Sure enough I pressed Y and 
 Mattias grabbed the lady driving it, pushed her off the boat, and started driving! Just so you 
 know ANY vehicle is HiJackable. Also you can get tons of different guns. From Pistols, to AK-47s, 
 to RPGs. You can play as 3 different Mercs. Mattias Nelson, Christopher Jacobs, or Jennifer Mui. 
 It's best to pick Mattias because anything he does looks so cool, and he looks so cool himself. 
 Anyway, I could go on all day saying how good this game is, but I'm gonna wrap up and just say 
 that if your like me and love free-roaming, action, shooters, you WILL love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Nice open world with tons of things to do and things to destroy, solid visuals for the 
 most part, great online co-op.
  
  The Bad: Some visual hiccups and slowdowns during gameplay, a few minor glitches and bugs, pretty 
 cheesy voice acting and storyline, sketchy driving controls.
  --------------------------------------------------------
  
  Mercenaries was a game that despite 
 being a blatant GTA clone, stole gamers hearts with it's focus on blowing stuff up and amazing 
 commercials. Several years and a new publisher later, the mercs return with Mercenaries 2: World 
 in Flames. 
  
  This time, you have been betrayed by a Venezuelan dictator after a job and are hellbent on revenge 
 after he shoots you in the ass. Now it's payback time, Mercs style!
  
  Fortunately for longtime Mercs fans, the gameplay of the first Mercs remains for the most part 
 in tact. You are still roaming around, getting jobs, earning cash and blowing crap up, but one 
 major component has been added to advance the sequel: online co-op. Now, you and a friend can take 
 on the Venezuelan Army as a team. Adding online co-op makes the gameplay much more interesting 
 because of how tag teaming missions changes your tactics. Hijacking vehicles becomes a bit more 
 interesting as well with some interesting mini games for hijacking tanks and helicopters. The missions 
 are pretty straight forward. You typically have to kill a lot of enemies, make your way to a specific 
 area and bomb it, or retrieve something from that area. The missions type vary in difficulty and 
 type, so you always have something different to try. There are challenges available at the PMC 
 to help you earn some fast cash and work on target practice or driving in addition to regular missions. 
 
  
  The visuals for Mercs 2 are pretty impressive for the most part, but I did encounter a few hiccups 
 in the visuals and slowdowns in frame rate during some especially hectic segments. The environments 
 aren't as stunning as they should be, but they still look pretty solid for the most part. The voice 
 acting, although cheesy, is pretty solid and works well with the game's sense of style. 
  
  I didn't encounter too many gameplay glitches, although there were some occasional disappearing 
 vehicles, appearing scenery and other, non gameplay affecting glitches. The game has a few minor 
 bugs, but nothing to loose your head over. The driving controls were a bit sketchy for my taste 
 as far as being a bit stiff, but they were still pretty solid for an open world game.
  
  In summary, Mercenaries 2 is a solid co-op shooter with tons of options and a solid online mode. 
 If you are looking for something new to blow up, this might be the game for you.
  
  Gameplay: Solid open world gameplay with a variety of missions
  
  Graphics: Aside some occasional 
 visual hiccups, Mercs 2 looks solid aside from some scenery looking a bit rough around the edges.
 
  
  Sound: Solid soundtrack and sound effects, but pretty cheesy voice acting.
  
  Value: If you are looking for a solid co-op shooter, this is a solid choice.
  Final Thoughts: 
 Oh no you didn't!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Conqueror
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  The best thing about this game is the opening menu. The ability to blow up just about anything 
 is enticing and the variety of vehicles helps but still wasn't enough to make this game exciting. 
 The vehicles were disappointing in the fact that it just seemed as if the vehicle specifications 
 from the first mercenaries was copied to the current version. The story was completely flat and 
 the opponents in the game posed no challenge. The bugs in the game are ridiculous, just watch the 
 shadows on the ground as you walk for example. The bottom line I wouldn't even waste my time renting 
 it, and definitely do not waste your money to purchase it. The first mercenaries game was a breakthough 
 but it seems that Pandemic and EA didn't choose to capitalize on taking it to the next and should 
 be ashamed of themselves for producing such a lousy sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodge9981
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I have definately experienced some of the games bugs and have probably had to restart missions 
 based more on these glitches than the difficulty, which is easy. However, I think it's easy because 
 the game was made to be an explosive over-the-top action game that puts you in the shoes of one 
 of the worlds most skilled badass mercs right in the middle of the havoc of war. Enjoy yourself, 
 have fun, that's what this game was made for. To have the feeling of being completely free to choose 
 however, whenever, and to what lengths you're willing to go to get paid and get revenge is a damn 
 good feeling. Do you snipe 'em out from afar from rooftops and cliffs, do you jack a copter or 
 tank and blow the hell out of their buildings, or do you order in one of your massive arsenal of 
 air strikes and sit back and watch the fireworks as the explosions realistically expand and flaming 
 bodies soar threw the air. You choose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabe5770
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is great. Maybe since I have the PC version theres less bugs but I doubt that highly. 
 Ive a few bugs but I was looking for them. The game is highly explorable and its worth it. I rate 
 it a solid 9 because its fun , the coop is fun and I just love the game and all its features. Yes 
 some missions can be repetitive, but fun never the less. Who rates it a 5 properly likes other 
 games like sports , Fighting or , WOW or some ****. Those are good games too but thats not the 
 point. Game is awesome and dont believe the people who rate it 5. If you want this game, get it 
 period. By the way I dont think the game is the best but its not the worst. If you dont believe 
 the games deserves more fine with me but the game is great and people should get it. The game is 
 awesome with all the things you can for example ordering stuff , airstrikes, and the firefights. 
 Get it if your think about it.
  
  OH NO YOU DIDNT !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamster386
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot have seemed to have got the wrong end of the stick. Don't get me wrong this is not a 10 
 but it's definitely not a 5! At least an 8! There are some bugs, but not enough to make me shout 
 from the rooftops campaigning for people not to buy this. It seems as though someone anal enough 
 in Gamespot has taken the time to find all the bugs in the game, possibly through some testing 
 methodology and focused on that instead of the fun elements. I have been playing the game for 3 
 days and have not found reason enough to slag it off to the degree that Gamespot have. Yes there 
 are some flaws, that can be corrected in a future patch but not any that stop me playing and thoroughly 
 enjoying this game. So what if Jennifer Mui doesn't lip sync correctly.. Who cares!!! Gamespot!!! 
 the reason why friendly factions shoot at you is because you probably haven't grasped the concept 
 of the disguise mechanic. I haven't once argued at the factions firing at me; considering I've 
 kidnapped some of their HVT's or bombed their buildings. Otherwise I would've been annoyed under 
 the circumstances! All in all this game is a solid blast! The explosions are (WOW!) impressive and 
 the action is quite satisfying to warrant the price. It's not revolutionary but sometimes with 
 all this Next Gen marketing (Hype) it's thoroughly satisfying to return to the early days of gaming 
 where its about substance rather than jaw dropping graphics and revolutionary gameplay! Mercenaries 
 2 has its minor issues. If you are forwarding the future development of games you may be less forgiving; 
 however if you are looking for a no holds barred blast for a weekend then this may be right up 
 your alley, but don't blindly accept this review. If you enjoyed Mercs 1 then this will be more 
 of the same with some improvements. This is not a a flawed masterpiece to the degree of Too Human. 
 In fact I am sceptical about reviews from this site in the future! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze_adeel
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  This game has far too many problems. first the graphics ,there r some points in the game when u 
 would feel (while playing on x360 or ps3) that u r playing on a ps2 or xbox !!! Some trees make 
 u feel like u r watching cartoons !!! sometimes when u r driving u will see that tyres r not spinnning 
 !!! figures look odd !!! faar too many glitches like vehicle blows up but ur man survives or driving 
 a helicopter at high alltitude and jump from there and ur player will still survive !!! faction's 
 start reporting ( i dont know what) even if u goo near them and they turn hostile!!!
  story is very lousy !!! gameplay is some wht better it is fun fun fun 2 blow things but its only 
 fun for sometimes !!!!
  during a mission if u die u will come back 2 pmc hq's from where travelling back takes alot of 
 time !!
  voice acting is horrendous and unsatisfying !!!
  **Rent this game firest dont believe the hype and dont waste ur money rest it if u like big time 
 explosions!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anticap
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 7, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  This is my first written review, and I'm going to break it into segments to make it easier to read.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  This in my eyes is the worst thing about this game. The graphics aren't amazing, and in fact for 
 a next gen game they aren't very good at all. Don't get me wrong, you can see what you need to 
 see, and they aren't bad to the point where playing the game is unbearable, but they look like 
 last gen graphics.
  
  Sound/Music:
  
  The sounds are fairly decent. Everything sounds like it's supposed to sound and the music, while 
 nothing special, is pleasant enough. The worst part of the sound is the voice acting. It sounds 
 like the devs paid a group of people who never finished primary school English to read some cheesy 
 lines off a sheet. Nilsson sounds particularly bad, almost like the person saying the lines was 
 drunk. Also the game tends to cut gaps out of the talking, so it sounds like people are saying 
 6 sentences as one long one.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is where the game shines. It's like a cross between the original Mercs and Just Cause. Even 
 with its poor graphics and mediocre sound this game is incredibly fun. The map is huge, there's 
 a decent selection of weapons, a nice amount of vehicles, and the special weapons are great fun 
 to use. The missions, while not groundbreaking are fun to play through.
  
  Story:
  
  If you're expecting an epic story like Mass Effect or Half Life then you'll be disappointed. There's 
 enough of a story here to keep you interested but it's nothing huge.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Mercenaries 2 is a game worth playing, but you might want to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperBlueMonkey
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  The first Mercenaries game was very enjoyable, giving quite a lot of variety in missions, weapons 
 and destruction for its time. The sequel comes across as Sylvester Stallone's Get Carter or Mark 
 Wahlberg's The Italian Job and feels more like a rubbish remake than a new game.
  
  First off the graphics are tremendously bad mixed with the very static animation which in no way 
 helps the eye candy. If the animation was more varied, more realistic, fluid then the graphics 
 wouldn't get such a slating from me but trust me when I say that sick on a pavement is more enjoyable 
 to look at than Mercenaries 2. Just check out the engines in some of the cars - it's like an inexperienced 
 monkey-rat-boy who's never seen the light of day (or a car engine for that fact) has made them. 
 Water and fume effects are very amateur looking and whilst you can swim in the game, it's like 
 your character just has a bit of a splash, doesn't go up or down in the water but is incredibly 
 balanced just on the surface. Plus if I can swim, why can't I climb?!
  
  Variety is the key aspect to design for games of this type today. Mercenaries 2 lacks variety in 
 its weaponry (could've had dual welding pistols for a start) there's only one type of shotgun to 
 please everyone in the Mercenaries world, one type of RPG (excluding the anti-aircraft missile 
 launcher) , one type of pistol, typical melee moves (the option of a knife or machete would've been 
 great) and the list generally goes on with everyone, main characters and secondary characters constantly 
 repeating themselves! I don't want to hear about that stupid bridge anymore! Once is enough!
  
  Mercenaries 2 is so broken that by the point you experience these things, you find a glitch 
 or bug that makes you character stand hopelessly in a rock along with some bad guys and a helicopter 
 gunning you down. An explosion near you won't quite put you out of your misery, or knock you so 
 you move out of the rock, instead it'll drop your health down to around 1-5% but you'll still be 
 able to take several bullets before actually dying. By this point, you'll actually want to just 
 kill yourself than anyone else in the game.
  
  The physics are just stupid. Nothing is balanced at all! A personal note to Pandemic: "Metal oil 
 barrels are very hard to push over in real life, when a character goes up to them and taps them 
 slightly, they shouldn't fall over or go flying". Your character can actually move the missile 
 pick ups that your helicopter pilot has to pick up using a helicopter because apparently it's too 
 heavy for your character to lift.
  
  Gameplay is just dated. When using a special car with a gun attached, one has to use 3 fingers 
 on one side of the joypad in order to control the car and shoot the gun at the same time. Driving 
 a vehicle requires you to use the A and X buttons for accelerate and brake rather than the now 
 traditional trigger buttons. And what will really make you yak is the fact that you can't customise 
 these controls or have the option to select a different set. Get with the times Pandemic!
  
  There was so much potential with Mercenaries 2. How no one picked up on all these major flaws 
 during testing is beyond me especially when considering the fact the game was going to be released 
 back in March or May. I thought Pandemic were better than this and I actually thought EA were actually 
 going through a phase where they were releasing good games and polished games. This game is just 
 so bad that now I'm not so sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigwhitcher
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  Not the best looking game in the world and probley not the most interesting single player expericnce... but 
 a far better co op game than army of 2.... infact the best co op game since crackdown... get you 
 buddy and enjoy some great big bangs. The game is slightly buggy and the enemy ai is not very advance, 
 vehicals are sluggy to control, but its still fun to play with a mate.
  
  Is the game worth 40 uk pounds? err no not really probley best waiting until it hits the pre own 
 sections in your local game store, i reckon that the games life span will be less than a month, 
 but can be dragged out if you just work througth the story mode with your friend.
  
  Easy achievment points i picked up 230 in just over an hour playing co op...
  
  This is my 
 first review on game spot... so please bare with me they will get better in time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moostified1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of the first in it's series. I enjoyed the game on the PS2 some years ago. So I kinda 
 knew what to expect in the sequel. However the original does not have a significant role like a 
 MGS series. This is a true run and gun stress reliever. Any barriers n this game does not require 
 you to deviate from your plan of attack you just blow shid up. Cha heard. This game wont run any 
 marathons however its short sprints will keep your heart racing for the single player campaign.
 
  
  The multiplayer aspect is a fix for the adrenalin junkie as well. However it make the game a bit 
 more easier than the single player campaign. The games graphics are more pleasing than the original 
 version. The glitches in Mercs 2 are a bit more frequent than its predecessor and a lot more expressed 
 in other reviews but the fun factor is not hindered in my opinion. I say give it a go on a rental, it 
 might just fill a void for a lil while at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 11:20 am PT
Review:  "Mercenaries 2: World in Flames" is nowhere near the disaster GameSpot claims it to be. The 5.0 
 rating is the lowest rating the site has given an open-world action game since "True Crime: New 
 York City" (which was a 4.5) . 
  
  "World In Flames" does have some bugs and horrible enemy AI, but if you loved the first one than 
 you'll like this one. But like "Ninja Gaiden 2", it's a bigger, not necessarily better sequel. 
 Visually, it's competent with a smooth framerate and lots of big, colorful graphics. But audio-wise, 
 it's not too good. Lots of repeated dialogue occasionally happens and the musical soundtrack is 
 just okay. The gameplay expands on the first game. There are more weapons, more vehicles, more 
 missions and a much bigger maps. Also, two players can conquer the world online which can be fun 
 like "Army of Two".
  
  Overall, fans of the series will like it, but critics will begin to see how one-dimensional the 
 series really is. Perhaps that's why there are so many low scores for this one. Action fans will 
 be pleased. It will make waiting for "Saint's Row 2" a little easier for some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jcaxel
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 had potential to be a great game but it seems to fall short on doing so. Much of 
 the game can be extraordinarily repetitive and that can get very irritating. Pretty much every 
 time you do something, you will hear the same sound bite about it. For example, every time you 
 drive onto the road outside of the PMC building, Fiona will give you the same dialogue, every time. 
 Our protagonist characters also have several phrases that they use in certain circumstances as 
 well. Some of them are amusing at first but they get old very quickly. This is, of course, not 
 the first time this has been a problem in a game. I just find it rather annoying when I almost 
 want to quit playing the game because the character is getting so repetitive. The structure of 
 most of the missions was very repetitious as well.
  
  With that said, I really did enjoy this game. Solely Mattias (Well, Mattias and the support that 
 his PMC staff and having a lot of cash affords him) against an entire base of enemies can really 
 be an enthralling battle. When you are just running in, one man against an entire base, and succeed, 
 it really is something awesome. Especially when then base had a bunch of tanks, rockets, bullets, 
 explosions, melee attacks and many other ways of getting hurt coming rampaging your
  way. I found many of the air-strike attacks to rather rather satisfying as well.
  
  Parts of 
 the game though could certainly be buggy as well, but I found that most of the bugs were not very 
 major, at least the one time I played it through. The worst bug that I had was when I was trying 
 to get out of the bridge room of a boat and Mattias just opens and closes the door without going 
 through it. As that was happening my boat flipped from hitting the shore. I ended up stuck in the 
 room and having to reload.
  
  The graphics were not the best either. Swimming, to me, looked more like floating on the top of 
 the water while flapping your arms about. With the water splashes definitely leaving something 
 to be desired. The majority of the game didn't look horrible but could have certainly been better.
 
  
  So, what did I rate the game? Personally, I gave it 7 out of 10. While it certainly fun and it 
 has some really engrossing battles, it definitely did not live up to it's potential for total coolitude. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyknight93
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 is one of the best games i have, many games i have i play a little and leave in a 
 box, this game is great.
  
  First off, i have Xbox live, but my connection is down, so i have not tested this game online. 
 But it takes like 10-20+ hours to beat, i like how you can choose when to meet factions, and play 
 it at a different rate than a friend. This game could tell you some needed facts, such as that 
 you should attempt every mission, even challenges, because if you do not, you will not meet factions. 
 This game is good for the following reasons. 
  
  To start, mercenaries 2 has easy to get gamer-points, if you beat the game and do everything its 
 easy to get 800 gp, with out the co-op things, at 50% finished with the game, i had 400 gp from 
 it. If you do not try to do everything, the story and main stuff alone gets you 500 gp. Enough 
 of that, next this game has plenty to do, Gamespot has given better scores to games that have "repetitive, 
 and nothing to do in an open world" traits. (Assassins creed, No more heroes, Test Drive: Unlimited) 
 They all got between 7-9 out of ten. 
  
  There is so much to do, you have five factions, each you can kill special people for, Destroy objects, 
 or buildings for. Then you have plenty of main and side missions, plus a whole lot of challenges 
 from every faction. To add on to that you have to do missions for the story, and for unlocking 
 recruits. Between all this, you can drive around and blow s**t up, and after that, trace down some 
 cash, fuel, or bombs that lay around for you theft needs. 
  
  The weapons in this game are satisfying, They all have their perks and goodness, and people understand 
 that there are loads of guns, and vehicles in the game. The only gun that sucks is the covert pistol, 
 its sound is the same as the pistol, not very covert. 
  
  This game lacks where people who are impatient play. It gets repetitive, but so do a lot of games, 
 pokemon for example, but look it was popular. It you muster to swallow down the repetitiveness, 
 and ignore the bugs, this game rocks. Personally i love games where you can buy stuff, and can 
 interact with allies, such as, freedom fighters. They improved things in the game from the last, 
 next to great graphics, each faction sells things, unlike in mercenaries, only the mafia sold stuff. 
 
  
  The bugs range from, people randomly attacking you, to the frustration of accidently killing citizens, 
 from you take backfire, and from running down hills. Plus one time i got trapped under a rock, 
 and was swimming in land, and could not get out, i had to exit the game,
  
  This game is visually and sound wise fine. The game-play is good, if you can deal with a few frustration 
 times, such as five bazookas shooting at you from one building, and if you can deal with the many 
 loading times.
  
  By the way, this games worth buying, and is most worth a rent. If you are looking for some fast 
 paced action, and a higher gamer-score, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FiSTfromHell
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 makes many attempts to blow our minds with all kinds of cool new features and upgrades 
 to features already in Mercenaries. It's apparent they decided to fix what wasn't really broken 
 in most instances, though, and throw half-assed new features at the franchise in hopes to make 
 it seem like it wasn't a Mercenaries 1.5. 
  
  I have fun with this game, single player and co-op, and I don't let the flaws ruin my fun anymore. 
 At first, I had high expectations, you see. I though that since Mercenaries was such an awesome 
 game that the Next-Gen sequel would be absolutely insane. I was wrong, and disappointed, yet I 
 accept what it is and enjoy it nonetheless.
  
  A rental for those unsure, but if you enjoy arcade-style mindless chaos with tons of ammo, resources, 
 cash, vehicles, and people to kill and structures to destroy than buy this; bargain-bin if you 
 can. I would have waited for a used copy myself.
  
  Fun as hell but overhyped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikees1
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 9, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Im not even going to warrant this total abomination of a game a decent interwiew. What i do offer 
 though is advice-do not buy this game! As it stands im going into my local game shop to trade in 
 this cheap (in design not currency!) game quickly so that i get a good price still and before anyone 
 else has therefore driving the price down. This gamme could have given so much more and i just 
 feel like the developers knew this was a disaster and just needed to claw back some money from 
 us, the gulible customers. I really feel that strongly about being ripped off by a company that 
 after designing a game once and decided it was crap, they then rebuilt it from scratch and still 
 couldnt get it right, however this all costs money and the only way they could recoup that is buy 
 selling us an extreme stinker of a game. This has got to be in the running for the worst xbox 360 
 game so far! ADVOID AT ALL COSTS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagri7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Completely Sandbox
  Almost everything is blow uppable.
  Cool looking cars
  Loads to do
  Loads to explore
  HUGE!
  Loveable characters
  Great graphics
  
  The Bad:
 
  Few glitches
  Missions can get a bit annoying after a few repeats
  Some missions are annoyingly hard
  
  The Ugly:
  Nothing as of yet.
  
  Again, gamespot 
 has messed up a review on another highly anticipated game *cough*too human*cough*, so dont look 
 at there review, giving this game a 5 is the stupidest thing i have heared.
  
  Anyway onto my review. After a while being developed and waiting for the release this game lives 
 up to expectations of being another great sandbox game similar to GTA but with a lot more explosions.
 
  
  From the start you are thrown into the action contracted to find a army leader for a soon to be 
 president of Venezuala (sp? VZ from now on!) you get off your boat and get given a lovely present, 
 a satelite guided missile. This is where the fun starts. You are treated to, in my opinion one 
 the best looking explosions outside of real life. It is amazing. And the way your character reacts 
 is great, shielding his eyes from the light and heat. The explosions dont stop there. You are tasked 
 with many other things to blow up, or you can just blow up what you fancy.
  
  This brings me onto a point of people saying "Oh this game is in no way realistic" well what did 
 you expect? This game is designed to be fun, as most games are. It is in no way supposed to be 
 fully realistic, it is in the important parts.
  
  Pandemic have expanded on the vehicles this time around, giving you access to more choppers, bikes, 
 and fast cars and junkers. Oh yeah, and tanks! The way you steal some of the vehicles is great, 
 running up a tank barrel and playing a sort of mini game, tapping the right button in time to stop 
 the driver. Or grappling to the chopper and climbing up.
  
  The story has been expanded on also, giving a good story of revenge and cash making. The characters 
 you meet are all loveable and voice acted well which is good for a game of this time!
  
  What else? The graphics are great, the game has not lagged for me yet, and thats with a large explosion 
 fest i had.
  
  The missions are good at first, go here and kill people, take over your enemies villa, etc. Then 
 as you meet the factions and do work you get sort of, training missions. You talk to one of your 
 recruits or a contact at a faction and they give you a task and time or amount to beat, and you 
 bet on these so its a good way to earn some cash.
  
  I have yet to try the multiplayer but i am positive it will be great, co-op blowing up stuff has 
 to be great yeah?
  
  Anyway long review but meh. Get this game and ignore gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charma
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I picked this title up when I went to pre-order Rock Band 2. I flipped through the strategy guide 
 and saw all the vehicles I could fly and drive. Plus I read that a lot of people were having fun 
 with this game, and that it was better than the 5.0 score it received. I agree with this - it is 
 a very fun game.
  
  The game is made up of several missions you go on to collect cash. If you have played Crackdown 
 and liked it, then I would say you would like this game. I just played co-op with another friend, 
 and he has played Mercs 1, and he said that Mercs 2 is a lot better.
  
  Do you like to blow things up? Well, this game takes a lighthearted direction and doesn't take 
 itself too seriously. To me this is a good thing. It's just a game after all, and when you've had 
 a long day at work you want a game that is enjoyable. I can see myself having a lot of fun in the 
 future with Mercs 2.
  
  The game could have been more polished. There are some weird glitches you will encounter. For example, 
 me and my friend were trying to take the helicopter back to the headquarters and I only got the 
 option after is dismounted the helicopter and boarded it again. Overall, hopefully those minor 
 issues won't keep me from enjoying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UrNameInBlood
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2: World in Flames, wow what a game. This game has been on my radar for quite some 
 time now. I got it last Saturday ( the day before it's official release day) and have not stop playing 
 it since. It seems like all people do is either make it seem too good, or like it's the worst game 
 ever made. Ok, time for the review. First the negatives, the graphics are not the best or the worst. 
 In my opinion they are slightly better than the graphics of Mercs 1. Next is the AI. The AI can 
 be bad at times but once again it's not as bad as people make it seem. And finally the bugs, there 
 are a good amount of bugs but only a fraction of them actually get in your way of playing the game. 
 Now time for the positives. First, the destruction. No game has ever made desroying things more 
 satisfying than this one. The explosions are AMAZING. Gunfights are not too bad but blowing stuff 
 up is the BEST. Next, the wide open map always makes things interesting. Next, the factions. joining 
 a side and doing work for one faction against another faction is always fun. Next is the airsrtikes, 
 not much to say except, well, their fun. Oh and vehicles, especially helicopters are really cool 
 to use. The missions are always enjoyable and NOT repietive like everyone claims. Ok, I saved the 
 best for last. Co-op. Co-op is probably the best that I've ever played. Well that's it. If you 
 haven't played yet I would recommend it to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonazi
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Mercs 2 is everything it's hyped up to be, don't listen to the crap the people who reviewed this 
 game are saying. sure this might have a few bugs, but that doesn't mean it deserves a 5.0 out of 
 10. The graphics are superb, like the explosions, environment, and vehicles. Not to mention the 
 "You can destroy anything," rule. There is a few exceptions to having the same storyline for everyone 
 but still you can get past those with how many great features there are in the game, like air strikes, 
 vehicle & supply drops, plus having your own mechanic. 
  Now some people might want to put a hit on me for this, but I truly think Mercs 2 is better than 
 GTA 4. I got GTA about 3 days before I got Mercs 2, and I've already out played, and I've outplayed 
 GTA. I give Mrcs 2 a 10.0 outta 10.0. Promise me, first thing you do when you game is catch a tree 
 on fire. Thanks for reading. I'M OUT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thinktank_09
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  Pandemic got too ambitious with this one. They deviated too much from the amazingly great formula 
 in Mercs PoD. For instance, the shop system in WiF is way too complex. One moment you have the 
 right supply drop, etc, the next its gone and you're stuck wishing you had and looking for the 
 next best thing. The missions are also inconsistently diffifult. Most are fairly easy, but then 
 there are some that are rather ridiculous. One such contract has you defending a cathedral against 
 an onslaught of Venezuelan Army tanks, but you have no anti-tank weaponry, so you are reduced to 
 running around and trying to hijack each tank. Somewhat fun, I'll admit, but ultimately not worth 
 the stress. All in all, while this game is fine to rent, even to rent multiple times, just for 
 its fun destruction (who doesn't want to blow up an oil rig, seriously?) , it's certainly not worth 
 the $60 I payed for it. Don't make my mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bikerider72
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 is one of the few games that lets you do pretty much whatever you want, go wherever 
 you want, and do it whenever you want to. Although there are a few minor bugs and the AI isn't 
 as smart as could be, the game is amazingly fun to play. The only bugs I ever even noticed while 
 playing were a few floating crates, and sometimes when you call in a vehicle it takes the heli 
 pilot a little longer than usual to drop the vehical. nothing you can't live with, right? It's 
 not like the game is so messed up you dont want to play it anymore. And for the AI... I'm glad 
 they're not overly smart because that would take a lot of fun out of the game. I mean, if you want 
 to just run around destroying everything in your path, but you have to sneak around everywhere 
 trying to take out AI that's hiding behind cover one by one... it's gonna take forever to get where 
 you want to go! I think gamespot was much to strict when ranking this game, and didn't consider 
 the fact that the bottom line is it's really fun to play. I'm not saying that Mercs 2 should have 
 a perfect 10 score, but I'm definitely saying it deserves more than 5!!! critics rated it 7.5 and 
 users currently 8.2! so why only a 5 from gamespot! Anyways, don't be fooled by gamespot's foolish 
 rating of the game, go get it and try it for yourself. If you're into games like Grand Theft Auto, 
 you'll definitely want to play Mercenaries 2.
  
  The good:
  -Huge map
  -Large variety or vehicles, weapons, and airstrikes
  -Go anywhere, Do anything with no delays
 
  -Really addictive and fun to play!
  
  The bad:
  -Weapons aren't very accurate
  -some airstrikes are signaled by smoke, meaning you have to get real close to the target to call 
 the strike, and you have just enough time to run away before the strike hits 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tengu7667
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  OK. So Merc. 2 is fun for blowing **** up, but the AI is retarded and the game missions are dressed 
 up a bit but repetitive. The side missions and bonus games are kinda cool, but most of the changes 
 they made kinda took the fun out of the game compared to the original. No deck of cards list of 
 bad guys that you randomly happen upon. It's all mapped out for you so no effort is required for 
 searching for them. Instead of being able to play the opposing sides against each other, they immediatly 
 turn on you and go from "friendly" to "hostile". Plus, instead of unlocking badass weapons and 
 airstrikes, you can only use certain items if you are on friendly terms with certain factions. 
 And you have 1 inept heli pilot that does ALL of your supply drops. So no back to back weapon/vehicle 
 drops when you're getting pounded by enemy fire. I haven't even tried the online play. It's co-op 
 so it's the same thing x 2. Synopsis - it's fun, but the original was waaay better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben399
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  When I heard about mercs 2, I was thrilled. I checked the updates daily and got it as soon as it 
 was released. Although the first few missions were complete let-downs, as soon as it got to the 
 open world section the game was great. That said, it seems like gamespot's score was given right 
 after they played the first mission. So, here's my review.
  
  Graphics -- 7.5/10 While the textures are bland and have no details, explosions look incredible (especially 
 air strikes) .
  
  Sound -- 9.0/10 The voice acting in this game is great. All of the three mercenaries are hilarious, 
 and the comments they make in the field are suiting.
  
  Gameplay -- 9.0 Although it may be shallow, the combat is still fun (as is blowing up buildings) , 
 the guns work well, and the open world setting and ability to choose who you want to work for is 
 the icing on the cake.
  
  multiplayer -- 4.0/10 No deathmatch? not even competitive multiplayer? That said, who care about 
 co-op? I think of the multiplayer in this game as a missed opportunity.
  
  All in all, mercs 2 is a fun game. Enough said.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: volpexpress
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  Mercenary 2 is in fact a great game. Yes there are some minor bugs in it and isnt the greatest 
 game that came out this year, but it is still fun and has alot of potential.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in the game are pretty good. I wouldnt say they are revolutionary or 
 the best i have ever seen, but the graphics are beter than most and to be honest you wont really 
 care for the grapics much since you'll be haveing more fun kicking terroist butt. I would say grpahic 
 wise they are about a 6-7/10.
  
  Story:
  Ok As you know from the title you are a Mercenary duh. You get to choose from one of the three 
 to play as in the game. Each one having their own special abilities that make them unique and all 
 around good, while playing the game. I have not used te other two, but the one i have used is The 
 guy with the Mo-hawk, Mattis which he can regenrate his health rapidly, as an example. In the game 
 you are working for a very rich and powerful group of men, thatin the beginning of the game turn 
 on you and try to kill you. Of coure you get away and your whole purpose in the game is to locate 
 and kill them off, while also doing some side missions and such along the way. Such as taking over 
 enemy posts and recruiting men for your team. The story is overall pretty good, but could have 
 been better. I give the story portion about a 6/10.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game play is actually quite fun. Very easy controls and a whole lot of area to explore around 
 and cause havoc. In the game you will be able to get many weapons at your disposal, machine guns, 
 pistols, rpgs, shotguns, grenades, c4 and a whole lot more. Also you get to call in for help when 
 you have them avaibale such as calling in a chopper, airstrike, calling in for a tank or other 
 vehicles and things such as that. It is a third person shooter which in my opinion makes it a better 
 gme for the many reasons you'll see as you progress through it. There is also co-op which is very 
 fun, so if you have a friend with the game and you dont want to play alone, heres a game that will 
 keep you both happy and occupied for a long time. It can be very addictive either way you play 
 it. I say game play is a 9/10.
  
  Overall Mercenary 2 is a good game and has its flaws, but they arent major ones and if your into 
 these genre of games then i say you should pick it up. Overall i give the game a 7.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msdd9
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  Okay let me say this right off, the first Mercenaries is still the better of the two. 
  
  Mercenaries 2 takes the building blocks of Mercenaries 1 and adds to them a lot of new pieces.
 
  
  Some of these additions are good, others just seem out of place in a game that focuses on unrelenting 
 destruction.
  
  Good additions: 
  - New vehicles including boats and motorcycles. 
  - New air strikes. 
  - A deeper story driven by characters that you'll come to actually care 
 about.
  - A new transit system that allows you to quickly travel around the map.
  
  Bad additions: 
  - The requirement to find your air strikes or to go out of your way to purchase 
 them. 
  
  I'm sure at this point you're think, "is that it?" and the answer is, yes. That's really the only 
 bad addition, but sadly it REALLY takes away from the game. A lot of the fun of the first Mercenaries 
 was in becoming rich and purchasing a near endless amount of airstrikes (for a lot cheaper than 
 in Mercs 2) via your PDA and then using them as you need. 
  
  Now, I'm not going to dabble further into the gameplay of Mercs 2 becuase it is very similar to 
 Mercs 1 and that's a good thing.
  
  Graphic: The environments look really good with lush rainforests and nicely constructed urban landscapes. 
 The characters do look a little stiff at times, but that's acceptable in my books.
  
  Audio: Despite what was said by Gamespot about "horrible voice acting" I believe that the voice 
 acting is quite good, but that outside of the main storyline you'll be hearing a lot of the same 
 lines uttered.
  
  Replay Value: There are three mercenaries who play slightly different and thus if someone wished 
 they could play the story three times once with each mercenary. 
  
  In conclusion, if you liked Mercenaries 1 you'll mostly like Mercenaries 2. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fompty
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  This game was incredibly UNDERATED. The online in play is nothing short of amazing. They make the 
 hijacking interesting by making them brutal and you have to press buttons. They are cooler factions, 
 many more vehicles, more characters (not playable) , more airstrikes, and 3 times as much weapons. 
 The missions are very fun especially in co op. Each character has there own ability, faster running, 
 more ammo, and fast heath regen. There are also more wars in public places. And new to mercs 2 there 
 is water warfare. Which is also fun. Overall this a great game and you should definaytly play online. 
 The graphics are very good too and the explosions look amazing. Some of the missions are difficult 
 though if strategy is not implied. One of my favorite things to do is strao a c4 to a jeep and 
 drive it into a base and watch the fireworks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrmman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  A power-hungry tyrant messes with Venezuela's oil supply, sparking an invasion that turns the country 
 into a warzone. But for you, international crisis is all upside: You are a mercenary, and you profit 
 from chaos. Mercenaries 2 features a slew of potential clients, all willing to pay you to do their 
 dirty work. Dirty deeds, done for exorbitant fees. These are world powers with deep pockets, deep 
 grudges, and enough arms and ammo to start World War III. This is your kind of environment. Mercenaries 
 2 features the latest and most dangerous in civilian and military tech, everything from shiny new 
 sports cars, to the future-tech satellite-guided bunker-busting mini-nuke. Tanks, APCs, boats, 
 luxury automobiles  you name it, you can have it delivered to you in real time. And if you run 
 out of cash you can always 'acquire' the gear you need in the field. If you see it, you can buy 
 it, steal it, or blow the living crap out of it. Play your own way, or play with the help of a 
 friend in the new cooperative multiplayer mode. You are not a soldier. You don't have to play by 
 anyone's rules. You have your own code: you will fulfill the terms of the contract, no matter what. 
 Not everyone in the world of Mercenaries is as honorable. Everyone will try and screw you, given 
 the chance. They think they can get away with it, because they don't know rule #1: EVERYBODY PAYS. 
 [Pandemic Studios] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy098
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  First, I've never encountered any of the bugs that they mentioned in the review. Ok, now that that's 
 out of the way, this is truly a fun game. It's like a shooter, except you can blow EVERYTHING up. 
 If you've ever played an FPS, you will have no problem with this. 
  The gameplay is pretty smooth, and the graphics are well done. Controlling the merc is straightforward, 
 except switching between airstrikes and explosives took me a bit of getting used to. I often found 
 myself throwing C4 instead of a grenade, or switching explosives instead of air strikes. Also, 
 you can't call in an airstrike while running, which makes it kinda tough if you're surrounded by 
 baddies. The missions for the factions basically consist of rescue this person, blow this up, or 
 transport this here. Each faction also has their own special missions (like races) or assasination 
 (HVT) targets which you can kill to gain (or lose) standing with a faction. As you complete faction 
 missions, you expand territory and gain access to better weapons. 
  The story is well written and easy to follow. It's pretty much a "this guy screwed you over and 
 you want to get revenge" plot. Completing faction missions also advances the story line.
  Different guns do pack a different punch, and they also have a different rate of fire. There are 
 also a variety of vehicles that are available to you as well.
  To sum up, if you've ever wanted to play a game where every vehicle, every person, every building 
 is destructible, this is the game for you. After completing the game, I found myself going back 
 to blow more stuff up, and see how much damage I could cause. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchi253
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  So much fun, However technical faults do exist in this game, So if your more hardcore this might 
 not appease your taste. I had a blast playing this game so maybe it's just a rent or bargain bin 
 game but it seems unfair to dog it outright. I mean on 5.1 surround it sounde nice I found that 
 I liked the thud of the automatic rifle over the carbine and ak. The vehicle handling was also 
 well done Just wait til' you get to drive the MONSTER CAR thats loaded with a crazy jump mechanic. 
 Overall just completely destroying any building in my path just somehow allows me some ignorance 
 towards it's failings in comparison to it's expectations. Now about that AI. What happened to it? 
 did pandemic forget to implement it? is there acode somewhere to unlock it? I surely didn't find 
 any maybe their just running late. Another thing about it was that the pedestrians that get ran 
 over, shot, or otherwise blown to bits accumulates actual collateral damage by way of your bank account, also 
 shooting at your allies will result in creating new enemies so no killing sprees for the enthusiast 
 looking to get full completion, because most of the time your trying to work with multiple factions. 
 However, only one typically stands out as a priority, leaving you feeling like it doesn't really 
 matter who you work for. I did not die in this game so i can't attest to that setup as previously 
 stated the lack of AI made the game way too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redstorm72
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Venezuela, the setting for the much anticipated sequel to the original hit. I would 
 like to say that this game lives up to all its hype, but sadly this game could have been so much 
 more with just a little longer in development.
  
  Let's start with the good. This game is fun. From driving across the expansive local of Venezuela 
 to blasting your way through a military base, this game is all about letting the player do things 
 in the most fun way possible (blowing up every thing in sight) . The gameplay is rock solid, your 
 character and all the vehicles control very well and are a blast to use. The graphics are also 
 very solid. The local of Venezuela provides a beautiful setting, from dense jungles to populated 
 cities everything looks great. Explosions and fire effects are all beautiful and satisfying as 
 ever thanks to destructible environments. 
  
  Unfortunately there are still many flaws to this game. One major problem with this game is the 
 many glitches. For example, I have seen myself fall through the game world, pick ups disappear 
 in front of my eyes, enemies all of a sudden ignore me (even when I am standing in front of them) 
 and cars that get stuck in buildings all in one play through. Another major flaw is the terrible 
 AI. Civilians constantly run out in front of you car (costing you money) , enemies will not chase 
 you and allies will fail to capture objectives. Also for a game about destruction why am I penalized 
 for hurting civilians? This makes it very difficult to enjoy the destruction when you always have 
 to look out for collateral damage. Finally, the story is just plain awful and boils down to guy 
 screws you over, you get revenge, and is told through lame cut scenes. 
  
  Mercenaries 2 is a game that could have been amazing but is held back by some stupid design choices 
 and brain dead AI. In the end though, the sheer fun of causing mayhem and destruction along with 
 solid gameplay and graphics make this game worth checking out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XF22Raptor22X
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Game spot 5 come on. This game is Fantastic!
  
  First lets start with the Game play. This is one of the Funnest games I've ever played. I mean 
 there's so much to do I don't even know where to start. If you can think of it you can probably 
 drive it in this game.
  
  Then theres the graphics. Ok let me admit i Have seen better but the graphics are still good but 
 nothing revolutionary. However the Nuclear explosions and physics are absolutely breath-taking.
 
  
  The sound is also good in this game.  are all very 
 well done. 
  
  Also the Map is Fantastic. First off its HUGE! Secondly there is so much to do. From Driving around 
 massive cities to exploring the amazon and other unihabited areas. To cruising around massive lakes 
 and islands With plent of hidden features sure to keep you entertained for a long long time
  
  what it basically comes down to is that this is a fantastic game that has sadly been brought 
 down by many negative reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nofriekinlemons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  it is true that this game has bugs many in fact but very few actually mess with you gameplay experience, 
 not only does it have bugs but the graphics seem something of the wii which is pretty disappointing 
 but what do you expect from an EA game it wont be that GOOD, what makes up for all of the annoyances 
 is the gameplay it is purely fun where some missions can be repetitive it is just plain fun the 
 tanks the weapons (well some of them) and vehicles are all great i like the minigames that you play 
 but they are easy. the best way to play this game would be to play with a friend which makes the 
 gameplay even better, and the achievement for me for some reason are so tempting i just want to 
 get them all for some reason i dont know why i just really want to
  
  overall this game is pure fun and the bugs usually wont be sever to were it messes with your gameplay, 
 my philosophy is that graphics shouldn't drive you to say a game is bad Mario 64 has bad graphics 
 but still the best game i ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jopali
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game i thought "that looks pretty good, not great, but a solid title" and 
 thats where i stand now. Although the reviews are generally mixed, this game isnt given the positive 
 reaction that it deserves. Sure it has some bugs, none of them are game-breakers though. Sure there 
 are some other issues, once again, not a huge deal. I think people are scrutinizing this game too 
 closely and criticizing elements that are not the game's focal point. With that said, on to the 
 actual review.
  
  Storyline: This is one aspect of the game that i find people are looking too closely into. Mercenaries 
 is not a story driven game (it's an explosion-driven game obviously ;) ) . The story does exactly 
 what it needs to: it outlines the missions in a way which makes them make at least some sense, 
 and provides some humorous (though maybe not intentional sometimes) dialogue. Yes, the character 
 voices are bad, but so what? This isn't a game like Mass Effect or something people.
  
  Gameplay: Overall the gameplay in the game is what it needs to be destructiveand satisfying. Yes, 
 the weapons arent terribly easy to use, but they arent any harder than other games, and, contrary 
 to the GS reviewer, the game is not "based around guns" it is based around the airstrikes, the 
 vehicles, and the explosions. Cars drive decently, though the controls feel somewhat tight, but 
 this can be gotten used to. Boats are similar to cars and helicopters are very satisfying. The 
 copters are easy to fly (requiring only the 2 sticks and lb/l at bare minimum) I found this satisfying 
 after the comparitively complex chopper controls in games like Grand Theft Auto and Battlefield: 
 BC. Vehicle mounted weapons are mostly easy to use, the chopper mounted missles do have their problems 
 sometimes but its nothing major. Shooting does exactly what it needs to, kills people using several 
 bullets. Many of the games weapons have atrocious accuracy but it isnt a problem due to the usually 
 abundant ammo. The hijack animations are thouroughly satisfying (especially the one where the driver 
 actually keeps the grenade) and are all different to a certain extent, they havent gotten old yet. 
 I also like the fact the your character doesnt (usually) immediately fly off a boat what standing 
 on a moving one, allowing you to get to a mounted gun while still retaining *some* speed
  
  Controls: Controls are good, not much to say here, the camera kind of bothers me when driving since 
 it takes forever to auto reset (though you can just click down the stick) , guess im just used to 
 GTA. Weapons switching is easy and manning vehicles isnt as tough as it could be.
  
  Environment/Game World: I liked the setting of this game, sure the draw didtance isnt great, but 
 the world is good. Game designers seem to have trouble with making large jungle open worlds such 
 as Just Cause (not a great example, but i enjoyed it) The map isnt too repititive and serves its 
 purpose. One small issue that may just be me. The sudden weather/atmosphere changes from place 
 to place bother me, especially the low visibility in some areas (though the first game was like 
 this too)
  
  AI: Yes, the one thing i agree with, the AI is dumber than dirt. They dont attemp to find you, 
 will shoot their own buildings if you are behind them, and are all around easy to kill. They do 
 have the annoying knack of hitting you with a .50 cal or an rpg at the exact moment your health 
 is about to regenerate
  
  
  Bugs: THIS seems to be everyones major issue. Overall, they dont bother me much, none of them are 
 game-breakers. I have yet to encounter disappearing helicopters or any of these major bugs that 
 are rumoring around but i have run int a few. AI friendlies get stuck behind things and refuse 
 to capture buildings. (though this may be AI) and your character has the annoying habit of swimming 
 for about a second too long... all of the time. overall not bad
  
  In conclusion, not the greatest game ever, bugs don't help the arguement. DEfinately a solid title 
 that is underappreciated due to qualities that it is not meant to excel in. I would definately 
 say buy if you can get it cheaper or used, its too good to rent and, well... blowing the F out 
 of everything is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainCasualty
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Let it be known that I played the original Mercenaries for somewhere around 40 hours. I found THAT 
 much enjoyment in its simple and solid destructive sandbox gameplay. It was only natural for me 
 to have high hopes for the next installment in the Mercenaries series. Sadly, Mercenaries 2: World 
 in Flames is a frustrating, disappointing, unpolished, and broken game. It's one of the few games 
 where the cinematics look WORSE than the gameplay, which is pretty backwards from my point of view. 
 The voice-overs in the cinematics and out are equally bad. The one shining point of this game has 
 to be the online co-op, and I don't know if I could have forced myself through the repetitive and 
 horribly frustrating gameplay without a friend to pick me up when my hijacked car spontaneously 
 combusted soon after take-over. 
  
  To those of you who say the game only had a few glitches... oh how wrong you are. Every mission 
 there was something that irked me as just untested code and situations. Through the course of my 
 playthrough, I saw everything from rum jugs spawning outside of a truck, tanks flying around in 
 the air knocking down palm trees like the worst kind of hurricane, turrets and AIs spawning in 
 mid-air only to fall to horrible deaths, and more. 
  
  As much as I wanted to love this game, it didn't even force a warm feeling into my gut. If this 
 is any measure of how enjoyable it is... I'm selling it within a week of buying it and completing 
 it. Take that as you like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboy4687
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Let's get this straight. If you were looking for a story in Mercenaries 2 that would rival games 
 like GTA IV and Mass Effect, then I'm sorry but you're stupid. Sorry to break it to everyone, but 
 it's the honest to god truth.
  
  What you really look for in Mercenaries 2: World in Flames is the fun factor. And believe, there's 
 a lot of fun to be had. From the usual running enemies over with a vehicle to calling in air strikes 
 on, well anything, Mercenaries 2 will keep you satisfied. Playing with a friend increases the fun 
 factor because it's a lot funner (word?) to blow s#! t up with someone else.
  
  There are some things I do agree with Gamespot on though. First, the AI is horrendous. Not just 
 enemy AI, but the cilivians as well. I keep getting docked money because of the failures that decide 
 to run in front of a moving vehicle. Secondly, like previously stated, the story is good. But what 
 you'd expect. Third, "unsatisfying weapons?" That's funny. I found most of the weapons satisfying, 
 especially the Fuel-Air RPG. One of the greatest weapons ever in a video game. Lastly, there are 
 glitches and bugs, but in no way does that the bugs and glitches "game-crippling." If they were 
 game-crippling, would I still be playing the game and giving it a good review?
  
  Overall Mercenaries 2 is plain fun. I'm still playing this game and will be doing so. 
  
  P. S. 
 I hope Microsoft decides to bring the original Mercenaries to Xbox Originals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: americansolsrfr
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I really truley believe that gamespot did not do this game any justice at all. I think this game 
 is one that you should deffenetly pick up. For me i could not wait to pick this game up. I disagree 
 with gamespot on a couple of things they mentioned. Like the voice acting I think that it is pretty 
 good. The bugs they talk about I did not notice them at all. The Graphics to me looked really good. 
 Side missions can get a little repetative. The aiming could be fixed. but with the wide open area 
 in the game, there is so much destruction in it that there is never a dull moment. pandemic did 
 a really nice job on this game i am very pleased with my purches. If you are skeptical about this 
 game and my review doesnt help you should check out other gamer reviews or even different websites 
 that reviewed this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barbowan
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Very sweet game, I was laughing like a lunatic as I blew the crap out of everything I came across. 
 Sure it's got some problems here and there, and there were a few things about the first one that 
 I liked better, but any game where you can use a nuke... even a tactical nuke... that's the clincher. 
 
  
  True enough there is some technical problems, and with all of the time Pandemic put into it, they 
 could have polished a tad more, but considering the huge environment and the delightfully colored 
 explosions and detonations, (not to mention the satisfying quantity of them) some errors can be 
 overlooked.
  
  I had higher regard for the people who write the reviews for games here, but this is proof enough 
 that they're not always on the money. For anyone who likes mindless yet satisfying hell-raising, 
 then go for it! 
  
  For some, it might not have measured up to all the hype, but one must look past the faults sometimes 
 and see the golden nugget found within. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f35acepilot
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  So, Mercenaries 2. You're probably coming here after you've read Gamespot's review. I'm here to 
 offer you the other side of the story. The reviewer here somehow believes that Mercenaries 2 is 
 supposed to have a great story and unbelievable graphics. I don't know where he got that, because 
 it has neither of those, but it's full of explosions, and everyone knows explosions=fun.
  
  The main appeal of Mercenaries 2 is the destruction, and it does this very well. I nearly died 
 laughing when I used a helicopter to winch a fuel tank, which I then proceeded to drop on a huge 
 tower. The explosions themselves look great, and you can destroy anything. Trees will light on 
 fire, buildings will crumple to dust, and any troops unlucky enough to be inside of that area are 
 as good as toast. Mercs offers tons of air strikes to use and dozens of vehicles to commender to 
 kill off your enemies.
  
  Through out the game, you'll be encountering many different factions that will offer you jobs. 
 The jobs themselves are repetitive, but you can change that by simply changing your tactics. Take 
 the outpost capture missions for example. One time you can go in with your assault rifle and RPG. 
 Another you can snipe from a distance. Drive in with a tank. Use a helicopter to obliterate the 
 place. Drop a nuke. It's all really fun, even if you do the same thing all the time. There's probably 
 about 30 hours worth of gameplay in the game if you play all of the missions.
  
  The bugs he mentions in the review are non-existent for me. I suggest he get a new Xbox if that 
 happens to him, or maybe inspect his disc for scratches. The biggest bug I've have in 10 hours 
 of gameplay is one floating barrel.
  
  Overall I would give this game:
  7 for graphics
  6 for story
  10 for fun factor
  8 for replayability
  and an 8 overall.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Will_KutyerKawk
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I played this game over 4 days and finished it. I didn't see much difference in game play over 
 the first Mercenaries. Missions were repetitive and predictable. I finished with around 65 million 
 and quite a large stockpile so I don't know how any one would ever want to play to reach a billion 
 for the "Billion Dollar Babies" achievement. Its only saving grace is with the multi-player. Not 
 the best, but definitely fun. It would have been a longer game if the missions had been evened 
 out between the factions. I finished the game without completing 1 of the Allies missions. If the 
 idea is to try and balance between the factions? Then design the missions so that the player is 
 working for all sides to get the weapons or items needed to advance. You should not be able to 
 get all the weapons information or support unless you are dealing with all sides involved. For 
 me I should have went with rent instead of buy. I enjoyed Mercenaries 1 for the original x-box, 
 but expected more for a next-gen. game. With so many excellent titles coming in the next couple 
 of months, save your money for them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladin125
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 was a no-brainer buy for me, since Mercs 1 was so fun and full of awesome cheats. 
 So when I bought this game, I expected it to be one of those big hit games that everyone has and 
 that has great graphics, ect. Well, its not, and it doesn't have that good of graphics (except explosions 
 :] ) , especially when it comes to animation. Lucky for this game, I couldn't care less what the 
 graphics are, so I kept on playing. In my opinion, this game has a lot of content and abilities 
 (such as blowing up buildings and the works) which are biggies for me, and a realatively good story 
 line. As if that weren't enough, it also has co-op! Co-op on a freeplay game? That's huge! When 
 I first tried it out, I found that it increases my rating of the game from about an 8.5 to even 
 a 9.5 or so. The bad thing about this game is I was expecting cheats (and this game sure would 
 be amazing if it had 'em) , but it doesn't have them! I don't know if it is because they just haven't 
 released them yet or what, but seeing how the last Mercs had cheats I find that very strange and 
 a total let-down. Oh well, all in all, this game is worth the money, and even though I was stupid 
 enough to buy it for xbox360 and not the PC, I find it very entertaining with moderate graphics 
 and a high replay value.
  
  Pros: Loads of content, high replay and long story line, co-op, and a REAL free-play game that 
 truly lets you do just about whatever you want. Worth the money, but if you have a decent computer 
 buy it for that instead of the xbox or ps3.
  
  Cons: Moderate graphics, bad animations (ex. talking and cut scenes) , no cheats, and small play 
 distance when playing co-op (there is a red ring that the game will not let you pass so it doesn't 
 lag when trying to load the surrounding area, but it DOES follow the players around, it just keeps 
 you from going off far away from each other) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merciless911
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This game doesn't have a lot of depth or a deep story line to it so if your looking for a game 
 like that you will be very dissapointed with Mercenaries 2. This is a sandbox game designed to 
 just be plain fun. 
  
  I was dissapointed in the limited amount of helicopters and other military vehicles in GTA 4. So 
 for me, having all of these weapons and vehicles at my disposible made this as much as or mabye 
 even more fun than GTA 4. Well atleast for me.
  
  Sometimes I would unlock a new helicopter, or a new type of airstrike and I would save my game 
 and just mess around with my new weapons for awhile and blow things to H**l.
  
  You get addicted to unlocking all the items at the stores because of the wide varities and insanity 
 of some of these weapons.
  
  
  Well all in all I loved this game, and yes their are some glitches and weird things that happen 
 in this game. One time my helicopter was on fire, but with its last remaining life I flew a good 
 few thousand feet into the sky and when it blew up I fell all the way back down, but I somehow 
 survived with two health left? Another time I started up the game and all of a sudden it said I 
 had just unlocked 12 new achievments, and some of them involved co-op things and I haven't even 
 played co=op yet?
  
  If you like to blow things up, sandbox games, or to just have a good time you should deffinatley 
 buy ths game!
  
  And gamespot give this game a new review!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursedSeishi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  * Dozens upon dozens of bugs and glitches 
  * Unsatisfying weapons 
  * Awful AI 
  * Repetitive missions 
  * Lousy story.
  
  Yeah... no. This game isn't about a deep meaningful 
 story. Its about blowing crap up and having fun doing it. Remember the song for the commercial? 
 It summarizes the story up well. I don't feel like repeating its lyrics here, but the game is as 
 fun as that song is catchy, and I end up singing along with that tune every time it plays.
  
  I haven't run into any game-breaking bugs or glitches, once my car shot up a fair distance 
 into the air, or I slid down a hill a few seconds longer than I should of, but didn't ruin it for 
 me. 
  The GS reviewer mentioned how hard it is to hit a moving target, good job Einstein, you just noticed 
 something everyone knows from real life. I have had no issues with the aiming or the weaponry of 
 the game so far, and don't expect that I will any time soon. Honestly I don't know where he got 
 the idea the game is about guns, all I remember thinking this game was about was all the fun things 
 you could destroy. Fuel Tanks? Check. Buildings? Definitely. People? Oh yeah. I always keep an 
 RPG with me, never had any problems with ammo either.
  Graphics? Eh, I just got done with Too Human, so honestly everything looks better to me. The main 
 draw is the explosions, and I tell you, the first massive one I saw, left my mouth open along with 
 an evil little grin.
  
  Maybe its the fact I finished the steaming dogpile that is Too Human, or the fact this reviewer 
 was hoping for a deep, satisfying storyline rife with intrigue and drama, but I love this game. 
 Its fun and simple, easy to play and get into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drir495
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I will agree that the sound and story aren't very good but the graphics and the 
 game play are AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Personally I haven't experienced any of the glitches that 
 I've heard about. Also the AI is actually good. I find them pretty tough sometimes. You should 
 check this game out.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Game Play: 9
  Sound: 5
  Story: 6
  
  Please check out my blog about the gamespot review. That blog is my opinion on how the score is 
 so low on gamespot.
  
  I hope you enjoyed my review. check out my others if you would like.
  
  (word filler)
  blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffinboy846
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  After waiting forever for Mercenaries 2, I rented it the day it came out, and it's bad. Don't believe 
 the hype. The story is pretty bad. The Merc you choose (you can choose 1 out of 3) gets shot in 
 the butt, and you want revenge against the guy who did that. it's just an excuse to blow stuff 
 up looking for him. The gameplay involves blowing stuff up. You can blow anything up. The game 
 also focuses on contracts that fractions give you, but they get repetitive too quickly.
  Then there's the AI. The AI is just stupid. Sometimes they'll just stand there. 
  The graphics 
 are OK, but nothing special. 
  This game also has a number of glitches, but I don't know since I haven't seen them. 
  If you 
 like to blow stuff up, then that will make up for the cons. If you don't, then rent it and try 
 it out, or don't buy this at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: education
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  First off the only satisfying thing in this game are the explosions. They look and sound great. 
 I had my sound system on blast when i I started out in the game. But right off the bat, I knew 
 this game was gonna make me kick myself in arse for shelling out 70 bucks. The controls take some 
 getting used to with its sluggishness plus even when you are aiming at one of the identically dressed 
 clones from a medium to long distance away, a hit is all chance and nothing to do with the cross 
 hairs. In a world that in post Gears and Call of Duty 4, the bars have been raised in 1st and 3rd 
 person shooters. Why EA decided to rush Mercenaries to stores is a mystery. Pandemic did a great 
 job with the first mercenaries game. But it seems like this game shouldn't have been out anytime 
 this year. Maybe even a Q3 launch in 09 would have given them time to polish the game. This game 
 would be rental only if I had it back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnzk_x
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  first of all the game is fun but as next gen game its lacks alot of things.
  
  graphics: well to begin with the graphics lacks alot it feels like merc 1 with some updated graphics 
 here and there, the frame rate is qiute not stable and the game also have alot of tearing while 
 merc 1 didnt have tearing or frame rate problems, i could see jaggies on both versions but the ps3 
 has worse alasing image.
  first of all the game is fun but as next gen game its lacks alot of things.
  
  graphics: well 
 to begin with the graphics lacks alot it feels like merc 1 with some updated graphics here and 
 there, the frame rate is qiute not stable and the game also have alot of tearing while merc 1 didnt 
 have tearing or frame rate problems, i could see jaggies on both versions but the ps3 has worse 
 alasing image.
  
  sound: the sound is good not bad but lacks in the acting.
  
  well my final word is the game is fun but lacks alot of things wich affects the game.
  
  rent 
 it first before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMorris101
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  This game is all about having fun blowing stuff up In a nutshell it is Mercenaries 1 with better 
 graphics, and sound, etc. The game world appears to be smaller than the first game but more intense. 
 The Characters you can hire are funny (though they do repeat themselves) .
  
  The graphics are not the best we have seen to date but when you can just about blow everything 
 and anything up who cares!
  
  It could be very easy to slag this game off for it's lack of innovation, EA have been lazy this 
 is true. However, I just cannot bring myself to slag it off too much because it is brainless fun.
 
  
  There is a co-op mode that allows 2 people to work together. However, I see this game a guilty 
 pleasure to be played solo.
  
  With all of the great games coming out over the next few weeks and months, I say rent/ buy it, 
 blitz it, and then send it back or trade it.
  
  Enjoy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoSo13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  The big explosions are cool and don't really get old but the missions are some what repetitive. 
 The glitches are many but can vary in reaction. After playing the game for 4 hours I had just finished 
 the last outpost contract for the Gorillas when a achievement notice pops up, I push the home button 
 to see what it was and I find myself with 36 of 40 achievements. Some of these achievements are 
 for Co-Op but I haven't been online on my X-box 360 for about two weeks now. Another glitch happened 
 when I was about to verify a HVT (Highly Valued Target) , the game glitches me wedged between two 
 rocks in which case I'm unable to verify the target, move, look around, shoot, or jump. All I could 
 do is wait to die by the soldiers whom take about two minutes to do so. So my basic opinion of 
 this game is, "You take the good. You take the bad. You take them both and there you have, Mercenaries 
 2." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedEye-BF2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  This game is one taco short of a combination plate. It has the flare, the big explosions and unfortunately 
 the halfway-fun game play. The biggest problems with the game are the bugs. Broken game play mechanics, 
 absurd AI, and auto-save issues sometimes make this game unplayable. I will say that if you liked 
 the first Mercs then you will probably enjoy this one for a little while. Calling in your first 
 nuclear strike is definitely all that it is cracked up to be.... but after a while it does get a 
 bit old.
  
  These types of issues have been consistently plaguing Electronics Arts games. EA is continually 
 mismanaging game releases and forcing developers to meet their fiscal requirements so that games 
 are inevitably released unpolished and at times broken. I definitely blame EA over Pandemic. Battlefield 
 Bad Company and Army of 2 have suffered a similar fate and therefore many gamers are have declining 
 slope of trust in most EA games releases.
  
  Overall impressions? Fun for a while... Mercs 1 fans will enjoy it... a few patches need to come 
 out to make this game enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaaze_3
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  shame on you M. Aaron. this game is a LOT of fun. and you can X 2 on that fun when you play co-op. 
 I've been playing games since the late seventies, and although you are right about all the glitches, 
 even if i have not yet (after 20 hours) run into many of them that took the fun away from me during 
 my gameplay, its not enough to trash a game like you just did.
  
  I could argue longer but i'll keep this short, does this game deserve a 7.0 ?? perhaps, but a 5.0 
 !! absolutely NOT !!! 5.0 is for really bad game, and i guess you should keep on playing games 
 or get another job because this review, reminds me of a time a few years ago, when your competitor 
 (i wont mention the 3 letters. com site) made really bad reviews too, but now seems like time has 
 turn things around! right ! guess i'll start checking on that other site for gaming info in the 
 future. 
  
  NICE JOB PANDEMIC ! KEEP BLOWING UP THE GOOD WORK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Clark
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  The graphics are visually stunning (On the PS3) and the online play is very entertaining. Although 
 the missions seems to be a one track kind of thing, each mission is always different, other than 
 the obvious hit missions which is just to secure, kill and identify, or blow up a building mission, 
 and blowing up buildings are always fun. Including the blowing up of a gigantic faction building, 
 giant bridges, and oil tankers, boats, everything in the game is destructible and it makes for 
 very fun game mechanics. Even though the voice acting is iffy, it's not as bad as some games i 
 can think of, obviously it doesn't compare to Metal Gear Solid's. But for a game like this, being 
 a sandbox blow it all up with a story line kinda game, it really doesn't take off anything from 
 the game play value. Also, to take into account that the game was basically rushed, the story line 
 is just as good as number one, so fan's of the first will definitely enjoy this game. Driving has 
 become a lot more advanced and entertaining, including making jumps, using hydraulics, or even 
 just jumping out of the car and having it explode into a gas tank. The explosions are vast and 
 create quite a thrill in the game for every time you blow something up it makes a chain reaction, 
 and it actually adjusts the light realistically. Unlike some other games i can think of that obviously 
 have no idea what they're doing *cough* grand theft auto *cough* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TantricNferno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  And that is why i knocked it down .5, people. The glitches. Sure, they can get annoying (Guy you're 
 supposed to escort disappears like a ninja) , but the missions are so much fun, I don't mind doing 
 them again. The scale of the destruction is amazing. Anything that can be destroyed, will be, even 
 those huge oil rigs. And the explosions are SOOOOO satisfying. On co-op, it's twice the fun. Running 
 around with a buddy just causing general chaos never gets old. Sure, the AI is a little iffy, but 
 that doesn't bother me. and HOW THE HELL are the guns not satisfying to shoot? I don't get that. 
 The controls are fluid and intuitive, the sound is great, it looks great, and it plays smooth as 
 silk. The story isn't nothing special, but it sets a backdrop of WHY you're out there.
  
  The game utterly passes with flying colors on what it tries to do- satisfy your destruction bloodlust. 
 Just ignore the glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Entben
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2: World in Flames is a fun, buggy, repetative, and a blast of a game.
  
  I'll start with the negitive first. The game can be buggy. While it's annoying to reload a game 
 the bugs are nothing that make the game unplayable. The repetitive aspect comes in the form of 
 base capture missions. You can do them for each faction and you have to do some for each one, especally 
 if you want to have all the weapons/air strikes. Each one is essently the same but not to overly 
 boring. If you can play Madden or Dynasty Warriors every year then you can do this.
  
  Now time for the fun. I love blowing up stuff. And you can blow the crap out of everything. The 
 vechiels are fun to drive and blow up. The AI is dumb but you're supposed to be the bad ass hero 
 so it's excussable in my mind. Each of the friendly factions mobs will say something to you and 
 the enviorment is really nice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FirestarterGM
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  Do you like explosions? I do. Did you play with little plastic green army men as a kid? I did. 
 Did you spend hours on the floor, in the dirt, or on a hillside causing havoc and/or destruction 
 amongst your war-time figurines? You better believe I did that.
  
  Well then Mercenaries 2: World in Flames is right up your alley. I wont discuss the trivial elements 
 of the game, just the meat-and-potatos gameplay.
  
  Mercs 2 gives you a world to run amock in, any way you choose. You're paid by various factions 
 to destroy their enemies. Each mission completed nets you new friends and enemies, bigger and better 
 toys of destruction, and money to buy them with.
  
  If you were a fan of the origional Mercenaries on Xbox, buy this game. There is nothing more fun 
 than dodging tank rounds while every shot fired incenerates the woods around you. There is nothing 
 more fun than running up next to a pesky guard tower, dropping a satchel charge, and laughing as 
 a hail of rubble and broken bodies rains down around you. There is nothing more fun than calling 
 in an airstrike on an enemy bunker thats giving you a headache.
  
  This game is all about the big guns and giving you ways to use them. If you're into character-driven 
 stories with a unique sense of humor, thats just one more reason to love this game. 
  
  The reviews I've read so far have bashed Mercs for some glitches hear or there, weak sound design 
 and less-than-stellar enemy AI. All complaints aside, if you're a fiend for mayhem and fast paced 
 action, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BetterThanLife
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  Gamespot as well as the gaming community at large it seems, seems to have missed the point that 
 at the end of the day, games are suppossed to be about having fun.
  
  All too often gamers; particularily 'hard-core' gamers over analyze and pick apart games to the 
 point where nothing beyond the general hype for a brandname is likely to get them excited. This 
 is sad, because they've reached a point where ultimately nothing will satisfy them, perhaps not 
 even the simple fact that a game might just be fun, despite all of it's flaws.
  
  Mercenaries 2 is a fun game, is by no means perfect. Yes it's hard to shoot the gun, it sprays 
 bullets more than hones in on targets, but that first shot is usually pretty accurate for fully-automatic 
 weapons, that appears to be the case here, mixing a little realism with arcade quality fun.
  
  The AI might not be that great.... that's fine for a game like this, not so much for a game 
 like Tom Clancy games. It feels like an arcade shooter, I personally never expected more, sometimes 
 I want to jum pinto a game and start causing chaos which isn't possible in the more serious/tactical 
 games out there, this game delivers oodles of that kind of simple fun.
  
  Yes you can run up and kill people by hitting them with your gun, but that's if you want to get 
 shot up to near-death in order to pull that off, you won't get very far doing this.
  
  I've had one issue where I actually fell through the gameworld... a pretty bad bug, but frankly, 
 I just reloaded, big deal, everything has flaws if you look close enough, it didn't stop me from 
 having fun and only happened once.
  
  Games are about having fun, this game delivers. It has it's fair share of little issues but at 
 the end of the day it's a lot of fun and there's PLENTY to do if you don't take it seriously and 
 don't try to finish the game in a day or two.
  
  Gamespot needs to stop nit-picking the little things, take a look at the big picture and ultimately, 
 try to enjoy playing a game, seems like the only time they have fun anymore is when some brandname 
 company lines their pockets in order to push a good score, otherwise they are so jaded, nothing 
 is fun anymore. Don't buy into that mentality, don't take things so seriously and just have some 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curbdog51
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  Gamespot is gettin' a little too critical with their reviews lately. True, you can tell there is 
 a PS2 version of the game even playing the 360 version. It's like they didn't want to stray too 
 far in the graphical department but that's okay! Why? Simply put: this game is fun as hell! The 
 sandbox approach in a gmae that the pacing is exciting the whole time and not just in spats?!
 
  The online co-op is just right too. No 16 player tacked on deathmatch here. Just you and a buddy 
 tagteaming missions to get the job done. I will say it's a blast to watch your partner, in a chicken 
 suit, hijacking a helicopter. Can't say the last time I saw something like that.
  Mercs 2 is the game to play right now and the only detractions from the game are some graphical 
 bugs. That's it. I'm sure when the sales figures are compiled they'll show a bit more substance 
 than a 5.0 review warrants. Proof is in the pudding, nah mean?
  Anyways, Mercs 2 is a blast to play. Don't believe some cats who are adjusting their George McFly 
 galsses as they over-analyze each pixel on a game that's one of the funnest around at this time! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubbaneo123
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for a bit now, and it is alright. It is not the best game out there 
 right now by far but it is fairly decent and I would say worth the rental at least but not a purchase 
 at a $60 dollar pricetag, the multi-player is fun but a person can ruin all you have hoped to achieve 
 and cost you some serious cash by destroying the buildings you are trying to take over for a faction, 
 instantly causing you to turn hostile towards that faction. I have also had a few issues with draw 
 distances, off in the distance things get very low-res and blurry, even when you zoom in with a 
 sniper rifle or binoculars it keeps its low-res image until you get close, or it just will show 
 up at all. I had several issues with driving a boat in the water, only to have a mine appear right 
 in front of me too late to avoid it, followed by a 10 minute long swim to shore. I believe this 
 game could have been wonderful if they spent a bit more time in polishing draw distances and such. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: expandingeye
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  This game is a good time killer and plenty entertaining to play until some better games come out 
 later this year.
  
  If you liked the original Mercs, this will probably be very fun for you. While there are some glitches, 
 well alot of glitches. Some bad AI, enemies sometimes inside rocks, one time i couldnt switch weapons 
 for like a minute, etc. Usually they are not a big deal. I have not had any game breaking or fun 
 stopping glitches. 
  
  This game is really creative because you will have an objective, which is basically rushing an 
 enemy base, and you can choose whichever way you want to do it. 
  -snipe the whole basecamp before they realize your even around.
  -run in with a machine gun and 
 grenades.
  -artillery from above and bomb the whole place to ashes.
  -call a tank and blow everything with that.
  -use an attack helicopter.
  -c4 is very entertaining.
 
  
  The only problems ive found is that alot of the airstrikes require you to be close to the target 
 so you have to get in there and get out. Which some might find annoying, i found it fun.
  
  The game might be pretty easy, and sometimes i wish i could change the difficulty to a more challenging 
 choice. But there are plenty of moments where you will feel completely surrounded and die probably, 
 or narrowly escape death. And that is hard enough to be entertaining.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: faceman420
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, this is coming from an original fan of Mercs 1 for PS2 and of other sandbox games such 
 as GTA. I bought Mercs 2 on launch day, and as soon as I began playing I noticed the gameplay is 
 just as solid as in the original. The on foot controls are the same as before, and driving vehicles 
 has been DRASTICALLY improved from what was a really broken mechanic of Mercs 1 - this pleased 
 me. 
  
  The addition of heli-transport and GPS modernize it enough to make it bearable, and trust me traveling 
 does not get nearly as bad as in GTA II-San Andreas which were all great games but took forever 
 to get anywhere. So it's kinda odd to hear ppl complain so much about that.. maybe they are too 
 spoiled by GTA IV's taxi function?
  
  People should not be playing Mercs 2 expecting a realistic shooter, b/c this game is NOT THAT. 
 The Mercs universe, since the first one, has its own rules which include the slowwwww bullet firing. 
 The point of this is that Mercs 2 isn't about shooting at all, it's about BLOWING STUFF UP!! So 
 of course bullets will be weak, because what you really need to watch out for are grenades, the 
 soldiers with rocket launchers, and the many heavily armed vehicles in the game's world. 
  
  Granted, the story isn't great, but the voice acting is good - there just isn't enough of it. 
 The addition of cutscenes are pretty cool though - who didn't laugh when Chris Jacobs got shot 
 in the rear end? Again, this game is about destruction, and the many airstrikes, bombs, artillery, 
 vehicles, etc are the real stars of the show, and as you progress, you get to unlock a multitude 
 of them!
  
  Yes, there are glitches here and there, but they aren't so apparent that you will be disgusted 
 with the game. In fact, I was more irritated with Mass Effect's massive slowdowns than any kind 
 of glitch in Merc 2. 
  
  This is essentially Mercs 1 with better driving gameplay, better graphics, and many more goodies 
 to blow stuff up with. As a fan of the first game, this was just what I was hoping for. Sure, Pandemic 
 could have spent a couple more months polishing out the slight blemishes, but Mercs 2 is a solid 
 action game in which you'll have tons of fun. If you're not ready to plunk down $65.01 on this, 
 then do yourself a favor and pick up Mercs 1 for $5-10, maybe even cheaper since it was not a well-known 
 game, and you'll be surprised how playable it is even though it's a last generation game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moroeus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Let's see this is one of the most fun games ive played this gen. Getting the first nuke sent straight 
 towards those chinese is a beautiful sight. But it comes at a cost of those pesky, ridden bugs and 
 glitches. But the overall fun in this game is enough to make those bugs to back into the corner. 
 
  
  If you like destruction This is a MUST.
  If you liked the 1st this is a MUST.
  You just the ignore the occasional flaw.
  
  
  The story is cheesy and the typical i got shot 
 in the ass
  type of revenge plot but if your just in for the fun that can be easily be bypassed.
  
  The 
 gameplay is plain and simple having the mercs 1 style gameplay with some new features.
  
  The Graphics are not amazing but just right when you think of the huge open world map.
  
  Overall 
 this game is fun and if you liked mercs 1 you'll love this one.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: piggyvsnfc
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  If you don't like this game you obviously didn't play the first or just don't like blowing things 
 up for no reason other than to watch. It seems all most all "professional" and I will use that 
 term loosely, reviewers just didn't like this one. Maybe they have played too much Halo 3 or Gears 
 of War 1. I guess they just can't get past the fact this game is a fun time as long as you have 
 an imagination and think for yourself. If your still playing COD 4 and/or Halo 3 you won't like 
 this as it's not COD 4 or Halo 3. I guess I'm trying to say if you have a brain, you like action 
 movies, and don't really need an in-depth, life changing affirmation to all stories, this is a 
 great game. Full of bullets, explosions, more vehicles than GTA 1-4 together, this one is a winner. 
 Did I mention I have only had it 2 days and put over 20hrs on it. Not even Kotor (Knights of the 
 Old Republic for those whom are uninitiated) 1 and 2 managed this. Hell even Vice City didn't (and 
 I spent 63 hours beating it the first time.) If you like the big sandbox type of game this is a 
 cannot miss. If you like sandbox games and don't at least play this it WILL be a regret for the 
 rest of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cortolio
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  
  I am not new to the Mercenaries franchise. I've played Mercenaries: Playground of Destruction and 
 loved it. This sequel, however, fails on new and strange levels. This saddens me because I simply 
 wanted to like this game. The first one was a good investment so why shouldn't the sequel be too?
 
  
  The absolute major flaw with this game is lack of quality. Everything from the poor graphics, to 
 the infamously bad AI and even the prominent bugs stop this game from being truly worth the price 
 tag. I don't care if this game isn't supposed to be graphically astonishing; the graphics are just 
 plain bad. The textures are grainy and the models aren't leaps and bounds ahead of last gen designs. 
 A good way to describe the graphics in this game is that they're lazy. The vibrant explosions are 
 the only saving grace, but sadly unlike every other object they are short lived. 
  
  Where did all these bugs come from? At one point in the game I was driving a boat down a lake and 
 all of a sudden it flipped over and blew up for no apparent reason. It was as if Neptune himself 
 shook the boat from the water. I don't remember ever encountering any problems as strange as that 
 in the previous game. The new premise of running your own PMC is lame. If this game was so hell 
 bent on destruction how come I have to waste time collecting fuel for a helicopter and a jet? Why 
 do I have to press Y to steal fuel and then press up on the d pad and then select the helicopter 
 to come collect it? That should all be done with one button. 
  
  The contracts in this game are not fun whatsoever. Driving a monster truck through an obstacle 
 course with a time limit in between each checkpoint is simply ridiculous. The controls on anything 
 besides a helicopter or a tank are terrible. Some wheeled vehicles don't even really look like 
 they're gripping any sort of terrain. This is supposed to be a finished game? Wasn't this game 
 delayed or something too? Taking over outposts is not fun no matter what way you try to approach 
 it. After doing three contracts that involve doing just that I was already tired of the game. Normally, 
 games don't get repetitive until later on, but Mercenaries 2 decided to bore me before I even put 
 a few good hours into it.
  
  Don't buy this game, rent it and see if you can squeeze any sort of fun from it and be happy with 
 that. While some critics find this game fun, others find it buggy. I call it as it is, disastrous.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ncrutch
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Imagine a game with a huge open world, the freedom to destroy, fly, buy, drive, steal, or do just 
 about anything, make it all totally outrageous and over the top, and you have Mercenaries 2: World 
 in Flames. Is it perfect? Far from, but the misgivings are certainly not enough to put a black 
 mark on the game.
  
  We'll start with graphics, the thing that probably hits the player first. The models, textures, 
 and some of the effects are not exactly state of the art, but the game still looks nice and runs 
 smoothly. Smoke, fire, and explosion effects all bring home the look of a flaming and smokey battlefield. 
 Sound design, while not top notch on the guns, is actually pretty good for the explosions. The 
 really exceptional sound comes from the vehicles. As one might expect of a high payed mercenary 
 unit, UP's vehicles drive smoothly and quietly, while the PLAV's various trucks squeak and rattle 
 on the road.
  
  The game play can be varied. Capturing outposts can be fun, and the different layouts and defenses 
 force the player to engage in the game, and adapt to the current situation. This effect is, however, 
 hampered by a nearly useless AI. Their threat is more in numbers than capability, but in some cases 
 numbers just aren't enough. The grenades thrown to get the player out of cover are a half hearted 
 and infrequent attempt at the AI to flush the player in to a line of fire. Most enemies can be 
 sniped, or taken out from behind cover with relative safety.
  
  Missions, in the extremely rare cases that they actually show up, are very fun. Perhaps Mercenaries 
 2's biggest fault is not providing the number of faction contracts that its predecessor offered. 
 It seems that the outpost capturing has replaced most of the contracts, and while it is an interesting 
 concept, it is absolutely no substitute for the actual story-building contracts which made the 
 first game so entertaining. The situation is further complicated by wholly unsatisfying and out 
 of place racing missions. Racing is all well and good, but if you wanted a racing game, I wager 
 you'd have bought just that: a racing game.
  
  Perhaps the crowning achievement of Mercenaries two is the astronomical amount of open world content 
 available. Standing bounties, High Value Targets, and demolition objectives make exploring the 
 open world both perilous and lucrative. It can be fun trying to play the factions off one another, 
 stealing a UP exec and then blowing up a PLAV stronghold to balance out your reputation with each 
 faction, but, sadly, this content also seems to have been a replacement for faction story contracts.
 
  
  The story, while providing a fairly flimsy pretext for destruction, is absolutely better or worse 
 than that of the first game. In both cases, the player is one person sent to take down an army. 
 In one game, you're sponsored by a PMC, in the other, you have your own PMC. The premise of the 
 game is not "realistic tactical action in a believable environment". The premise of mercenaries 
 is "kill, destroy and steal for money. If they don't pay, make them pay". The game is intended 
 to be totally over the top and outrageous, hence the reason there is a tattooed Swedish biker with 
 a mohawk telling people to get out of their cars because its a "Viking emergency". The cynical 
 asides of Chris, Jenn's money centric banter, and Mattias's deadpan dark humor delivery are all 
 just out of place, but in the most pleasant way. Furthermore, I dare you to find a game with a 
 premise as original as "I'm going to blow up a country because it's president shot me in the rear".
 
  
  As for the bugs, the version that I am playing is unpatched. The most annoying bug I have encountered 
 is one that prevents the use of the zoom on binoculars or a sniper scope. I have also encountered 
 one which prevents your helicopter pilot, Ewan, from removing resources from the game world. Neither 
 of these are game breaking, and they're reportedly fixed in the patch.
  
  A game with graphics far from dated, sound design that is solid, if not as good as a game like 
 Bad Company, solid gameplay, voice acting and story that provides entertaining and even hilarious 
 situations. The game practically oozes originality, and there is hardly anything more satisfying 
 than putting down your rifle for your RPG, only to put your RPG down for some other WMD. Mercenaries 
 2 isn't perfect, but its far from a 5, and it definitely deserves that you at least rent it.
  
  Finally, I would be remissed if I did not scold Aaron for his horrid review practices.
  1.) 
 A gun store? Are you kidding me? "Please halt the war, I have to run to walmart for some more shotgun 
 shells. Back in 20 guys."
  2.) If you have a 100 round machine gun, and can't hit a moving target, you should probably stay 
 out of FPS games in general.
  3.) Heaven forbid that a player be required to undergo the unbearable strain of moving a finger 
 from the x to the y button to grab that ammo. What was Pandemic thinking? Probably that guy in 
 the chicken suit's fault.
  4.) I already rebutted your voice acting comment. I saw more people on the forum begging for Peter 
 Stormare to come back than I saw requests for actual new game content. The fans have spoken, and 
 they are always right.
  5.) The thing that infuriates me most is that you took almost 5 days to put together a review for 
 a game on a multi-platform game, and yet, you acted like the game was for one platform. If the 
 PS3 game has texture glitches, fine. Do not dock the Xbox 360 version for that. When people read 
 reviews, they aren't looking for a slop trough mash up of 8 platforms.
  
  Aaron, all due respect, but stick to the sports games, you seem to have better taste in them.
 
  
  Furthermore, I write this rebuttal not in disrespect, but simply to voice my opinion about what 
 I think is an incorrectly scored and undervalued game. A review is, after all, merely a matter 
 of opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickalpx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  ............... it will be played, it will be partially enjoyed, and it will be forgotten..................... 
 mercenaries 2, didnt make it trough the finish line, i think theres a lot that it could be use... but 
 o well, its get old and repetitive, and tough the open world style its cool... it only is so for 
 a while, the ai is not challenging at all, and it really doesnt have to much replay value, maybe 
 if they give mercenaries two another makeover... then... just then... maybe theyll got something 
 good in their hands, but from now, mercenaries 2 its a common game, a repetitive one with no fun 
 objectives or missions, the only thing about this game that really turn me on was, without any 
 word against it, the pretty amazing nuke... oh yeah suck on  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that must be said in any review of this game on Gamespot, is that a 5.0 for this 
 game is absurdly low. The aggregate critic and user score just does not aggree, and really the 
 game deserves better. The second point is that many of the complaints made in the review ARE valid 
 (voice acting... oy) but not such a drag on gameplay that a 5.0 is valid.
  
  This game is just what it claims to be, and that is not the second coming of GTA. Mercs 2 is about 
 blowing up everything you want to with a staggering array of vehicles and weapons. If that doesn't 
 appeal to you, and it may not, this is NOT THE GAME FOR YOU. In much the same way that you wouldn't 
 reccomend La Pucelle Tactics to someone who loathes strategy, this is a game for mindless action.
 
  
  The graphics look good, and the explosions are glorious, up to and including the nukes... yes... 
 nukes. With a few weird exceptions like rocks, everything can be reduced to their componant molecules. 
 There is no real attempt to tell a story, and that's fine, because this is just about being in 
 a BIG sandbox with all the sandcasltes you want to crush. The fact that it's surprisingly entertaining 
 for long playtimes, just goes to show that Catharsis is alive and well.
  
  In Mercs 2, you plays as one of three characters, who, aside from player models and one unique 
 "ability" are pretty much the same. You've been cheated, and you'll do a bunch of quests and sidequests 
 in between bouts of self-driven mayhem. It's that simple, and as so many have said, if you want 
 that, get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parrot_of_adun
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 2:17 am PT
Review:  After reading Aaron Thomas' review (and watching the video) , I was appalled.
  
  Mercenaries 2 is an amazing game in almost every respect.
  
  -GRAPHICS
  Mercs2 is not on 
 par with some of the greater visual titles of it's time, this is especially evident in the overall 
 texture resolution. Howver, Mercs2 certainly doesn't dissappoint, particularly with the expert 
 use of particle effects, it really doesn't matter if your enemies look photorealistic, or slightly 
 less so when all you're trying to do is blow them up.
  
  -GAMEPLAY
  Mercs2 is even more fun than the original. Everything that was done right in the first is just 
 as well done in it's sequel. For example, the map is now much larger than the original's, and has 
 even more to do.
  Mercs2 also has a co-op option, which simply makes everything twice as fun.
  
  -SOUND
  This 
 is an area in which Pandemic improved greatly.
  In the original Mercenaries, one couldn't tell the difference between gunfire and the sound of 
 a helicopter.
  NOW however, not only is the sound clean and crisp, but different for every little action.
  
 
  -STORY
  Mercs2 is action for action's sake, this is why the tilt is so high for me.
  I wasn't expecting there to be some complicated deep plot and emotional twists and turns. I was 
 expecting there simply to be a reason for you to be setting a country ablaze, and there is. Essentially, 
 for profit, inspired by revenge (as would be expected in a game about mercenaries) . Regardless, 
 it's STILL interesting enough to maintain the suspension of disbelief.
  
  -TECHNICAL
  It would appear Aaron Thomas didn't get the RELEASE patch, which (to the best of my knowledge) 
 fixed just about everything he complained about. There are still a few bugs, but only minor ones 
 that are FAR from game-breaking (ie, a helicopter leaving much later than it should) .
  The one part Thomas got right was the AI, in Mercs2, the AI is really quite bad. Fortunately, it 
 doesn't really impede gameplay, since the challenge comes from the NUMBER of enemies, not the individual 
 skill of each.
  There is also a strange but largely unimportant save system, it's simply rather counter intuitive.
 
  
  -OVERVIEW
  
  GOOD:
  Satisfying gunplay, large map with plenty to do, alot of re-play value, terrific action, great 
 co-op, decent depth to gameplay.
  
  BAD:
  Awful AI, some bugs and glitches without release patch, strange save system organization.
  
 
  --
  
  GO GET THIS GAME! Aaron Thomas may not like this game, but thousands of your fellow members do. 
 Believe me, this title IS worth your time, just make sure you get the update if you have the ability. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirhcx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I got Mercs 2 on the release date and happily played it into the late night. I awoke to seek to 
 play it once more but felt empty inside after a mission or two.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is broken in so many ways that the only problem that I can think of is RPG's 
 in the bunkers. The gameplay is enjoying at most parts, and you can get "lost" in the game and 
 just destroy things.
  
  GRAPHICS: Graphics in some areas are impressive, but primitive in some cases. For instance, when 
 you beat you car up and lose the hood, the engine looks like 3 boxes. And what is up with bikes 
 never falling over?
  
  CONCLUSION: It's good for people that want a destructive game and want to blow $60. For me, this 
 did live up to some of my expectations, but failed in others.
  
  If you are thinking about this game, rent it first or wait until it's $30 - $40 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Irving
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Wild fun. Blow up stuff. Blow up more stuff. Co-op is decent. Large world. Some funny moments. 
 AT SOME POINTS requires strategy
  
  Cons: Some pop-up and glitching (not enough to warrant a 5) . Dialogue is extremely painful (Just 
 remember, if you ever get lost, come back to the PMZ and talk to Fiona :P) . Lack of variety in 
 missions. Hijacking is a pain.
  
  Pros and cons are pretty self-explanatory. I don't get why people are bugged about the story. Mercenaries 
 1 didn't exactly have a story. You're hired to kill some Korean dictator. There. This story is 
 relatively a step-up. At least there's something besides money motivating these guys.
  
  Think of this just like Mercenaries 1, except the dialogue is extremely painful and there's no 
 Deck of 52. The graphical errors and glitches aren't game-breaking. Hijacking vehicles is a pain, 
 as you have to repeat the same button-pressing sequences over and over and over...
  
  I would've given Mercenaries 1 an 8.5, so all these cons subtract a whole point from it. Despite 
 all this, it's still crazy fun if you liked the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Is GameSpot just running around hiring people off the streets? 
  
  What have they become? It has all gone down hill after Geff Gertsmann and a few others left GameSpot.
 
  
  Back to the review, he mentions it's hard to shoot at moving targets, maybe that's because he sucks 
 at playing console games.
  
  The bugs and glitches often NEVER stop you from having fun or directly affect you. They're just 
 laughable instances where your actions have resulted in them. 
  
  Then he goes on how travel can be boring. For me, when I travel from point to point, I usually 
 stop along the way to blow up a target or verify a HVT.
  
  The graphics are fantastic, I can not see how you can say the graphics are lacking. I sometimes 
 mistake the game for GTA4 for short moments.
  
  Multi-player does what it's supposed to do, I've have had hours of fun on co-op mode. 
  Heavy 
 transport helicopter + heavy tank = mobile flying gun platform.
  
  
  The voice acting was okay, but not abysmal. I've seen many other games with more terrible voice 
 acting.
  
  Mercenaries 2 is an overall fantastic game, although rushed, the results of these aren't really 
 major.
  
  It definitely deserves more than 5. I'd give it a 7 or 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ntblood_basic
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Good & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood 
 & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood 
 & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood 
 & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood 
 & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood 
 & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood 
 & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood 
 & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood 
 & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood 
 & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood 
 & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining gameGood & entertaining game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SJ-200
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. the graphics aren't the best but they are fairly good considering the size 
 of the game. The explosions are great and if you like big booms by this game! what im not getting 
 is why the critics are being so harsh on this game. the point of a game is not a good story line 
 or perfect graphics its about having fun. when i look at the user scores not even 8% have given 
 it lower then 7 and 16% lower then 8. its a good game people! there are some glitches but pretty 
 much all of the time i find them extremely funny. and please stop complaining about the damn graphics! 
 i hear people saying they arnt much better then the ps2... what? if thats what you think you need 
 to plug that old thing back in and get a slap from reality. TOTALLY AWESOME GAME!! I LOVE BIG BOOM!!! 
 YAY! BIG BOOM!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panda350
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I thought that this game was very good. However, it wasnt as good as i thought it would be. for 
 instance, i flew up as high as you could go, which is thousands of feet, i had 2 percent health 
 left, and when you fall, you fall like in san andreas, but when you land, you land standing up 
 and you can not die from falling down. Also, one time the game glitched, and i could not die. i 
 had to restart the game before i could die again.............. And be aware that i gave it a 9 
 because i am a fan of the series, and because the coop was great. if there were no coop and i wasnt 
 a fan, i would give it a 7. The game is very fun and awesome, but theres so many glitches and things 
 wrong with it, i can only half recomend it. if you like to blow **** up, definetely buy this game. 
 if you are looking for a game as amazing as gta 4 than keep looking. this game has mediocre storytelling 
 and is all about blowing **** up, which they do well, and the explosions look GREAT. BUY SKATE! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariomusicmaker
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 4, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I Enjoyed mercs 1 so very much, when i saw this last year i was pumped. i could not wait to blow 
 more stuff up. 
  
  well i rented it 3 days ago, very first thing you see is 4 bad dudes, WITH LITERAL TARGETS ON THEM! 
 i mean, i dont need a target to tell me who to shoot. that is like putting a target on a target 
 at a shooting range... you just know to shoot it.... 
  
  any way, all the guns rpg aside feel like toys, and they sound like it to. the ak is about as accurate 
 as trying to shoot a hand full of randomly sized rocks out of a 3 foot wide gun barrle. it just 
 feels so very wrong,
  
  and your enemys, i could litteraly run circles around them while they play hop scotch or something, 
 and when i did get shot it took me less then 2 seconds to regain my helth, and when i LET them 
 shoot me, it took 4 guys 48 seconds to fully kill me. wtf?
  
  and now, the glitches. there are so many glitches that take me back to 1999,,, like if you walk 
 on a hill and get shot, you slide all the way to the bottom, and you cant do any thing while slideing, 
 
  
  i dont understand what yall see in this game, it is unpolished, un FINISHED! and over all sloppy 
 to the point of self mutalation. ENJOY IT fans, DO NOT BUY IT IF YOU ARE UNDECIDED! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crisvok
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Ok to start of this game is pretty cool online co op and pretty decent single player campaing pretty 
 long and has tons of side quest or missions 
  
  Story: suks but i dont think u buy a game like mercenaries for the story if u want a good story 
 play FF or metal gear bottom line story suks u get shot in the ass and u want revenge 
  
  Story 3/10
  
  Gameplay
  the game is actually really fun specially if ur playing co op the 
 game is not too easy not too hard so its cool on the difficulty i had a couple problems with pop 
 ups like ur driving past a bridge u destroyed a couple minutes ago and it looks fine then when 
 u get really close its destroyed 
  
  Gameplay 8.5/10
  
  glitchy 
  you must say its not that glitchy....... worng!!!!!!!!!!!
  this game is soo freaking glitchy like 
 the multiplayer
  i got this game because i wanted to play with my friend and guess what i cant .i dont know why 
 i can still play with strangers which is still cool. this game could have been a 10 easily but 
 it needs to be polish first
  
  Glitchy 10/10 which is not good
  
  sound 
  they say the same thing over and over pretty annoying i really dont care... u might sooo
  
 
  sound 1/10
  
  Fun
  this game is one of the funnest games ever u can send a nuke a destroy every thing and u can do 
 that with a stranger or a friend if its not glitch like mine there a lot of vehicle really freaking 
 cool ones  even a monster truck boats and much more 
 . for guns we have 2 ak's, M4, M8 ,snipers RPG's and much much .
  
  their is so much to do with a friend get money, race blow up stuff, missions, blow stuff up, capture 
 HVT (high value targets) , oo ooo oo and blow up stuff
  
  FUN 10/10 
  
  i would recommend to rent it and if u like it buy it or if u have a lot of money in ur hands buy 
 it other wise save up for fable 2, fallout 3 ,left for dead, gears of war 2 or others 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MissMorphine
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  ok this is my first review. so i wouldnt even call it a review. more like a guideline.
  
  first of all let me start saying that this game would have been awesome... as a launch title... 
 why? well bc this game looks... outdated. not even bc its graphics but when it comes to gameplay. 
 if u played the first mercenaries. u will notice that only a few things changed or maybe nothing 
 changed. makes you wonder what did pandemic do all these years. feels like all they did was copy/paste 
 mercs 1 code into mercs 2 add some "better" graphics and we are done. thing that wouldnt surprise 
 me due to the fact that pandemic belongs to EA. and well all know EA's history of "making" broken 
 games hoping that ppl wont notice that and if they do well we can always fix it with a Patch.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: well like i said the gameplay feels outdated... feels like an xbox game in a Xbox 360 
 disc. but dont get me wrong just bc it feels outdated doesnt mean it sucks. is just that. it doesnt 
 feel alrite. but u can still can have some fun. theres lots of things to do and to find. theres 
 some collectibles scattered all around the map. and well thanx to XBL u and a friend can create 
 some havok. bc we all know that blowing stuff up is always fun. specially with a friend.
  
  GRAPHICS: like i said this game looks like a ps2 game. and not a good one.
  
  CONTROLS: the 
 controls are ok. its really easy to aim and shoot unlike GTAIV. and the vehicles are easy to drive. 
 with the right stick u control the camera so its easy to be aware of your surroundings.
  
  CLOSING COMMENTS: well this game its still fun despite the whole Outdated "issue". for most ppl 
 i would say its a great rental. but if u like freeroaming an co op games Mercenaries 2 should be 
 a nice addition to your game library. If not. well then thats why we all love Gamefly. right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warp-9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Note: If this review is a little too negative for my rating, it's on purpose. Being the XXiest 
 gamer saying having fun blowing stuff up is kinda pointless.
  
  Well the review's title says it all. I've had a feeling of dj vu while playing this game and 
 i'm not talking about the first Mercenaries game but this other Sandbox game setted in a Latin 
 banana republic.
  
  So the question is.... Why not setting this game in Iraq or Afghanistan anyway? What? Because of 
 political issues? Fighting a Hugo Chavez wannabe in Venezuela isn't political maybe?
  
  Okay. Except for the "beig there, done that" feeling, there's an annoying thing or two with this 
 game. First. Why your assistant don't just shut up? I admit it's not like your pals in GTAIV choosing 
 the worst time to invite you to bowling on your cell but still. Do she have to remind you to go 
 back to the HQ if you've lost every 5 minutes? (rolling eyes) . And that critic go to the repetitive 
 lines as well. How many times i've herd a character saying "It's the Mercenary"?
  
  I've a mixed feeling with that vehicle disguise thing. The idea is good but you realise quickly 
 that the best way to explore the country without being a target is to drive a civilian car. Oh 
 and did someone else around here who would like to disguise himself with different clothes and 
 uniforms too?
  
  PS: This review has been made after 20 hours of gameplay. Probably not enough time.....
  Ok that's 
 it good day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goppizzi
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  This game was really great on the XBOX and hass made no iprovements for the 360. The graphics are 
 sub-par, the cut-scenes and abyssmal (especially after plying MGS4) and the game play is so so. 
 The people look like wet noodles when they blow up and keep slithering around like a wet noodle. 
 The cut scenes have the usual token rasta to make things Reggae mon. Eye See You! I can often see 
 the wire frame horizon through the maps and other defects in Polygon placement. EA must have put 
 the pressure on GS to not review this game until after Labor day sales have been completed so they 
 can atleast generate some revenue before the real ratings on this game go live and destroy the 
 future sales of this game. First game was amazing and broke new ground, this game only breaks your 
 wallet and leaves your labor day ruined as you look for some redeming quality in this game and 
 cannot find 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  Whats the meaning of a review??? Basically to describe the game in order to help others decide 
 whether or not a game is worthy purchase. At least thats what I think. Anyways, Mercenaries 2 is 
 here & we all had high hopes for this game ever since playing the original. I'm a little ways through 
 the game & so far I can say this game has met most of my expectations. Its not top-notch, a few 
 things could have been done better, but its a solid game thats basically just a blast to play. 
 I've never been good with words, but how about YES MERCENARIES 2 IS WORTHY!!! Don't bother getting 
 into all the details with the fun factor maxed out Mercenaries 2 is just the right game to kick 
 the doors down and start blasting into our long wish lists for the end of the year. Pick it up 
 Today!!! You won't regret it. Later & Good Gaming!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnfrusciantex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Oh mercenaries. When seeing some of the footage from viral vids on youtube showcasing this game, 
 seeing the terrible graphics, it being in a jungle, and very kiddish minigames while jacking a 
 vehicle, I instantly said to myself, "Screw wasting $60 on that. However I sit here today thinking 
 the opposite.
  
  Pro: Wow I just blew up a building, wow I just blew up a tree, wow I just blew a hole in the ground, 
 HOLY S*** I BLEW UP A BRIDGE! Well the fact I can destroy everything. There isnt a building, bridge, 
 or wall ive come across that I couldnt destroy. Many many vehicles and weapons and gun emplacements. 
 The innovative idea of how you get your airstrikes and how you have to steal fuel for the use of 
 the airstrikes (because jets finally are recognized as gas guzzlers. Maybe its because the gas 
 prices going up they finally figured hey, make them use it in a game too!) . Ive been playing it 
 for 10-15 hours a day since it came out and damn, I only have half of the map to play with and 
 its still huge and has many things I have to do. Fiona is a looker. Customizable vehicles, challenges, 
 and oh so cool jaimacan pirates (yeah man) .
  
  Cons: Why isnt my pilot picking up the resources? What the hell is he doing just floating around? 
 Graphics are well... crap. The civilians run into the cars which loses me money. The AI (while on 
 grounds without a vehicle or gun emplacement) are more mentally challenged than Forest Gump (I 
 love you jenny) . WHERES THE REALLY COOL MORTOR ARTILLERY???????
  
  So if you liked the last game and you can stand some moderate glitches, then enjoy spending 60 
 bucks on this game. However, I rented it and I probably will just keep it from blockbuster. Hey 
 its the walmart special, and it saves me 52 bucks. Very nice. Okay go do shrooms or a bowl then 
 play this game kids! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cx2t
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  this game has long been awaited by the fans of the mercenaries franchise. Could it survive the 
 aspirations of an expected game? yes.
  
  Mercs 2 it's a reload of the original concept with a lot more weapons, explosions and plot than 
 the first one. Now with "not very fancy graphics" but with a good style and fully destructible 
 enviroments, mercs 2 and its fun and full of awsome cliches story mode its a piece of pure open 
 world mayhem.
  
  The game doesn't live up to the technical achivements of GTA4 but it never intends to, it's not 
 a technical masterpiece but an over the top shootem up game.
  
  
  The coop mode makes the game far more fun. At any given moment a friend of yours can jump into 
 action on your own campaign and help you out dispatch some VZ soldiers.
  
  I totally recommend this game for casual and hardcore gamers, won't make you flip out with its 
 graphics, an average AI or its simple driving mechanics but blowing things up has never been this 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartiat
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  What can I say for Mercs 2? Its action packed from the getgo. Youll be instantly immersed in the 
 nonstop gameplay of destroy anything and everything that you see. I heard of lot of people complain 
 about the bugs of this game, ai glitches exc exc, However I have had zero problems with what Ive 
 played so far. If your sceptical, rent it. If you have played the original and enjoyed it, buy 
 it now. Mercs 2 gets a 9.0 from me due to one reason, Instant Gratification. I personally enjoy 
 this genre of "GTA" style games because its not over technical in its features, its a lot of fun 
 to pick up and play, and you dont have to spend hours trying to unlock certain parts of the gameplay. 
 What you see is what you get. A great arcade style classic, I hope that even if there are no more 
 "Mercs" sequels, that there will always be more of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevinenigmatic
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 3, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played through the entire game but I don't even know if I want to.
  
  I'l start with the good:
  Destruction- it's great that most stuff is destructible, it's pretty 
 cool to see skyscrapers come down after a strike.
  Driving- I like the powerful cars, they are pretty satisfying to drive
  -Calling in strikes.
 
  -Good amount of vehicles to drive
  -I like the humor, the first mission you do for the oil company was hilarious.
  -being able to 
 be disguised in a vehicle as a civilian or faction member.
  -expansive world, always good.
  
  The bad:
  -It's been said over and over, Stupid AI. Ridiculously stupid AI. They might as 
 well stand there shooting the ground yelling Kill Me! yeah it's that bad.
  -Your invincible-Usually it's nice not to die so quickly in a game but come on, you get shot in 
 the face with an rpg, your health goes down to 2, just run around for a few seconds avoiding any 
 other explosions and your health will be back to 60 or 70, and don't worry about getting shot, 
 your enemies are all blind, they will shoot randomly around you, hitting you with maybe 1 out of 
 20 bullets if standing still.
  -Glitches- did they even do any thorough testing? walking or doing anything on a hill or slope 
 above 20 degrees and things get retarded, you just slide around like on ice. One side mission is 
 to either capture or kill one of many random rebel leaders, after you kill the bulk of enemies 
 around you the leader cowers down and doesn't move until you kill them or capture them, but if 
 they happen to be on a slope don't plan on capturing because you can't get beside them to get the 
 prompt to show up to capture, you just slide down the hill like a moron, when your sliding you 
 cant do anything.
  Also if you get knocked down on a slope you slide down it on your back, you can't get up or do 
 anything until you slide to the bottom, numerous times I had to wait 20-30 seconds before my character 
 slid to the bottom of a hill before I could get back up. 
  -It seems like you can destroy a fortified bunker but can't harm a leafy bush.
  -QTE-quick time 
 events for hijacking, very repetitive and get old fast
  -Did I mention retarded AI
  -Graphics- I bought Just Cause for $22 last week, the graphics from this game from last year are 
 much better than mercs 2.
  -And what the Eff is with random bundles of $100,000 and artillery shells just sitting around on 
 the side of the road and in the jungle? Put some thought into it already.
  
  In conclusion, it seems like the makers of this game thought destructible environments should be 
 the selling point of the game, because it's the only thing that sets it apart, everything else 
 is equal or worse then any other sandbox game I've played. while fancy looking though the destructible 
 environments don't offer much more in terms of strategy or gameplay. To me the only reason that 
 I'm seeing alot about this game on the web is the result of a lot of advertising dollars, if you're 
 gonna pick up this game wait until it's in the bargain bin, or rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unorthodox1978
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 World in Flames lets you do just that, set the world ablaze -- at least Venezuela. 
 Taking on the roles of either Mattias Nilssen, Christopher Jacobs, or Jennifer Mui, each with their 
 own attributes, Nilssen has health regenerative attributes, Chris can carry more ammunition, and 
 Jennifer can run the fastest, you go on a revenge kick to find Solano, an oil baron who did you 
 dirty. 
  
  The gameplay is solid, but not without its flaws. For instance, the A. I. is very. . . how to put 
 this. . . stupid. Yeah, stupid comes to mind. The enemies don't do much to protect themselves from 
 your barrage of attacks and in some cases, where a grenade isn't thrown far enough, they actually 
 blow themselves up. One could chalk this up to Mercenaries being reminiscent of old campy Hollywood 
 action flicks where the good guy doesn't get a scratch on him and the bad guys are riddled with 
 bullet holes, but in the gaming community, that doesn't hold up much.
  
  The voice acting is a real disappointment. Pandemic really dropped the ball with this one, because 
 they had the opportunity to really take advantage of the high caliber talent used to provide the 
 main character's voices and didn't. Instead Peter Stromare (Nilssen) , Phil LaMarr (Jacobs) and 
 Jennifer Hale (Mui) are used only for corny one-liners, and recycled dialog. 
  
  The world of Venezuela is sprawling, but oddly enough, sparsely populated. There are very few pedestrians 
 walking the roads and the ones that are there, are crudely designed and uninspired. Furthermore, 
 there isn't much variety in the character models for the peds. While this doesn't totally detract 
 from the experience, it is noticeable. 
  
  All in all, the game is solid and offers great game play. Blowing things up never gets old. The 
 graphics are solid, the world his huge, and there's plenty of ways to make money. But destructible 
 environments shouldn't be the backbone of any game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriviumA7X
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  ... First off this is a GTA clone... one withough saggy panted gangbangers, and f-bombs every other 
 word. for anyone who has ever played the original Mercs, its pretty much the same thing this time 
 with better looking visuals ( no, not the best in the industry, however passable considering how 
 large the game is) Controls this time around are smoother. Vehicles all handle much nicer, more 
 arcadey than realistic simulator (arcadey is the standard nowadays for driving in Sandboxgames) 
 
  Hijacking larger vehicles like tanks and heavy artillery of the such bring you into a short pointless 
 God-of-War esque QTE which are simple to pull off (Please all game developers... QTE is outdated 
 and ruins the submersion of games... yes it was fun way back when it was in Shenmue and GoW, but 
 games shoulda come a ways since then...) 
  You are now in Venezuela taking contracts from anyone who will help you find you're main target... 
 the man
  who shot you in the a$$...
  in my opinion this game is way too easy, the enemy AI really sucks, you honestly don't even need 
 half the 'tools of Destruction' the game gives you. you can pretty much go throught the game with 
 only you're 2 guns... but if you did that it would just be an extremely generic third person shooter 
 in a massive 'Just Cause ' like jungle . Seriously in this game you are almost immortal... you 
 can walk into an entire enemy base complete with 500 soldiers 200 tanks and walk out feeling pretty 
 godly (slightly exagerated numbers, play the game and you will see its possible however LMAO) ... 
 I had to give the game an 8 at least though cuz it is fun, and the controls are smooth, all of 
 the games mechanics work well except the AI... and there are a few glitches here and there... the 
 kinda glitches all these open world chaos GTA games are known for. Overall Mercs2 is an excellent 
 time waster while we wait for other open world choices like ... Saints Row 2... oh one more thing 
 Pandemic, next time can we please have a create-you're-own merc? Mattias is the coolest of the 
 3 charcters, but... I would be a sicker character!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ky_tpm69
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Lucas Arts did a superior job with the first game. This one is fun and has a lot of vehicles and 
 air strikes available right away. Hijacking vehicles has become more interactive but becomes repetitive 
 quickly. I think the biggest flaw with the game is that EA needs to make sure their games are more 
 polished. The one feature I found most appealing was the co-op play. Co-op is seamless. The player 
 can set who is able to get in their game and while playing missions, anyone you allow can just 
 jump in. You can play together for awhile, finish some missions and then jump out. Its a blast. 
 Just make sure friendly fire is OFF. It keeps people from being able to jump in just to harrass 
 you. Another nice feature is the ability to buy airstrikes without them costing enormous amounts 
 of money. You can purchase them at "shops" and equip them when needed. You use fuel units and money 
 to send in an airstrike, but the destruction is massive and cool to look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kutzor
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok so the game starts of ok and get dumber abd dumber as the game as goes on. i have a problem 
 with the new hijack system i liked when u didnt have do anything, and half the time when you try 
 to take a tank or heli from the Chinese you wont get it. what the hell is with all the ammo at 
 your villa and you cant take it from there you have to call in you heli. the simple fact that running 
 over a wall causes damage to ur tank but running over a car DOES NOTHING AND THE THING BLOWS UP. 
 so my conclusion is that this game would have been better if Lucas Arts had did it and not EA. 
 Plus EA needs to rework alot of the crap the make. im never buying a game from them again until 
 im convinced
  
  Ps whats with the stupid names for the vehicles the last one actually called them the right thing 
 not the diplomat or the statesman. 
  
  And im glad that game spot hit the nail on the head and im glad im not the only one with all the 
 bugs and glitches this game is going back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpyderTK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I played the original Mercenaries game and wasn't exactly blown away. It definitely could have 
 been better. Along comes Mercenaries 2, and I decided to give the series a second chance. Perhaps 
 it would impress me with all the changes and fixes over the first one. Plus anything with co-op 
 excites me.
  
  While it is definitely prettier, and more fun to play, it's still a Mercenaries game. Repeating 
 missions in most games would be practically game breaking (eg Godfather) , but with this game the 
 Venezuelan terrain makes for some different areas within one area. You go from a dirt mountain, 
 to a little shack filled village, to a large cityscape, with mansion villa's and waterways sprinkled 
 in between. Unlike Just Cause, this games terrain feels alive. That being said, it's still fairly 
 repetitive.
  
  Side missions include kill this guy, blow up this building, take over this compound, escort this 
 VIP, repeat. However the story line missions change things up, including racing, base defending, 
 base invasion, and more.
  
  Mercenaries 2 also has a lot of hidden money stacks and air strikes that you get lifted out by 
 your own personal helicopter pilot. The game also sports a very impressive amount of vehicles and 
 guns to get your killing done. Including cars, motorcycles, boats, APC's, tanks, helicopters and 
 more. All with different variations between the different factions you purchase them from (or steal 
 from) .
  
  Bottom line is, if you like the idea of killing stuff and blowing stuff up in an open world, this 
 game is for you. Plus the co-op mode, albeit a little buggy, is a lot of fun and not completely 
 pointless (person who joins can carry over the earned funds into their own game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe_Zombie
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Have beaten the original mercs 3 times.
  i knew what i wanted with this game.
  and watching videos with stunning visuals and awesome looking explosions got me super excited for 
 this title.
  
  I bought the game and ran into my room to pop it in.
  got it in, played the first mission and ouch.
  
  its like i was playing the old mercs with 
 new graphics.
  maybe a tree catching on fire and seeing a gate get blown to pieces is a upgrade, but the overall 
 feel felt just like mercs 1. vehicles are nice, but when got on a motorcycle, i realized how terrible 
 the physics are for this game. i can drive really fast, yeah, but once i hit a obstacle, i flew 
 40 feet in the air, landed on top of a tree and exploded. and when you fall off your bike, you land 
 on your stumach with your legs bent completely back, then you instantly move to your back and get 
 up. As far as crashes on a motorbike go, GTA4 hit the spot.
  
  there is so much that this game could have done. 
  but the terrible physics take away from the 
 gameplay. shoot a soldier with a tank from 5 feet away and he gets thrown to the ground a foot 
 from where he stood. there are ragdolls but the dying animation when you shoot someone is generally 
 the same. the ragdolls have no restraints, your leg could bend at the knee forward all the way 
 till you touch your stumach with your toe. you also apparently have no spine. 
  
  if i shoot a rpg and it hits the ground, leaving bumps that look like terrain deformation, i expect 
 the bumps to effect a car when it drives over it. but no, its just for show, the lumps in the ground 
 arnt lumps at all, theyre just objects that you can pass through.
  
  i wont go on, but this game fell terribly short of what i wanted to see come out of it in the next 
 gen. maybe i was too hyped for it, but this was a terrible game for 60 bucks. wait for it to drop 
 to at least 40.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 provides a different, T Rated version of GTA4 in a war torn setting. It's not that 
 the game is bad, far from it. But glitch after glitch, a smaller world, lower graphics quality 
 and the sometimes down right bad voice acting can really make you wonder HOW this could be released 
 after GTA4 or why you would want to buy it if you have played GTA4. Well I'll tell you
  
  Graphics  Without a doubt lower quality than GTA4, a lot of times you'll notice square blotches 
 on cars where light hits them in a broken sort of shading. The funny part of the game is while 
 the lighting and shading is rather poor compared to GTA, the explosions are by far the most beautiful 
 I've ever seen in a game. Character models aren't poor though and models in general have been well 
 put together. The texture work on the other hand is sub par at best, many times things just feel 
 unfinished. When car doors swing open you realize it's just a black matte texture on the inside 
 of the door, no door handle or texture and when hoods come off of vehicles there is no real detail 
 of an engine just a squiggle of grey and black more or less. Water though is quite pretty though 
 not GTA quality again, finally distance finding feel just plain unfinished at times with environmental 
 objects, people and cars just popping up as they get closer to you. While the game is above graphics 
 quality of games like Too Human or Dynasty Warrior, it pales in comparison especially when you 
 go into comparing small details like wrinkles in skin, broken head lights on cars or something 
 like that to games like GTA 4 or Call of Duty 4.
  
  Story  The story is basic in it's primary premise, but the location adds a twist to the mix. Mainly 
 because the level of civil unrest in the country due to it's immense amount of oil reserves make 
 it a major target for well everyone. At this point in time, gas prices are ravaging the world 
 so it only makes sense that major world powers would be willing to invade a country for oil. While 
 the base story of revenge for betrayal runs along just fine, the addition of a global political 
 element (oil) adds a dash of something to it.
  
  Controls / Mechanics  I figured I'd bundle both of these since in free roam games like GTA or 
 Mercs the Mechanics are based on the controls and vice versa. Mercs does have some very nice features, 
 but plenty of perplexing ones as well. Primarily while it does make sense you'll find yourself 
 resource gathering munitions and oil from time to time with no intention of doing a mission. Basically 
 you need oil to run your Jet and your Helicopter, and of course you need the munitions to drop 
 but unlike the first Mercs you'll find yourself running about for hours just looking for bombs 
 and other goodies. Yes you can buy these and that's fine but when you can get the same thing for 
 free some may be willing to spend the extra time, especially since bought weapons still use your 
 oil reserve. Don't fear though, while it may SOUND like a taxing annoyance bombs, oil tanks and 
 other such goodies all respawn back in the same place. For instance in front of your main base 
 (or PMC) you'll find nearby a pile of money (100k) , a box of Artillery Shells and a pair of 500lbs 
 bombs, all of which respawn after a short amount of time and can be picked back up again and again. 
 Since Artillery is one of the most useful abilities in the game for leveling buildings, this makes 
 it simple. Other than this though the QTE (quick time events) system works but doesn't feel whole. 
 If you're not familiar with the term QTE, basically you go to hijack a vehicle, tank, car, helicopter 
 or such and instead of just doing it you have to quickly and correctly smash buttons to kill the 
 driver and take the vehicle. This is in no way annoying, except for in certain helicopter situations, 
 but the transition for some reason just doesn't feel smooth. Combat in a whole is where this game 
 shines bright, really bright, like a bomb kind of bright. The basic combat is only slightly more 
 interesting than GTAs run and gun system, but add in artillery strikes and tanks and for some reason 
 it just is a lot more enjoyable. The interesting but in some ways likeable thing is that there 
 doesn't appear to be a crouch ability anymore, but when you go into Aim mode you automatically 
 crouch. This is a nice idea since in most games one finds themselves pressing crouch and THEN holding 
 aim, while is a very minor thing it is a nice thought. Past the combat though things tend to fall 
 very short of GTA, a very small assortment of weapons and vehicles make the game feel tiny, not 
 to mention that it's no where NEAR as detailed as GTA4 or as large. The Factions this time around 
 are much more sensitive to the things you do, which is a serious pain since almost every mission 
 you take from one faction involves you attacking another. It feels like this issue was noticed 
 by the developers but instead of balancing it just threw in the "Bribe" ability, in which you can 
 pay five million dollars to make a faction like you again. Pretty weak if you as me, past this 
 issue with factions is the likeness. Basically this, work with the PLAV if you like combat missions, 
 Pirates if you like time attack like racing though mine fields within a certain amount of time 
 or play with the UP if you like a mix with some escort missions as well. While there is more to 
 it this is just the basic mix you can learn to live by if you want. Finally while it's not a issue 
 the AI is very well, unfinished. While combat works just fine you'll find that when you're disguised 
 that enemies still will yell to each other "The enemy is here" or some other such warning but that 
 they don't attack you, the reason being that the enemy wasn't programmed to not know it's the player 
 but simply programmed to not attack when disguised. This is just a degrading problem for the programmers 
 which could be seen as a oversight, in addition the when characters die they tend to get 'stuck', 
 once when I threw a guy out of a helicopter he died standing up and just stuck there standing. 
 Finally picking up items like Oil Tanks, Cash and bombs is a minor pain, you must choose the item 
 to pick up, then throw a smoke grenade to signal the helicopter to get it but sometimes the helicopter 
 will just glitch and will either disappear all together before picking up the item OR will pick 
 it up and then get stuck and just hover there but the helicopter IS in play and CAN be shot and 
 damaged costing you money. A second attempt to call the helicopter will bring him in and pick is 
 up, which will shortly bee followed by read letters reading "There is No resource to pick up". 
 Again another annoying but not detrimental bug.
  
  
  The Overall - When the original Mercenaries was released after GTA some years ago it was just GTA 
 times ten, it was bigger, better and stronger in every way. This time around though except for 
 the combat and explosions it feels a lot weaker, the game is smaller and holds far less detail 
 in things, cities feel like the old style cities from 5 years ago with buildings that tend to just 
 feel 'placed' instead of built. Most of the architecture in Mercs 2 feels cold and just put there 
 for the sake of it, not to mention very tiny. This ruins the destroy everything mechanic of the 
 game when you can only hit one or two buildings at a time since everything is so spread out. The 
 small scale is even worse since I do believe this game maybe the same size if not possibly smaller 
 than the first, either way though compared to the MASSIVE scale of GTA4 this world feels shut in 
 and not quite 'free roam' by today's standards. The voice acting is decent but not amazing and 
 unlike the first game where every line of dialogue felt purposeful and written for one time use, 
 Mercs 2 has plenty of dialogue that is generalized and repeated to death, making some characters 
 just appear foolish at times, my favorite being with Nilson when you speak to a contact sometimes 
 they will say "Ahh, Nilson. I Need you help with something." To which he retorts "I heard you need 
 some help." I'm not even sure what to say about that, it's just sad that NO ONE bothered to look 
 at the game long enough to catch that. It just sounds stupid, in the first game every conversation 
 held was unique to that one time topic. In Mercs two though conversations are bland and general 
 so that the same dialogue can be used over and over again. Still, in the end Mercs 2 DOES offer 
 some pure murderous enjoyment. While not as deep as GTA4 or nearly as beautiful graphically, the 
 game does have it's funny moments and plenty of high grade explosions to boot. One thing it holds 
 HIGH over GTA is the ability to destroy just about everything to accomplish objectives the way 
 you see fit, while in most games you would try to find a way around the way and to take out the 
 sniper in the tower, I've found that blowing up the wall and blowing up the tower is best, the 
 wall is in the back of the base and if the tower is destroyed not only is the sniper dead BUT no 
 one can get back up there to shoot me. This is very nice since most missions you get with this 
 style of game play and fun but rarely aggravating. The major pet peeve is the unfinished almost 
 'we don't care' attitude taken with a lot of issues that feel like they could have been polished 
 to a high shine if the time and care was given to them, from ugly squares on the back of cares 
 in sunlight, to poor dialogue being delivered at the wrong times to enemies saying they've spotted 
 you when they shouldn't have, these things don't impede the game play but just show a lack of care 
 given to the final product. The reason for this is obvious to me now though, the first game was 
 made by Lucas Arts, a company which holds high standards and forces a certain level of quality 
 into their games. On the other hand this game has been made by EA instead, a company that believes 
 in cutting every corner possible and saving time and money in every way possible, even if it means 
 delivering a unfinished, unpolished, unready product. The way the game is, is fine on it's own 
 but it only meets ok quality. If the game had graphics about GTAs quality and was about 30% bigger 
 with some of the other minor glitches squished this could have been a title to remember. Sadly 
 though it was not finished this way and to date remains a fun ride but only for those looking for 
 a more action centered version of GTA. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alek690
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  Well, the game is quite interesting but for those who played GTA4 there is not much more to that. 
 
  
  The story is fun and entertaining but the game has a few glitches that would need to be addressed 
 by the developers. For example, a lot of time the character does not respond to your commands and 
 by the time you actually manage to respond, the action is gone. Also, the monologues are choppy; 
 whenever in a cut scene, the characters will talk and then as soon as you walk out from the scene, 
 their text gets cut off. 
  
  Some weapons are not all so accurate; you must get very close to the enemy to actually get a hit. 
 The sniper rifle is not that accurate and powerful, even if you get a perfect lock on the enemy's 
 head. 
  
  In addition, some missions are very difficult and take away the fun of playing. But the variety 
 and diversity of missions make up the difficulty of the game.
  
  Overall, this is a fun game and is worth playing. 
  
  Review Submitted by Sgt Alek 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  I never played the first version of this game so I was really excited after seeing the video and 
 previews to get this baby home and start dropping bombs. This game floats between being a good 
 and great game. It has its solid moments.... like dropping a bomb that destroys an entire city block... and 
 then come the weak moments... enemie AI, controls at times, and camera angles at times. After playing 
 for a few hours you cant help but want something more. Maybe its the fact that I cant start dropping 
 huge bombs right off the bat.... I dont know. I havent given the multiplayer a try yet, as I am 
 a bit addicted to the single player but I can only imagine that the boards are pretty chaotic, 
 which is what I like. However, I do enjoy this game very much. I would recommned that you go out 
 and buy this game. Its a must own in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJBlaney0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  I think this game is almost perfect. Personally I think it's much better than GTA IV. It's like 
 GTA IV with nukes and much more dynamic character development. The only thing I find myself wanting 
 constantly is a parachute. Otherwise this game gets a 10 from me.
  
  Literally every ten minutes you can't help but perform some amazing stunt, like jumping off a skyscraper 
 right as an artillery strike hits it, or driving a car laced with c4 right into a giant oil container. 
 The possibilities are almost limitless as is the the amount of fun you'll have playing this game.
 
  
  Mercenaries 2 takes sandbox games to a whole different level. The Coop gameplay is nearly flawless 
 and 100% seamless. It takes all of 5 seconds to jump right into your friends game and start blasting 
 everything in sight together with no lag whatsoever. 
  
  9.5/10 from me. (Make parachute DLC please!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomJ37
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  Absolute garbage, doesnt tell you really what you have to do you have to sit there and figuer it 
 out and where to go Co-Op is oblivious, no ones playing it.
  Dont know if this is due to the fact that nobody has got the brains to figure out you need to change 
 your privacy settings in the game options to anyone to get a game.
  
  Graphics are not that great just a little above PS2 standards, gameplay is simple run and gun you 
 will never die because it is too easy.
  
  All in all very dissapointing. I would not reccomend you waste your time on this. Seriously it 
 was a big letdown on all fronts, and no 2 player Local Co-Op is stupid thats pretty much all I 
 got it for was because it said Co-Op and that to me means local and online.
  EA I want my money back.
  
  Off the top of my head I cant really think of anything that struck 
 me as amazing either, nothing springs to mind, just a dull been there done that repetative strain 
 on the same old recipe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Un4givingAsault
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Thisy bring game doesn't really bring anything new to the sandbox/action genre. But blowing up 
 vechiles, tanks, buildings, and sections of city's has never been so satisifying. The game gives 
 the feeling of the one man army concept without the ease of feeling invincible. A person can decimate 
 a whole enemy compound solo but tatics and cunning are also requird when using air support, and 
 supple drops. However there are some down falls, the graphics aren't necessarilly next gen but 
 this is somewhat understandable with the size of the world. Also vechiles handling, is sometimes 
 akward and to arcade at points. Seconds, the camera on for your chatecter often seems to tight 
 so sometimes combat is semi annoying. Finally, a person can only zoom in with a rifle only while 
 crouching, and only semi zoom. What is disapointing is some improvements they should have been 
 made from the orignal, such as customizing and attachements to weapons, and vechiles, More interactive 
 cities, so a person can go into underground casino's, buy goods from shops, be hired by citzens 
 for certian jobs, and even street racing. All in all this game is what a person would expect to 
 be, just fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosscobtex
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  This game's only limits are your imagination. Your choices to solve problems are as varied and 
 diverse as you want them to be. From airstrikes to rpgs to tanks this game is just flat out fun. 
 Not a storytelling masterpiece but one of the biggest maps I've ever seen in a sandbox. 
  
  The physics engine is awesome when you land a precision guided bomb through a window and watch 
 a 10 story apartment building collapse. People knock the graphics but it is hardly noticeable and 
 with so much going on the graphics allow for virtually no slowdown. Sometimes you get sucked into 
 a firefight where it feels like it is you versus the entire Venezuelan army and it is awesome!
 
  
  
  Co-op is also an experience in and of itself. If you team up with someone the fun factor doesn't 
 double it quadruples at worst. Knocking off buildings and kidnapping high value targets is twice 
 as rewarding when your buddy is riding shotgun or providing air cover from a helicopter. Combined 
 with all the unlockables you will be playing this game for hours on end. It's not GTA4 but to me 
 thats a good thing. What I mean is I watch the Departed once a month and think its the best story 
 ever told, but on a nightly basis I can watch Die Hard, Terminator etc and crack a smile guaranteed. 
 To me that is Mercenaries 2 that action flick you can see a bunch but still can't help enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Latvias-Lover-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok so this is a game ive been waiting for all year. Im a big huge fat hairy fan of the first Mercenaries. 
 But somethings are missing from this crazy mo-fo of a shooter. Ill start with the good. The game 
 is big like Texas like your fat mom big. The game offers BIG explosions BIG guns and BIG air strikes. You 
 get blow the hell out of anything you can see with all your toys. But what the game seems to lack 
 are the mean's of getting these toys.
  In the first Mercenaries the shop was found in your pocket as all you had to do was simply open 
 your pda and go to the shop menu. Now in Mercenaries 2 you to go from place to place to place and 
 pick up guns cars bombs ect. Now here's the problem you can only use them based on how many you 
 stashed so after going all over the map to get your toys you then have to do it over and over and 
 over and over it never ends. Now to add to all this in the first Mercenaries all you to do was 
 pay a simple fee in Mercenaries 2 you have use not only cash but fuel as well. So like most of 
 new features in Mercenaries 2 they murder all that was fun in the first Mercenaries. so here's 
 my bottom line What game seems to offer is good stiff kick in balls to all the fans of the first 
 Mercenaries game. now these nics wont bug you if you this is the first time you've played a Mercenaries 
 game. but as for me ill continue to sleep with Mercenaries 2 hotter older sister Mercenaries. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigshawn24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game, but you should rent it first because its not worth buying something you dont 
 like. I like to shoot first, nuke, shoot any sign of life and then ask questions. this game allows 
 this. The Achievements are rather easy so far ( about 2 to 3 hrs into it) but its a very addictive 
 game i always have a urge to play but work calls. the shooting is good but could be better, the 
 game play is pretty easy its kinda hard to die. the ai is funny but smart. over all a good game. 
 the weapons are good the ak-47 is used a little to much but is a good weapon to have. tanks are 
 awsome (after all they are tanks) . the cars are sweet the custom cars are nice aswell, the only 
 complaint is in the "main bases" there is not enought men to fight against. Recomends are able 
 to create your own character, be able to keep weapons at your safe house and FOR GOD SAKE MORE 
 C-4!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke_Ninja21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Alright so the reason I had rented this game is because of how fun it looked, not the story, not 
 the really lame character who seriously need better voice acting (Except for the sweedish guy... hes 
 alright) You get this game to BLOW STUFF UP!
  
  Story:
  
  Umm... this whole game is about revenge... you get shot in the ass and you dont get payed.... every 
 merc gets payed so you go around the city looking for information and doing job contracts until 
 he find Solano who is the man behind the other dudes who shot you in the ass..... thats basically 
 it, You can whip through the story in one sitting if your dedicated enough to it coming out around 
 about 8 hours mabey which is alright for a game of this stature... but mabey a bit more of an interesting 
 story?.... like seriously? Revenge? ive heard that one before...
  
  Gameplay:
  
  As i said above this game is seriously all about either blowing stuff up.... or.... blowing stuff 
 up, most everything is pretty much destructible in this game which is a good thing... especially 
 when wanting to blow stuff up... so you get to chose from 3 character a sweed dude, a large bulky 
 cigerette smoking dude.. and a lady... alright sounds resaonable.
  
  Each of these characters has a trait, like the sweed dude is able to regen health faster where 
 the lady can run faster BUT THAT DOES NOT KEEP IT FROM GOING THROUGH ALL THE PROBLEMS!!
  
  I seriously encountered... alot of problems in this game.. ummmm first off i glitched the achievements... big 
 time, after finishing a contract on the oil rig POP!
  
  21 acheivements for 610g
  
  I am a fan of achievements and i like a challenge in games.... but when you can get achievements 
 like that... seriously? did you leave something in there? And another thing when your in like a 
 jeep or a tank or a helicopter even, differerent surfaces like tarmac or dirt and objects... seriously 
 have different effects... I was in the monster truck... hit like a tank no damage... I skinned the 
 wall 5 damage automatically.... wow.
  
  Ok i could go.. on... and on.... and on about the glitches of this game, some of the glitches look 
 like they are put in their to make the game more exciting for excessible for other players which 
 would sound like a good excuse.
  
  Alright i need to stop hatting on this game, I did really enjoy this game from what i got blowing 
 up stuff... and alot of stuff is really... really fun... everything blows up around you, destroying 
 an oil rig so it sinks is really fun, going into Co-op mode with a freind and just blasting dudes 
 in a helicopter is really... really fun... these glitches just hold it back from what it could have 
 achieved... and to be honest... i dont really know what it would be like if it was fully polished.
 
  
  Co-op is also a really fun thing to do in the game especially when you get bored, i had a couple 
 of problems with the EA survers and like sighning up and stuff which really wasen't cool.. but once 
 you do get in a game with a freind.. blowing up stuff gets twice as fun.. until you go back to playing 
 CoD4 or your Halo
  
  Sound:
  
  Everyone has the same lines when it comes to driving or calling in stuff or stealing things... and 
 also when you continue to hear this guy in your car go "HEYYYY!!!!!" "Im glad we got a merc on 
 our side"! you seriously... just want to get out of the car... and shoot him....
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in this game are really really good.... everything looks nice and 
 the combat runs at smooth pace even with a giant world with alot of stuff going on, i did notice 
 some pop up issues when it came to looking at far away objects.
  
  Overview:
  
  Story: 6
  Gameplay: 8.5
  Sound:5
  Graphics: 8.5
  
  I dont see many people really buying 
 this game unless they can blow stuff up for a REALLY LONG TIME and you just dont feel right when 
 going through some of the area's.. i dont really know.. i am torn into two pieces.. one i like to 
 blow stuff up... alot... and two... the issues.. are on a scale where it could have been adressed... this 
 game is a rental and if you really wanna buy it... consult your freinds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diego02
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  The game has pretty loose driving and the vehicles don't quite feel grounded. The AI is as dumb 
 as a grain of rice. Lines of dialogue are repeated over, and over again.
  
  But through it all, you just can't stop blowing stuff up and coming back for more.
  
  The game 
 is an action game through and through, with a freedom to explore that makes it feel much more free 
 than the standard level/mission based affair.
  
  Explosions are what the game is truly about, and this is where it truly shines. The mass orgy of 
 fire and debris looks fantastic and standing next to a collapsing building, risking being crushed 
 by the wreckage, is just too much fun. 
  
  The game offers a decent amount of challenge, and it's just right for this type of game. Missions 
 ramp up in difficulty to where death isn't uncommon, and the challenges themselves can be downright 
 infuriating. None of this, however, is a problem. 
  
  Adding to the already ultra explosion fun happy times, we add the real kicker - drop in/drop out 
 co-op play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connoradam
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 is an awesome game thats extremly addicting theres always somthing to do and theres 
 never a dull moment. Everything in the enviorment is destrucktable and freeroam and there are tons 
 of vehicles, boats, helicopters and airstrikes u can call in at any time. You can hire other mercenaries 
 like a jet piolot, helicopter piolot and mecanic. Friends can join your game at any time and help 
 you complete missions or just run around with you blowing stuff up. You can chose a faction to 
 be friends with and do bouties for them or just be against every one. Any vehicle is driveable 
 and almost every were is accesable. You can call your helicopter piolot at any time to medevac 
 you, retrive supplies like bombs or money or drop off a boat or custom vehicle from your mecanic 
 or somthing bigger like a tank. In the beggining you chose from there different mercenaires all 
 having different quallites and different ways they go into a battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daishi007
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Altamente viciante. o primeiro era bom este bate-o aos pontos. recomendo-o. queres um tanque rouba-o 
 queres uma mota encomenda-a esto a chatear-te e no os consegues atacar chama um ataque areo. com 
 um bom control com bons graficos e boa banda sonora este  um grande jogo para nos livrar-nos do 
 stress do dia a dia em que apetece dar pancada ao patro ou professor. Este  um jogo que dura, 
 e dura, e dura e que nunca satura melhor que isto s o HALO1, HALO2, HALO3. Aconcelho a todos os 
 que tem uma x360 a comprarem este jogo pois ele  super divertido. no o percam se tiverem um 
 amigo melhor jogem com ele e destruam tudo o que se mexer o soltem gargalhadas de prazer satirico. para 
 este  um dos jogos do momento que mais gozo me tem dado jogar. estou tambm a aguardar o Fallout3 
 do qual sou f do Fallout 1 e 2.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scryer999
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Whether its driving in the amazons in a buggy equipped to go toe-to-toe with a tank, or ordering 
 an artillery strike on a hopeless VZ occupied stronghold, it hard to not find something to blow 
 up. That doesn't mean that Mercenaries 2 is perfect, but it's far from a complete wreck. 
  
  The Graphics are not great, but there not horrid. However, Pandemic didn't make this out to 
 be graphically on-par with GTA. The real beauty is in the explosions. I have never seen such a 
 pretty fireball coming from a Bunker Buster dropped on a fortified position anywhere. When it comes 
 down to the cars, their not as richly detailed as i had hoped to be. And whenever i think that, 
 i just blow up a tank and i'm good.
  
  The Game play is incredibly fun. Hopping in a tank or a chopper and having your way with the Venezuelan 
 landscape is just plain awesome. I am never bored when i pop in Mercenaries 2. I just ask myself 
 how much I can obliterate before I decide to drive around on a bike. You have PDA, much like the 
 first, but it is easy and simple to use. on the map screen, you can select any factions icon and 
 see if they have any available work for you. To set up an Air strike, Get Supplies, Or drop in 
 a Buggy, press right trigger to get to the Stockpile screen, select one of the main categories, 
 then sub categories ( if you're ordering a vehicle) and select it to a slot. you can only have three 
 slots, one for each. I would have liked more, but i can learn to deal.
  
  The Controls are good, but nor great. The tank controls are the same, and they take some getting 
 used to if you haven't been playing Mercenaries 1 for a while. The driving controls are the same, 
 and simplistic. For ordering supplies, you have to press up or down on the d-pad, select the item, 
 press A and your character throws the beacon. You cannot run around while selecting an item. I 
 liked the first ones method of being able to run around with the beacon in your hand and throw 
 it as you please. The controls have stayed the same, and i don't complain.
  
  Mercenaries 2 itself is Great. Coupled with the new additions like new Air Strikes, Weapons, and 
 Vehicles, You can complete weapon challenges offered by Fiona to gain new costumes. Nilson dressed 
 like Lemmy from Motorhead just yells Badassery. Mercenaries 2 is a fun and incredibly expansive 
 sequel to it's predecessor, But people hoping to play GTA 4 with the ability to blow up buildings 
 is just not this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWalGamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 sets you in the shoes of one of three mercenaries in Venezuela out for revenge against 
 a political leader who screwed him/her over on a job and didn't pay him. After trying to kill you, 
 you are shot in the a$$ and then escape, planning your revenge. The rest of the game is just about 
 that, your process of getting revenge. This is where my first gripe with the game comes into play; 
 it has a weak story. At least, it has a weak story in terms of a serious game, which this one is 
 surely not. That leads to my next gripe; seriousness. The first mercenaries was a truly great game, 
 if you, my dear reader, have ever played it (and I'm sure you have) . This is mostly because of 
 great gameplay and a solid story with interesting characters to keep you compelled. The whole idea 
 of being hired by the US military to catch a militarist dictator and his kingpins (who just happened 
 to be on cards) in an environment that didn't just look war torn, but felt war torn. It set the 
 mood properly, which made it all the more enjoyable. Mercenaries 2, however, does not do this at 
 all. Aside from having a ridiculous story, the environment just doesn't seem warlike. At least, 
 not in most of the major cities in the game. Its lost its feel as far as I'm concerned, which kind 
 of pisses me off a bit. Besides that, Mercenaries 2 is a great game full of action and the explosions 
 are 10 times better than the last one. And to make up for what I said about realism before, Pandemic 
 added a feature that you had to find or go to an outpost to shop for items, rather than just have 
 the whole list on your PDA. While this can be a little more work, it does make it more challenging 
 and more realistic. Anyway, definitely buy this game, its great both online and singleplayer. The 
 explosions are big and the gameplay is still great, and this is one any action shooter fan has 
 to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alizerothree
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Blow it up! Blow it all up, and set it on fire at the same time!!!! Mercenaries 2 has got to be 
 one of the industries most destructive games! Although the game does have some weaknesses, it makes 
 up for it dramatically with it's highly addictive game play, destructive environments, and online 
 cooperative play!
  
  The Venezuelan environment is a beautiful place for destruction to take place as it offers vibrant 
 colors and good contrast with plenty of headroom for an immersible atmosphere. 
  
  The destruction never gets old, and there will be endless epic moments to be had where it will 
 make you and your friends stand up and cheer. Shoot a helicopter down, and watch it spiral down 
 into a building and take it out. Winch your friend's tank with a helicopter and fly around with 
 one helluva mobile weapon. Launch a bunker buster in a city intersection and drop your jaw at some 
 of the most breathtaking destructive moments ever witness in a video game.
  
  Mercs 2 has a few flaws, but they diminish instantly as the fun and destruction takes over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesryan99
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  ok i got this for ps3 at first it was pretty good up untill i got onto a bike i ran into a tree 
 and it cut the tree down and didnt damage the bike at all. i got a tank a hit a street sign and 
 it hurt the tank yet a bike can know down a tree. i ran my bike into a rock and it vanished and 
 bikes can even fall over if you hit a car. the peds are annoying and you lose money if they get 
 hurt even if an enemy runs one over but they cant die. all the building crumble the same and not 
 only that but they break stupidly ok i put a c4 bomb on a building 1 time it puts a few cracks 
 in the wal not even a hole i put two and the whole building goes down. if you blow up half a building 
 youll notice rooms yet they dont have doors and are empty and if you jump 500 feet from a heli 
 you dont die but if you jump 5 feet out one it blows up. the ai is retarded and they dont take damage 
 if they shoot you with a rocket when your in melee range. and if you go into a dark area of the 
 map you cant move into the area and if you stay it kills you but other then them and many more 
 problems its a fun game to play btw i beat it the first day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtrain09
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  This is a really fun game. A bit aggrevating at times when your HVT is killed by his own soldiers, 
 and the glitches can be annoying at times as well. Enemy soldiers on the radar would be nice... at 
 least when they shoot. Faction info screen would be nice, who they like and don't like so I don't 
 spend 15 million in bribes for the first half of the game. Good soundtrack but it didn't really 
 fit with the game's dynamic, I expected more metal and classic hard rock. Maybe some AC/DC, Rage 
 Against the Machine for when you are in the P. L. A. V. territory... just a thought. But if you look 
 at the game as a whole it is full of what an open world action game should be... explosions, hijacking, 
 and of course good ole' fashioned combat. It is the perfect game to sit down and decompress on 
 Sunday after a long Saturday of college football. This game is a definate purchase and probably 
 good for a few playthroughs. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: giants161
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  When people define perfection they say it is "without flaws." Yet with game like Grand Theft Auto 
 four has been given a "perfect score." The truth is no game is perfect and every game has flaws. 
 In Mercenaries 2 there are glitches, sometimes annoying and sometimes funny. But in a game where 
 such great gameplay is present, if you overlook these minor flaws a aboulutely outstanding game 
 is there.
  In Mercenaries 2 you can play as one of three "Mercs" A Sniper, A tactical millitary man, or a 
 combustion obbsessed maniac. There are over 160 vehicles to drive and almost 100 weapons. The wide 
 span of vehicles is probably one of the best features of this game. You can build your own Private 
 Millitary Company and recruit other Mercenaries to help you. The graphics are truly top-notch with 
 deep rich colors and beautiful explosions. The game provides a tough AI while providing a little 
 leeway for fun. The most anticipated feature of the game is the Nuclear Bunker Buster which looks 
 amazing by the way.
  Love it or hate it, Mercenaries 2 is definitely Game of the Year material in my eyes.
  
  
 
  
  I give Mercenaries 2, 10 Nuclear Bombs out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbkid8330
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Mercs 2
  There has been a lot of hype going around about this new Mercenaries 2 game. Many people will compare 
 it to GTA IV and some will even think that it is a copy of GTA IV. Well here is the truth about 
 this Mercs2 in my eyes. THIS GAME IS FREAKIN AMAZING!!!! Mercs is in no way a copy of the GTA franchise. 
 This game set the bar in all out violence and explosions. If you think that this is a more explosive 
 version of GTA then you're absolutely right. With this exception of the following minor things: 
 Story line Gameplay; Visual Effects; Sound (Which is genius) and Graphics; yeah they are pretty 
 much different in everyway except the genre that they both hold: Open-Ended World Play. 
  
  Story Line
  The Story Line of this game is an interesting one but also is pretty bland at the 
 same time. Here are the basics: The Merc is betrayed and vows revenge. Merc has to build his own 
 operation from the ground up. Has to get other mercs to help him accomplish his revenge; has to 
 be willing to work with enemies to get the Intel that is needed to track down the guy who betrayed 
 him. And so on and so on. Now this story is not amazing but who plays a game like this for the 
 story anyways???? That you would need Halo for!
  
  GamePlay
  The Gameplay for the Xbox 360 version is just incredible (I played mine on a 32" Samsung 720P TV 
 and it looks so smooth) . Now because my TV is an LCD and they are notorious for "Ghosting and Lag" 
 you would expect me to have lots of problems with a game like this. But the truth is I didn't have 
 any issues with it. When it was time for me to call in an airstrike to finish off a building in 
 the middle of the city I would just drop the beacon and get the heck out of dodge. I saw no lag 
 time as the bomb went off and completely blow the building to smithereens. While I was running 
 a muck down the streets with my RPG or AK47, there was nothing to indicate that the TV or the system 
 was being pushed to hard. Now there was one issue I had with the game and that is when you run 
 into a bush on foot then it would just stop you in your tracks, but this is a minor issue that 
 won't affect Gameplay seriously.
  
  Visual Effects
  The Visuals were just stunning; just completely amazingly great (Yeah I know double adjectives) . 
 The amount of detail you see is just down right ridiculous. I was in the forest and I ordered a 
 Cluster Bomb to be dropped in. Once the bomb hit it was amazingly real. You could see enemies flying 
 from all different directions as well as trees still burning in the aftermath of the destruction 
 I had just caused. I once saw a VZ soldier with a rocket launcher shoot directly at me but it went 
 over my head. This rocket has soo much power to it that it literally threw me 20 feet away and 
 I lost most of my energy. If you shoot a fuel tank with an RPG and watch what happens; you will 
 see a plethora of reds oranges and yellows illuminate the sky; while the merc will cover his eyes 
 to help shield some of the blast.
  
  Sound
  Now everyone knows that you can have an amazing game but if you can't hear it then it is pointless. 
 The sound effects are the heart and soul of every video game which is most of the time overlooked 
 by many. They have to be stunning to keep someone interested in a game. Mercs2 is no exception. 
 This game offers some of the most in-depth sounds that one could ever hear; they actually make 
 you feel as if you are walking through the jungle and are at war with VZ soldiers. When in the 
 jungle, you can hear crickets chirping and other exotic noises. During a gun battle; you can hear 
 the rocket whisk past your head as you quickly scatter out of the way. If you have a surround sound 
 setup like I do in my living room, then you will actually feel the rumble of the an RPG hitting 
 the side of a building causing it to crumble to the ground.
  
  Graphics
  And finally what can I say about the graphics. They hold together nicely and really give you a 
 good feel for the game. They are the backbone of this game and I personally am proud to say that 
 with the amount of explosions and vast terrain, you would expect something to be a little skimpish 
 and you're right. The only problem I had with this is that if you are flying a heli back to your 
 PMC or to your next mission, you will notice that the slightest bit of lag time in the ground graphics 
 and the air graphics. Also on the map there is a tad bit of a difference between where you are 
 and where the map says you are (meaning the distance from your point to the point where you want 
 to go) . But these are minor flaws that do not affect Gameplay at all.
  
  Closing Comments
  Now I haven't yet beaten this game (Mainly because I enjoy dropping cars from 
 thousands of feet and watching them blow up or hijacking enemy helicopters and then using there 
 weapons against them) . I chose to play with Chris Jacobs now I haven't yet played with the other 
 mercs but I'm sure that the story doesn't change significantly. This game has a lot of replay value 
 because there is no set way to do a mission. You can take a direct approach and just ride in with 
 a tank or you can strategically call in an airstrike and blow everything up. Now I would like to 
 close this with a note from one of my favorite sayings-"You can't have your cake and eat it too". 
 I felt that this is the right phrase for this game because if you want the explosions and violence 
 then there is no better game. But if you're looking for in-depth graphics and high quality sound 
 then you still want this game. Point blank GET THIS GAME!!!!!-bbkid8330 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: onguard7
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  Although not without bugs and "interesting" gameplay decisions pandemic sure knows how to make 
 a fun game. If you try and play this game like a tactical shooter you will be sorely disappointed 
 as a fall from thousands of feet in the air, or a direct hit from a tank will fail to kill you, 
 but if you keep in mind that it's all about having fun while blowing sh*t up you will have a blast. 
 
  
  Things I like:
  -The ability to pretty much blow up everything
  -The sheer variety of vehicles, weapons, and airstrikes
  -The feeling that you can take on a 
 whole army -The graphics, while not cutting edge, are still pretty
  
  Things I didn't like
  -You can't walk through bushes
  -You take damage from falling short distances
 
  -Because of all the different factions if you get in one faction's chopper you're pretty much 
 guaranteed to get shot out of the sky by another whilst flying to an objective.
  -The disguise feature 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willisj13
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Man this game really took the first one to a whole new level i hope they make more. I mean the 
 could have fined tune this a little with a cover system and well that would be it of what i have 
 seen. Their is no stopping Pendemic. They took a game from obscure to triple A. The combat is good, 
 options are nice, and the voice acting is good enough not to make you want to kill yourself. The 
 terrain is so well done that i would say that GTA 4 players need to play this just to break up 
 the drudge of big city life. Man please tell me that they are going to make more please!! I need 
 more explosions and new locations to burn to the ground. This has to be the mayo between my GTA 
 4 and Saints Row 2 sandwich cause that is one large open world taste. This is a for sure buyer 
 and a strong Renter (be careful though it might be going back late) To close the Co-Op is nice 
 as well the hop in hop out makes for a fun filled day of hey i need help can you assist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadnusXXL
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Im a fan of the first game. It was a revolution of open world games, great game play and much freedom. 
 Mercenaries 2 is a great sequel, but not much more than that. Is funny, really hard some times 
 (solo player specially) , but the only new thing is cooperative play. Maeby the makers are too ambicius, 
 make so many promises, and at the end, that explodes in they faces. They delay the game many monts, to 
 "polish" the details, but the game is full of glitches, some tiny, others really big. Tey said 
 "you can tag everiting and take it to your base", and said EVERITHING, not only fuel, cash, and 
 air strikes... The A. I. is very poor; they kiil inself whit rockets, grenades and even vehicles... 
 In the brigth side, is a very fun, open, long and challenging game, full of violence, destruccion 
 and cinisims, great to play online whit a close friend, and forget about the real world... Or is 
 much close to the rality?
  
  Im a user of xbox360, and only speak for my time playing the game and my english is very poor... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pietownguy
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  When I first started keeping my eye on this game 2 years ago, I knew it was going to be an epic.
 
  
  Story: Not too deep, but plenty to keep you going. He shot you in the ass!!
  
  Sound: Explosions and gunfire sound great, but some lines are delivered way to much or poorly. 
 Music is fitting for the situation you're in.
  
  Graphics: A bit too bright for my tastes, but they aren't bad. Explosions look AMAZING, and destroying 
 buildings is a lot of fun.
  
  Controls: Some parts are a bit clunky, but it is very playable.
  
  Gameplay: Some people seem 
 to have a lot of bugs, some don't.
  
  Multiplayer: The co-op experience is a blast. Little to no lag, and destroying things with a buddy 
 is good fun.
  
  I guess the experience varies from person to person. In my opinion, this game deserves a 9.8-9.9, 
 but it was either 9.5 or 10, so I went with 10. But this game if you have any interest. You'll 
 love it. 9.9/10. The bottom line: Destroying things is always fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eragonscott
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game. It is some of the most fun i have had with a video game in a long, 
 long time.
  
  Gameplay: Very addictive. Blowing stuff up simply never gets old, but if it does, theirs plenty 
 of other stuff to do, such as contracts and overall random mayhem.
  
  Graphics: Amazing for the scale of this game. Their are some small graphical problems, such as 
 texture popping and ugly ground textures (in a few spots) but this is nothing compared to how the 
 game looks as a whole. Its very bright and vibrant, which is good for what it is. How many people 
 really liked the drab grey 'n' brown of the first game? I know i didn't, the jungles and cites 
 of Venezuela are a joy to look at.
  
  Online: When I was playing the first game, I thought "Wow, this would be awesome if it was multiplayer" 
 and now they've answered my prayers. Whats more fun than leveling a city? Doing it with a friend 
 that's what. However, due to the lack of split screen, i cant play with my non-xbox owning friends. 
 The idiots...
  
  Overall: A amazing game, with great replay value, gameplay, graphics, multiplayer, and of course 
 explosions!
  
  I highly recommend this game, they only way you wouldn't like it is if your completely against 
 human vs. human violence. For all us normal people, who want to kill without being arrested (like 
 me haha) get this game. All others who simply enjoy a great open-world game, get it. You will not 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harley120
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This is just an amazing game, If you enjoyed GTA series, BF: Bad Company or any other war/ shooter, 
 Mercenaries 2: World in flames will be a hit with you!
  
  This is my score for the game:
  
  Graphics: 8.0- Much better than everyone says, Amazing Explosions
  
  Gameplay: 90 - Easy 
 Controls, Great fun, Free roaming, SO MUCH TO DESTROY but can get repetetive
  
  Sound: 8.5 - Nice Sounds, Somewhat annoying at time with the AI
  
  Overall: 8.0- Straight up 
 fun anyone from ages 9-19 well enjoy this game but its slightly repetetive and can get buggy
  
  Even though it may sound as if it full of bugs i have played through about 16% (just got it 
 today and already love it) and have had no issues other than not coming upstairs for supper because 
 i'm hooked. I choose to Play as Chris Jacobs ( Holds more Ammo) , but there is also Jennifer Mui 
 (Runs MUCH faster) and of course the Swedish Badass Mattias Niellson (Regenerates Health Faster) 
 each has there own unique style. This is an instant classic and could be a darkhorse contender 
 for Game of the Year, overall get this game you wont regret it! Today (had the game about 4 days 
 now) i got a glitch and got 13 acheivement at once for doing nothing!
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thescorpion1983
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Games tend to get serious, serious storyline , serious characters, serious atmosphere, wich games 
 are trying to be like movies, and movies like games. This game is simple.. no big storyline plot, 
 but there are still some very nice twists to the story.
  
  Gameplay: Simple mechanics, not too good AI, dull by moments as much as somnetimes unexpected moves 
 like stealing my chopper while i was out on foot. For a game with so many different types of vehicules, 
 boats, bikes, car, trucks, tanks, choppers etc.. they are all easy to get into, after a few trys 
 you get the hang of it. The AI isnt that great, dont expect ennemies to take cover like in GTA, 
 or other open sandbox games, they stand straight, strafe, crouch or prone. Thats it, but the thing 
 about this game is the quantities, and the types of ennemies weapons, sniper far away, a RPG shooting 
 at you, tank behind you etc.. So the AI overall is fine for the type of game that it is.
  
  The game isnt that hard or too easy, depends on how you do the mission. If you need to attack a 
 outpost but tend to do it the wrong way, with weapons not suitable for the mission, wrong vehicule 
 and so on, you might find it hard. Or on the other hand, if you get a chopper, fly over it, and 
 simply drop yourself on top of the base, you change the pace of the action.
  
  Dont take this game too seriously, it is exaggerated, and it is what makes its fun. Arcade-style 
 shooting, medkits, grapple hooks to hop in choopers and minigames to hop in and hijack ennemy vehicules 
 are a blast. If youo dont want that, or dont like that, then i suggest a rental instead of buying 
 it.
  
  With its Co-op mode, wich i am a big fan of, i couldn ask more. There is alot to explore in this 
 game with or without a friend, but having a friend helping you around is a great plus with its 
 amazing moments. 
  
  This is a sandbox game, GTA is more with criminals, and organized crime while Mercs2 is military. 
 With so many toys to play with, you and a friend will enjoy it for a while.
  
  Graphics: Well the graphics are still important in a next-gen game. Sometimes it feel like the 
 graphics are good with a big and nice view of the islands, while sometimes it feels like the graphics 
 are in between Next-gen and old generation such as Ps2 and Xbox. But when you get into the action, 
 you dont even mind those minor things, but since it is a review i had to say it. Each zone, and 
 faction you make friend with, or ennemy, feel a their place and have a different style to them. 
 Each have different vehicules to offer you and services, with a bunch of weapons that suits you 
 play style.
  
  Overall, it is exactly what i was expecting. I love the first one, and this one is more then its 
 predecessor. Sometimes we blame the HYPE build around games. But we , ourselves, destroy this hype, 
 by tying to know each and every little parts of games. We get to know the characters before the 
 game is out, we see a couple of missions, all the weapons and so on. Nothing is left to discover, 
 but the end of the game. We say games are overhyped, is only sometimes we sould leave some games 
 alone, and getting to learn, and discover it when it comes out, then we wouldn need all those HYPES.
 
  
  So long, and i hope you will enojy this good fun game. not a 10, but a good 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummerboi43
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of Mercs 1, blowing stuff up just never gets old. So of course I had high anticipations 
 for the second in the series. What I found was more of the same, this isn't necessarily bad, however. 
 While largely the game is a revamped version of the first game it has been expanded. customizeable 
 vehicles, new mission types, and loads of new weapons and explosives to play with... I can't get 
 enough. The gameplay is fairly decent, although the shooting at far distances can be a pain, mostly 
 due to the fact that your bullets have a tendency to spray everywhere except at your target. The 
 graphics won't have you checking your pulse but they do the job. The one thing that really pushed 
 my buttons was how unpolished the game was. In my estimated 8 hours of play so far I have encountered 
 several glitches, one of which gave me 20 achievements I shouldn; t have unlocked (I'm not complaining 
 though) . If your looking for something fun and easy, just blowing stuff up, this game is for you. 
 If not a buy then a definite rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssgriffin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  i picked the game up this morning cause my friend highly recommended it. it was great. i had bought 
 the original mercs for Xbox; i like it but it was too repeditive ( in environment and in missions) 
 but still the explosive game play made up for it. 
  
  
  mercs2 is a whole different story, because it actually has a story and still contians the explosive 
 materail that mercs fans drewl over. the gameplay is fun and very verstile. the contracts don't 
 seem repeditive at all. although some people say that the graphics need work personnally i think 
 the graphic design of the game is exquizit and very detailed. there are several different environment 
 types which include jungle, the ghetto, cities , suburbs, costal areas .. ect 
  
  this game is explosive and well designed i can almost guarantee that you will thoroughly enjoy 
 this game =) happy face 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkyjay
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The first game was great. The controls worked well, the graphics seemed solid for the time, and 
 the gameplay was smooth. But now? The controls seem very clunky. Every time I zoom aim my character 
 seems to block my view. The driving wants to be GTA 4 but it is no where close. Is it me or was 
 the vehicle control better in Merc 1? The graphics are horrible. Very low texture resolutions, 
 poorly modeled geometry, and it has that horrible "specular" shading that is all the rage lately. 
 The gameplay is still there fortunately but the poor controls and the graphics are distracting 
 me from the game. Hopefully this will get better. But my biggest problem with this game so far 
 is that it is really buggy. Certain missions take 5 or 10 min to load. ON one mission my target 
 wasn't even where he was supposed to be. I had to restart the game and redo the mission to get 
 him to show up. I am wondering if the fact that EA was involved in making this game that made the 
 quality go down. And why wasn't LucasArts involved? Mercs 1 was the best game they were involved 
 with in a long time.
  
  So to summarize, my first impression is bad but I will trudge on. I have faith in Pandemic but 
 the fact that EA is involved makes me suspicious. It's too bad that there isn't a playable demo 
 out there..... is it? Because I would suggest trying a demo before buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icybl00d3d
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 1, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  i give this game a 7.0 as a way of thanking it for trying. chance is if you played the first one 
 you will enjoy this one alos. If your a gamer who looks too much into graphics... dont bother buying 
 this game because the graphics are TERRIBLE. walking threw everything. trees are like the legos 
 i used to play with as a kid. everything seems to be blurry and i play on 1080p 34". Gameplay is 
 VERY FUN! Its amazing just destroying things and killing people. but all the lame glitches sometimes 
 ruin ur missions, getting stuck in a crack. the annoying red screen glitch that never goes away. 
 or ur pilot being an idiot and floating in mid air not letting u transport stuff.
  
   are all fun to mess with. i wouldnt buy this game not 
 worth 60. rent it its worth the 8 dollars. 
  
  i dont see how they sat down and said oh.. okay these are the graphics that we want guys and just 
 releaased it. lol.
  ALSO the way they talk is just ANNOYING!!!! MUTE THIS GAME WHEN UR PLAYING seriously... same line 
 400 times every 30 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KA12NAG3
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  I have now played this game for two days, and I'm very impressed with the game so far. The world 
 is incredible, and the explosions are even better. The game is also very humorous, and I have often 
 been put in hilarious situations. There are a few things that I don't like, such as not being able 
 to walk through certain bushes, getting stuck between two large rocks, and Fiona's extremely repetitive 
 voice, but overall it is a lot of fun to play. The graphics are good, and the world is beautiful 
 even when it is blown to shreds. The factions can be very fun to work for, and everything is destructible. 
 For example, you can catch cars on fire and then drive them into the middle of enemy outposts, 
 where they will not only blow up themselves, but most of the trees, people, and structures nearby. 
 This is definitely one of the better games out this year, and if you have any interest in the game 
 at all, I'd buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEGOslayer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  No its not Christ reincarnate, the graphics suck. Yes its open world so we can't expect anything 
 on the level of an Assassin's Creed or COD4, but come on, the texturing is downright despicable 
 and the rate of popup makes GTA look good. Plus enough awkward glitches to confuse anyone. The 
 shooting mechanic is not the best (though not the worst) . It reminded me of Kane and Lynch on kickass 
 steroids. The voice acting had to be intentionally bad, I just can't see it any other way. The 
 story could stand to be better.
  
  At the same time though, its not a spawn from the depths of hades either. The gameplay mechanics 
 outside of shooting is mind-numbingly hysterical. Hijacking a tank in the middle of a battle to 
 help destroy a building is great. And speaking of destruction, if you haven't flown up top of a 
 skyscraper and set a few Daisy bombs onto you, then any opinions you have toward this game are 
 now null and void.
  
  I wouldn't give this a 9, but I wouldn't give it an 8 either. So I'd say 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowninja13
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot like what some of your first games were like. Almost like golden eye, just with 
 a little more zing. To start, the multiplayer was hands down the best mechanic. Being able to carpet 
 bomb a base then grapple on to your teammate's helicopter and shoot a helicopter heatseeking missile 
 really felt smooth and pointlessly awsome. But, that is not the amazing part, it's the fact that 
 the gameplay dosen't change at all, with a teammate from its core roots. From title screen to credits 
 you can play with your friend the whole time. With all the beautiful bunker busters and daisy cutters 
 you want. Also, the vast glorious map ranging from mines to cities almost has GTA: SA feel to it. 
 Watching a small war go down that can just be turned into a full out army against army. Which brings 
 me to my next point the difficulty of these enemies. Working with factions can be really fun and 
 or easy, or really fun and hard. Just by the cutscene you can tell that missions are going to be 
 easy or hard. For example in one mission they laugh as they say, you must go acquire the "Devastator". 
 I walked over and it was only my 3rd mission and I saw a beautiful tank that could blow the city 
 to bits, and then... I saw the actual "Devastator". A Mo-Ped with a flower basket on the front... 
 I couldn't help but laugh as my extremely aggressive merc was driving around in this hot pink scooter. 
 Also, everything can be destroyed which is great, watching towers collapse from fuel air bombs 
 was absolutely phenomenal. Now, this game isn't perfect, the voice acting is weak, and the story 
 really doesn't have that kick to it that I was hoping for. But, overall i really enjoyed my time 
 playing this game. Now if you excuse me, I'm going to go Hijack a tank. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgtcauthon
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  A few minor glitches but overall a great game. I'm a Mercanary, you aint gotta prayer you owe meeee! I'm 
 a Mercanary, you aint gotta prayer you owe meeee! I'm a Mercanary, you aint gotta prayer you owe 
 meeee! I'm a Mercanary, you aint gotta prayer you owe meeee! I'm a Mercanary, you aint gotta prayer 
 you owe meeee! I'm a Mercanary, you aint gotta prayer you owe meeee! I'm a Mercanary, you aint gotta 
 prayer you owe meeee! I'm a Mercanary, you aint gotta prayer you owe meeee! I'm a Mercanary, you 
 aint gotta prayer you owe meeee! I'm a Mercanary, you aint gotta prayer you owe meeee! I'm a Mercanary, 
 you aint gotta prayer you owe meeee! I'm a Mercanary, you aint gotta prayer you owe meeee! I'm a 
 Mercanary, you aint gotta prayer you owe meeee! I'm a Mercanary, you aint gotta prayer you owe meeee! I'm 
 a Mercanary, you aint gotta prayer you owe meeee! I'm a Mercanary, you aint gotta prayer you owe 
 meeee! I'm a Mercanary, you aint gotta prayer you owe meeee! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enDofDays
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game was really great on the XBOX and hass made no iprovements for the 360. The graphics are 
 sub-par, the cut-scenes and abyssmal (especially after plying MGS4) and the game play is so so. 
 The people look like wet noodles when they blow up and keep slithering around like a wet noodle. 
 The cut scenes have the usual token rasta to make things Reggae mon. Eye See You! I can often see 
 the wire frame horizon through the maps and other defects in Polygon placement. EA must have put 
 the pressure on GS to not review this game until after Labor day sales have been completed so they 
 can atleast generate some revenue before the real ratings on this game go live and destroy the 
 future sales of this game. First game was amazing and broke new ground, this game only breaks your 
 wallet and leaves your labor day ruined as you look for some redeming quality in this game and 
 cannot find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quarwgf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  The game is simply amazing! Everything freakin dies! I mean if you love just straight wasting enemies 
 and blowing up buildings then this is the game for you. I havent finished the game yet, but I will, 
 and when I do, I'M GONNA PLAY IT AGAIN!! HECK YEA!! You cant beat this game not with a crate of 
 C4 and some detonators but you could try!! YOULL GET OWNED THOUGH!!!!!!!
  This game is better than the first better than any game this year probably I mean its about time 
 we get a game to kill some stuff instead of all this peaceful junk, I mean heck, I wanna blow some 
 junk up you know??! WELL I CAN NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! HECK FREAKIN YEAA!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 I was playing this game last night and I forgot that i existed. 
 
  This is the best game since GTA4!!!!!!!! Cant wait for a Merc 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  In the game there is plenty of stuff to do like you can pick 1 character outta the 3. They have 
 alot of missions for each person you pick. If you picked the guy with the beard and the irish accent 
 you start off in this building then you run and he gets shot in the but. The game is open world 
 so you can go any where but at the begging you can't go that far but if you do more of the story 
 mode then you can have more stuff or do more. The game is highly addictive. The graphics might 
 not be that polished or the game might have some glitches but it is still fun to play. Also you 
 can explode buildings and anything. Also you can use a tank, Helicopter, and any other vechicle 
 the game is really awesome and like nothing before.
  
  The good of the game is that you can go anywhere there are alot of side missions and you can never 
 get bored.
  
  The bad the game is not polished but it deosn't matter because it has the exsact same gameplay.
 
  
  I think people should buy this game because it is awesome, Open world you can explode anything 
 and it never gets boring so you should get this game. So if I was you should get this game it is 
 better then the first and this game should deserve a 10 outta 10 because it deos for me so buy 
 it!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  This is a revised review. First impressions can be deceptive and that is why I generally wait a 
 bit longer to write them. At first blush this game was kind of fun. For one thing the video gaming 
 world is in a bit of a drought at the moment. Not much doin so along comes Mercs 2 and everyone 
 figures how could a game company blow the metaphor of blowing the crap out of everything and everyone 
 in sight. Let me count the ways. 
  
  1.) Sub par graphics for Next Gen consoles.
  2.) Lousy voice acting that was funny for the first few times a line was used and then just plain 
 stupid and annoying. What about the Swede who doesn't sound too Swedish?
  3.) Dumb AI and stupid character and model physics
  4.) Explosions look like a cartoon
  5.) 
 Not easy to find your way around
  6.) In original xbox game it was easy to line up contracts... not so in this game. I have gotton 
 lost or diverted looking for a solid contract. 
  7.) Car collisions or 'wrecks' that are silly and just as Mattias is known to quip they remind 
 me of "bumper cars."
  
  What happened to me was that the fun of the game concept became eclipsed by the many flaws that 
 it has. Now... give this game to the Rockstar folks and fuse it with GTA and you will have a winner 
 for sure. Bottom line it is an EA games creation and every gamer should know what the means. I 
 like some of the EA Sports Games but EA has dropped the ball more than a few times in some of the 
 other game genres. I say rent this game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drako357
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  My first impressions of the game were great graphics, solid range of characters, weapons, vehicles 
 and support that you can get lost in. Then I continued to play it for several more hours and walked 
 away knowing that it wasn't all it could of been
  
  One of the many exploits of the game is that you can mow through hordes of combatants using the 
 bash and since a high percentage of them drop health packs it becomes a little too easy.
  
  The maps area is huge and sometimes you can get lost in the quantity of content and if the bashing 
 exploit wasn't the only thing then I would rate this game a little higher, but after hours of play 
 I started to realize how annoying the NPC sound bites are... They say the same thing the same way 
 all the time... and I mean all the time. Controls take a little bit of getting use to especially 
 when you're in a vehicle and your view and direction need to get realigned as you drive off a cliff. 
 However after a couple hours you will still get annoyed with it, but it becomes somewhat bearable 
 although I do wish they would of done a little more usability and developed them a little better. 
 On the good side I feel that the road handling and overall physics of the vehicles are very good 
 (ie: you don't want to be driving a street motorcycle or hog through the mountainous dirt roads, 
 when you should be using a dirt bike or jeep)
  
  My Ranks are:
  Environment: 95
  Graphics: 90
  Enemy AI: 65
  Sound: 80
  Controls: 75
  
  Overall I still like the game 
 because I like to see things get blown up. But I have to wonder if this game should of been sent 
 back to the kitchen and cooked a little longer. I am sure I spend many hours cruising around Islands 
 on a jet ski, dropping large crates on unsuspecting individuals, creating custom vehicles to torment 
 the countryside or calling in a tactical nuke and running for the my life as I level several city 
 blocks Crank up your iPod (drowned out the AI) and have fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iNFECTiD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  GTA? Ok, so I've never played the first mercenaries, but I can say that the second completely grows 
 on you. First off it seemed to me like a GTA style game, with the free roam and all. But then again 
 it has a trend to keep the players in line with missions. The co-op is pretty fun, I mean who wouldn't 
 wanna go around and flatten buildings with a fellow gamer. The graphics are pretty good, the scenery 
 is tough, and when I mean tough. I say it as you get caught in bushes basically. You can blow up 
 almost anything, but its like the bushes are indestructible. The towns to me seem empty, theres 
 like a few people here and there. The vehicles, bombs, etc. the player can call in is ridiculous. 
 Its like whatever you want you got, the explosions and the leveling of buildings never get old. 
 The vehicle controls are pretty lame, its like the biggest challenge in the game. Even though I 
 never played the first, this is a pretty nice sequel. Bottom line, the game is totally worth the 
 buy and will provide hours of fun and complete demolition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowReaper313
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  This is a great game to fool around with. You can do pretty much anything you want. First off the 
 graphics are great. Granted, they're not on par with CoD, but what is? That said no other game 
 makes explosions so pretty. The gameplay is also very good. The controls are simple and easy to 
 learn. The only trouble I think is that the cars sometimes feel like they're on oil. The races 
 with the vehicles with turrets also feel a little cheap as it is hard to aim to the side of the 
 road and drive full speed on a bumpy, curving road at the same time. Anyway those are quite trivial 
 problems that can be worked around easily. The story is good so far, though I haven't done much. 
 It is pretty funny as well, especially in the beginning.
  Over all, this is a really great game. It is the perfect thing for fooling around and maybe taking 
 out frustration. It does have some minor bugs, but compared to the fun of everything else in the 
 game they really don't matter. This is a must have action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drd85
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game since I beat the first Mercenaries back in 2005 on my PS/2. First 
 impressions is it is not as open ended as the first one. Too tighten up the gameplay they made 
 it a lot more linear. The first one you could literally do whatever you wanted, missions in any 
 order. Mercenaries 2 tries to keep you on the path and there is a feeling of being tied to a script. 
 I have to say I prefer the first one - in face after play for about 15 hours I put the first one 
 in again to test my theory and it definitely feels like a bigger, more organic world. That being 
 said Mercenaries 2 is "just plain fun". Its awesome to blow stuff up. I like that they kept the 
 same characters - I like the new environments. I have the XBOX 360 version and it looks nice but 
 not as nice as the jungles in Halo 3. I do have one major gripe - its very difficult to move through 
 the brush. I mean you can almost kick cars and fall hundreds of feet with little or no damage but 
 no way your getting past that bush! I feel this version is a lot more easier than the first. I 
 never felt like I was about to die. For me the most challenging missions were the driving due to 
 the looseness of the controls. A solid buy and a great summer game but for those of us looking 
 for Mercenaries 1 only bigger and better I feel we got smaller and prettier instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Okay, many people played a sleeper title called Mercenaries back in 2005. While not perfect by 
 any means, and was overlooked because it was regarded as another GTA clone, it was one of 05's 
 strongest titles. What was the main selling point? To answer that, it was having the ability to 
 blow 90% of the area in the game in all sorts of ways. Rocket launchers tanks, cluster bombs, and 
 more were all fair game. It also had three different characters with three very distinctive personalities. 
 Now, three years and many delays later, we now have Mercs 2: World in Flames, and while keeping 
 in the style of the first, you also have even more choices than the first and variety in how you 
 play. 
  
  
  First off, the gameplay hasn't really changed at its core. You have a third person camera, jump, 
 reload, melee bash, crouch, and of coarse the fire your weapon button (in which you'll be doing 
 a bunch of) . However, Pandemic did, and in a nice fashion, have you zoom in to an over-the-shoulder 
 perspective while crouching. At first, I was like huh, but it works well for placing headshots 
 with assault rifles and pistols. Also, many of the vehicles controlled by the enemies have what 
 is called and Action Takedown. Think of it as a small, short minigame similar to that of God of 
 War and Resident Evil 4, in which to press and tap certain buttions. While cheesy sounding, it 
 keeps you engaged with what you're doing and makes you feel like your actions mean something. Also, 
 you have a grappling hook that you can use to hijack airborne vehicles, that I find and will find 
 myself using often. However, the vehicle controls are a little loose, and can feel like you are 
 driving on oil at times. But you will learn to compensate after a few minutes. All around the controls 
 are good and responsive, and shouldn't give you too much hastle, once the driving is learned, anyway.
 
  
  
  The graphics and sound for the game are generally great, but they have a few blemishes. First off 
 the good. The characters and the environment look great with neat animations and detail, and the 
 fire, well so far its the second best I've seen in a videogame. First, of coarse being Far Cry 
 2. From what I've played so far, I destroyed a gas station with a few, okay, a lot of grenades 
 and rockets. A couple of missions later, it was still gone. Hopefully it will stay this way throughout 
 the game to show off just how much of the city you have destroyed by the final mission. The sounds 
 are cool, with each of the guns, vehicles, bombs, and characters sounding different from one another. 
 But now comes the slightly bad news. The chatter out of cutscenes and story elements becomes on 
 the repetitive side. I'm playing my first time through with Mattias, the Swede ex-convict. When 
 I fist picked up an automatic rifle, he said something funny about missing the gun, and decided 
 to name it Vera or something like it, then saying that they were going to shoot stuff up. It was 
 funny the first two times but hearing it so far maybe six ten to twelve out of the maybe 8 hours 
 I put into it, it kinda lost it's steam. But there are many other cool sayings from the characters, 
 so it's not that bad. However the enemy talk can be fingernails down a chalkboard for some. 
  
  
  Some other bad spots come in unusual forms. Sometimes hitting a bump with cause spontaneous 
 damage to your vehicle. Can you tell me how hitting a bump would cause my hood to buckle and bend? 
 But this happens only once in a while, thankfully, but being technical, it shouldn't happen at 
 all. Something else, how does flying off of a motorcycle at high speed not damage you, or having 
 the vehicle your in blow up while causing minimal damage to you? But falling off of a off a ledge 
 a few feet above the ground take off maybe 25% of your health? As expected, the enemy AI can take 
 a hit sometimes. Some with sometimes stand around looking dead at you, while others shoot in the 
 wrong direction. However, most of the time they duck and run for cover while firing and tossing 
 grenades at you. When enter/exiting a vehicle and crouching, your gun (s) on your back disappear. 
 
  
  
  The good however always outdoes the bad in this game. For every flaw there are multiple jaw-dropping 
 moments. Like nuking a small town or ordering in a custom Monster Truck, the game never fails to 
 keep your hands on the controller. Also the game has a bunch, and I mean a bunch of humor. For 
 a game like this, it is very easy to be all serious, but Mercs uses the humor in a way that keeps 
 the game that much more entertaining.
  
  
  All in all, Mercs 2 is a great sequel, but a few buggs and what not keep it from being as great 
 as it could have been. But action/adventure/sandbox fans should be entertained for months to come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megman9111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  The game is just pure out-right fun. The "Tutorial" is basically for the veterans to get warmed 
 up to the new control scheme, then which you are thrown directly into the fray. Some of the newer 
 additions, boats, motorcycles, and action hijacks are some pretty innovative things to add to a 
 solid game. The Side Missions are for new supplies, vehicles, and other things. Weaponary also 
 got some additions such as the pistol and the uzi which are insanely fun to play with. So if you 
 like explosions this is for you, or if you have played the first, this is a must for you to pick 
 up and play. The lovely area of Venezula, is now your playground of destruction, so go blow up 
 a tank, chopper, motorcycle, or just use plastic explosives on anything you'd like because everything 
 can be blown to pieces of shrapnel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: why9090909090
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2: World in Flames is an extremely fun, destructive and addictive third person "free 
 world" shooter. With a huge map that you unlock completing missions and an arsenal of destructive 
 weapons, what can go wrong? .. erm i spoke too soon. 
  
  Don't get me wrong this game is a thrill to play, i've been running around blowing the sh! t out 
 of buildings with a tank and just been having fun, but when it comes to the story mode, its horrible... 
 To start off your just searching for a guy named bianco who betrayed you and got shot in the a$$. 
 it was funny but not for an entire story line. 
  
  The missions were easy in the beginning and all of a sudden were near impossible. I've been stuck 
 on a mission from the liberation army where i have to protect a cathedral... It's impossible!! 
 when you try to hijack a tank, your stuck with button mashing and dragged out cutscense while the 
 tanks around you sit there and destroy the cathedral.. and by the time you have a tank, they all 
 fire at you and your destroyed. Oh and when your tank is destroyed, you get launched like a rocket 
 and have full health?... odd.
  
  Its unrealistic but that makes it sort of fun. I don't like the fact that you can run over EVERYTHING 
 in your path like a monster track does running over scrap metal. I mean those metal barries are 
 meant to stop you, not get plowed over by a motorcycle...
  
  The market is confusing to use, you have to buy the items you want at the faction before you run 
 amuck destroying everything, they should have stuck to the original way of buying things... it 
 was 10x easier
  
  Overall this game is fun.. but it hardly makes it over an average game.. Honestly rent it before 
 you buy it, if you love it, then buy it, if not i told you so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonbon3131012
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game and i like it, good gun play great destructable environments and a solid story 
 line; Sandboxy. Many say they love blowing stuff up with nukes, now i do too (even though i have 
 yet to unlock the nuke.) But i find the freeplay with friends so much better, just playing around 
 with helicopters with friends and blowing up oil rigs is the best. Now some missions do get repetitive, 
 but only if you just run and gun. I have played it for I find it more fun to get a cheap car and 
 make a car bomb or get a vechile that overpowers the job. I do have some complaints like how you 
 still can't walk through thick bushes. But all and all its a good game. This game is a easy achevment 
 game. I have played it for maybe five hours or so and I've gotten 290 points. 
  
  -------------------------------------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarththegrim
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Hello all. This review is based upon initial impressions. Hopefully, after fully completing this 
 game, I can come back and update this review with more data.
  
  Mercenaries 2 is based upon the similar tried & true method of Mercenaries 1. As one of three familiar 
 mercenaries, you are placed in the middle of a war-torn nation, working for money amongst the waring 
 factions.
  
  Setup: 
  For anyone familiar with Mercenaries 1, the setup is almost identical. You are able to carry two 
 different guns, ranging from pistols to shotguns to assault rifle to RPGs. Also, you are able to 
 carry throw-able explosives, such as grenades and C4. All weapons are fairly accurate and deadly, 
 though each is rather unique so everyone can find their favorite. You are also equipped with a 
 pair of binoculars for scoping enemy targets from a distance. But the most original aspect of the 
 Mercenaries franchise remains, the ability to radio-in supplies, vehicles, and even airstrikes 
 at a moments notice. The number of different airstrikes you can summon ensures you'll find one 
 to handle any situation, from helicopter support to a tactical nuke, and everything in between. 
 Aside from this, you are also capable of acquiring and upgrading vehicles with guns, jump boosters, 
 and other unique abilities. The game ensures that there are plenty of methods available for the 
 player to tackle any situation.
  
  Gameplay:
  You'll spend your time in Mercenaries 2 performing missions (called contracts) for various factions 
 in return for money and supplies. Contracts range from conquering outposts to destroying buildings 
 to racing to eliminating/capturing high profile bounties (similar to the deck-of-cards bounties 
 from Mercenaries 1) . Killing has a cost, however, as every time you attack a faction, your relationship 
 with that factions sours until you perform some contracts for them. This balances the gameplay, 
 as factions with good relationships will aide and support you, while factions with bad relationships 
 will attack you on site. Aside from the factions, there are occasionally freelancers who will offer 
 you contracts. You can also roam the country looking for stockpiles of supplies and money to steal 
 from factions as well, with no contracts involved. There's enough in Mercenaries to keep you busy 
 while still having fun.
  
  Audio:
  The audio is average. NPCs tend to spout the same lines OVER and OVER again (as in you'll hear 
 almost all the one-liners after your first 15 minutes of gameplay, and they just rinse and repeat) . 
 Music in the background is often appropriate to the setting, but is rather unremarkable. In fact, 
 you'll often find yourself playing without even noticing the music even exists in the background. 
 The dialogue is generic, even corny at times. Each character holds true to their stereotype in 
 every reply, however, a guilty pleasure most will enjoy.
  
  Graphics:
  Beautiful. They won't turn heads like some games, but the vehicles, structures, and landscapes 
 are all portrayed nicely (although the NPCs and vehicles are a bit monotonous) . The explosions, 
 Mercenaries' pride and joy, are the best part of this, and watching a tactical nuke go off is truly 
 breathtaking.
  
  Overall:
  Mercenaries is a fun game that any fan of Mercenaries 1, Crackdown, or any similar game will enjoy. 
 The open sandbox play combined with the focus on combat make it actually fun, something many newer 
 games fail to achieve. I am unaware of replay value or longevity yet, as the game has not even 
 been released fro 24 hours yet, but outside of that this is looking to be a solid buy. Rent if 
 you are unsure, but a buy appears to be worth it.
  
  Personal Opinion:
  This game is actually fun. With many of the next-gen games released over the last year, developers 
 seem to be shooting to be the next HALO or GTA III, while forgeting what made those games memorable 
 in the first place. I enjoy this game, the first one I've honestly enjoyed since CoD4 and Gears 
 of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anarchy95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  mercenaries 2 is a pretty good game. there's plenty of action, guns, vehicles, and definitely explosions. 
 the graphics are nice, but they could be better. the AI is a little stupid at times, they will 
 walk all the way around a car when you honk the horn to get in, or the enemy will stand out in 
 the open instead of hiding behind cover. also the AI's quotes are limited: after a while, you'll 
 become tired of the same phrases over and over. however, you do have a large area to explore, and 
 several mode of transportation make it a fun adventure. the story is somewhat interesting, but 
 not as much as the first game, although you do have more freedom to go about the missions however 
 you want, which is always good. i haven't played co-op, so i can't really cover it.
  
  overall, mercenaries 2 is a solid game that will amaze you sometimes, and disappoint you sometimes. 
 i would recommend at least renting it, or buy it used/when the price comes down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OpXZero
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 is awesomely executed, with updated graphics, and fun twists to the original's strengths. 
 What wasn't broken about the first is thankfully left untouched (airstrikes, vehicle drops, etc) , 
 and the aspects of the first that dragged were upgraded (storyline, voice-overs, repetition) . 
 
  
  The only downside is that no matter which character you choose, they all have similar dialogue, 
 with minor changes, and they all have the same plot line. If they plots had varied, the game would 
 be even more fun to play multiple times.
  
  New elements that are worthy of mention are the button combinations needed to hijack tanks and 
 helicopters, and the ability to steal money/fuel from rival factions. This element expands the 
 "treasure hunting" aspect that the first hinted at. 
  
  The characters actually have more noticeable differences in play, and can affect the approach made 
 toward an objective. Also new to game play is a GTA IV-inspired GPS system that aids greatly in 
 reaching objectives. Which leads to another welcome change. 
  
  No more "slow commutes" from one area to another. Faster, maneuverable vehicles abound, such as 
 sport bikes and small cars, which is great improvement over the slow humvees and tanks of the first. 
 The tanks are still present, but more than 130 options are now available.
  
  All in all, good times, and worth the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clanbong
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Though I have not spent alot of time in the game yet, I will be trying to do everything I can in 
 it. I can only speak for the single player part of the game. 
  
  GRAPHICS - 7/10 The graphics are good and show some flare at times but falls a little bellow todays 
 standards. There are nice additions like bullet holes on the windows of the vehicle when your making 
 an escape, or the effects of a large explosion and how the area becomes dark for a few seconds 
 is really nice, but overall there is alot of missing polish.
  
  SOUND - 7/10 I would rate the sound higher but there is alot of repetitive one liners and it might 
 annoy some but for most you will be too busy blowing things up to notice. The standard vehicle 
 sounds and weapon sounds are done well enough. The explosions are nice.
  
  STORY/PLOT - 5/10 The story/plot is only subpar, and you can tell there wasn't much time spent 
 on it. It works well enough but in this generation of gaming there should be more of a story integrated 
 into the mindless fray of a video game
  
  FUN - 8.5/10 Though I would like to give this a 10, I just can't due to the numerous bugs and technical 
 glitches. It is extremely fun to play and even better if you can look past the glitches. The AI 
 is horrible and I can honestly say I have seen better AI in old xbox games. At times you really 
 find yourself getting annoyed at the technical problems you encounter and wonder why they did not 
 take a little longer in beta testing to work out the bugs. 
  
  In closing, Though it does not live up to the standards set by the really great games of the next 
 generation, it is a very fun and destructive game and for most people who enjoy these types of 
 games I do recommend it.
  Thank-you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barilli71
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Picked up Mercs 2 this morning, spent about 1 1/3 hrs playing so far. Graffics are good, and it 
 was a quick reminder how fun it is to dstroy stuff when I planted a C4 pack at the base of a guard 
 tower with an enemy n a heavy machine gun shooting at me. While hiding a shor distance away behind 
 a statue, I hit the LB to detonate the charge & watched the tower crumble!!! Was also fun shooting 
 fuel barrels until they explode and destroy everything close by. One thing, in the 1 1/2 hrs of 
 laying time, I unlocked a ton f acheivements already. 1 acheivement was as easy as geting in a 
 vehicle and pressing the brake & gas at the same tie and just hole it for a fw second. 
  Over all, the game is decent, enemy AI is kinda lax, they will duck behind cover, but it's just 
 the classic "whack-a-mole" game, just wait for them to pop up and they're done !!!
  Otherwise - pretty fun - not the game of the year, by far, but its worth playing - IMO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malow-x
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I love the mercenaries series. Even World in flames. Although a buggy mess at times the game give 
 you enough to hold your attention for ample amounts of time. I would not go to say this is the 
 best in the series by any means, but i would say all of the new content is a welcome addition. 
 this game is pretty awesome but overall gives you a feel that its a stand alone expansion of the 
 first game.
  
  
  So all in all out of this i gave it an 6.5 .I would say it has the "mass effect syndrome". Buggy 
 and annoying at parts, but overall you can look past that to realize this is a great game and worth 
 the time to play it. So if you have gamefly or a rental place nearby go ahead and put that in your 
 Q. Otherwise if your a mercs fan you know you need to buy this game.
  
  
  Honestly most reviews you will read will tell you the same thing as well. Just take that as a hint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xblazinballax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  For the time ive spent playing this game, there were holy ****! moments, OMG! moments, and.. wtf? 
 moments. Its great fun blowing buildings up, blowing up/driving vehicles, killing people, etc etc.. 
 but being able to blow up a whole huge building (and i mean huge) with just one lousy charge of 
 C4.. is just weird. The game has bugs and lots of screen tearing (mainly in co-op though) . It sucks 
 when your driving, and every second, you see bushes, people, and even enemy vehicles popping up 
 out of no where. Also, for some odd reason, when you/friend is sitting in the passenger seat, you 
 cant shoot your gun.. that's a let down. Flaws aside, the game is still fun, especially with a 
 friend. Thiers a good amount of content to keep you busy, with lots of diverse missions and cool 
 achievements. if you like blowing stuff up (which im sure most of you do) and just like to kill 
 time by going around wreaking havoc, i would reccomend the game. Just be aware of the flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stoooovie-land
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 is a open world action game and is the sequel to 2005 Mercenaries for the Playstation 
 2, Xbox, and PC. when you first look at Mercenaries 2 you might think "oh its just another GTA 
 ripoff or a better version of Just Cause". but immediately after you say that and get into the 
 game you will realise that you were dead wrong. yes mercenaries 2 is open world and you can so 
 whatever you want its better than GTA because you have complete destruction at your fingertips 
 (literally) . Also you cant go out and get drunk and piss on hookers like in GTA. The story follows 
 a classic case of revenge where you are given a job by a person, you go out an do the job the way 
 you want to and when you get back to receive your payment you get betrayed and shot in the ass. 
 then the game is spent doing contracts for military corporations and finding the bad guy. some 
 new and great differences in mercenaries 2 that werent in the first one are, the ability to destroy 
 wildlife and start forest fires, the ability to swim and control boats, your health will replenish 
 itself after a period of time, there is also a new system that uses oil meaning that if you call 
 in a air strike or vehicle or supplies the amount of oil you have will decrease depending on what 
 you wanted and if you oil is reduced to zero then you wont be able to get anything any more, but 
 never fear you can always explore the world and find big canisters of oil to bring the count back 
 up, oh and did i mention the big ass map that's the size of a continent to explore. mercenaries 
 is a fun and addicting game to play and i highly recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctburesch
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best I have played so far this year. it is a true sandbox game with amazing graphics. 
 It has brought fun back to video games. The story is cool and you get to choose who you do or don't 
 align with. Everything is destuctable that you see and you can enter any vehicle in the game from 
 motorcycles to tractor trailers. Also it is really fun to watch the nuclear strike. I have never 
 seen anything like it in gaming. I was floored by the explosion. I just want to keep dropping nuclear 
 bombs. The enmy ai isn't retarted either, they actually are smart and try to circle around you. 
 I have not played co op yet but I am really looking forward to it and do some ownage with my friend. 
 Some people have compared this to Battlefield. I personnaly did not enjoy Battlefield especially 
 the online game types. This is a much better put together game. Poeple looking for the epic game, 
 what were you exactly looking for? This is a great fun game bottom line. It isn't put out to be 
 the epic game, but a fun sandbox game. Bottom line.
  
  UPDATE*** The glitches in the game can be VERY annoying. The game is still fun. Too short I think 
 as I could probably finish it in a few hours, but doing all of the side quests will take some time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyborg9
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  GamePlay: gameplay mixes up with mercenaries 1 and a new features with number 2 you can choose 
 to go after spades as well, there considered side missions or the main mission, chasing after the 
 guy who tries to kill you. The main story if you keep going will give you about 10 hours of gameplay 
 or more but, if you go do the side missions thats atleast 20hours and go after the bonuses. NOW 
 let me tell you :D this game is alot of fun. I played mercs 1 and wasent so happy but when i picked 
 this up this blew my 360 up hehe. The graphics are godly and the amount of stuff you can is endless. 
 from blowing up oil rigs to launching nukes in jungles to starting forest fires. I already have 
 this game but if your not sure trust me, BUY IT :D If u see other people giving it lower than 8 
 there crazy this game is beyong good its probably better than GTA4, when in gta4 1 hour into the 
 game you get a gun a nooby pistol  .  5mins into the game your hijaking helicopters and launching 
 nukes onto bunkers =) i hope this review gave u a taste of what i think cus u better be going out 
 to get it now!!!  =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyilmaz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I don't write reviews but all true gamers should buy this so whoever made it is encouraged to make 
 another game. I've been a big bf2, bf2142, cod4 player- need something new- this is it (for xbox360) . 
 Do you like to blow sh*t up? call in airstrikes and watch them blow away barriers, gates , guys? 
 have tanks, jeeps dropped in for you to use then this game is for you.
  
  The icing on the cake is the hilarious dialogue and cutscenes where whatever genius made the game (pandemic) 
 threw in hilarious south american banana republic cliches. I lol alot from the cut scenes. I think 
 its a good buy.
  
  You also earn money and weapons for completing your tasks, its a task driven fun game. So if you 
 like south american banana republics, cliched dictators who your going against, weapons, vehicles, 
 things blowing up everywhere, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  Ever since I played Mercenaries: Playground of Destruction I really hoped there would be a second 
 one. Well now here it is Mercenaries: World in Flames is a lot better and a lot more fun than the 
 first one was. It so addicting to you don't want to put the controller down because the action 
 just pulls you in and want let go.
  
  All of the good and fun stuff you like in the first one is back and with a lot more to. In Mercenaries 
 2 you find that there are over 20 different kind of weapons to choose from. And over 150 different 
 kind of vehicles to have fun in and cause a bunch of destruction. And there are over 20 different 
 air strikes to the game isn't boring and doesn't get boring at all.
  
  The graphics in the game are great everything looks great the explosions, the guns, tress and stuff 
 falling over, and the character models look great to. The sound is also great the explosions, guns, 
 voice action, and music in the game is all great and well done.
  
  Overall Mercenaries 2: World in Flames is a fun and fantastic game to play and a must have in my 
 opinion. I didn't give it a 10 because it's perfect but because how fun I thought it was. So if 
 you like the first one then you will also like this one to.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyhat99
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  Mercenaries 2 is a fantastically addicting game. Many things you wish you could have done in COD 
 or GRAW, you can do here and with ultimate fanfare. The game play is straightforward and fun although 
 it seems a bit rough around the edges. The accuracy of the weapons could be GREATLY increased and 
 not really affect the difficulty, the contract/travel system could use some work (travel time is 
 ridiculous in the early stages, not so much when you get air support) , and the controls for the 
 heavy vehicles/choppers feels like you're dragging a stick through mud at times. If you're expecting 
 the tanks to handle like a Scorpion a la Halo, you'll be huddled in a corner sucking your thumb 
 asking for the bad man to stop. Sharp crisp controls are not exactly this game's forte but it makes 
 up for it with the air strikes and ability to literally dodge bullets. 8/10 but in actuality 5/10 
 for all the little problems for the amount of dev time. Still, fantastically addicting regardless 
 of the problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TopUSGun
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Graphics are what you would expect from a free roam game, there is slight texture pop 
 ins, but it is no way near as worse as GTA IV pop ins, Explosions are amazing the trees fall realistically 
 they catch on fire, also the character models are very well done, the cut scenes are good but it 
 can get a little bit cheesy.
  
  Sound: Peter Stormare and the rest of the cast do a excellent job on the voices, explosions sound 
 terrific and the guns have great sound too, the music score is very good as well.
  
  Game play: This is the most fun I have had with a game in a while since COD4, GTA IV gets boring 
 but this doesn't, There is over 20 air strikes, 150 vehicles and 20+ weapons, there is little glitches 
 now and then but for the amount of fun you are having it isn't a problem, there is plenty of replay 
 value in this game especially because of the Co Op.
  
  I highly recommend this game.
  
  See you on the Battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigc072005
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  the game is really fun but.... no online multiplayer... just co-op... so it loses points there.. gets 
 old after an hour or so straight... and the story is kinda ehh... dumb? lol... but overall its really 
 fun blowing stuff UP!!.. and its also a good game if you want to let out some anger.... blow up anything... abd 
 its a good change of pace from just FPSs all day long lol... bfbc and cod4! :P... i would recommend 
 this game to people definately... i know for damn sure those halo nerds are getting tired of playing 
 halo for 24/7... that game got old in a month.... but mercs 2 is awesome... o yeah one other thing 
 why i gave it a 7.5.... the graphics look like something the ps2 would have... like when ps2 FIRST 
 came out and you thought the graphics were sick! type of graphics... not just ps2 after having played 
 a ps3 or 360... but, again, its a really fun game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TENTHROW2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Sure there's a story mode in this game, but you will be spending hours running around causing havoc 
 GTA style for a very long time.
  
  Call me silly, but Crackdown was one of my favorite games with the sandbox play and doing things 
 in game to make your character better.... Same concept here, but your upgrades consist of awesome 
 weapons and airstrikes. You can nuke an area - ya.... nuke an area.
  
  The first time you do this you'll be so happy you bought this game and be craving downloadable 
 content.
  
  My ONLY complaint with this game is no split screen co-op make me and my buddy have to lan party 
 our 360s.
  
  Controls feel good, the weapons and explosions are satisfying, and the vehicles are great. This 
 game was great on xbox, and even better that it's finally next gen.
  
  Do yourself a favor and get this game, Pandemic delivers big time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kstill93
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  I had never played Mercs 1 before, but this game just plain rocked! The gameplay is so fun and 
 the game gives you so much freedom! I have been waiting for a game like this for a very long time. 
 The destruction details are serpurb at the least and the explosions themselves are just fantastic. 
 There is so much freedom that the first mission requires you to drive a tank! I mean, other linear 
 gameplay games like Call of Duty are fuh, but it's just not the same destructive experience. I 
 would totally recommend you get this game if you just want to have fun and remember what a videogame 
 should be like! This game is so going to be my best friend for the next few weeks. When you drop 
 a bomb on an old tenement, your jaw just might drop. Mine did! I love this game and I'm hurrying 
 through typing this just so I can go play it some more!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zae333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 1:37 am PT
Review:  O. K. Let's start with the bad: there are a few minor graphical glitches from time to time. Well, 
 now that that is over with, the good: Mercenaries 2: WiF is the most fun I have had playing a video 
 game this year! This is one you will have to play for yourself to understand just how involved 
 it can be. From the first time you call in your first air strike or take that first flight as you 
 pilot one of many helicopters, you will be in love. Now about the game.
  
  You start off as one of 3 Mercenaries, one female and two males. The story is kind of all about 
 revenge so I will let GS tell you about that. Anyway, you end up becoming like a rouge mercenary 
 doing work for any of several different waring factions in Venezuela. Along with the lady directing 
 your operations, you get to acquire new members in your little "Merc Gang". You can get a mechanic, 
 heli-pilot, and a jet pilot.
  
  The game allows you to destroy EVERYTHING. If an RPG cannot bring it down then call in your drunken 
 jet pilot to hit it with a bunker buster. There are a lot of different air strikes available for 
 purchase from the factions you work for. Different factions have different shop items. However, 
 it is important to keep the factions happy if you want to get good prices.
  
  The game allows you to drive, or pilot, EVERYTHING. If it is on the map and you can reach it, you 
 can hijack it. From tanks, to cars, to motorcycles, to Helis everything is yours for the taking. 
 
  
  The graphics in this game are awesome and the explosions are the best I have seen in a X360 game 
 to date. You will notice that your character will stop and block their face during particularly 
 huge explosions. The driving mechanics are awesome in this game as well with the handbrake being 
 the first thing you need to master as you will often be sliding around corners under heavy enemy 
 fire.
  
  There are a lot of other great features in this game as well which you will discover as you play. 
 And play you must, because this is the best game of the year so far. Mercenaries 2 is what the 
 whole "Sandbox game" thing is all about. It is better than the first and easily the best "sandbox" 
 game ever made. Don't believe anything negative you may hear about this game, this one is a rare 
 gem amongst a sea of mediocre games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
