-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Midnight Club: Los Angeles
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/midnightclublosangeles/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cool-looking interface.
 16-player online with quite a few different modes.
 Gorgeous rendition of the City of Angels.
 Fast, exciting racing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Excessive difficulty hinders fun.
 Not very original.
 Interface favors form over function.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 55 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 918 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: Rockstar San Diego
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Oct 20, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Midnight Club is fast, beautiful, and way too hard. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"  
       Midnight Club: Los Angeles Review for Xbox 360 - GameSpot                                
    function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =               The Video 
 Review               

 Aaron Thomas hits the streets screamin' in this video review for Midnight Club: Los Angeles.    
    Watch It   Watch HD 520p                 The Good            Cool-looking interface  &nbsp; 
      16-player online with quite a few different modes  &nbsp;      Gorgeous rendition of the City 
 of Angels  &nbsp;      Fast, exciting racing.                The Bad            Excessive difficulty 
 hinders fun  &nbsp;      Not very original  &nbsp;      Interface favors form over function.   
                    After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update: 
  Game Update    Posted: Dec 19, 2008 11:41 am PT      A recent update that purportedly "improves 
 AI balance to adjust dynamically to user skill level" appears to primarily affect the AI early 
 in the game. Things feel slightly less punishing as a result, but there are still several unaddressed 
 issues that conspire to make the game more difficult than it should be. &nbsp;               

 
  Midnight Club Los Angeles has a lot going for it: excellent graphics; fast, intense racing that 
 takes place day or night; and numerous online modes that support up to 16 racers. Unfortunately, 
 it has a few rather significant problems that hold it back, including a small roster of vehicles 
 and gameplay that, while fun, doesn't break any new ground. But most of all, it is Midnight Club's 
 excessive difficulty that makes it a very good racing game rather than a great one.  

           It's a nice car now, but it won't be by the end of the race.      

  There's a bit 
 of a story, but it's the bare minimum to get you in a car to race around the streets of LA. And 
 it is quite a version of LA. The game has a day/night cycle so you're not stuck racing at one time 
 of day the whole time. You won't just race in sunshine, either. Some days are cloudy, and every 
 once in awhile, the clouds unleash torrents of rain. Day or night, rain or shine, the city looks 
 fantastic. The frame rate is steady, the action is fast, and the game's re-creation of LA is absolutely 
 gorgeous. This slightly scaled-down City of Angels covers everything, including the beaches of 
 Santa Monica, the Hollywood hills, and downtown. What's really neat about the city here is not 
 only how many recognizable landmarks there are, such as the 3rd Street Promenade and LA Convention 
 Center, but also the branded buildings, such as 7-11, Pizza Hut, Holiday Inn, and even billboards 
 for iPods. There's certainly such a thing as too much advertising, but it's not overdone here (not 
 every gas station is a 7-11, for example) , and having these real-world businesses in the game world 
 helps immerse you in the experience.  

  As with most street racing games, you drive around the city looking for people to race. When you 
 find someone, you flash your lights, and in most cases, race to the starting line. There are time 
 trials, checkpoint races around the city, freeway races, and races from point A to point B-- pretty 
 standard stuff for the genre. You'll also have missions where you must render payback by damaging 
 target vehicles and deliver cars across town unscathed in an extremely short amount of time. There 
 is a police presence, which can and will chase you down if it sees you're up to no good. Chases 
 aren't as intense as in the Need for Speed games, but it's immensely entertaining to pull over 
 and then watch yourself on the police car's dash-cam as you peel out when the cop approaches your 
 vehicle.  

  When you finish a race, you're awarded money and respect based on your position. Respect unlocks 
 new races, as well as new licensed cars (plus motorcycles) , visual customization options, and performance 
 upgrades. The slow way in which new cars are unlocked is most likely because of how few cars and 
 bikes are (about 44) included. But regardless of the reason, it takes a lot of winning to gain 
 new items, which can be frustrating when you've got money to spend and a car in desperate need 
 of improvement.  

  Frustration is something you'll become accustomed to as you play Midnight Club LA. This is mostly 
 due to the game's uneven and excessive difficulty. Other than the occasional race that lets you 
 choose ahead of time, there are no difficulty settings. There are color-coded races that purport 
 to be easy, medium, or hard, but quite often, the "easy" races are just as challenging as the hard 
 ones. This "one size fits all" difficulty wouldn't have been a problem if the game were balanced, 
 but it's not. CPU racers seem impervious to the perils of oncoming traffic. They rarely make significant 
 contact with other cars, weaving back and forth across lanes like George Costanza playing Frogger. 
 You, on the other hand, won't be as lucky. Even minor scrapes with cars, walls, and fences can 
 send your car spinning and leave you facing the wrong way when you come to a stop. Parked cars 
 are particularly hazardous because they don't have their lights on and are extremely difficult 
 to see. Because of the amazing skill level of the CPU, even one minor error on your part can -- and 
 typically will -- cost you the race. This means that you'll end up doing a lot of grinding (finding 
 races that aren't insanely tough and repeatedly doing them over) to raise your respect level. It's 
 tedious and doesn't make for a great time.  

  There are other issues that prevent Midnight Club from achieving its potential. The Google Earth-style 
 map looks really cool as it seamlessly zooms from street level to the sky, but it's not great at 
 showing you where to go. This is a problem because it's a  map . The angle at which you view the 
 city streets isn't very user-friendly when zoomed in, many streets aren't marked, you can't rotate 
 it, and while you can set a waypoint marker, it won't show you the best route to take. This is 
 a huge problem when you're racing from one spot to another without checkpoints -- you must constantly 
 pause the game and consult the map to make sure you're taking the right streets. This problem is 
 even worse in the ridiculously punishing car-delivery minigames. Not only do you need to keep the 
 pedal to the medal the whole time, but you have to avoid damaging the car all while pausing the 
 game and checking the map every few blocks. Even when there are checkpoints, there is no guarantee 
 you won't get lost. Some of these large pillars of smoke are poorly placed, and the smoke actually 
 obscures what's behind it, making it possible to zoom right by a turn. When this happens, you might 
 as well quit out of the race to start over because you don't get the same rubber-band assistance 
 as the AI and probably won't recover.  

           The map is really cool-looking; unfortunately, it's not as useful as you might hope.  
     

  If you can look past Midnight Club's many frustrating aspects (unlockable special abilities that 
 do things like slow down time and clear cars out of your path help alleviate some, but not all, 
 of the problems) , there's a very solid racer to be found. When the difficulty is just right (it 
 happens occasionally) , and you take advantage of the simple-yet-effective drafting mechanic, races 
 are exciting and finishes are tight. There's also a lot of enjoyment in the game's multiplayer 
 component, which supports up to 16 racers via system link, as well as online. You can create your 
 own races, challenge folks who happen to be driving around to standard races, or play one of the 
 game's unique modes, such as Capture the Flag, Team Capture the Flag, Keepaway (get a flag then 
 keep it away from everyone) , Stockpile (whoever returns the most flags to his base wins) , and more. 
 Because it's a level playing field and you don't have to deal with the AI, multiplayer is where 
 Midnight Club is at its best. Going online also gives you the opportunity to show off your ride 
 to the community where others can rate your car's looks and even purchase it.  

  Midnight Club Los Angeles is exciting, beautiful, and great when played online. It's a shame that 
 its difficulty is so uneven, because this issue and other problems take your attention away from 
 what is an otherwise very good racing game.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (67 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Blind0bj3ct
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 10:04 pm PT
Review:  After some 4 or 5 hits off my good ol' bubbler I decided to play a new racing game. And this was 
 my choice because once I played this game at my friends house while flying pretty high and boy, 
 was it intense. So I borrowed it from him and today I decided to do this, because I thought it 
 was fun and interesting. But the biggest reason why it was intense was because I was playing this 
 game from the Cockpit camera view and my first impression it was exaggerated but very intensely 
 realistic. The movements of the car combined with the arm animations are top-notch and very fun 
 to watch, and on my personal experience from playing the game on my own time, much more challenging 
 but at the same time easier in some ways, except it's a lot more entertaining than other camera 
 views. Moving on, the game looks absolutely gorgeous and detailed. The city is not as huge as, 
 let's say Paradise or GTA 4 but I feel like it's the right size, not that this was going through 
 my mind when playing the game. But when you're in the car and you're flying down the highways it' 
 can get very intense since the highway feels long and crowded, added with the vibration and motion 
 blur it really seems like you're going for a long time. Moving onto game play, with my state of 
 mind, the game at first was very easy to grab onto and go, the cars feel have a nice and firm handling 
 to them, especially the muscle cars with no hydraulics so it feels a bit heavier on their side. 
 Racing usually consists of A-B courses and sometimes there's actually circuits. But when you're 
 feeling like me with this game, you don't really want to race, you'll rather drive freely around 
 the cities and follow the rules for some odd reason, it feels realistic, and you'll screw around 
 with civilian cars and occasionally talking to the guy who's sitting next to you on a red light... and 
 by talking I mean you're saying something like "Wanna Race? huh, punk? Wanna Race??" while revving 
 your engine and doing burnouts. Regardless the guy next to you is just another brain dead "city 
 car" who's job is to just look like it's going somewhere. (Keep in mind that I was in Cockpit view 
 95% of my playtime.) But if you do want to race and compete like this, you'll find yourself in 
 a very intense situation, but personally however, somewhat easy in some ways. Anyway, the cars 
 are nicely detailed and there's a poop load of things you can change, I liked it because it felt 
 a lot like the system they used in NFS: UG2 because you could also customize your interior. I'm 
 sure you can guess what other generic things you can alter in your car, and oh yeah! You can make 
 your car go faster by buying stuff too. The sound of the cars are nicely done and sure do better 
 then the sounds in Forza, not because it's unrealistic, just because their sounds are much more 
 fun to hear and you'll really feel the "rawr." The dialogue is very annoying and exaggerated especially 
 when THC is invading your brain. Sometimes you'll wish you could mute them. The ambient noise on 
 the other hand is very pleasing and immersive. There's plenty of cars to unlock and bikes too. 
 For the hour or two playing this game with Mary Jane you'll find enough to do and that enough to 
 do is fun and will surely make you believe you're going 160mph down a highway and if you're really 
 floating it's guaranteed to trip you out. 
  
  
  High Game Rank: 8.5 Good for High Thrills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisMenace
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:43 am PT
Review:  Well, this is the newest installlment of midnight club and i think it's the best. It has all the 
 qualities of the old midnight club and more, now your nitrous gets refilled in gas stations, in 
 cruise mode you can get chased by the cops and now the customization and graphics are better than 
 ever before! Instead of using bink video for the little scenes where you talk to other racers it 
 uses the sam graphics as in the game, and it is perfect! their faces are modelled just right and 
 unlike fifa09 or CSI miami, they act like real humans too, instead of looking like they don't touch 
 anything, they just get real close.
  
  It has over 45 vechiles from Dodges to Ducatis, all of which can be customized in so many different 
 ways.
  
  Graphics................9
  Controls.................7
  Sound....................8
  Storyline................10
  Choice...................10
  
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: versions
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 3:21 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game for anyone who's experienced/good at racing games. The game is beautiful, 
 the cars are great and very customizable. It takes place in LA, which is remade very well. You 
 get these challenges, which seem to be quite many and you progress through the career doing these. 
 Apart from the obvious cash there's something called REP, which you earn when you win a race (actually 
 lose as well, for some weird reason) . REP unlocks new cars and new things for your cars. The achievements 
 are not very challenging but can take a while to earn. Now I'll get to the main problem with this 
 game, the difficulty. If this is your first racing game or you're not very good at them, there 
 is no point in getting this game, you will never win anything. The reason I chose 9.5 is because 
 I think it is just perfect for me, but I'm quite good at racing games. Many people, including Gamespot, 
 say that if you crash once you might as well restart. I don't think that's true, I can get back 
 to the opponents and still win while doing such a thing on Hard and even Hardest difficulty levels.
 
  
  If you are good at racing games, this is a very good game that you should get. If you're not so 
 good, get Burnout Paradise, it has a great learning curve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huggy12345
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2009 2:57 pm PT
Review:  The one thing that made this game is miserable was how hard it was. I mean c'mon, I'd expect better 
 from Rockstar. My first experience with this game was trying to race and consistently hitting into 
 civilian cars. It got so flippin annoying. Not to mention you try so flippin hard to turn corners 
 and end up crashing into the walls and getting a nice face plant and losing the entire race with 
 a back up option and a chance to take over first place again. You cannot make any mistakes in any 
 races or you will lose and have to start over again even a simple bump with another car. Sure, 
 the graphics are amazing and theres a nice selection of cars but that all cloaks how much this 
 game sucks. I should've read the reviews and spent my money more wisely. Rockstar disappointed 
 me considering i've owned almost all the games they have produced. Don't buy this game, you will 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turokdude
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2009 4:10 pm PT
Review:  this game is super hard and has lots of glitches but its not the glitches that bother me.... its 
 the hardship..... like it takes a super good driver to even win the first race in the game..... i 
 say the game is best for just drivin around la and if u want challenge do a race..... but if i were 
 you id rent this game and if u like it go ahead get it.... it just will be a hard game and you need 
 fast cars like motorcyles..... thats the best way to win.... but if you hate hard games this isnt 
 the game for you..... the reason i got it was because its fun and its made by the co. that made 
 grand theft auto.... just be careful with the game and please dont get too mad at it.... it really 
 is tought but it gives you lots to do and lots of cars to chose from......... so dont b to in to 
 the game because it could let you down.... midnightclubla is a very good game if you get passed 
 the hard part of it... it has lots of jumps and you can smash through buildings..... i hope u enjoy 
 the game but thats all i have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2Rolex
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Games fun and great buy you can race a bunch of different races and tons of types and looks of 
 cars to buy from not just new models but late 60s to. You dont just have you Toyota to use you 
 can get your self a pure muscle car which if you ask me is ten time better. The color of the race 
 shows if you can beat it or not very help fun. There ton of parts and cars to pick from but it 
 will cost ya. the races are not just all easy some take skill and time to do and that what make 
 it so fun. It got challenges to do not just oh were gunna race look i won no you can come in any 
 place. Not like other games you race you will most likely win who wants that for a game. Theres 
 a bunch of hang out to go to in here. Also cops can chase you and making the game once again more 
 challangeing you not only get to race buy run for the cop which its not as easy as it seems to 
 get away. Dont let the cop catch you or you'll pay big time. But the game never get boring you 
 always got somthing new to do. when playing the game you acculy feel like your in LA not just playing 
 a video game. Buy the game you wont regret it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdgeJM
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 23, 2009 9:33 am PT
Review:  Midnight Club Los Angeles is the latest in the Midnight Club series, following on from 2005's Midnight 
 Club 3 on the Xbox and Playstation 2. Now, like most gaming franchises worth their salt, the series 
 has moved over to the next generation platforms with a whole host of new features, new cars, and 
 vastly improved graphics.
  
  Instead of being set in three separate cities, like Midnight Club 3 was, this iteration in the 
 series has focused on one, but this time the replication of the city is almost completely identical 
 to the real Los Angeles, with real stores like Pizza Hut (or Pasta Hut, whatever it's calling itself 
 these days) , Holiday Inn and 7-11, with the occasional iPod billboard thrown in for good measure. 
 The re-creation of Los Angeles is very very well done, with a full day and night cycle, varying 
 levels of traffic depending on the time of day, and pedestrians diving out of the way of your pimp 
 mobile as it drives on two wheels on the wrong side of the road. The detail in the city really 
 can be staggering at times.
  
  Graphically, this game is top notch, constructed with Grand Theft Auto IV's "RAGE" engine, allowing 
 for almost photo-realistic recreations of cars such as the Lamborghini Murcielago Roadster, Audi 
 R8 and Aston Martin V8 Vantage, all of which are fully customisable, from the spoiler to the steering 
 wheel, the window tint to the seats, you think of something, you can customise it in this game 
 using it's very slick, GRID-esque interface. Midnight Club also now has a vinyl editor that is 
 almost a carbon copy of Forza's, meaning that there will be incredibly complex designs coming out 
 over the coming months.
  
  Moving on to gameplay, this game is everything I'd want from a racing game, fast, high-octane racing, 
 forcing you to weave through traffic and take the sneakiest of shortcuts, narrowly avoiding plant 
 boxes and passing pedestrians. Your idea of a fun racing game might be a 72 lap endurance race 
 on a set track, where you can tinker with your car's dampers and springs until you eventually hang 
 yourself when you realise that what you're doing is so boring it could punch a hole through time. 
 Midnight Club does away with the closed track, giving you checkpoints across the city to navigate 
 to yourself, with only an arrow pointing to the checkpoint as the crow flies to help you, this 
 can be challenging at time, especially when you've got a car that is modified beyond the point 
 of reason drafting off you and just waiting to slot in front of your car and flick the V sign in 
 the rear view mirror. This brings me nicely onto my next point, with this being a 12+ rated game, 
 the "gangstas" in the game are strangely polite to each other, with trash talk at the start of 
 each race being limited to "well you're quite silly aren't you?" "yes I suppose I am", I even had 
 one opponent offering constructive criticism, suggesting how I could improve my racing technique. 
 How nice of him.
  
  There is one thing to say about the difficulty in this game, however, it can be a little too much 
 for some people, despite the races being colour coded from easiest to hardest, even the easiest 
 races can be a challenge. This is fine for me, considering I buy games to be challenged by them, 
 I don't expect to finish them in a day, because then I feel cheated out of 40, and want to take 
 the game back, maybe that's just me?
  
  Aside from the slight difficulty issue, everything about this game is solid, the graphics, the 
 single player, the online, the customisation, everything. This is a prime example of why Midnight 
 Club games are so much better than the Need For Speed games will ever be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boss-Up
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Well let me just say that i played almost all the midnight club series but this i have to say is 
 the hardest of the bunch. I'm gonna give you my candid opinion on this game, it really gets frustrating 
 in some races. Especially when your driving in the streets of L. A., so much traffic lol but yeah 
 besides that the difficulty can get easy threw very hard that's the key about Midnight Club there 
 are different types of races to choose from, like green races are the easiest and red races are 
 the hardest. The Harder races unlock more parts and give you more money, the A. I. in this game 
 can get annoying at times but its really nothing to complain about. The special abilities come 
 back to the series once again to help you in those crazy times in races and let me tell you they 
 work cause i use them a lot, i am not gonna explain all of them but theirs one that's called "roar" 
 my favorite, it blows everyone away that's around you . The graphics are par with some of the other 
 race games out there on the shelves but they could have done better in some parts of the game but 
 i do love how rockstar captured the city, even doe they made everything seem real close lol (I 
 live in L. A.) , the selection of cars is great, nice variety too, muscle cars threw sports bikes 
 etc. The customization is amazing, you can spent hours there just pimping up your ride and the 
 story is really bland if you ask me but really which racing game story isn't? so yea the online 
 multiplayer is where this games shines, everything is fun especially the cruising, meet a bunch 
 of people from the get go to wager or challenge anybody you meet. so yea hope y'all give this game 
 a try its really great i mean great great if your a hardcore racer this is the game to pick, nothing 
 more to say peace!!!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_Station
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 26, 2009 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I like the game, But I hate the races, There stupid, by the time a checkpoint pops up sometimes, 
 you already miss the turn, then that costs you the race. The races are frustrating and will start 
 to piss you off after awhile, because no matter what you do to your car, at any time of the game, 
 everyone is still always faster than you, it seems like you just cant get your car built up enough, 
 to make races more fun. half the races I deal with are all races where you just make it, sometimes 
 by luck, and I hate that. I like a challenge, but not from the second you get a car, cant boost 
 it up right away, and everyone else is allready running cars that seem to be beefed up. The graphics 
 arent bad, I like those, and I like how it looks alot like Cali. The hills, freeway, and such. 
 really cool to me, better than what most people do. But the driving isn't fun enough, it feels 
 kinda like twisted metal 2. not as bad though. it just doesnt feel real enough. I will give that 
 part to NFS or something. those are fun to race, but the series is starting to become a let down. 
 but the choice in cars, more then NFS I like that, but you know what?? screw it. With all the game 
 out, and all the stuff creators can do. When is someone going to make a racing, that feels more 
 realistic, and fun to drive, and the races are decent. with free roam levels that look better, 
 not done where all streets look the same. you know, make the roads kind bend a bit for the run 
 off on the rain. sit in the driver seat and use the windshield wipers if need be. deck out any 
 part of your car, and make real time weather, like other games. Go from night to day, like Midnight 
 Club, but have different kinds of weather, rain thunder and lighting, really cold weather to freeze 
 the road, or snow, and when it snows enough, it sticks to the ground, and depending on the season. 
 Yes, They should make seasons, and make it go with our time. midnight club was going in the right 
 direction. NFS is backing off. But then have a few different places, one in the southern states 
 or ccountry where the weather is warmer, then up north more where its more cold. and have the weather 
 for different kinds of city, so if you want sun all year around with thunderstorms, go south, if 
 you want snow some years, and then you would have to take your car to the shop to get tires made 
 for that weeather, go up north somewhere. Im just disapointed that everyone is still doing the 
 same things. Midnight is about the only racing game besides test drive unlimted that has done some 
 new or interesiting stuff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TWallace27
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 8:00 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I love Midnight Club. Huge fan of the series and huge fan of fast cars, 
 unrealistic arcade-style racing, and in-depth customization. What I am not a huge fan of, is say, 
 games that simulate real life. Why would I want to play a game that simulates what real life driving 
 is? I can do that every single day of my life. Slow, no exaggerated burn outs or drifts, and not 
 being able to fly around a corner at 100 miles per hour. In previous Midnight Clubs you could tap 
 or hold the handbrake and do a nice drift around corners and on the expressway, cruising at 120 
 mph you could quickly shift left and right to avoid oncoming traffic. This is not the case in this 
 new Midnight Club, which isn't Midnight Club anymore. It's turned to the "realistic physics" and 
 slow and boring racing. There is no quick response in the control. If you try to maneuver it will 
 take like a second for the car to process what you're doing. By that time you will need to be back 
 to where you were and you'll end up sliding all over the road like an uncontrollable bar of soap. 
 It feels like you're driving on ice most of the time. That's the only way I can explain it. And 
 if you try to make a turn, going fast, you will start sliding sideways and hit a wall -- which looks 
 totally fake and would never happen like that in real life. (unless of course you're on ice -- I'm 
 telling you, that's what the whole game feels like) So if you are going to go the realistic route 
 at least get it right. And when you do a burnout in your car, you car will squirm all over the 
 road, and go nowhere fast. So you car spins from 180 degrees to 0 degrees to 180 to 0, then finally 
 centers back to 90 and actually begins moving. I can't explain it all that well (you'd have to 
 see it) But it's so lame. (Again, just imagine a car trying to accelerate on ice) The next thing 
 I will bring to light is all the talk about the difficulty. Yes, it's hard, in a way, but not that 
 hard. Because it's so much slower-paced than the others it's quite easy to finish a race without 
 hitting anything. It's not fun to handle but you'll be able to manage across the finish line fine. 
 I didn't have a problem winning the races and I even had it on manual transmission. But I can see 
 why reviewers would complain. If you hit ANYthing, like just nick a car, the game takes you into 
 like a cinematic mode, while you watch your car spin around from impact. No more scraping walls, 
 no more close calls with buses or semis -- no more fun! But like I said, these occurrences won't 
 happen as much as they did in previous games, where you were allowed to make mistakes. Lastly, 
 the graphics. They were probably the best thing in the game, but even they were disappointing. 
 They aren't even much of an improvement over the third. I was really bummed. Everything looked 
 kind of bland and repetitive. Bigger city, sure, and more logos and details, but overall, nothing 
 that really stood out. Lastly the sound and music. It is what it is. Nothing that stood out to 
 my ears. Annoying voice acting though, which reminds me... I hate all the characters in the game. 
 They tried to copy NFS or something with a plot (DID NOT WORK) And lastly lastly the GPS system 
 is dumb and you can't view your mini map on screen ever because somebody is always calling your 
 cell phone or texting you and that covers it up. So you end up having to open the GPS, which takes 
 a second or two, and then find something near you that you can race. IT'S SO ANNOYING! And when 
 you're already p' od at the game it just adds to the frustration. So overall I hated the game. 
 I tried to like it. I really did. I tried convincing myself that the game was fun, because I spent 
 so much money on it and LOVE the other 3 (or 4 including remix) . But I just didn't. The game felt 
 like work to play. So that's my 68 cents. If you loved any of the others you will hate this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omislash1234
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 10:33 am PT
Review:  This is a great game in my opinion. I see that most of the reviews for it so far are right on. 
 The game spot review is a bit to harsh and has probably steered away even some hardcore racing 
 fans from this beautiful and difficult game. What I look for in a racing game is how many cars, 
 how many tracks, can you upgrade your vehicles? and how well does it control? This game scores 
 high on all of the above.
  
  First to explain the difficulty. No you can't just pick this game up and beat it right away. You 
 still earn money for loosing in half the races and advance your rep to unlock parts, and as you 
 progress and learn the tracks it becomes easier and you start to win more races. My way around 
 this was to start using the motorcycles. Granted this game is hard enough to deter someone from 
 playing it if they give up early on.
  
  The controls are very good, responsive fast and rewarding. The bikes are my favorite because I 
 ride a Kawasaki in real life and yes you can take turns very fast not using your brakes. Although 
 I would never do this in a city and kill myself.
  
  The cars are great, muscle, tuners, and exotics are all fun to drive and have their own strengths 
 and weaknesses. You can do a lot of tuning on these machines and paint them and make them your own 
 with a lot of extra designs. The vinyls are great.
  
  The tracks are well laid out in my opinion and each area offers a variety of exciting shortcuts 
 and some mind blowing jumps.
  
  The map and checkpoint system works well for the most part. Sometimes the checkpoints are spaced 
 a little too far apart and if you are in the lead this can cause you a lot of frustration by looking 
 down at it then finding yourself flying off of your bike because in that split second you didn't 
 see the grey car on the grey road with no headlights on at dusk because you were in first and needed 
 to double check your map and when this happens it is a trial to catch back up but unlike what the 
 game spot reviewer said there is no need to start over, you can catch back up and overtake first.
 
  
  The graphics are wonderful, I do not recall very many racing games that have people roaming the 
 streets and being able to race at all times of the day. I have only got to see it rain once so 
 far and that looks really good. The environments feel so wide open and offer the popular living 
 and breathing city element found in most sandbox style games today.
  
  The music, rating music has become more of a matter of opinion over the years do to CD quality 
 sound. This sound track for example in my opinion is weak and doesn't offer me very many songs 
 that stand out in my ears. The sounds of the vehicles, are well the sounds of the actual vehicles, 
 can't fault anything there.
  
  Ah the story. Nothing against game spot but they always seem to have an undertone disapproval for 
 the stories in most racing games. What do folks want out of a racing game story? Should our in 
 game hero be addicted to crack provided by aliens from outer space while single handily thwarting 
 an invasion from the supreme alien drug lords, all the while on a quest to save his father, slash 
 ninja, robot ,pirate, bounty hunter from the clutches of Lester (the guy you race for pinks) ? It 
 is a RACING game.
  
  
  
  Overall. This is a challenging and rewarding racing game that all hardcore racing fans will enjoy. 
 You might need to buy a new controller but you will still love to get mad at it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edmakel
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2009 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I had mixed feelings when i started paying this game. I look at almost every game i've ever bought 
 based on if it's "fun to play" if it's more frustrating than fun the score goes wayyyy down. Nobody 
 enjoys a good challenge better than I, so with regret i had to score this game lower than I wanted 
 to. 
  
  It's beautiful... rendered almost to almost painstaking detail and the sense of speed is in place. 
 Everyting about racing from a drivers perspective is on point. Except the computer controlled A. I.!!!! 
 Think of all the curse words you know... wrap them in a .45 shell casing and fire one directly up 
 the programmer's ASS. They had a bonified 10 and turned it into an average racer. I don't race 
 the comptuer anymore... I just use it to go online and play the multiplayer games. at least there 
 ... most people make mistakes while driving 150mph... the computer knows every nook , cranny, short 
 cut and avoids traffic around blind corners and heavy traffice with GPESP.. (global positioning 
 extra sensory perception) 
  Dont get me wrong.. you can win the A. I. races with patience.... but when you do it's like relaxing 
 after an exchange of gun fire... you're just spent , drained... That's just not fun... challenging... but 
 not fun. buy this game for the great fun of multiplayer. Those of you who just like to ride solo 
 against the cpu... it's not all that great... wait for a fix on the next intallment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darray
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:53 pm PT
Review:  The racing mechanincs are not flawed, they are set up for all skill levels. If you are having problems 
 with some races go to the green, not the red difficulty when choosing someone to race against in 
 the game. That's what I've been doing and it's been great.
  
  The races are all quite long, up to 4minutes plus for some of them, and then you have to race the 
 3 part series so you have to make sure you can dedicate up to 12 minutes or more per series. This 
 can be a bit tedious.
  
  The only thing that gets me is when the cops chase you how you can get out of their line of sight 
 but they still find you, I'm not too good at evading the police in this game. I fact the police 
 chases are soemthing that they could have left out. But for some people it works.
  
  So far I'm having fun with this game, if you enjoy arcade racers then you should pick this game 
 up. It's not a masterpiece by any menas but it is truely a drivers game, not too many stupid cut 
 scenes. Just straight to the driving baby, nothing wrong with that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: estevie69
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 5:59 am PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of MC: 3 dub and wanted to collect every car and customize everything. I was drawn 
 to this one because it took place in my hometown, so I could really judge how accurate the cities 
 are in MC. With this one, I don't know how long it'll take me because there is just so damn much 
 to do and infinite amounts of customizable options to your rides. This game gives u the most personal 
 feeling to your car.
  
  Gameplay itself is awesome. Showing the blur effect on the side of your car as you're going 150 
 is awesome, I see the flashing lights!! Races are so intense, you wanna keep trying it over and 
 over and you will find other routes like secret alleys and avenues to win a race. The car mechanics 
 are realistic and so smooth at high speeds with a bunch of cars in the picture, NFS can't say that.
 
  
  The city is the greatest part! You want to explore it! The rough sketches of the areas are accurate 
 like Santa Monica, Downtown, Mulholland. The streets are roughly the same streets+the same areas 
 like Wilshire and Sunset, an area I'm really familiar with. It's cool how Hollywood is the main 
 part and put the most emphasis into Hollywood granted it's a famous and historic place. I would 
 have wanted them to add a bit more to the city like south central (a place I don't usually go) 
 and the valley, which is a huge part of LA. and an would want a more accessible way to get there. 
 Hollywood is actually in the middle of the valley and the city and connects them in a way.
  
  JUST GET THE GAME AND U'LL UNDERSTAND WHY I KEEP RAMBLING ON AND ON ABOUT THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForzaIV
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Alright, let's get the lowdown on Midnight Club LA. Firstly, let's have a look at the visual aspects 
 of this game. The graphical power of the Xbox 360 obviously gives this game a shine, as the detail 
 of the cars, the city, the atmosphere and even the traffic is just stunning. The weather effects 
 look great as well. The sunshine during the day reflects off the vehicles beautifully whilst the 
 nightlight during the night just looks great. The rainfall doesn't disappoint, either, as you can 
 see raindrops dripping onto your car (if you study your car carefully) and puddles all over the 
 road. It'd be nice if the puddles gave the same effect in PGR4 where your car loses traction and 
 splashes water all over it's surroundings, but hey, at least the visuals make up for this.
  
  All 46 vehicles or so in this game have also been visually detailed right from the front bumper 
 to the exhaust tips. They are all also fully customizable with aftermarket bumpers, side skirts, 
 hoods, rim details, interiors and much much more. The customization system in this game is part 
 of what makes this game enjoyable, as you can customize a car to make it look like YOUR car. Although 
 the range of aftermarket parts is not as large as the range in Need For Speed Underground 2, the 
 higher level of visual detail and the unique ways you can set it apart make up for this. However, 
 the slightly disappointing fact of the visual modifications is that unlike Forza Motorsport 2 and 
 Need For Speed ProStreet, these parts have no effect on your car's performance. But in a game like 
 this, who cares.
  
  The racing in this game is fun as well. Now let's have a closer look at the types of races offered 
 in Midnight Club LA. Firstly, races are split into four types of races; Ordered races, Circuit 
 races, Freeway races and Unordered races. Ordered races are when you have to follow a set of checkpoints 
 and try to get to the finish line first. Circuit races.... are like ordered races except that the 
 layout of the race is set up like a street circuit so you have to do laps. Freeway races are when 
 you approach a racer, flash your lights at them and the race begins on the freeway. You have to 
 follow a set of checkpoints to the finish like Ordered races but unlike ordered races, freeway 
 races are only done on freeways, so it's speed that counts (and avoiding the huge amounts of traffic 
 on the freeway) . Unordered races are when the checkpoints in a race are spread out and there is 
 no order to crossing them - it's entirely up to you to what route you want to take. Now there are 
 also four types of difficulty to these races. Green races are the easiest races, Yellow races are 
 normal difficulty races, Orange races are hard and Red races are the hardest.
  
  Now let's get the lowdown on the difficulty, which many people seem to be complaining about. Easy 
 races, are actually easy and if you can go through a race without getting lost or hitting everything 
 in your way (hitting a few cars won't really do that much harm) then you can win easily. Your opponents 
 will be a bit clumsy in easy races, doing occasional (but costly) mistakes and if you have a fast 
 car, opponents will usually have a slower car than yours. So in short, easy races, are easy. Medium 
 difficulty races are slightly harder than easy races, but if you've gotten the hang of this game 
 then Medium races shouldn't also be much of a big deal. Your opponents will usually have a car 
 that's in the same class as yours and drive at a slightly more aggressive and faster pace than 
 they do in easy races. Medium opponents will also tend to make occasional mistakes which should 
 give you a leading advantage. And also, if you happen to fall behind in a Medium race, instead 
 of pressing the restart button (unless you're a few checkpoints away from the finish) just keep 
 on racing (without hitting anything or you'll fall further behind) , and eventually you'll catch 
 up. So in short, Medium races will be a bit challenging for novices but for people who are getting 
 the hang of the game, medium races shouldn't be much of a big deal.
  Now Hard races are what's causing all the stir on difficulty on this game. Now let me get this 
 straight; the reason why most hard races are hard is because opponents have faster cars than you. 
 I mean, on my first hard race, I brought a 350Z, and I then found out that the race was "hard" 
 because my opponents had Corvettes and Gallardos. However, that doesn't mean that they're good 
 at taming them though. On that very race, I was able to (and have done this many times with other 
 hard races) crush those Corvettes and Gallardos. In short, Hard races, will be hard for novices 
 and other people who can't go a block without smashing head on into something, but for others, 
 if you can tame your car without crashing into anything, Hard races won't be that hard at all. 
 Even better, if you have a (fully upgraded) Class A car, you can probably win a hard race without 
 much trouble, provided that you don't hit something every 20 seconds. So yes, hard races are all 
 about controlling and taming your car.
  Now Hardest races, are meant to be really hard. And I have noticed this, as on my first race on 
 this difficulty, not just did the opponents have faster cars, but they were also able to drive. 
 These guys can drive. So if you think a red race will be a piece of cake, think again. Even if 
 you bring a fully upgraded Ford GT40, your opponents won't accelerate faster than you (unless they're 
 on bikes) but they will take the perfect line and rarely do these guys smash into traffic. These 
 guys will also take every shortcut they can find, and put simply, these red racers just push it 
 to the limit, just to make sure that they cross the line first. So if you're thinking of taking 
 on a red race, then just be prepared. You must definitely take your fastest car there, and also 
 make sure you've had practice driving around the city and knowing the shortcuts and also, make 
 sure that you can drive a few miles at top speed without hitting anything. You should also arm 
 your car with the most aggressive form of power ups, which should help you slow your opponents 
 down. (In my opinion, arm your car with Agro so if you happen to be tailing an opponent's car, 
 activate Agro and you'll just smash their car out of the way.) So in short, Hardest races are actually 
 hard, and you should only race in a red event only if you feel confident and have lots of racing 
 experience in this game.
  
  Anyway, let's move onto other aspects of this game. Although I haven't been able to test this aspect 
 of the game, the Multiplayer does look promising, with heaps of modes available to keep you busy. 
 And the overhead map of the game is also amazing to look at. Although it's not terribly useful 
 for plotting out routes in unordered races, the Google Earth-style map is very detailed and does 
 give you an idea of the city of Los Angeles.
  
  But one aspect of the game I haven't mentioned is the cops. Having cops in this game in a welcome 
 addition; although the cops won't call in tons of backup like NFS Most Wanted and Undercover, you 
 still will have coppers on your tail if you aren't careful. And if you somehow manage to get arrested 
 (trust me if you're a good driver it's not hard to evade these cops, I sometimes even try to get 
 into their line of sight when they're in Search mode to get them to keep chasing me for fun) then 
 you'll be fined, but the fine usually isn't much. And in cruise mode, if you get sighted by patrolling 
 cops speeding, you'll be entitled to pull over. If you do pull over, you'll be slapped with a $100 
 fine. If you do pull over but change your mind at the last minute, at the cutscene where the cop 
 is walking towards your car, you can simply tap the throttle and speed away (on the Xbox 360, if 
 you do this, that's an easy 10 point achievement!) . It's little details like this that make this 
 game so amazing to enjoy.
  
  Anyway, time to conclude this review. There are probably many things that I haven't gone through, 
 but then Midnight Club LA is the pinnacle in the Midnight Club series and a must own for racing 
 fans. Trust me, you'll spend countless hours in front of the TV on this game after you've picked 
 it up.
  
  And PS, if you're one of those guys that find this game too hard, even on easy mode, then you just 
 simply suck at this game. That's all there is to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick0091
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2009 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Midnight club : LA is an open ended street racer were you start off in a slow car, race bottom 
 end drivers, and eventually over time, try to become the best in LA.
  
  This story isn't anything new to the street racing genre, simple but effective. The great thing 
 about midnight club however, is that you do make friends along the way. They will challenge you 
 to odd races; you will outrun the cops together, and if you lose the race, well better luck next 
 time. 
  
  Gameplay/Controls: 8/10
  
  For an arcade racing game, the physics are believable in this world. Sure you may be able to take 
 corners at a crazy speed, but overall it feels right in the game. Each car handles a bit differently 
 based on speed, size, drive terrain, etc. The game seems to be the best of both worlds in terms 
 of what most gamers are looking for. Sure it isn't a racing sim, but it isn't need for speed either. 
 Of course there are a few exceptions, such as you can get special abilities such as slow down time 
 or even just start driving on two wheels. Personally I stay away from those features, and don't 
 feel at a dis-advantage. 
  
  I have noticed a few funny issues with the game physics that can be rather annoying. For example 
 when driving along the sand, you would think you would have no grip which is true to a degree. 
 You may slide around easy, but if you manage to turn about 90 degree's it is like your car becomes 
 on rails. In fact you can make a sharper corner on the sand then the road. So don't expect to be 
 drifting from the sand to the next corner, you will gain too much traction and end up into a wall 
 before you know it. Other than that issue, the physics are very good.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Spectacular. Driving around LA has never been so much fun, the game looks beautiful. Cars look 
 stunning, night and day lighting is great, buildings excellent, etc, etc. Not everything is perfect 
 however, character models aren't the best. Then again who cares when everything else looks so damn 
 good?
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  People screaming to get out of the way of a racer, tires screeching, tables getting knocked over, 
 cars crashing. Overall the sound is quite good; however engine sounds just don't sound as good 
 as some other racers. I believe a game like Test Drive Unlimited or Forza 2 did a better job capturing 
 the engine sound. Perhaps it is just the volume of the environment over powers the engine too much.
 
  
  Fun Factor/ Difficulty: 6.5/10
  
  This was hard to rate as this game is so inconsistent regarding difficulty.
  
  You will notice 
 many people are saying it is too hard/ too easy. Well the truth is it can be either and I will 
 explain why. This game is one of the best examples of AI catch up/ rubber banding. Basically AI 
 catch up means the AI will drive poorly if you do, and drive well if you do. So if you are a bad 
 driver you have a chance and if you are a good driver, well you have a chance but when you lose 
 you may be frustrated.
  
  Let me give you a personal story of my experience regarding this "feature". I was doing one of 
 the game tournaments; I had to try this tournament 7 different times. The first time I did the 
 first race I got a 2:35 on the first course and 1st place. Eventually after doing this tournament 
 over and over, I kept improving my times, yet getting worse and worse positions.
  
  I eventually managed to get a time of 2:01. xx and got last place in the first race. I took every 
 shortcut, racing line, never hit any vehicle yet couldn't win. I was getting incredibly frustrated 
 at the game, as I seemed to be giving it my all and failing short. So what did I do to win? I hit 
 every damn car on the road for the first half of the race. I ended up with a time of 2:52 and a 
 first place by a whopping 8 seconds or so.
  
  That is almost a full minute difference folks. So when people say the game is too hard, well perhaps 
 they are racing too well. (Of course if you have a better car and race perfect you will win.) This 
 is rather annoying if you want a fair race. I had doing a race perfect and failing, yet hitting 
 6 cars the next race and winning. I would rather fail when I deserve to then lose when I should 
 win.
  
  Also when you are racing perfect the AI won't crash, they know where the traffic is before reaching 
 the corner. They will sometimes cut hard away from the racing line to avoid traffic. (Even before 
 they could possibly see it, coming around a blind corner, city intersection, etc.)
  
  This is a major annoyance, and the only thing holding Midnight club back. This may be a good feature 
 to your casual gamer, but their should be an option to turn such a feature off.
  
  If you are an online gamer then you can avoid this issue all together.
  
  Wow most of my review 
 talked about the difficulty issues. Well I am missing a lot of good things about the game such 
 as car Customization (Almost Forza 2 quality) , rate my ride (Online car rating) , in car view, great 
 online racing modes, etc, etc.
  
  Overall 8/10
  
  Overall I have to give this game an 8. This game would easily get a 9 if it wasn't for poorly designed 
 AI. 
  
  Pros:
  
  -Graphics
  -Customization
  -Big city, quality city
  -Free roam online
  
  Cons
  
  -AI CHEATING!!!!111BBQ (Seriously though, rubber banding is 
 quite annoying.) 
  
  P. S. If you are having trouble with a race, just crash into the first few cars, fall behind early, 
 and the last half of the race will be easy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxChr1s4L1fexX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Best in the series. Its a must buy for any Midnight Club Fan out there. One of the best street 
 racers out there. Good soundtrack, variety of cars, superb online play, amazing graphics, and fast 
 paced racing. It has deep customization. You could create your own races with the race editor witch 
 is amazing. I think it beats NFS by A LONG SHOT. RockStar has out done themselves this time. And 
 there is more Downloadable Content coming out with more cars and adding to the city. All I have 
 to say is this game isn't as hard people say it is. If your a fan of the Midnight Club series, 
 then you would like this one!!!!!!!!!!!!! MC: LA   NFSUC!!!!!
  If you think MC: LA is worser than NFSUC, then you must be on drugs. NFSUC is a glitchy pile of 
 $h1t. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherif77
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game because it showed cop chases and bikes in it as well. I was 
 hoping this would be my Need for Speed Hot Pursuit replacement since the NFS series has been sucking 
 so bad lately.
  
  However as I spent more time with this game I got extremely frustrated trying to race and navigate 
 at the same time. The game is really unforgiven if you make a single mistake, and all the time 
 you will make a mistake (be it miss a destination, crash into on coming traffic cause your looking 
 at the tiny map) . This only results in restarting races a million time over and over again. Not 
 only that you also have to spend money to repair your car. And let me tell you money isn't easy 
 to earn in this game. So what are we left with really at the end here? A game that needs you to 
 multitask between using the navigation system that is tiny on the side of the screen and racing 
 at the same time with out making a SINGLE mistake throw out every race you enter. This = lots of 
 restarts to every race you enter so you can get lucky and not crash into on coming traffic while 
 navigating at the same time. I always questions the open world concept in racing games. It always 
 gets messed up by the navigation. Most games that we all like had a set road to stay on and race 
 to give everybody a fair advantage. Also driving requires you to keep ur eyes on the road, not 
 take you eyes off to look at a little tiny map and end up crashing all the time.
  
  I am sure there is a lot of ppl out there that will disagree with me, and that is fine. My skills 
 isn't as good as yours. For me I love racing games for the thrill of the speed and friendly competitions, 
 not to be cheated by and AI that never crashes, and I can't even manage to spin out to slow them 
 down. What ever happened to the Pit maneuver????? Non of the games have it any more. HOW COME???
 
  
  Very very frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Bigtime
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 4:17 am PT
Review:  People talk about the difficulty of this game as HARD.. how u describe HARD? Mario is hard to my 
 4 years old cousin. And This game is hard for maybe some players but not for me. After the patch 
 the game is more forgiving. And when u put urself in the seat of the car u modified, u r ready 
 to RCK in the streets of L. A. . I play games with FEELING them. and L. A isnt hard for me.. after 
 an hour i got used to drive without crashing.... and u know what? this game is as real as it must 
 be.. i mean.. u cant take a sharp turn at those speeds.. u must cut gas and push the break alittle... and 
 there you go. u successfully turned those sharp corners without crashing... and there is a zooming 
 function which is a LIFE saver in the game.. i mostly use it if there s a TRAFFIC ahead while speeding 
 ... its damn useful. .. What else? Hmmm... and i play CAR RACING games in cockpit view.. u cant see 
 where ur car is going in outside view.. Maybe thats just me but i crash alot in outside view... its 
 impossible for me to race in outside view. in car cockpit view rcks.. and finally a game that shows 
 the in car steering wheel, gauges etc... i mean a street racing game.. NFS series really made me 
 PUKE about cocpit view.. i love it.. more realistic and makes me feel the drive.
  
  And i must add that playing game with the MS Steering wheel rcks.. the force feedback and the responses 
 of the game physics r awesome. its more challenging but i got used to it in 15 minutes.. and u know 
 what? ur car is more STABLE to drive with a steering wheel.
  
  Musics r encouraging, car sounds r let u feel the drive. Visuals r impressive. U already read it 
 on other reviews.
  
  The only bad thing about the game is, MAP isnt ENOUGH for me. but as i read in the official website 
 of the game, an addon is on the way. 1/3 a new addition map for the current map is coming and new 
 contents etc.
  
  If u love street racing games and car modifications, this game is for you. I dont lige GRID for 
 an example. i couldnt love it.. i dont like driving a car in a limited TRACK.. its just LAME for 
 me.. just for me.. GRID is a great game.. but for me? i cant love it.
  
  as i see the comments of the people here who gave low, probably best fit on GRID kind of games... 
 This game isnt racing in the same track with GRID... they both give different taste....
  
  Ok, i said much.... if u cant afford the playing fast in a city traffic, do not bother with this 
 game.. it will be OF COURSE HARD to you. But people who loves adrenaline and street racing will 
 definitely love this. Put time and effort in it, MC: L. A will turn u with the beauty of it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elk
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:40 am PT
Review:  When the Midnight Club series first started back in 2000 it didn't have much notable competition 
 in the street/import style racing games, however since then Need for Speed underground has stepped 
 in and has been causing Midnight Club to evolve to keep up with EA's giant racing series. There's 
 been no bigger jump for the series than the jump to the current generation systems, some changes 
 for the better, and sadly some for the worse.
  
  A most notable achievement for Midnight Club: LA is the graphics, the screenshots look great, but 
 seeing everything move along at a very steady frame rate in such an amazing city looks fantastic. 
 The city of LA is Midnight Club's best feature, now I've never been to LA so I can't compare to 
 the real thing, but the layout feels a lot like a living and breathing city. You'll see shopping 
 districts, parking lots, plazas all placed around the city with great attention to detail and it's 
 all packed together so tightly that you won't find yourself traveling through boring map areas 
 just to get from one half of the city to the other. Managing such a large and detailed area without 
 any load times is impressive, however this does feel like it must be pushing the 360 a little too 
 hard, as sometimes when jumping from the map it can take several seconds for textures to re-appear 
 and occasionally they don't come back at all. While driving around the city you'll find traffic 
 to be a constant thorn in your side, however Midnight Club's LA seems to exist in a world or nearly 
 perpetual darkness and clear skys, so you'll rarely have to travel through the rush hour traffic.
 
  
  Although the city is great, navigating it while in a race is beyond frustrating. Arrows appear 
 as markers on each waypoint but they'll often appear at inconievenient places, espically when you're 
 near a highway and it isn't always obvious if you should be getting on, or off. Even when you do 
 follow these arrows the odds are stacked against you, the computer knows best and will often take 
 the shortest route from A-B, leaving you following the long way around like a chump. This problem 
 may seem minor, but since the solution is to simply have a minimap with a line on it, the issue 
 is just senseless. Blundering your way around the city does get easier as you learn the routes 
 and learning will come quick when it seems you're just competing in the same races over and over, 
 because often you are. The reson you're playing this same mission again is because your opponent 
 is a heartless racing machine with the reactions and movement of an over caffeinated hamster.
 
  
  One of the best ways to aid victory is to be driving the best car in your class so your not constantly 
 eating the dust of your rivals, but your choices aren't particularly vast. There's 43 cars and 
 3 bikes available to you, which if you've been keeping score you'll find that number is nearly 
 30 less than the previous game. Fortunately Ford and Mazda have now been added to the lineup so 
 even with less cars, there is at least more variation of manufactures. Both cars and bikes can 
 be upgraded with new parts, or have their appearance modified with cosmetic changes, paint jobs 
 and vinyls, true to the sprit of Midnight Club these visual changes can be used for great evil, 
 turning a classy car into a two toned, neon eyesores with a spoiler like a shopping trolley. Cars 
 can also be outfitted with power-ups like EMP pulses or the ability to slow down time and while 
 these aren't 'mostly' overpowered, hitting an enemy just right with aggro and knocking them down 
 the wrong street will take them some time to recover. 
  
  There's a fair selection of different activities to be done; you can deliver cars but this essentially 
 is just a time trial with a damage limit, then there's actual time trials, straight mana-a-mano 
 races, tournaments and the rather treacherous pink slip races, amongst other things. Racing for 
 pinks may not be something you're familiar with, but when you agree to a pink race both drivers 
 put their cars on the line. Usually in a game you'd expect some kind of mulligan or at the very 
 least to reach to the power switch, in Midnight Club trying any of these little tricks will forfeit 
 your ride so you better be damn sure before you enter one of these races. The tension of the pink 
 slip races is rather unique to a racing game, but with the punishing and often unfair challenge 
 of the game you're perhaps better off not racing with your hottest ride, if you do then I fear 
 for the safety of your game controllers when your luck runs out.
  
  While your zooming around in the many races of the city you'll be progressing in a very simple 
 story of your unnamed character who's moved to the west coast to make a name for himself, story 
 is not in any way a focus here, but dealing with some of the characters you'll find can be unintentionally 
 hilarious. Everyone you meet seems to be a walking Clich from some background or another with 
 accents as suspect as their dialog. Opponents will be taunting you about how far in front they 
 are or how you're going to crash and they're going to overtake you, it's a very campy bad boy racer 
 attitude that I personally find rather amusing but this style may irritate others. To drown out 
 the dialog you can always turn up one of the 68 available radio tracks, I'd of hoped that in such 
 a large list that I'd at least of heard of ONE of them but at least the selection is well suited 
 to the attitude of the game.
  
  Sadly I didn't get much of a chance with multiplayer since everyone seems to be off playing one 
 of the high profile Q4 releases, although there were enough people around to get together a game 
 of keep away, where you simply have to hold onto a flag for as long as possible. Multiplayer seems 
 functional and the power-ups make things a little interesting but there's not a whole lot of draw 
 here compared to some other racers. There's is also an online mode called "Rate my ride" in which 
 you can rate the cars of other random players and purchase them for a fixed price from their garage 
 (if they allow) , once again this is nothing revolutionary but you do get to see the bad cars others 
 have created or purchase some sweet vinyls. Many of your antics are recorded online in the Rockstar 
 social club along with your GTA4 stats  I'm all for any features 
 that allow me to get involved in tracking my friends or see how many cars I've destroyed (16) but 
 by far it's biggest bonus for me is the ability to quickly get screenshots for reviews such as 
 this, if only all games were as generous
  
  Midnight Club: Los Angeles has almost all the components of a great racer, being chased by the 
 police through LA in my little Ford Focus has a lot of potential fun, but there's the problem. 
 Midnight club has a lot of potential, but it seems like the fun fairy skipped over Rockstar San 
 Diego this year. Tedious races, a clumsy map and an unforgiving difficulty brings the game down 
 hard, and a game without fun is just an interesting diversion at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAgangster
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I love racing games but if we talk of my fav it will be MC: LA in my list its a pretty good game 
 and all the people saying thet its to hard it isnt actually if you really take on the game and 
 now how to drive it will be pretty fun and has just the perfect dificulty not to hard but not to 
 easy just a cool challenge, another thing i appreciate its your principal character your not a 
 wordless person you talk and actually realy takes on the story and the video sequences even that 
 there are not to much are really well done with good voice acting as always from a rockstar game, 
 the car list is suprb and costumazation its really good to, the sky view map its pretty cool, and 
 one thing i specialy love its the sequence when a cop tells you to stop and meanwhile the cop get 
 to your car you just can run out, and i repeat ITS ISNT THAT HARD, when i buy the game i was thinking 
 alot in this but my surprice was that it isnt that hard as everybody say, well i love this game 
 and it realy worth every cent i spend on it its just PERFECT!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFreezeRx
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I'll give the game props where it's due. It looks nice and the driving is above mediocre. It delivers 
 on that much, and that's about it.
  
  The free roam racing is a nice thought, but the radar and yellow smoke is hard to follow and blocks 
 obstacles like parked cars and the like behind it, which causes more races to be restarted than 
 finished. It also leaves the problem that in several of the races, there is no signal for needing 
 to make a turn, so you miss a checkpoint completely and end up on a completely wrong road, having 
 to start an entire series over if it's the last race. Crucial moments in the races turn from gripping 
 hair-thin finishes to complete disaster from missing a turn you weren't notified you had to make. 
 And being able to look constantly at the radar to see hidden checkpoints while dodging oncoming 
 traffic and other obstacles is more frustrating than realistic.
  
  The cruise section of the game is also rather tedious. There's no way to know if you're taking 
 the right path to a race or not, as there is no GPS directions to where you need to go, just an 
 off-screen blinking light. You could be heading in the right direction one moment and the opposite 
 the next.
  
  The map is a clever design but has no street signification, and no way to know from the birds-eye 
 view which way you should actually be traveling to a specific checkpoint or race. An auto-travel 
 would help this out very much, or at least a guiding arrow like Need For Speed has to give you 
 even a clue to which direction you should be going for the fastest route.
  
  The drivers have perfect skills, rebound off of crashes in an instant, and leave you in the dust 
 without a second glance. Your crashes, on the other hand, are wild and disastrous, spinning several 
 times while you watch the AI drivers leaving you frustrated and confused. A simple nudge that would 
 appear couldn't even take a side mirror of normal cars sends you spinning in slow motion and ready 
 to throw the race, and your controller on top of that.
  
  It takes a ridiculous amount of races to afford new cars, albeit there being only a select amount 
 of cars. Most other race games have a myriad of different cars to choose from, allowing the racer 
 to choose the type of car they like, based on speed, handling and looks. This game has a scant 
 amount of cars that are quite hard to not only unlock, but raise money for. In order to win races 
 and get money, you have to upgrade the car you have. But the cost to upgrade leaves you with no 
 money to further advance to getting new cars. Eventually it just feels like you'll be racing with 
 the same car for the rest of the game.
  
  This game has a nice look to it, and the racing part of it can be fun, if you drive a near perfect 
 race and can avoid all the obstacles while watching your radar to know where to turn. I can't honestly 
 recommend this game to anyone but the utmost racing fanatic who can look past all it's faults. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiken56
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  MAN!! Midnight club los angeles may not be the most realistic racing game you'll ever see, but 
 it sure as hell is one of the funnest. This is a game to remember, it doesn't go all THAT in depth 
 into the story and whatever, it just throws you out into the city ready for action, One of the 
 best racing games for sure, Customization is nothing out of this world, but the online modes can 
 surely be a thrill, One of the coolest things is the amazing sense of speed and adrenaline you 
 can build up while playing this game, sometimes you just fell like you have to go fast, and this 
 is the best game to give you that feeling, Midnight club also features many famous cars of today, 
 and some classics, but also some cars some people don't even know about. My favorite is V8 Vantage, 
 sooo coool! Basically to sum it up, i would say : "Time well wasted". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgoulasax1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  The graphics, sound, and all around everything is awesome in this game. The difficulty can get 
 hard but that's on just a few races. There are cop chases that I don't think Gamespot talks about 
 in the video review and they are really entertaining. They're nothing like Need for Speed: Most 
 Wanted's cop chases but they still give the game another... dimension (I think that's the word 
 I'm looking for) . Another thing I like is that the soundtrack is HUGE. They're like 20 different 
 songs in every single genre out there. I think there was even a "folk" genre. And again on the 
 whole "this game is way too hard for it's own good thing", this game is not too hard. The controls 
 might take some getting used to, but MC: LA definitely will be a favorite racer on the X360 and 
 the PS3. SO......... BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dre_5
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  the only bad i have heard most about this game is that the game is too hard.. and i did not purchase 
 this because of those reviews.. but then the game ended up being on sale and i had to take advantage 
 just to see what was going on with it. started playing and i must say, this game amazed me from 
 the beginning.. the graphics are off the wall and the stuff u can do in it just makes you wanna 
 play more and unlock more and more stuff. and the thing that the customization has in MC series 
 since MC3 was that whatever u used, it had just the right amount of that genre of a vehicle that 
 u were satisfied and could even transfer u to liking another type of vehicle such as going from 
 liking imports to liking muscle and luxury. Its a fun game and if u have ever enjoyed any other 
 MC game then u will definitely like this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfrayzier
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  This game is gorgeous when it comes to the detail. No frame rate issues whatsoever on the 360.
 
  
  The problem comes in the difficulty. The AI vehicles rarely ever wreck, and if they do, they are 
 barely affected by it.
  
  On the other hand, if you don't take a turn just right, you'll miss it and essentially be out of 
 the race. A light tap on another vehicle will do about the same thing to you. After four seconds 
 of spinning and flying around, you're pretty much out of the race.
  
  Also, AI vehicles, including police can spin on their axis. For example, when you pull up on a 
 car you want to race, you flash your buddy lights at them (high beams) . Then, they'll immediately 
 take off to race you to the starting line. If it is 180 degrees behind you, their car will simply 
 turn like it is on a turntable. Your car, however, must be maneuvered pretty realistically.
  
  Very difficult. Rubber-banding at its best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubsbr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  Open World
  TONS of Cars
  Online is really fun, and offline is just as fun
  Really realistic, but has some casual touches like power-ups, but they're not easy to come by.
 
  
  Some of the races are really hard, really, really hard, and they get kind of annoying after some 
 time.
  
  Highway races are the coolest, and easiest. Series races consist of multiple races, in which you 
 have to win like, either 2 out of 3, or wins the racer that wins 3 races first. 
  
  The cops get a bit annoying, and even if you do manage to escape them, somehow, they manage to 
 SPAWN right behind you, which gets somewhat annoying, but I love how the HUD tells you what you're 
 doing wrong, like for example, it will tell you to slow down, if a cop is nearby, then you slow 
 down, ditch him, and speed back up.
  
  There's also this thing called Rate My Ride, in which you submit the cars you ''pimped'' out to 
 their online thing, and people get to rate your car, and you can even put it up for sale online, 
 and people can buy a copy of it, and you get the cash, but you still have your car, because they 
 bought like, a copy of it.
  
  Also has some extras on the Internet to check out at the Social Club, like GTA, since they're both 
 made by Rockstar.
  
  Pimping out your ride is really fun too, I just love doing that. Oh, and you can also Test-Drive 
 cars you haven't even unlocked in the car shop yet, like a Saleen S7, for example. 
  
  Online has different modes like, regular racing, and others like Keep-a-way, in which you have 
 to capture a flag, and hold it with you for longer than other racers. They can take the flag from 
 you by bumping into you. There's also Team Capture the Flag, which is similar to keep-a-way.
  
  Oh, and you can also take pictures of your car, and upload them to the Social Club.
  
  
 Despite the races being kinda hard, what makes up for it, is the Rep system. You win rep every 
 time you do a race, win or lose. But, of course, you get way more if you actually win the race. 
 With the rep system, you unlock new rides, new car parts, new challanges, etc.
  
  /rant
  
   to Social Club [/url]
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Copperhead89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 2:01 am PT
Review:  If you like racing then you MUST at least try this game
  I gave MC3 a go when it came out & fell in love with it, now that i have a 360 the new Midnight 
 Club is more beautiful, somewhat more real (while still keeping the fun in racing) and most important 
 of all it's a fast as ever.
  
  Customising cars is great here, you can spend hours just making designs out of the endless decals 
 but that really depends on your imagination.
  
  Many complained that the game is too hard. It is not hard, they are just not used to traffic which 
 in a street racing game is inevitable. The NPC's do drive very well... perfect most of the time 
 but where is the fun in racing a crap driver who crashes non stop. The "powers" that you can have 
 in the vehicles are there for a reason , using them will greatly increase your chances of winning... 
 plus giving a nudge to the racer ahead of you can really mess up their handling for a moment & 
 at those speeds that moment is all you need.
  
  I guess the only thing that comes close to disappointment is that the list of cars isn't exactly 
 the biggest or best, there is not trucks or choppers in MCLA, but i just wish there was more muscle 
 cars for end game.
  
  Yet again Midnight Club has an enjoyable soundtrack, with many genres everyone will find whatever 
 they love most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  Here we have yet another arcade street racing game set in an open world. The question is, do we 
 need yet another just yet? This game answers it with a resounding yes. Yes we do. 
  
  For those that don't know Midnight Club started life on the PS2 & was one of the original open 
 world racing games. Now the original was far from great, however its game play has been honed & 
 tightened over 2 further sequels, both of which were great improvements & brilliant games at the 
 time & now we have reached the peak with this 4th instalment. & when placed next to the relative 
 newcomers to this style  Burnout & Need for Speed  these extra few years really show. 
  
  First there's the city. It manages to cram much more detail & variety than any other open world 
 racer. As the name suggests its based on LA. The main words being 'based on'. They haven't tried 
 to fully 100% recreate the city which bogs down many games like this. They know it wouldn't make 
 a fun racing environment. It keeps the landmarks & the basic layout, but they've streamlined it 
 making sure its fun & exciting to race around. They have also been able to put their own landmarks 
 & buildings in because of this which keeps it more interesting & much easier to learn your way 
 around than a regular city where most roads look the same. Its also got much more life than its 
 peers. People are actually walking around & living their day to day lives, it really brings the 
 city to life. Its not up to the standards of GTA, but its still remarkable just how much this city 
 crams into it. The only downside being you cant actually run them over. 
  
  Its also a huge technical achievement. Using an tweaked version of the GTA IV Rage engine the city 
 is pretty damn big & it stretches out as far as the eye can see, with little to no pop up. Another 
 great thing about using the Rage engine is the fact it also has the great physics engine. The way 
 things react when you crash into them is just as impressive now as ever. With restrictions such 
 as only being able to stay inside the car & a slightly smaller map we also have greatly improved 
 graphics. The cars all look absolutely superb & are all fully licensed & destructible. Also for 
 the first time in a Midnight club game we have dynamic day & night cycle & weather system in place. 
 Seeing the sunset after storm with the light glistening off the soaked road is a truly great sight.
 
  
  But its not all cosmetic. The handling in this game is also superb. It feels a bit twitchy at first 
 but that's because it needs to be. It moves at an incredible pace & dodging traffic at 200mph is 
 no easy feat. But when you only tap or slightly press a direction the car kind of skips in that 
 direction, you almost change entire lanes with just a tap. But when you get used to it this makes 
 dodging through traffic a lot easier than you ever thought would be possible. However when you 
 come up to corners & apply a full turn & hold the direction the car goes into a great power slide 
 that are just great fun & easy to hold. Applying the handbrake makes the slides even more incredible 
 & you'll be hitting every corner right on its apex almost every time before you know it. & when 
 it rains, holy hell. You better be paying attention. The first time it happens you'll feel like 
 a beginner again, its so much harder to control, the slides go 10 miles wider. But once again, 
 a bit of practice later & it all becomes natural again & is even more fun to drive around than 
 a dry road.
  
  Don't think with its incredibly precise handling that its going to be a walkover though. Your opponents 
 are really quite tough & will require you to be paying full attention at all times. Its one of 
 the most balanced difficulty levels ive experienced in a game. You'll never win so many in a row 
 it becomes boring & you'll never lose so many in a row it becomes frustrating. Even if a particular 
 challenge is proving difficult pull up your map & loo for an easier one. They are all colour coded 
 in a traffic light system  green for easy, amber for medium etc. & there is never a shortage of 
 challenges, ever. There is always at least 10 different races to partake in at any given time & 
 a marker can be set to any making it easy to get find them. Also, when you're in the lead with 
 adrenaline pumping or behind & trying hard to catch up & taking risks there's a high probability 
 you'll make a mistake & crash into the other traffic or misjudge a corner. But what makes this 
 so great is that your opponents are just as open to making mistakes as you. Its worth sticking 
 out every race in this game no matter how badly you think you're doing as there is always a chance 
 the AI will mess up & you can take them on the last bend. I did it numerous times. The restarts 
 then can be kept to a minimum.
  
  Ah, restarts. Now normally I wouldn't talk about this but after Burnout Paradise I feel compelled 
 to mention it as a plus point in case any other devs out there get a severe case of mental retardation 
 & think its not a good idea to include them in their racing game. Press start & select restart 
 race. Its so simple, its genius. There is also only a loading time of a couple of seconds, but 
 even this is hidden in a incredibly cool way. 
  
  Whenever you check the map, restart or start a race, the camera zooms out to an overhead view of 
 the city in a very cool & very smooth movement. When starting a race the camera moves to that location 
 & zooms back to road level. Its one of the smallest touches in a game but it looks incredible & 
 it masks the loading in the best way possible. 
  
  There's an great deal of variety to the challenges too. You can do freeway races which are one 
 & one against people on the freeway for a set distance. There's series races that are 'best to' 
 races & tournaments where points are earned. You can set wage races where you bet a certain amount 
 to double your money, then there's pink slip races which are self explanatory. Most of these races 
 are set on 'tracks' within the city. Massive flares are placed for the route that must be passed 
 & create the tracks. But how you get to each flare is up to you. Sometimes you have to go the way 
 it says, other times there will be a slightly bigger distance between the next couple of flares 
 where you can decide your own way to it. It mixes the best of proper races  professionally made 
 tracks that are designed for racing - & the freedom of setting it in an open world by letting you 
 take the route you want. But that's not all yet, there's a set of optional ones called payback. 
 This is where you hunt down & ram another car off the road. As well as traffic light racers & delivery 
 missions. These are both point to point races across the whole map. However unlike the normal races 
 there is only one flare to reach & the way you get there is entirely up to you  like all of Burnout 
 Paradise's racers were. Traffic light races are against an opponent, whereas delivery missions 
 task you with delivering a car in a set time with as little damage as possible.
  
  With this being a street racing game there is also the inevitable 'modding' you can do to the car. 
 These aren't as extensive as in the NFS series, some will see this a major negative, but this game 
 has more of a focus on the racing aspect than modding. & yet there's is still a tonne to tweak 
 with & change. & easily enough to keep all but the chaviest of scum happy. & quick look online 
 also shows some hugely impressive cars that just show what can be done with the slightly limited 
 modding tools. & as long as the makers allows it, all can be bought. But again, the handling & 
 racing is just so much more satisfying & precise than NFS, its in another league. Surely that's 
 what makes a racing game  its handling physics
  
  This is all before we even mention the skills you can equip your car with  which work brilliantly 
 & reward for clean driving. How the Motorbikes are the best & most useful ive ever used in a videogame. 
 How its one of the most addictive games ive ever played with a huge 'one more go' pull to it. Its 
 also about 25 hours long just to complete the main missions & the fact there's an arcade mode with 
 over a hundred challenges. This game really does give a lot. 
  
  But ive whittled on for way too long now & need to explain its negatives. First the modding  as 
 I say its not a big deal for me & im much happier that it focuses more on getting the racing right 
 & putting that first. But it cant be denied it's not as comprehensive as NFS. There's also a few 
 minor graphical glitches. All the textures sometimes disappear & you cant see any cars or any objects 
 so you'll end up crashing. Not good when you're in the middle of a race. It hardly ever happens 
  only just more than a handful in the 30+ hours of my game time & it sorts itself out after a 
 few seconds, but its still a problem. But the biggest one is one that plagues all open world racers 
 eventually. The city. Its one of the liveliest & best ever realised in an open world racer. Its 
 also one with the most variety with winding roads in the northern mountains to the sandy beaches 
 & fairground areas of the south. But eventually it does get a bit boring racing around the same 
 areas over & over. There's also the fact if you are after a particular race it can be miles away 
 from where you are & the drive to it can feel tedious if you are wanting to get stuck in. But with 
 the professionally made 'tracks' that are set all over the island. Boredom takes a lot longer to 
 set in than it does in Burnout with its 5 finishing points & the variety to the city & freedom 
 to the tracks make it last a hell of a lot longer NFS's efforts. 
  
  But this is where its predecessors beat it. Both Midnight Club 2 + 3 had more than one city. & 
 it would give you a new one just as the one you were on was getting boring. Yes the city in MC 
 LA is probably bigger than all the ones in Midnight Club 3 put together. But it lacks the variety 
 & freshness that getting a new city provided. However the superior handling, much improved difficulty 
 curve, the wealth of challenges & just a better, tighter overall package does make LA the better 
 game in the series. 
  
  All in all though a brilliant racer that stands head & shoulders above its rivals. The pinnacle 
 of open world racing games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ch4ff3rz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Review #1 ~ Midnight Club: Los Angeles.
  
  I was in need of a racing game for my Xbox 360, and I was drawn to both Midnight Club LA and NFS 
 Undercover. Unfortunately, i made a fools mistake in purchasing NFS Undercover thinking it was 
 the better game.. and by a mile, i was wrong. I was a big fan of the NFS series, but it died (for 
 me) when it released ProStreet. Why take away the drift and drag races I will never know. Luckily 
 I took the game back and managed to get hold of Midnight Club Los Angeles. 
  
  I had read alot of reviews about the gameplay of Midnight Club LA, majority of which said the game 
 was too difficult. Firstly, I feel as if the difficulty is harder then any other racing game, but 
 it's the fact that the game is so realistic it makes it more difficult. It is a hard game - You 
 adapt to the difficulty, you become twice as good as you started easily within the first 3-4 hours. 
 It also depends on the car you use against your opponent and what class the car is. Personally, 
 I used muscle cars more then any other car, yet as the game carried on I started taking more interest 
 into Tuner cars. They have excellent handling around corners and immense acceleration, and with 
 a few upgrades the top speed will almost match the power of muscle cars. Ever since I turned to 
 using Tuner cars I am winning more races quicker and easier. It's all about finding the suitable 
 car class and then from that the right car - In order for you to win continuously. 
  
  The graphics are stunning. The map is wonderful. The sounds (especially the engine) are fantastic. 
 What else to glorify this game? You can use bikes! However, bikes take alot of practice to perfect 
 in the city, considering all it takes is one crash and you will loose a lot of time as you watch 
 your character slide along the pavements of Los Angeles. I would stick to cars, but then again 
 it's a personal preference.
  
  Customization has also excelled. There is a large increase to modifications you can make to your 
 cars/bikes, from designing your own Vinyls and deciding what should be engraved on your number 
 plate, to customizing your steering wheel and installing your 25" rims. 
  
  The camera angle even lets you inside the Vehicle, allowing you to truly feel like your in the 
 car. The character makes the right movements too. I really enjoy the cut scenes throughout the 
 game - at points it can seem serious and thought-provoking, whilst others are plainly for humor 
 and casual purposes.
  
  This is the best racing game on the market without a doubt. I would recommend this not only to 
 fans of the series but also to people who generally want a unique street racing game.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  midnight club la is the first game i installed and played on my 360 after the new dashboard update. i 
 was always a great fan of midnight club and this one has kept my expectations verywell. although 
 a little difficult at some points its solid action with lots of game modes, lots of vehicles, the 
 day night cycle is welcoming with the city absolutely looking stunning, the city is huge with very 
 well detailed environments, the rain looked amazing and the roads after the rain was awesome. the 
 car details were solid and much improved from the last time. was unhappy to see no suvs, no harleys, and 
 extremely difficult police chases with no fun. race modes were solid with amazing freeway chases, great 
 challenges, great pinkslip races and comparing to its competitor need for speed undercover it wins 
 in all aspects. i dont think there is any racing mode this game has left out,.. midnight club LA 
 has kept up its simplicity, yet its stunning and pulsating in all aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I play lots of racing games. Street racing, driving sims, you name it. I've played Juiced, every 
 NFS game, GRID, DIRT, PGR3 and 4, Forza 1 and 2, Gran Turismo 2-Prologue, and more obscure titles 
 I am forgetting. The only Midnight Club game I found to be a jewel was Midnight Club 3. Excellent 
 gameplay, cool cars, lots of customization, overall a great and generally fun game.
  
  I was highly anticipating this as more of the same. Sadly, Rockstar has killed that all off. This 
 game is the most annoying piece of garbage street racer wannabe game I've played. Never have I 
 put a game in and been so thorough dissatisfied that I threw it right back out.
  
  Lets start with the good. Graphics are great, no question. Map is cool because it's rendered in 
 3D but takes unnecessarily long to load. Nice car list with a good range of modifications and options. 
 You can make your car nicely tricked out including the interior. The cockpit view is also a welcome 
 addition.
  
  Now the bad, and there is a lot. Firstly, the game is insanely difficult. Races are unnecessarily 
 hard and the AI rubberbands badly. You'll find yourself in a highly modded Camaro SS being shown 
 up by old VWs from the 80's. The in-game racers won't shut up the commentary and you can't shut 
 them up. The game incessantly pesters you with tutorial notes CONSTANTLY and you can't stop them 
 (It doesn't even care if it's told you something already, you'll see that annoying Sidekick and 
 beeping sound so much you just want to smash a Sidekick) .
  
  On the aspects of realism, I wasn't expecting a large amount but some degree would be nice. The 
 automatic shifting in the game is HORRIBLE. I left it on and after one race where when at full 
 throttle the car stayed in fifth gear despite the fact third would have been the one to go to, 
 I couldn't stand to play it without using manual mode. Cars control horribly and careen into things 
 constantly. Sometimes the car will steer itself when you've wrecked and cause you to wreck further.
 
  
  Collision detection is bad. Sometimes you hit a pole and bounce off track a little but other times 
 you come to a dead stop and the game dramatically shows you crashing, spinning, and allows the 
 other racers to shoot by you. If this happens, you've lost the race with no chance to win. You'll 
 find yourself slamming into other cars constantly because they litter the road everywhere and leave 
 no room to pass between. Modding cars feels useless as they don't seem noticably faster or sound 
 any different.
  
  Races last a very long time. Street races are usually brief and short but in this game races frequently 
 last 4 minutes or more which feels like a long time with the kind of driving involved. There are 
 some circuit races which seem to go on endlessly before even finishing one lap. After a very short 
 time, you feel like you've done so much of the same thing over and over and over. 
  
  I am surprised and disappointed in this game so much. MC3 was excellent but this managed to throw 
 that all out the window. No other street racer included the '96 Impala SS, but even that is not 
 enough to save this horrible game. From the high difficulty, to the low level of realism (Cars 
 don't even bounce off the rev limiter and constantly you find yourself thinking the car can wind 
 out more in the gear and it's not near the redline but you must shift anyways) , to the annoyances 
 of the in-game tutorial and other things I must strongly advise anyone considering this game to 
 pass.
  
  The next game on my list is NFS Undercover which I hope not to be a great disappointment like Prostreet. 
 MC: LA does a good job in the customization area but fails horribly in every other aspect making 
 it no fun to play and extremely repetitious. Coming from a hardcore MC3 fan, avoid this game at 
 all costs if you liked MC3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CliX098
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game in the series. The customizing is better and has new interior customizing. 
 It has classic muscles and the very rare classic Grand National. If you win a certain race you 
 get everything in the shop for free without having to spend any mooohla. I dont like how that it 
 takes place in one city though because the last one had 4 cities to travel throughout. All the 
 different places had their own super jumps and this game doesnt have a lot of jumps at all. the 
 jumps are one of the best parts about Midnight Club. the driving the cars is smooth and they have 
 good controls to them. this game has cheats that you have to earn, which I enjoy. It also has some 
 very amazing graphics. The time of day effects your driving but at night, when it is difficult 
 to drive, you can go to your tv settings and change the brightness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SleepySid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  I love racing games, be it Forza 2, PGR 4, Dirt, NFS Most Wanted or Gran Turismo. There's just 
 something special about driving fast in video games. Nothing quite gets the adrenaline flowing 
 like a good racer.
  
  Midnight Club Los Angeles (known as MCLA from here on) is one of those rare games that although 
 based firmly on the arcade side of the driving spectrum requires a little dedication to appreciate 
 it's full potential. If you're expecting to jump straight into this game and be driving around 
 in a Lamborghini within an hour then you're in for a surprise. You will need to put some serious 
 time into this game to unlock those prized exotic motors.
  
  To me this is one of the games strengths, not a weakness as some reviews suggest. You start with 
 the choice of a few low end cars that look just about ready for the scrap yard. You get a set amount 
 of cash to go about patching your car up and getting it race worthy. The customization options 
 are fantastic you can change practically anything on the car including the seats!
  
  Once you've spent all your initial cash which will tend not to go very far. You then head on out 
 into the city to find your first race. The city is teaming with life with pedestrians everywhere 
 you look which makes Burnout Paradise look like a ghost town in comparison. Once you find your 
 race victim you flash your lights at him to begin the race.
  
  The races are varied but the first race is your standard marker race. The markers used are the 
 best I've ever seen in any racing game. You can clearly see where you need to go by following the 
 yellow smoke which is highly visible both in full sunny daylight and rain drenched night time. 
 You race through the markers to the finish line trying to keep in front of the pack. Should the 
 pack get in the lead, you can draft one of them. This will build up a turbo boost that should see 
 you fly past your competitor, as long as you use it on a straight and not just before a corner. 
 
  
  The AI is slick, and drives very well but it can and does make mistakes. I've seen AI cars take 
 the wrong turning, plough into oncoming traffic and even take each other out. There is a lot of 
 radio chatter feedback from the other drivers while you race which helps you feel immersed in the 
 race.
  
  As you progress through the game acquiring reputation as you go. More race types and options open 
 up to you. As you play the game more you learn the roads better and generally get a feel for the 
 city. Basically if you stick with MCLA you will be rewarded. The game does not show all it's cards 
 within the first few hours, and I thank Rockstar for that, I like a game that has longevity and 
 with the mulitplayer side this game could easily keep arcade racing fans happy for months.
  
  If like me you love racing games then this one is a no brainer. Don't be put off by what you 
 hear regarding the difficulty curve. It really is just right.
  
  On a final note there has been some mention of pop-up occurring while racing which can apparently 
 cause problems. I have installed the game to hard drive using the new NXE option and can report 
 that I have noticed no pop up at all. The game runs extremely smoothly from the hard drive and 
 I would highly recommend anyone that has enough hard drive capacity to do this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacob5891
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 1, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is awful. Right lets get started... its impossible to escape the cops without being 
 charged a big ass fine that you have to use the money that you narrowly earned from the hardest 
 race of all time whilst having to constantly having to repair your car, also you dont even have 
 a decent enough car to compete with other people even if you did you would probaly just crash into 
 pedestrian cars near the finish and lose the race. Seriously forget what people say about the game 
 being good its a big let down. Although the one good thing is the graphics but it doesnt make up 
 for the genrally crap gameplay that lasted me ten minutes. Thank god i rented it =] . Just buy NFS 
 Undercover. WAY BETTER!!!! Oh yeah and most of the time when i actually won a race it usauly crashed 
 my xbox before i could save because its too busy trying to load some unimportant crap whilst loading. 
 I'm actualy now going to give the game back after having it for 2 days. I mean i would say that 
 it could just be my bad experience. But constantly having my xbox crash is not exactly second generations 
 games best point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strange-Dude
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Like I said, Gamespot doesn't seem to be very good at racing games if they say it's way too hard. 
 Of course there are a lot of hard races but it all depends on the race you pick.
  
  The game itself is just great, the graphics are great, the driving is unbelievable (I prefer the 
 static view because you can really know where your car is going, but the in-car view looks great) , 
 and Los Angeles is mapped amazingly. I have had no problem with difficulty though; sure if you 
 run into an oncoming car going 100 mph you're going to spin-out but it all makes sense and there 
 have been plenty of times where I have recovered and caught up to the opponents. When GS said that 
 "it seems like the AI have unlimited NOS," I just couldn't believe it. You are able to draft your 
 opponent for a bit and charge a "turbo boost" at no cost and your opponents can do the same (and 
 you can see when they are doing it to you) .
  
  There are easy races, green, which are very easy, yellow, which are still pretty easy, orange, 
 which are a bit difficult but certainly not impossible, and red, which are races against opponents 
 that are obviously faster than you. As you upgrade your car (forgot to say that the upgrade system 
 is very intuitive and I enjoy it much more than NFS: UG2) , your hard opponents will become easier 
 to beat. There are so many races to do that you shouldn't even have to race a red opponent if you 
 don't want to. You can always race enough people to earn the money to purchase a new ride, upgrade 
 your own, or get their ride.
  
  The game is by no means hard, it's just a challenge, and if you are wanting to just breeze through 
 and be able to beat EVERY single opponent with no difficulty then there would be no reason to play 
 the game. The difficult is just right.
  
  People who enjoy cars, racing, or racing games will love this game due to it's fun atmosphere and 
 story line. Don't go by Gamespot saying it was impossible.
  
  EDIT: Forgot to add my ONE issue that was very annoying. While driving, you will get random pop-ups 
 of racers saying they want to race you which pop-up RIGHT over your GPS, and if you have a destination, 
 you will be very annoyed by having to wait it out or press back to go to your map and then get 
 back to the game in order to get rid of it. It seems very annoying. It may seem minor but if you 
 are trying to get to a race and have it pop up you are left with no idea of where to go. Very bad 
 positioning on their part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BossStatus
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy this game. I am a big fan of racing games in general and this one is very worthy 
 of an above average score. The only thing i can honestly say i dont like about the game is the 
 AI which is far too difficult i mean i like a challenge but when you are just going in between 
 cars at high speed in traffic you seem to always hit something where as the computer will very 
 rarely screw up even in the worst conditions but hey thats a challeneg i guess. The police are 
 interesting and can cause a challenge a some points but aren't as difficult as I have seen in some 
 games. The choice of cars and customization is very good you can customize the interior and exterior 
 of your vehicule with alot of detail which makes it very fun. The online play is quite enjoyable 
 and can keep you entertained for a while. Lots of different online game modes which I like. 
  
  Overall this game is worth it not sure how it will fair against NFS: Undercover but i would 
 recommend if you like arcade style racing and an open world driving style
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanman27
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  Being a big fan of all Midnight Club games ever released I must admit I am a bit biased here butIi 
 will not use that as an excuse to give the game more credit that it deserves. So here we go.
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  + GRAPHICS: While being built off the GTA 
 VI "RAGE" engine you can expect some pretty nice looking visuals all throughout the well done digital 
 translation of Hollywood and it's outlying areas including Santa Monica, a section of the L. A. 
 River, and the winding hills that make up Mulholland Drive and sections of the 101, 10, 5 and 405 
 freeway systems which generally make up the maps borders. Buildings are well detailed and for the 
 most part ALL unique in appearance which for a game based in a metropolis speaks volumes about 
 attention to detail. The Vehicles all look fantastic with great attention to details from the number 
 of bars on the grill of a Chrysler 300c to the honeycomb look of the taillights on a Nissan 350Z 
 they all look great. All the life in L. A. looks great too with above average looking pedestrians 
 and vehicles crowding every city block the city feels very alive and very much looks like a sprawling 
 city day and night. All this and the game runs at a brisk 60 fps even when in heavy traffic.
  
  - GRAPHICS: The only downfall I have found in the game is that Rockstar went for a "no loading" 
 style of gameplay causes some pop-up issues usually in the form of road textures not appearring 
 for quite some time which can lead to accidents and ollision with seemingly invisible (none loaded) 
 objects.
  Aside from the pop-up there are really no stand out issues graphically. 
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  + SOUND: The sound in MC: LA is perhaps one of 
 it' strong points, being that it has a great selection of music ranging from underground hip-hop 
 and rock tracks to well known artists and songs. All the songs in the game are a perfect fit for 
 the atmosphere the game gives off, Quick techno beats and hard hitting hip-hop baselines get your 
 blood pumping while gunning for 1st place on the highway systems. Even while the music might steal 
 the show (as Rockstar tends to allow with it's always good soundtracks) the meat and patatoes in 
 a racer is vehicle sounds, and MC: LA gets it right from the high revving Lamborghini V-12's to 
 the VW Golf's 4-banger and everything in between the cars sound great.
  Muscle cars give out a throaty growl and tuners have the ever famous high pitched tone that just 
 screams import. Unlike most racers i have played MC: LA's tire squeal does not feel to loud or invasive 
 and sounds just right and almost pleasing to the ear, everything just blends so well it's hard 
 to pick out anything bad audio wise, except maybe...
  
  - SOUND: Motorcycles seem to have been placed on a back burner here. While there are only three 
 bikes that should hav made them easier to do right and less likely to be overlooked like they seem 
 to have been. Motorcycles don't seem to sound a fast as they should, almost like Rockstar guessed 
 what a Kawasaki Ninja ZX14 sounds like at 9,000rpm instead of getting one and properly recording. 
 While nothing major I found it kind of annoying being I have a fondness for Bikes.
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  + GAMEPLAY: MC: LA has everything a hardcore gamers/racers 
 will love, great limitless vehicle customization, truly epic feeling races, a slightly longer solo 
 campaign than recent racers, scaling difficulty based on wins/losses and a plethora of things to 
 do online and off. Casual gamers/racers will be just as at home as well the game takes into account 
 how well you are performing in the career and will adjust accordingly. If your a coming in 3rd 
 all the tie the game will ease up a bit to help you pull a few extra firsts here and there, but 
 if you are smoking the competition every race the game will get brutally hard, near impossible, 
 but for those gifted with racing skills this challenge may be what you have been waiting for. The 
 game does not only reward winners though, every lose has it's upside. Just because you come in 
 2nd place does not mean you should restart the race, you will ALWAYS gain rep (used to unlock cars, 
 parts and missions) and money as long as you are not dead last in a race. Even if you come in dead 
 last it is almost always better to finish restarting races that are difficult and eventually coming 
 in first will only make the game harder because of the scaling difficulty that is in place. The 
 preset button layouts are well done and you have the option to remap any command to any button 
 or stick allowing full customization of the control settings. Playing with the Microsoft Racing 
 Wheel felt great and responds perfectly with MC: LA. Races are fun, the "story is campy and tongue-in-cheek 
 funny at times, and the game has an overall laid back sense of progression to it, do what you want 
 to when you want to and try to keep the 5-0 off your tail because they can be relentless sometime 
 putting NFS: Most Wanted's cops to shame. Overall though the gameplay is spot on Midnight Club 
 and if you have ever played any of the other Midnight Club games you should soon feel right at 
 home once your put a few miles on the odometer with Midnight Club: Los Angeles!
  
  - GAMEPLAY: Really the only things I have found to be an issue gameplay wise is the Pop-up graphical 
 issues causing so much interference mid-race or while being chased by the police that you simply 
 cannot continue until the roads load up, and that if you are someone who restarts as soon as you 
 crash because it's first or nothing this game will continue to chew you up and spit you out as 
 the difficulty does nothing but get harder until it's seemingly impossible at which point you HAVE 
 to start losing on purpose just to bring the difficulty down to make it playable again. but the 
 latter is only applicable to people who can't stand not getting first, this game rewards well for 
 top 3 position finishes so suck it up!
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  Online: Neither good nor bad but a small community because of the big releases going on right now 
 (GOW2, COD: W@W, ETC.) have the community full of only die hard Midnight Club fans or sadly (very) 
 young kids who can't buy GOW2 or COD: W@W because they aren't old enough and mommy is too strict, 
 lol. But finding races is never an issue and for the most part everyone keeps their heads on straight 
 and has a good time online, whether it be cruising or CTF, all the games modes are well done, and 
 with the inclusion of a race editor the track variations are about as endless as the vehicle customization, 
 and both should keep you busy for a months to come!
  
  -----------------------------------------
  
  In Closing I recommend Midnight Club Los Angeles 
 to anyone who is or was a Midnight Club 1, 2 or 3 fan or anyone looking for a change of pace from 
 the one trick pony EA monster that is the Need For Speed series should definitely give this game 
 a try, I suggest renting it first because not everyone has good enough taste to love Midnight Club.
 
  
  Thank you for reading my review, Look for my upcoming FALLOUT 3 review soon!
  
  Kyle "Sanman" Santilli 
  Xbox GT: I GRAEVEN I 
  Steam ID: Cpt Smackahoe1227
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  So this is a fun game. It's got a lot of cool ideas and some neat stuff in it but overall it's 
 just a fun game. Now, you may ask why a fun game would just get 7.5 from me and that's because 
 there isn't much else to it. And some of the stuff in the game gets annoying like the A. I. and 
 collision detection. Here's the breakdown:
  
  Graphics: The cars look beautiful in this game! That I am sure of! The peds.... not so much.... 
 and what's with them getting out of the way the way they do.... Doesn't make sense to me.... and 
 they are kind of drab too. The cars though, they steal the show.
  
  Gameplay: The racing is fun and pretty fast but the feeling of speed isn't as good as other games 
 I have played. Also, the collision detection is a bit off on some stuff and the computer seems 
 to recover from collisions WAY too fast.
  
  Audio: Solid audio, the music is good and the people's voices are solid. The cars also sound really 
 good. Not much else to report on that front.
  
  Overall it's a fun game. I do wish there were some changes with the gameplay like a better feel 
 of speed and some better collision detection, stuff like that. If you like racing games though 
 this one is a solid outing. It's worth a rent at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ciedakilla
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  I recently rented midnight club los angeles cos i wasnt sure wether to buy it or not, and the truth 
 is im glad i rented it. It has got some of the best graphics i've seen on a racing game but other 
 than that the racing is not the best. Whilst drifting aronund corners its like ur racing on a muddy 
 off-road. The outcome is usually pathetic because i was driving in a chevrolet camaro ( a fast 
 muscle car for the beginning of the game ) , but the point is i was racing that car against a ford 
 focus ( and my car was upgraded a lot ) but for some reason the opponents car is always faster 
 and the only way to beat them is to be more or less a drift king ;) or by finding hidden routes. 
 But when you win the car from them it is one of the slowest cars going :P. Plus whenever the is 
 a police car around you must drive as 'carefully' as possible and when they do chase you, you just 
 cant be bothered to drive from them so it wasted minutes of your life. The last bad thing i noticed 
 while playing the game is the amount of money you get is just not enough :P because each race is 
 'seriously' long because they are always mostly tournaments with 3 legs/stretches ( legs/stretches 
 = races ) . 
  
  Now the pointers for you people who like it or are 'definately' getting it because that was just 
 my opinion. The graphics are brilliant ;) you can see a lot of detail on your car and when your 
 driving around in the night through the brightly lit streets of los angeles your car looks amazing 
 with all the light reflecting off it and giving it that graphic edge. When your customizing your 
 car you will love every detail on it ranging from the exterior of your car and vinyls etc to even 
 customizing you interior with the seats and steering wheel and even changing the colour of the 
 interior. Well thats all I can think of right now but im sure there is more that the true fans 
 of MCLA will know :) .
  
  And i gave this game a 7.5 becaue of the reasons i mentioned, and becaue i prefere the type of 
 racing games with proper race tracks where no stupid public driving cars go lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abassler
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  This review is going to seem to schizo because the flaws in the game are glaring but the game has 
 a lot to offer anybody looking for a racing game. 
  
  Lets start with the STORY:
  
  There a story, a guy comes to LA to become a bad ass racer or something, you couldn't have less 
 emotional attachment to it. Not that it even needs a story or would have been better with one. 
 I do however wish that the where a quick create a player choose a gender choose a hairstyle something. 
 Nondescript guy however works fine at least someones in the car and we don't have magic cars driving 
 themselves.
  
  I'm not taking any points off because its a racing game the ability to drive the LA freeways going 
 over 200 mph in the rain is enough to get you excited to play. The story is also pushed back so 
 its not annoying and while it might be an underground racing game its not loaded with horrible 
 underground racing cliches that would require a lower score.
  
  Which brings me to SOUND:
  Taking points off here. This game feature a large soundtrack which 
 one would think would include songs that people like. And some people must there are a lot of songs 
 in a vast array of genres. I however liked six of them and that not enough to occupy the time you'll 
 be playing this game. This was one of the common complaints about this game and it was very true 
 for me.
  
  Even the ability to play music stored on your xbox was not incorporated into the game correctly. 
 Using the dashboard takes you away from the game, you also can't skip any songs the way you can 
 using the radio, the music also plays over all the other sounds instead of being a part of it. 
 The musical experience is a let down and its a shame. Engine sounds are fine as are the sounds 
 of the car moving over different terrain. 
  
  Taunting your going to hear them taunt you and your going to hear it a lot. It is annoying and 
 deserves points being taking off. This too I felt was done wrong. If the computer is going to taunt 
 you why can't you taunt them back. The computer taunts aren't done well either "First place is 
 about to become second place!" "ohh you're in first, how about we switch places, prettttty please." 
 Its just pathetic and they repeat far too often. I would typically finish a race around 10 seconds 
 before the cpu and would think that if they were concentrating on the race instead of calling me 
 every 5 seconds they might have won. Its a nit pick sure but it just wasn't done right if your 
 going to have the computer try and taunt the player than the player should be able to taunt them 
 back, if your going to do it do it well and this wasn't it.
  
  DIFFICULTY 
  
  The other common complaint that people had with this game. It's not that difficult you just suck. 
 Certain races will give you trouble but you learn the course and upgrade your car it not as hard 
 as they make it out you even get special powers to help you Agro is awesome. Though most will find 
 that the EMP will help you finish in close races. It can be frustrated to lose a race because you 
 crashed coming down the final stretch and couldn't get started fast enough again. If you make a 
 mistake it is possible to regain a lot of ground you do this by driving fast, but that seems to 
 be a secret some keep that quiet would you.
  
  Which brings me to the Police. They too are a common complaint. Yeah they suck. Bunch of fascist 
 easiest way to lose them is to get on a freeway and just outrun them trying to lose them by making 
 quick turns in the city is extremely hard.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Amazing, unless they don't load on you which will happen. 
  
  CARS 
  
  Needs more! 
  
 Their are no trucks and a small selection of bikes and generally speaking their are makes and models 
 that should have been included and aren't. They will likely be downloadable content later but that 
 doesn't help those of us who are on xbox live. And why is it that hydraulics and airbags are only 
 online feature why do I have to go into a menu to put the top down, its bull and they know it. 
 You'll see vans and garbage trucks in the game and how much fun do you think it might be to have 
 one in your garage to plaster vinyls on and race down the streets using nitrous but you can't and 
 that too is some serious bull.
  
  A wider selection of cars as well as the ability to select different years would have been great. 
 And not all of them have to be exotic looking I would have loved to race down the streets of LA 
 in a VW bug or a VW van or just a plain old station wagon with wood paneling but some of these 
 types of choices seem to be left out because they didn't fit into the theme that rockstar was trying 
 to present which is a shame because they would have been fun choices, and overall the car selection 
 just screams out for more choices.
  
  OVERALL
  
  There are things I know that I'm leaving out, but I don't want to leave you with the wrong impression 
 it's a lot of fun, and when I sit down and think about all the things that this game doesn't do 
 that it should. Or things that is does but poorly. Their are still more things that it does that 
 are just so awesome that what you end up wanting from the game is more. More cars, more cities, 
 more options, more music. It's a game that leaves you wanting more no matter how much you've had 
 already. I choose to see this as a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lesthemess
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  If you like the older addition of the then you will like this one too. The graphic have improved, 
 the flow of the game is good, and so on. It is hardest so far to play but that is what keeps me 
 involved in it. Once you learn the map it will make it easier to play. give it a chance. It one 
 of the better racing games out to me. One thing that is true if you crash or turn the wrong way, 
 start over, most likely you will not win the race, trust me it a pain in the butt to come back 
 to win ( some time you get luck but not all the time) . I have followed this game since Midnight 
 Club 2 and loved how it has grown since then. It was a good change of pace from Gran Turismo 3 
 and Gran Turismo 4. When you play this is game you will notice that it can occupy a good chunk 
 of your time. So go out there and buy the game I think it will be a good addition to your library 
 of games. I known it will stay in my collection for every ( I will not trade it or sell ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgalacticax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  Pros: Great Graphics, Dashboard Cam option, Nice Cars, Variety in races.
  
  
  Cons: Glitchy, Too much traffic in some cases, Limited vehicle roster
  
  
  
  Midnight Club: 
 LA is a fun Midnight Club game with a couple of minor issues that make it a bit less enjoyable. 
 The Graphics are stunning. The game looks amazing... especially through the Dashboard camera. Driving 
 around the city with nicely rendered cars and beautiful buildings all around you makes you appreciate 
 the game alot more.
  
  The racing is well balanced. I talk about this one because Gamespot considered the difficulty to 
 be a major issue with the game. First of all... of course the game will be hard if you took a Nissan 
 Skyline to race, say a Lamborghini Murcielago. That's just ridiculous and it seems to be what Gamespot 
 did and came to complain about it. Throughout the game, you see race events on your GPS which you 
 have to locate to access them. These races are colour coded... green for easy, yellow for normal 
 and approaching red the harder it gets. Needless to say, stay away from the Red races... you will 
 never win.. its called 'very hard' for a reason. The secret to beating the game... just like in any 
 racing game is your driving competence and your car. If you went to do a yellow race with a B-class 
 car for instance, you will race other B-class cars and they are just as fast as you are. Racing 
 in a green colour race will have you up against a lower class and racing a red race may have you 
 up against two classes higher. The good thing is... events of all colours appear all the time so 
 you can make alot of money by racing the easy ones or doing special missions like delivering vehicles... which 
 gives you alot more money than actual races.. this guarantees you money to get the special car you 
 want and there are a handful of great cars available on the market (sadly, about half of what you 
 got in Midnight Club 3) . Luckily, no matter what difficulty you play, you have a handful of tricks 
 up your sleeve like the usual Zone ability which makes you slow down time for a few seconds (very 
 useful to avoid collisions) , the Roar ability that clears all cars a couple of metres in front 
 of you, the Agro ability (my favourite) which makes your car invincible and enables you knock anything 
 in your way miles into the air without affecting you and the EMP ability which fires a pulse and 
 affects the electricals of all the cars around you, slowing them down to a crawl for 3 or 4 seconds. 
 New to MC: LA is the ability for you to use any of the special abilities with any of the vehicles 
 you use... unlike Midnight Club 3 which restricted Zone to tuners and exotics, Agro to SUVs (and 
 luxury cars) and Roar to muscle cars.
  
  There are a few problems with the game though. The first is the unrealistic traffic system (you 
 could have billions of cars on the road just before dawn) and the traffic is the only thing that 
 may get in your way if you are a very good driver... of course they spawn out of thin air just before 
 the finish line (that actually did happen to me once) . Secondly, the game is riddled with graphical 
 glitches. During one race, the entire background disappeared and my car went through the floor. 
 This happens rarely but it isn't cool when it does happen. Thirdly, you have the chance to win 
 some special 'Dub Edition' cars by winning hard tournaments... which you may have to play for a 
 while.. I spent almost two hours trying to win one particular tournament. The advantage of that 
 is you get to use some of these cars before the class has been unlocked. For instance, I won in 
 the Lamborghini Murcielago Dub edition before I unlocked A-class vehicles so my reward was great 
 because I got to beat alot of people with the car. 
  
  If you have never played a racing game before in your life, Midnight Club: LA may be on the hard 
 side but if you are comfortable with Burnout, any other Midnight Club game or Need for Speed game 
 and are willing to look beyond the rare graphical glitches and limited vehicle roster, you should 
 definitely play MC: LA... it is worth a purchase and offers a great adrenaline rush... and the occasional 
 burst of anger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doccokiem
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Midnight Club: Los Angeles, the sequel to the well known series of Rock Star. This is definitely 
 the game that you shouldn't miss out at this very end of 2008. Despite the fact that time will 
 get you through the excessive difficulty of the game, the game offers players so much that this 
 is the best racing game released so far. With similarities to Grand Theft Auto IV, Los Angeles 
 looked tremendously lively and impressive. You can find many landmarks such as Beverly Hills, Hollywood, 
 the 20th century fox building, etc... Los Angeles features day and night and the city itself does 
 look awesome on both. MC: LA offers over 40 different fully licensed vehicles which gives players 
 a lot of choices and objectives. All the cars and motorbikes look so detailed that will make you 
 think that you're driving a real AUDI R8. You can either drive using third person camera or the 
 cockpit first person view. The AI in MC: LA is extremely intelligent that you can only win them 
 by millimeters. You'll also notice that the cops will chase you forever if you are in their sight. 
 The game also features customization in which you can use money to upgrade your vehicle performance 
 and parts which you will be able to make your 'friend' unique from others. You can also unlock 
 new skills such as slowing down the traffic and many others as well. Midnight Club: Los Angeles 
 is developed to play online which is a very important features for games nowadays. You and your 
 friend can hang around in Los Angeles and race to win achievements or trophies. With great gameplay, 
 come with good storyline and magnificent graphic, Midnight Club: Los Angeles is the game that you 
 definitely don't want to miss out. Midnight Club: Los Angeles is available on Xbox 360 and Playstation 
 3. Have fun guys! See ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that you can pick up and play for a few hours without realizing how 
 the time flew. To me that describes a great game. Isn't gaming kind-of an escape from life?
  The graphics in this game ae top notch, to the point that I feel like I am actually cruising the 
 city and not playing with a contoller in my bedroom. Now that is the definition of next-gen graphics.
 
  I look forward to unlocking some really cool cars and so far I have been driving the lower end 
 cars. This feature keeps me competitive in the game and makes the game real interesting. There 
 are almost too many races in the game and with a story it's hard to beat.
  I rented the game first thinking that it was only worth a rental, but I didn't want to return it. 
 It's hard nowadays parting with $60 but n0 one ever said this hobby ain't cheap.
  Anyway, if you are familiar with the street racing concept and like it. This game is a no brainer. 
 They really brought the whole game into the 21st century with the graphics, city detail, car handling 
 and voice acting. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hovito17
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Midnight Club LA is a good game but mediocre at its best. Graphics are good, from sunrise to sunset, 
 rain or shine it looks very nice, the cars are nicely detailed and you can customize every aspect 
 of your car. I also love the zoom out view of seeing the entire city. Its almost like google earth 
 zooming in and out. Races are sometimes challenging and hard even when you upgrade your car. The 
 things I don't like about this game is that its hard to make money in career mode, lack of variety 
 of cars, for example I think its only around 50-60 cars in this game, lots of glitches and bugs 
 where the textures pop in and out during a race and everything becomes blurry causing you to run 
 into invisible cars, voice acting cuts in and out at some scenes and camera mode is screwed up 
 causing sometimes your 360 console to freeze and lock up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gowron24
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  Well let me start the game looks good and offers a very large but obviously scaled down version 
 of Los Angeles, which is a pleasure to drive through but thats the problem, driving.
  
  Game play: This is where the let down is. First the story mode, its so random like who are you what 
 am I doing here, nothing at all, just hey im here to race and need a car, you get said car and 
 start racing... I know its a racing game so the story is never much but I would have liked something 
 a bit better. Then we get down to the racing. You flash your high beams and you race to the start 
 point if you get there first you get some rep much as is the same as previous midnight clubs, but 
 if there is a cop near by you just the race straight away which is a bit silly you should have 
 to get there and loss the fuzz at the same time. Then we have the racing and there the physics 
 of it. You spin your wheels to get a head start and off you go, unless its a checkpoint race the 
 checkpoints point you in the right direction anything else just hope your going the right way as 
 there is no pointer or path to follow and is hard to get lost in this large city, then we have 
 the physics the controlling is really bad, you car oversteers or understeers and when you move 
 from lane to lane its almost like changing lanes in the drag races of need for speed and you constantly 
 are hitting cars or walls and even a slight tap or side scrape or one of them will send you into 
 a spin out and there goes buy the AI, which never seems to hit anything at all.
  And last in this selection is well, the selection or cars and bikes and 38 or so cars 2 of which 
 are the same car with a different paint job and 3 are bikes 2 ducati 1 Kawasaki it does not make 
 a large list but probably be more through download content, but it does suck that we will have 
 to pay for more money to get some more cars which should have been in the retail release.
  
  Graphics: The visuals in the game are nice, from sunrise to sunset rain or shine it looks very 
 nice, the cars are nicely detailed as the NPCs in the game, the buildings are aso very nice looking 
 with 7-11 petrol stations to popular hotels, and all very nicely detailed up. The cars are smooth 
 and the tires looking quite nice, not much i can say about the graphics to much being a race game 
 just everything looks nice and polished. Similar to GTAIV but they probably have used the same 
 graphics engine, i'm not to sure with that though.
  
  Sound: Well the sound. Yeah it's like all other racing game, engine roaring engine screeching. 
 Blow off valves going off you get the jist. The engine sounds, do sound good but don't change to 
 much from car to car. And the tires will a tire screech is a tire screech. Not to much to say about 
 the sound, its smooth but could have used more variety in the engine sounds.
  
  Multi player: I didn't play to much of this but from what I did, it was to laggy. And seemed to 
 have a good variety of game modes, only problem I can see is finding someone to play with as I 
 cant see this game having many people playing online for long.
  
  Overall: The game is fun and is defintly worth giving a spin. But I would be waiting for a price 
 drop because at full retail price its defiantly not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kumiteh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant, a game with some of the hottest known cars on it. At first, it does not seem much when 
 you start it, but gradually as you get further in the game it gets more interesting and generally 
 more enjoyable.
  Customization is brilliant and the graphics are just fantastic. When you put this game into your 
 disc-tray and the display says you need an update, accept it if you want to play this game! The 
 fact that you cannot change gears yourself in this game upsets me and lowers my overall rating. Overall, this 
 is a good, fun game for all car lovers. It is not too difficult but needs a bit of practise behind 
 the wheel before entering any races.
  Once you are able to customize your car, the possibilities are endless and you can customize anything 
 from the interior to the licence plate!
  So, an excellent effort from rockstar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterSP1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Midnight Club: Los Angeles Review
  
  It's time to prove yourself. Midnight Club: Los Angeles places you in the shoes of a rookie driver 
 looking to earn a reputation on the streets of LA. But does the latest installment of Rockstar's 
 racing series have what it takes to earn some serious street cred or will it get laughed off the 
 block?
  
  Midnight Club: L. A. is packed to the brim with races and objectives, ensuring that you won't run 
 out of things to do anytime soon. The city is open for you to cruise at your leisure, stretching 
 from downtown LA to the beaches of Santa Monica. The city isn't a block-for-block replication, 
 but it patchworks together recognizable areas like Westwood, Hollywood, and Beverly Hills complete 
 with local landmarks like The Pantry, Pink's hot dog stand, and Amoeba Music.
  
  Other racers are scattered throughout the city, and you'll need to locate them and flash your headlights 
 to start a race. There are only a few missions available at first, but as your reputation grows, 
 you'll continue to get calls from new drivers looking for a challenge. If you just want a quick 
 fix, you can use the arcade menu to jump straight to a favorite course or enter goal attack mode 
 to try for fast times and low damage.
  
  Most events use checkpoints to set a course through the streets while Landmark races only set a 
 destination point, requiring you to navigate the shortest route on your own. There are also tournaments, 
 freeway races, and time trials to beat using specific vehicles. Additionally, you can put money 
 down on a wager race or bet your ride in a pink slip race. And payback missions have you hunting 
 down and smashing other cars, but they can get a bit tedious since each target takes a lot of punishment 
 before going down. 
  
  Single-player races usually involve only three or four opponents, but going online lets you race 
 with groups of 16 players strong. Online also includes a selection of high-speed capture the flag 
 modes. Keep away is the most frantic with massive pile-ups resulting from over a dozen players 
 trying to snatch the flag away from the current leader. 
  
  Customization plays a major role in the game as well. There are over 45 licensed vehicles, including 
 tuners, muscle cars, and motorcycles, and it's easy to trick out any ride with a sweet paint job, 
 new bumpers, rims, and even new seats and steering wheels. If it had more vehicles at less over 
 80 and more car parts like bumbers it would be more fun. If there You can also upgrade each in 
 over a dozen different categories. It's no Gran Turismo, but it does give you a sense of accomplishment 
 as each vehicle improves its performance. Then there's the race editor which lets you plot your 
 own courses and take them online to challenge friends. 
  
  Altogether, there are tons of missions and options in Midnight Club: LA, and even after 20 hours, 
 most players still won't feel like they've even scratched the surface.
  
  Midnight Club's urban setting doesn't take itself too seriously, letting you smash through shopping 
 malls, bust out the nitrous, and outrun the cops. You can cruise around to search for shortcuts 
 through alleyways and plazas, but plowing through pedestrian spaces will quickly alert the police, 
 keeping you from starting any races until you outmaneuver them or get arrested and pay fines. You 
 can also egg the cops on by getting the attention of a patrolling officer, pretending to pull over, 
 and speeding away once he's out of his vehicle.
  
  Racing through an active city means that you'll have to drift through tight corners and avoid colliding 
 with lamp posts and oncoming traffic. If you lose it, the rubberband AI will allow you to catch 
 up to the pack. You can also catch a boost by slipping into the draft of a car in front of you. 
 While you have to hit checkpoints to complete a race, the arrows aren't entirely reliable for navigation. 
 You'll have to keep an eye on the GPS in the corner of the screen to plan your course and look 
 for shortcuts, and it can take several retries to get a grip on exactly which route you should 
 take. 
  
  In the shop you can outfit your vehicle with nitrous charges and one of several special abilities. 
 Zone lets you slow down time to make tight turns. Rage lets you punch through traffic without consequence. 
 Roar causes vehicles to swerve out of your path, and the most useful ability, EMP, sends out shockwaves 
 to disable your opponents' cars.
  
  Midnight Club: L. A.'s races are fast and frantic, but most of the challenge comes from figuring 
 out which way to go as the AI is relatively forgiving and there are a lot of tools to tip races 
 to your advantage.
  
  Midnight Club's representation of Los Angeles looks great with recognizable locales and just the 
 right amount of traffic. Dynamic time and weather systems keep the environment changing, and the 
 licensed vehicles feature detailed exteriors and finely crafted interiors. Sponsorship is heavy 
 and a bit conspicuous. Pizza Huts, Best Buys, and GameStops are everywhere, and the T-Mobile ring 
 tone can get annoying after a while. It's so gratuitous that it makes unlicensed landmarks like 
 the Sports Center feel out of place.
  
  Rockstar is known for choosing fantastic music, and Midnight Club: LA is no exception with a wide 
 variety of songs from the likes of Ozomatli, Nine Inch Nails, and The Chemical Brothers. Unfortunately, 
 the otherwise stellar presentation is weighed down by slow texture loading that occasionally leaves 
 players to drive through what looks like a blank city.
  
  While the technical hitches are disappointing, Midnight Club: Los Angeles is still a frantic, open 
 experience that's even more fun for anyone familiar with the city. There's a lot of room for personalization, 
 and the nearly overwhelming lineup of modes and events ensure that players won't be taking the 
 bus out of town any time soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ssouljah
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  Ok so heres all the problems...
  
  1. Game is too slow to start wtf is with 2 Volkswagens off the start this is racing game a Friggin 
 scirocco why?
  
  2. Police Chase are boring as hell, no effects to get the off you like in NFS. They Jump on your 
 ass for driving doing the stuf you need to like drive to the races. I mean honestly if I drove 
 past a cop it would just jump on to the chase i could be doing the speed limit of stopped completely.
 
  
  3. The people who talk during the races are annoying as hell and ruin the small fun i had racing.
 
  
  4. The other drivers seem to have this almost inhuman way of passing you towards the end if there 
 rated higher then you. 
  
  5. I still can't get over the fact that the only respectable car to start with is a 240sx and its 
 not for drifting.
  
  6. Poorly layed out control i dunno bout you but X isnt the best button for Nitrous i alwa assumed 
 that X is a E Brake or shifting and Nos was Y or a LB. I dunno how many times i Nosed into a turn 
 by accident.
  
  7. After like an hour maybe 2 in the scirocco you finally get to buy a new car yay lets get a Camaro 
 thats not the Z28 or the Boss 302 instead of the 429.
  
  Ok so theres some pluses to the game but hey i'll keep trying to find them littered in here with 
 all the annoying police chases and sterotypical street racers that wont shut up and drive. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Midnight Club: Los Angeles could have been amazing, but it is so frustrating to play that it loses 
 a lot of its value. If you are in a race and you make one minor mistake, let's say you hit a tree 
 or an oncoming car, the race is pretty much over. The fact that you don't necessarily need to get 
 first place in each race in order to advance makes up for this frustration a bit, but it is really 
 not fun coming in last place over and over again.
  
  The city looks amazing. The huge open-world environment is very detailed and polished. The cars 
 look great as well, with a great deal of upgradable performance parts and body parts.
  
  The addition of cops in this title just distracts from the gameplay. It is a waste of time, it 
 is not very fun, and it could cost you a ridiculous amount of money if you get caught. This is 
 one element of the game that could have been left out.
  
  Story is one thing that is not really necessary in any racing game. Ever. There is really no point 
 to it. Unless it can be pulled off really, really well, it is just extra effort that could have 
 been put towards making the actual game better.
  
  Overall, not a bad title, but it could have been so much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matadore
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I thought that Midnight Club 3: DUB Edition was pretty good on the PS2, but in order to try to 
 raise the graphics bar, the gameplay and overall presentation suffered in this next-gen version 
 2.0 of Midnight Club.
  
  Midnight Club is basically supposed to be a beefed-up Grand Theft Auto without the Grand Theft 
 and storyline. There is some sort of plot, but its really pointless and doesn't make a lot of sense. 
 Some nobody goes to L. A. to street race. (How original) Your beginning selection of cars is ridiculous 
 why they don't let you pimp out a Pinto is beyond me. (It'd probably destroy the 3 cars you actually 
 can choose from.) Eventually you'll get enough reputation and money to get higher-end cars, but 
 gameplay is so monotonous and disgusting, why would you even bother getting that far?
  
  The handling of your car needs serious help. Its like trying to ride a donkey that has its own 
 agenda. You can have all the speed you want, but if your car doesn't respond to turning when you 
 need it to, you'll just become increasingly frustrated as you have to restart race after race. 
 The cars look great, no doubt about that... but they drive like dinosaurs. I, for one, prefer my 
 ride to excel in all areas, not just looking good. These cars just like to smash into every tree 
 and lightpole lining the street. Then they don't look so hot, and you have an all around piece 
 of junk. Sounds like a lose/lose to me...
  
  If you want a good race around the city game, grab a classic like Need for Speed: Carbon. Get GRID 
 if you want some awesome recing action. But by ALL means leave this game on the shelf for those 
 other poor suckers who don't know any better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  Racers this gen either sink or swim from instant classics like forza 2 or PGR4 all the way down 
 to dull games like juiced 2 but with midnight club los angeles rockstar have created a beautiful 
 fun must own racer.
  
  Career
  
  MC. LA has a very impressive career you can find any racer you want on your map by putting them 
 on your GPS and flashing your tail lights at them the other good feature in MCLA is how you can 
 choose how difficult you want the races to be by going from green to red and the AI can be really 
 challenging but the good thing is you could easily ram them off the road to give yourself a big 
 advantage and they will even fight back. The city you drive in is just visually stunning the roads 
 are very detailed and the car interiors get close to games like GT5 which is fantastic and the 
 cars looks stunning from every angle and MCLA now has interiow views which are fantastic for example 
 when you turn the wheel unlike most racers it turns like a proper car wheel to maybe 900 degrees 
 and the cars feel great to drive and when you shift gear you get a very satisfying feeling as the 
 car accelarates in a believable way an even the weather is spot especially when the sun shines 
 on the road it just makes the city looks visually stunning.
  
  The cars in MCLA maybe look nice but theres not a lot to choose from because theres only 40 + cars 
 to choose from in the game but the fortunate thing is it just feels like enough although i would 
 have liked more but thats just nit picking so you know.
  
  The game makes your work for you performace you need to race to unlock more and its really rewarding 
 to finally get a faster car that you can take flatout and see the difference and that brings me 
 onto night racing which is another visually stunning part of this game that really feels like the 
 fast and furious you just get the sense your a real racer going beyond the speed limit and it feels 
 awesome every single time.
  
  The cops are also impressive they communicate with proper lines that you would expect like "This 
 guy is dangerous" orhe is using nitrous" and they try proper real world tricks to get you off 
 the road which makes this a proper street racing game that easily surpasses NFS when it comes to 
 realism although NFS undercover could be the better game this year.
  MY ONLY COMPLAINTS
  game needs more cars
  can be frustrating hard
  odd damage
  
  Closing comments
  
  MCLA 
 is a visually stunning game that has impressive driving physics and manages to feel like a proper 
 street racer and is a great game that should appeal to people who loved fast and furious and are 
 just plain crazy about cars
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocafrost
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Summary
  
  Midnight Club LA is an arcade racer that has no desire to be GT realistic. Every car has a distinct 
 feel, but it's all about speed and fun. The city, streets, vehicles, weather effects, and day/night 
 cycles are superb. The racing is exhilarating producing several jaw dropping moments, and opportunities 
 to yell out load in celebration or anguish. Players have complete freedom over what race to run 
 next, and are rewarded with money/experience for playing career, online or arcade races. The bottom 
 line is that this game is non-stop fun with no limits. Don't pick it up if you don't want the addiction. 
 It kept all that was good with Dub Edition, and improved on every other area. 
  
  Main Selling Points
  
  - Adrenaline pumping sense of speed
  - Limitless customization options 
 with user friendly interface
  - Great variety of online modes, and user created tracks/rules
  - Seamless play between career 
 (cruise/missions/races) , arcade (free play) , and online
  - Police presence matters now. Pull over or feel the pain. The chases are intense and evasion is 
 difficult.
  - Living world with people, cars, airplanes, etc.
  - Huge sound track with songs for everyone... 10-15 from each of about 6 genres (no surprise from 
 the producers of GTA) 
  - Excellent longevity due to fun, car classes, customization options, and online.
  
  Drawbacks
 
  
  - Unnecessary device pop-up for messages. It could have worked fine with audio only or better screen 
 position (not on top of mini-map) .
  - There is the welcome option to skip racing a driver to the start line before a race. It would 
 be nice to have the option to skip driving to that driver's location in the first place.
  - I have a job and can't play this enough.
  
  Counters
  
  - This game is accused of being 
 excessively difficult and frustrating. I don't find it too difficult for the structure of the rewards 
 system. If you have to restart a race several times you gain experience and money for every try 
 so you're never stagnant. Every race gets the player closer to that next car, engine upgrade, or 
 special ability that will allow them to win more races. I also find that it takes a couple of runs 
 to learn the course and its shortcuts/hazards. That's enough to win even if my car is a little 
 behind the opponents cars in performance. I am mostly frustrated with myself for colliding with 
 traffic, or failing to use the brakes in the rare occasions where they are needed. Now that I've 
 played the game for 50+ hours I can say that things get a lot easier once the exotics are unlocked. 
 It's amazing what a Lamborghini can do for one's win percentage.
  
  - There is one city. I was worried about the course variety, but I'm still finding new environments 
 within to race through. I often find them while running wild through the city to evade police, 
 and now I'm finding them in the more recent mission races as well. The playing area is large and 
 diverse.
  
  - The GPS does not hold your hand and tell you where to make turns, but it is not difficult to 
 get to the set target. There is a GTA style mini-map with a pointer arrow attached. It's probably 
 set up this way because most targets are moving.
  
  Extras
  
  - Rockstar Social Club (official Rockstar web support) provides tracking of game stats, the opportunity 
 to earn extra content, and other common features found on game sites.
  
  - Rate my ride is a feature that can be accessed via the social club, but it is more functional 
 from the console. You can view/rate cars in both places. You can view (3D rotational) , post, and 
 purchase vehicles from the console. The purchasing is an excellent way to earn in-game money for 
 those with the customization skills. One ride had been purchased over 50 times for $43,000 a pop. 
 That's a lot of money to spend on new cars and upgrades.
  
  Closing
  
  - This is not a racing experience to miss.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackDjwh06
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot like the other ones. It also has horrible steering with the wheel. If your going 
 fast on the interstate then you can not make a slight turn to go through traffic, you turn the 
 wheel a little and it does not turn at all but soon as you get to the turning point it turns too 
 much. And yes i tried changing the sensitivity. Also with the wheel the buttons don't work that 
 you set them up to be, my nitrous does not work, neither does the camera back to look behind me. 
 It is a joke of a game, just nice graphics which really are not that spectacular, GRID has way 
 better graphics and its a good bit older of a game. Also when you go do a stop light race the guy 
 takes you to the other side of the city then when you beat them you have to drive all the way back 
 in order to get to a new race. Needs a quick jump if you would rather use that. Another thing is 
 that there is not really a brushing of the traffic cars, you should be able to hit the car slightly 
 from the side without a direct hit and skit off of them a little but there is non of that, You 
 touch them your car stops, if your car makes it past then you didn't get close to them. But if 
 you like games that are the straight arcade driving games that have a criminal illegal story line 
 of stuff you cant really do in the real world then it is fun. Just not for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blakeb21
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  MCLA Easily one of the best all time racers. This is just as fast and intense as dub edition. The 
 city is amazing the graphics are great and controlling your car is just perfect and much easier 
 than many other racers. Customization is very deep and you can now customize the interior. Multiplayer 
 is a blast and the whole rate my ride thing is very fun to do. You can sell copies of your car 
 to other people for money in the game. There is just a few things that cause this game to come 
 up short from a solid ten. First of all you will find yourself wanting to throw your controller 
 through the window and shoot your dog at the ridiculous difficulty and frustration of some of the 
 races. You can choose the difficulty on some of the races but not all and the ones that are set 
 at hard and very hard truly are unbelievably hard. One mistake in many of those races will cost 
 you the race all together. You will find yourself doing these races 10-15 times over agian until 
 you finnally perfect the course to just get first place. The other thing about MCLA is the car 
 selection is down extremely from dub edition. There is probably a quarter the number of vehichles 
 to choose from in LA than dub edition. There are 43 cars and only 3 bikes but it does have many 
 of the most popular and tightest rides on the market. Im assuming that there will eventually be 
 more cars to buy off live. This game would no doubt take the cake in the all time best racer if 
 it wasnt so difficult. But its not impossible by any means it, does have its moments were its not 
 difficult at all but it can get very frustrating. There no doubt in my mind that it stomps the 
 living **** outta need for speed and burnout. This is a must buy for anyone. It's very addicting 
 and you will spend many hours having a blast playing MCLA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartenchief117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  For all the first timers on racing games this game is not for you, sorry. I have been playing NFS 
 and midnight club when i was 7 and never quit. So not bragging wise but i do have some experience 
 with racing games. This game is the hardest i've played and more. Well not hard but challenging.
 
  Now to the real review:
  very good graphics, amazing sounds and very real. Now this is the main reason I got this game for 
 those reasons. After experiencing that we go to the gameplay, fun and don't forget challenging. 
 They made alot of race types and modes. The cars are a very good pick. perfect mixture of cars, 
 exotics, muscle, tuners, and surprisingly luxury. They are all fun to customize but hard to earn. 
 Now for the people who like to tune and customize, there is a whole lot of customization in this 
 is goes interior to exterior license plate to tires. but there is not a whole lot of tune only 
 the basics. The handling is what everybody always complains about, don't worry it's good just wait 
 and see.
  
  I hoped this helped, I am a car fanatic so this game wont appeal good to just gamers you gotta 
 have a thing for racing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Ive always loved The Midnight club franchise except the 2nd one.....1st n 3rd was AWESOME and this 
 1 BLOWS It out of the water. The car customization Is off the roof. Changing the Interior color 
 n adding neons Inside Is GREAT love the color styles for the body rims EVERYTHING... Haven't seen 
 any spinners JUST yet but I'm sure they are In here. The driving take a min or so but It realistic 
 thats good.... Doesn't have and trucks r s. u. v. s but o well still enough for me.. as far as gamespot 
 goes they always suck a reviewing games they are the ONLY online/people that hasn't givin this 
 game an 8 out of 10 or 4.5 out of 5... THE REASON ITS HARD TO CONTROL THE CARS IS BECAUSE OF REALISTIC 
 WHICH MEAN THE GAMES ARE BECOMING MORE AND MORE LIFE LIKE... game looks sweet @ 720p day transforms 
 Into night and vis-versa. Cop chasing Is waaaaaayyy better than In the 3rd one Drving away from 
 the cops In the cutscene Is AWSOME! This game should not be missed If you're a midight club fan 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ur-mums-kewl
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Hello,
  
  I have just rented Midnight Club: Los Angeles, and wonder how gamespot found it so hard? It's not 
 easy, but it isn't horribly hard.
  
  I have played it for about 10 hours, i have gotten about 6 cars by now, and i'm thouroughly enjoying 
 it.
  
  I came on the internet to see what good ol' gamespot gave it, and i couldn't believe it!!! 7.5!!!!!!!
 
  
  The last MC game i played was MC: DE (Remix) , and i have to say that was cool but really annoying, 
 as you always seem to miss the checkpoints. This is cleared up In LA, and it's great.
  
  I'm sure i will play it up to 40-100 hours.
  
  Thank you.
  
  I need to fill in space so 
 um...55555 555555555 555555 555 55555 5555555 555555 555555 55555555555 55555555 555555555 5555 
 55 55 5555555 55 555555555 55555 55555 5555555 5555555555 5 555555555 5555555555 5 55 555555555555 
 555555555 555555555 555511111111111 111111111 1111111111111111 1111111 111111izdh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzA17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  After playing Need for Speed for much of my gaming life, I though I woud have a change of seen, 
 and so wit the spare cash I had bought what was supposed to be a brilliant sequal to Midnight Club 
 3 and better than Need For Speed : Undercover.
  
  At first I thought this game was all it was made up to be, however after a few hours gaming my 
 views changed slightly. Firstly the pros.
  The cutscenes and seeing your character on screen makes the game feel more "real" with a set story 
 line and an area based on somewhere real all adds to the film hype which made me feel like I was 
 in - a Fast and the Furious type of thing. I also liked the boosts of NOS after drafting an opponent 
 for so long aswell as the size of the map.
  
  Customisation is also a big plus to the game, completely outclassing Need for Speed. However, I 
 missed the autosculpt feature other than that was a great experience. The interior and branded 
 exterior parts add more "real" feel to it. 
  
  Now on to the negative which at this early point in them game currently outway the positives unfortunatley. 
 The car selection in my opinion is absouletely awful and really hope that Rockstar plan on releasing 
 packs in the Xbox 360 Marketplace in the near future. Also, I chose the Nissan 240 as my starter 
 car, a stock car thats hardly a "beast" isn't going to spin out that much from the start line... 
 I didn't really like this at all.
  
  Also the cornering system it just seems way to effortful, yes use the handbrake at about 100mph 
 is going to be hard to handle but when it comes to drifting for about 500m into the side of a mall 
 isn't exactly realisitic is it? Also if you hold/tap the LT button brake round the corner as you 
 would driving a real car, opponents speed past you leaving you last in the race even though you 
 hardly dropped that much speed.
  
  The traffic system is pretty cool but... Oh my god... having to keep your eye on the opponent, traffic, 
 the map and planning your route all become mind boggling to the point where you'd rather just smash 
 your head into the wall. 
  
  I was mostly disappointed to turn the map over and out of the selection of vehicles to only see 
 3 motorbikes :O, fair enough they do make it pretty good including th Kawasaki Ninja but where 
 is the Hayebusa and all the other hugely known bikes?
  
  Overall, this game could be a lot better if Rockstar decide to release some DLC in the very near 
 future, if the whole braking system was redesigned... too late I know but could always hope for 
 updates and patches :D Lets hope so (Y) ayy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaza1200
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  I think midnight club la is a game worth buying because of the feeling you get while playing, sure 
 it might be frustrating but if it wasnt were is the fun in that? The graphics are really strong 
 and i think it is the best installment of midnight club yet. Having played this game myself i know 
 what people mean when they say the game is frustrating but it can get better if you play it more 
 espially with all the cool speacial abillites. The storyline is also a good point because of the 
 style of the AL and the competiveness. Speaking of competitivnes the online mode is an awesome 
 way for you and your freinds to go for a cruise or race each other with cars you bought of people 
 online. The strong point of midnight club la is the grapihcs, impressve and at the same time they 
 dont go fuzzy and weird like the previous games in the seriers have done. If you are into racing 
 games and your into good games but hard then Midnight Club LA is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllboutRedskins
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 2:07 am PT
Review:  Ive always loved The Midnight club franchise except the 2nd one.....1st n 3rd was AWESOME and this 
 1 BLOWS It out of the water. The car customization Is off the roof. Changing the Interior color 
 n adding neons Inside Is GREAT love the color styles for the body rims EVERYTHING... Haven't seen 
 any spinners JUST yet but I'm sure they are In here. The driving take a min or so but It realistic 
 thats good.... Doesn't have and trucks r s. u. v. s but o well still enough for me.. as far as gamespot 
 goes they always suck a reviewing games they are the ONLY online/people that hasn't givin this 
 game an 8 out of 10 or 4.5 out of 5... THE REASON ITS HARD TO CONTROL THE CARS IS BECAUSE OF REALISTIC 
 WHICH MEAN THE GAMES ARE BECOMING MORE AND MORE LIFE LIKE... game looks sweet @ 720p day transforms 
 Into night and vis-versa. Cop chasing Is waaaaaayyy better than In the 3rd one Drving away from 
 the cops In the cutscene Is AWSOME! This game should not be missed If you're a midight club fan 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffhass29
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  It is quite hard, especially in the beginning, but once you get a good set of wheels its all good. 
 The car selection is limited but word is that R* is going to be releasing cars for download soon 
 (wont do you any good if youve already beaten the game) but it will be great for online play. this 
 will be so nice to get the cars for a small price instead of starting the game over (although, 
 MC3: DUB Edition was extremely good) and redoing everything. Customization is indepth and lets 
 you really make your car the way you want. Dont even bother comparing this to NFS, its only similarity 
 is that they are racing games, nothing else. (this is better, by the way) Worth picking up (unfortunately, 
 no demo avaliable) if you enjoy the series, but just be aware that it is not quite as good as MC3: 
 DE but the grapgics, customization, physics, ability to choose your special ability for each vehicle, 
 it all adds to the game and makes it diferent from the other games in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tricet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  So far what I have played I have enjoyed a lot. The Driving is not overly Realistic and that is 
 what makes it fun people play racing games to do what their not able to do in real life and that 
 is what this game gives. The customizing in this game is also great there are tons of possibilities 
 and you can also customize your interior now. The graphics are sweet it has got a kick a@# sound 
 track and as always the police chases are always a good way to break your car in. So I totally recommend 
 this game for any one that like to race or just customize cars or bikes. The Bike on the game are 
 a little tricky but it is all pretty easy to pick up. There are not to many bikes on the game to 
 choose from so if your a bike racer you might want to rent it before you buy it. I hope this review 
 helps any one out that has any questions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy098
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  This game was seriously over-hyped. Not even close to being as good as I expected it to be. Awful 
 map and mini map, no adjustable difficulty, some races seem way too hard. Forget about racing to 
 the start of a race, the AI knows exactly where to go, while you don't even have a clue. The graphics 
 are great though, and the car models look really good. The city itself looks fantastic, and I like 
 the customization options. I'll probably play this off and on, stopping when I've finally gotten 
 pissed off enough. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, it's not bad; it's just that it's not that good. When everything clicks, it's 
 actually a pretty good game. It's a shame that it doesn't happen too often. This game had a lot 
 of potential, and failed to live up to it. I'd have to say I totally agree with the gamespot review 
 on this one. Rent this one before you buy. I've been looking for a good racing game to replace 
 Grid since I beat it, and this isn't it. 
  
  
  EDIT: Ok, you have to play for a while, and I mean 3-5 hours to upgrade your car and get out of 
 the beginning races. Once that happens, the game does get better. However, I still find the frequent 
 oncoming car placed directly in front of you when taking a corner at over 100 MPH extremely annoying, 
 and it happens often enough to ruin the fun factor of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 10:53 am PT
Review:  "Midnight Club: Los Angeles" feels very much like "Midnight Club 3: DUB Edition" except it has 
 a faster framerate, story cutscenes out of GTA and is visually sharp. The gameplay is exactly the 
 same as the last-gen MC's. While "Grand Theft Auto IV" dropped the outlandish cartoon storylines 
 of the last-gen GTAs, Rockstar San Diego repeats what they've done so well with this franchise. 
 The game's cutscenes that push the story forward and some of the audio cues will recall some of 
 the EA "Need for Speed" titles, but for the most part, Rockstar's latest thrills with fast paced 
 races and very cool customization options. The online and special power ups are the same as DUB 
 with a few subtle differences. Even "Burnout Paradise" distinguished itself from the past "Burnout"s 
 with a deeper difference. Still, if you are a "Grand Theft Auto" fan, than you must be a "Midnight 
 Club" fan as well. This is a slick racer that will have you playing for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fast2ghl
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I must start off by getting something out of the way first and foremost. I have only been with 
 the Midnight Club series since the last edition; Midnight Club 3 (DUB EDITION) . I enjoyed that 
 game for what it was when it was first released, but I was never satisfied enough with it to purchase, 
 and subsequently invest more time in it.
  
  That being said, this is by far the best street racing title of any series I have played to date! 
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  I have only invested a small amount of time in the game so far, I have no more then one car; (1998 
 Nissan 240SX) , but in this short time invested, I can tell you that the handling far exceeded my 
 expectations. This was one of my biggest concerns going into this new Midnight Club. I was not 
 impressed with the handling of the cars in the previous iterations in the series. I was worried 
 that poor handling quality (the cars felt too arcade!!) had carried over into the newest edition. 
 Well i shall worry no more, Rockstar has fixed that problem. The cars have a serious weight to 
 them, and its an excellent balance between an arcade and simulation feel. There are some interesting 
 features within the game as well that really stand out. For starters, you have the ability to purchase 
 "special abilities," these are things like "electro magnetic pulse, or EMP," that allow you to 
 temporarily take down the oppositions cars. Its really quite a neat idea I believe, and even thou 
 I'm far from attaining those abilities, I think it will add a certain element of strategy to the 
 game that we've yet to see in a racing game. 
  
  Is the game difficult you ask? I've been reading a lot about people complaining that they find 
 this game too difficult... Well I gotta say, it certainly isn't easy by an means. But it sure as 
 heck ain't terribly hard or impossible like some people would have you believe either. Yes you 
 have to know how to drive, if you can't drive in the real world, don't expect to ace this game, 
 its a challenge, you must make sure you pay attention to where your traveling, and also watch for 
 traffic, it's quite the intense experience I must say.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Excellent in this department. I was surprised to find out that the developers used the "RAGE" engine 
 that GTAIV is based off of. It runs very smoothly so far, and everything looks excellent. There's 
 also a great sense of speed in this game, which is a must for any racing game, but especially a 
 street racing game. Each of the games 45 or so cars and bikes are excellently detailed, and they 
 all include INTERIOR VIEWS!!! Heck yes, I expect nothing less anymore, and I really hope the next 
 installment of FORZA Motorsport will include dashboards for EVERY car as well. The interior view 
 is great and it's the view I use the most. I must also point out that its a nicer seating position 
 in the car then the latest installment of Project Gotham Racing. PGR3 had a great seating position 
 in the car where you could clearly see the gauges, as well as where you were heading. But PGR4's 
 quite frankly sucked, at least in my opinion.
  
  The city of Angels looks absolutely incredible in this game, and its; almost like being there. 
 There's a great amount of detail included in the city, and it's just a joy to look at while driving 
 around or racing by at 180MPH! Another interesting feature is the awesome way you transition between 
 the full city map and the game. It's very much like Test Drive Unlimited, and those that have played 
 TDU will know exactly what I mean. Its extreamly smooth in it's transitions between the map of 
 the city and the game, and you get wisked from a real time birds-eye view of LA right back into 
 your car at the touch of a button, magnificent!
  
  CUSTOMIZATION:
  
  I gave this area of the game its own heading, because there is simply so much of it that you can 
 do and its generally a huge aspect of the game. Everything and anything on your car can be customized, 
 from the body panels, to the doors, to the headlights and taillights, interior features etc, and 
 of course performance mods. Here is a quick list of what can be done:
  
  EXTERIOR:
  
  - Body panels, front and rear, as well as side skirts
  - Wide body kits
  - Headlights
  - 
 Taillights
  - Exhaust tip
  - Rims
  - Tires (branding and tread pattern, or tire model)
  - Neon
  - Ride Height
  - Paint (Pearl, Metallic, Sparkle, Gloss, Matte)
  - Roof and hood
 
  - Carbon fibre panels
  - VINYLS
  
  INTERIOR:
  
  - Colour scheme
  - Seats
  - Neons
  - Gauges
  - Steering wheel
  - Floor mats
  
  PERFORMANCE: all categories have 
 three stages, and you may choose the brands of the parts you install..
  
  - Intake
  - Exhaust
  - Suspension
  - Boosted / NA (Turbocharge or Supercharge)
  - Engine Internals 
 strengthened
  - Roll bars
  - Brakes
  - Tires
  - Nitrous
  
  (there are more, I can't remember them all at the moment)
  
  Another nice touch is that if 
 you aren't terribly in to tuning cars, then you may choose to have the game "auto tune" your car 
 for you. It will select the best parts for you automatically if you choose, to take the guess work 
 out of it for you.
  
  CONTROL:
  
  No problem here, like I mentioned in the gameplay section, the cars handle very nicely. You are 
 afforded a modest amount of drift control around corners via the e-brake, or just turning in hard 
 and asjusting the accelerator appropriately. I have remapped the right joystick to allow me freedom 
 of head movement in the cabin, so I can look left, right, up, or down. Thats something else that 
 deserves a mention, we've come to the point in console gaming it seems, after so many years that 
 developers are starting to allow us to customize the control scheme are selves, which is EXCELLENT!
 
  
  AUDIO:
  
  Another well done department here. The tires sound just right biting the pavement, and the engines 
 pur at idle or scream under hard acceleration. My 240SX sounds bang on to my buddies real 240, 
 and screams and pops like the real deal at all the right times. The music is a nice selection of 
 songs, but I prefer to have the in game race music off so i can hear my car. Sound effects are 
 well don, I can hear the gear changes when I'm in the interior view, little details like that really 
 bring the game alive.
  
  MULTIPLAYER:
  
  I really have no input here, as I have yet to try it, but it seems like it might be awesome, you 
 should be able to go online with some buddies and just drive around LA or race, which ever you 
 choose. You can also race for PINKS!
  
  REPLAY VALUE:
  
  I'd say its probably fairly high, as you ca go back and re-run each race for another attempt at 
 besting your score, and earn more money. Although there may be slightly less incentive to re try 
 the whole career again once completed, which is usually a tend with racing games anyway, so no 
 loss there.
  
  BOTTOM LINE:
  
  BUY THIS GAME IF YOU HAVE AN INTEREST IN RACING AT ALL! Its really well done in my opinion, with 
 subtle touched like interiors in every car, and damage, as well as the amazing selection of car 
 customization options, and just generally good amount of racing, its worth every penny of the asking 
 price.
  
  ENJOY! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
