-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mirror's Edge
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/mirrorsedge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Flawless runs provide a total rush.
 Clean and striking visual design.
 Fantastic sound effects and music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frustrating amount of trial and error.
 Cramped jumping puzzles trip up the momentum.
 Combat and gunplay are weak.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.0, 69 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,691 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA DICE
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Nov 11, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mirror's Edge offers occasional thrills, provided you can get past some awkward stumbles. 

  Like its heroine, Faith, Mirror's Edge tries to hurdle some significant obstacles, but unlike 
 Faith, it can't always make the leap. No doubt, this fascinating action platformer possesses its 
 share of innovations, from a first-person perspective to a clean and crisp visual style, yet it 
 looks to the past more than you may initially notice. This is a modern-day iteration of an old-fashioned 
 platformer, in which you're meant to play and replay sequences of jumps, grabs, and slides until 
 you get them perfect, or at least perfect enough to continue. But unlike its ancestors, Mirror's 
 Edge is more about speed and momentum, and when you can connect your moves in a flawless stream 
 of silky movement, it's eminently thrilling and satisfying. Unfortunately, Mirror's Edge has a 
 tendency to trip over its own feet, keeping you slipping and sliding blissfully along, only to 
 have a tedious jumping puzzle or hazy objective put the brakes on. Leaderboard chasers looking 
 to set a speedrun record will find Mirror's Edge to be pure gold. Others will give up, alienated 
 by the inherent trial and error of the game's basic design. At the very least, there's nothing 
 quite like it, and it deserves a cautious look by anyone who appreciates games that hew their own 
 path.  

           Faith and her fellow runners discuss the finer points of antidisestablishmentarianism. 

  Faith is a runner, in more ways than one. In the oppressed, fictitious society of Mirror's Edge, 
 runners are an underground network of couriers, carrying sensitive information and documents from 
 sender to receiver. The content of these messages is never clear, nor does it matter much; rather, 
 the story's conflict revolves around Faith's sister, a cop who is framed for the murder of a mayoral 
 candidate promising to bring change to the totalitarian government and bring hope to the runners 
 living on the fringe. Soon, Faith is running for a different reason: to uncover the conspiracy 
 at the heart of the murder and clear her sister's name. The story is straightforward, but it's 
 interesting enough to keep you involved, and though it ends with a sequel-hinting cliffhanger, 
 it wraps things up enough to feel fulfilling nonetheless. More intriguingly, the story plays out 
 between missions in stylish animated cutscenes, as well as scenes within the game engine itself, 
 which also look attractive but feature a completely different art style. Both types look good, 
 but the disparity is a little odd.  

  And so you run -- across rooftops, through train stations, and along walls. As you run, you pick 
 up speed and are able to string a number of moves together in rapid succession. You can slide under 
 pipes, bound over railings, and leap across impossible-looking chasms, among other techniques. 
 The most obvious twist in Mirror's Edge, of course, is that you do all of this from a first-person 
 view, rather than with the typical third-person camera we've come to expect. It's an interesting 
 spin, if not wholly new (Montezuma's Return for the PC was blazing this trail in 1998) , and it 
 has a way of immersing you as you speed toward your destination. Actions like balancing on a narrow 
 beam, sliding under a ledge at top speed, and tumbling when you land a long jump are fun to execute 
 and look neat, but it may also make you wonder how much fun it would be to see what Faith looks 
 like when she pulls off these neat stunts, which isn't possible in this game.  

  Nevertheless, Mirror's Edge excels when you hit that snappy stride, and once you've found the best 
 route through a particularly tricky scenario, it's exhilarating to rush through it without a care 
 to weigh you down. But this doesn't happen the first time, or even the fifth time, you do it. You 
 will need to experiment and hone your skills, because a simple mistake can send you plunging down 
 onto the street below, or will at very least interrupt your stride. You're expected to play each 
 level multiple times to learn the routes that best propel you along, which is great the 10th time 
 around but is often an infuriating series of false starts, mistimed jumps, and full stops the first 
 few attempts. If you need a hand, you can hold a button to activate runner vision, which turns 
 the camera toward your destination, but it's an imprecise solution that sometimes points you toward 
 a short-term objective and other times points you toward your long-term goal.  

           The early going will deliver more spills than thrills.      

  Another inconsistently 
 helpful tool comes directly from the game's impressive art design. Mirror's Edge is a game of visual 
 contrasts, in which stark white environments contrast with vivid colors. It looks beautiful and 
 clean, and it's a great way of demonstrating both the bleakness of an authoritarian society and 
 the unique manner in which a runner would see the world -- as an array of landing points and jumping 
 opportunities. Important ramps, doorways, ladders, and other points of interest are painted in 
 a vibrant red, which is an important visual cue in some of the broader levels. However, this element 
 too is delivered inconsistently; in some cases, the red hue may not fade in until you are close 
 to the pole or vaulting point in question, and in other cases, Mirror's Edge expects you to figure 
 things out without this visual assistance.  

  For a game that relies on so much forward momentum, Mirror's Edge has a way of bringing the pace 
 to a halt. Sometimes this is because of the nature of trial-and-error gameplay: fall, die, reload 
 checkpoint. At other times, it's because you're faced with an intricate jumping puzzle that eschews 
 the sense of speed entirely, such as one that has you descending into the depths of the water supply 
 system and then up again. These aren't bad, but they're not particularly engaging either; you're 
 more likely to feel relieved when you reach your destination, rather than fulfilled. Or you'll 
 be zooming along, only to find yourself in an elevator, reading the news crawl on the wall's electronic 
 panel while the level apparently loads in the background. In all of these cases, you're torn from 
 the experience and reminded that this is, after all, just a game.  

  Armed enemies further complicate matters. It's best to run right past them when possible, but their 
 bullets have a way of bringing you to your knees as you rush around looking for the best escape 
 route. Some foe-heavy scenarios are particularly annoying, such as a sniper-loaded sequence in 
 the final level. You can confront the threat head-on in some cases, but it requires careful planning 
 and excellent timing. You can perform some close-combat moves like jumpkicks and punches, but these 
 are best when used as hit-and-run tactics; trying to engage in melees with more than one or two 
 enemies at a time is a quick path to the most recent checkpoint. Conversely, you can disarm an 
 enemy with a quick-time event, pressing the disarm button when your foe's weapon flashes red. If 
 you want to hold on to it, you can fire off a few shots until the clip runs out. Faith is ultravulnerable 
 to gunfire, however, and the gunplay is loose and unfulfilling. If you have trouble keeping things 
 in check (it takes some split-second timing to land a pitch-perfect disarm) , you can enter a limited-use 
 slow-motion mode, which comes in handy and makes some of these action-focused moves look cool but 
 ultimately doesn't add much to the gameplay.  

  If you can overlook the array of quirks long enough to find your stride, you'll want to check out 
 the beat-your-record races and level speedruns. Both modes feature online leaderboards, and both 
 cater to the players most likely to get the most out of Mirror's Edge. In a sense, the single-player 
 story is simply a practice run for being a virtual show-off, yet the players repeating these levels, 
 because they'll learn them to perfection, are also the ones likely to see Mirror's Edge at its 
 most thrilling. But even casual players will take to the unusual controls, though the trigger-centric 
 jumping and crouching may take some getting used to. For what it's worth, the PlayStation 3's Sixaxis 
 and Dual Shock 3 controllers offer a slightly more comfortable experience in this regard; the clicky 
 shoulder buttons on the Xbox 360 pad are fine but are a little less enjoyable to use.  

           The world of tomorrow -- today!      

  While the visuals deserve kudos for their unusually 
 crisp style, the audio deserves its own high praise. Sound effects like Faith's breathy heaves 
 and plodding footsteps are authentic touches that heighten the sense of speed and tension. The 
 voice acting is equally terrific, but it's the pulsing, driving soundtrack that impresses most. 
 Its rhythmic flow augments Faith's most fluid runs, while subtle notes fill in the silence during 
 downtimes. The superb musical journey culminates in a fantastic vocal track that plays during the 
 game's final credits.  

  Mirror's Edge is many things: invigorating, infuriating, fulfilling, and confusing. It isn't for 
 everybody, and it stumbles often for a game that holds velocity in such high esteem. But even with 
 all its foibles and frustrations, it makes some impressive leaps; it just doesn't nail the landing. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (164 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: crykiechef
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2009 10:29 pm PT
Review:  great game and i must say i definately enjoyed the campaign. the story is definately unlike any 
 other and but i honestly have to say that it is almost too simple of a game. yes its fun to run 
 around a city jumping and climbing on everything yet you are still on a set course and not in an 
 open city capable of exploration, not to take away from the amazing graphics of this game. with 
 the apsence of a multiplayer capability or even an idea the online play is interesting. a competition 
 for run times on the campaign levels split into different courses, definately a plus and gave way 
 to some limited exploration of the city but mainly just the restricted area of the course again. 
 i am definately looking forward to a sequel and am hoping and praying that a more free world will 
 become it. also i wouldnt even bother with a multiplayer unless its a free rpg style world where 
 challenges can be made for course times and where you can go explore the world with your buddies 
 and run from the PD haha much fun that would be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 9:23 pm PT
Review:  When you first play Mirrors Edge you think"this is the most amazingly hackin awsome game evar!". 
 The second time you play the game you will think"when do i get to go outside again?". The third 
 time you it you will go "good god did I beat it already!?". This is why Mirrors Edge isn't worth 
 the full price tag.
  
  The game begins with a Esurance commercial... I mean a ... unique cutscene. Yea the cutscenes look 
 just like Esurance commercials and I personally don't like this because it would have been so cool 
 to watch Faith (the character you play as) pull off some insane acrobatic moves in first person. 
 The story is also so over the top and unimaginable that it's barely worth mentioning. The jist 
 of it is that your sister is framed for a murder and a bunch of very mean people want to kill you...: D.
 
  
  
  Heres the summary of the game:
  
  
  GRAPHICS:9/10
  The textures in this game look absolutely amazing. Especially the wall... yea the wall lol! I personally 
 don't like how the game literally tell your where to go by highlighting certain objects in red 
 but you can turn this off in the options.
  GAMEPLAY:7/10
  You know it's bad in a game when half of the time your having an amazing time and the other half 
 of the gameplay is pure torture. It's also bad when a game reminds you of sonic unleashed... The 
 problem is that whenever you are inside you go CRAZY because it's so dark and I can't see anything! 
 I would have mentioned this in the graphics summary but it effects the gamplay sooooo much! I tried 
 turning up the brightness on the TV but it turned the red highlight orange so it isn't just my 
 TV.
  CONTROL:7/10
  I like the controlls but i don't like how you barely use the face buttons. Most games don't use 
 the shoulder buttons for more than the face buttons so it is kinda hard to get used to. If your 
 a fan of shooters this is familiar territory though and even if your not you will get used to it 
 in a hour or 2.
  
  Overall:7.5 out of 10
  
  I beat the game is 4 days and played pretty casually an hour or 2 a day. I didn't enjoy the time 
 trial mode that much because it's too frustrating when you do great for 10 or 20 seconds and then 
 fall and have to restart. Rent it and it will be the best game you ever rented... buy it and you 
 will probably regret it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2009 4:54 am PT
Review:  EA's new IP Mirror's Edge offers gamers a chance to step into the shoes of a parkour expert named 
 Faith. The result is an experience that shifts from moments of frustration to sequences of pure 
 exhilaration. For a first-person parkour game, the mechanics are on the whole quite sound and intuitive, 
 which is no small feat given how difficult a game like this is to make. 
  
  Developer DICE took the concept of a platforming game and opened it up in a city environment, allowing 
 players to jump, slide and vault over any obstacle they come across. Consequently, the game provides 
 an incredible sense of freedom, much like what parkour experts must feel when traversing a cityscape, 
 but also many opportunities to miss a jump and fall to one's death. In a way, the openness of the 
 game's environment is a pitfall, since aiming ever so slightly in the wrong direction can cause 
 one to biff a jump. This is even harder since one can't see one's feet when jumping off of something.
 
  
  More frustrating than missed jumps is the game's hand-to-hand combat system. Disarming enemies 
 can be extremely frustrating, and the timing required to steal an enemy's gun before he kills you 
 with it can be very unforgiving, especially on Hard mode. I played the game without firing a weapon, 
 so relying on fists alone was especially difficult. Also, it makes no sense that one cannot disarm 
 an enemy after making them vulnerable using melee attacks.
  
  All complaints aside, the saving grace for Mirror's Edge is its incredible artistic sensibility. 
 The game is simply stunning to look at -- no doubt one of the best-looking games so far this generation. 
 The pure white and brightly colored city environments reflect the essence of Faith's character 
 and the parkour way of life. Parkour athletes have to exercise strict discipline in how they live 
 their lives -- no excess eating, drinking or smoking, since any kind of vice can affect their physical 
 abilities. In the same way, the art style of Mirror's Edge reflects that sense of purity. The sharp 
 angles of the environment represent the extreme precision with which runners must make instantaneous 
 life-or-death decisions. Looking through Faith's eyes, the player doesn't see the world as it is, 
 but the world as it is seen through the eyes of a parkour practitioner.
  
  Arguably as stunning as the visuals is the game's soundtrack. The ethereal theme song "Still Alive" 
 strikes a soft techno beat, and perfectly encapsulates the essence of the game. I've witnessed 
 few games whose sound and appearance have been woven together so seamlessly.
  
  It's moments when one is soaking in the beauty of the environment while leaping from rooftop to 
 rooftop that Mirror's Edge truly shines. Although it's a travesty that the combat system is a mess, 
 I give three cheers to EA for delivering something so artistically bold on the heels of the similarly 
 daring "Dead Space." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is about this girl named fate, faith, whatever her name is... U are a "runner" and u 
 are trying to stop the corporations from taking over the city because "THE MAN" is bringing u down.... 
 This game fails to have a good plot and the acting is dull.... The plot is basically revenge against 
 this evil corporation guy who killed your runner friend... I swear its like CNN or some liberal 
 wrote this ridiculous plot... Anyway the gunplay sucks, but I did like the art style while running 
 and the whisping of the air.... The cut scenes look like something out of an E SURENCE commercial 
 and looks cartoony and out of place..... The game can be beaten easily (did not finish) by basically 
 running, pressing the B button and finding directions, running and jumping... The parkour mechanics 
 are great and its cool that it is in 1st person... I just wish that it was longer and had some 
 type of co-op or multiplayer component besides time trials.... It's a good game, but I only recommend 
 a rent and some people may be thrown of by the repeative jump and run gameplay, weak combat, and 
 frustratingly dull sequences and characters in this game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2009 11:48 pm PT
Review:  This game places you in an exciting world of spies, intrigue and spindly things on top of buildings. 
 If you enjoy James Bond movies, Spiderman or cel animation, you may like this action title. It 
 has the futuristic sheen of "XIII" or other games in the glass-like animation mode. 
  
  Your character must jump, slide, climb and otherwise scramble to get from rooftop to rooftop, in 
 a game where forward progress is itself one of the major challenges. The methods of clutching and 
 balancing on obstacles could have been made a tad less confusing to learn. Once you get past that, 
 just make sure you keep an eye on the general location of your goal, and don't fall in between 
 building stanchions -- if you get into a bad corner of the route, good luck getting back. Other 
 than that, it's a very exciting game. It sure looks different. 
  
  The lead character, Faith, is a courier who must clear her sister of a murder charge. She fights 
 enemies with a blend of martial arts, gunplay and plain old evasive maneuvers. There aren't many 
 people to fight early in the game, but this steps up later on. 
  
  This game is powered by a compelling story and a real element of suspense. It plays like a movie, 
 and a pretty good one at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombehhhh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 2:40 pm PT
Review:  So many people have been nitpicking this game. I personally think that it doesn't have many problems. 
 Sure there are some annoying things about it that shouldn't be there, but people should just get 
 over that. First off, the game looks and sounds great. When I play this game on a 60" television, 
 I feel as if I'm actually jumping from building to building. The audio is superb. The presentation 
 of the game makes it more enjoyable than it would have been without the colors and sharpness. Secondly 
 is the gameplay. There is only one thing that I can say bad about this game and it is why I gave 
 the game and 8.5 instead of a 9. The overall game controls are a nice break. I like using the LB 
 instead of the A button. The main thing that I don't like about the game is the combat. Too much 
 of the game relies on fighting the police and SWAT. I can't even begin to tell you how many times 
 I have died trying to disarm the heavy duty people. It does tend to get frustrating and sometimes 
 makes me put the game away. But once you get past the crappy fighting mechanics and realize just 
 how fun it is to run around jumping from building to building, you realize what video games are 
 all about. The story in this game is passable, but nothing special, and Faith and her comrades 
 seem kind of uptight. But can anyone honestly say that they bought this game for the story? Bottom 
 line is that this game is fun and anyone who is interested in it shouldn't think twice about buying 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FerdiF
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Hi, why a stupid game?
  Because...
  ... the game shows you a big world that you can do what ever you want, but it's not. It's not an 
 open world.
  ... the game tells you to find other different ways, but in the most are none! And that with one 
 are only stupid.
  ... the level designer should be shot! The Levels of the game is overcomplicated in a stupid way. 
 You have to go the ways that is made.
  ... it's the future in the game. But the most is logically crap.
  ... the game tries to be shooter 
 and an "ART game". But fails in both!
  ... you never will play this a second time!
  ... this game could be one of the best, no it could be over the Top, but in all facets in the game 
 it's undone!
  
  ONLY RENT IT. You will cry.
  
  (Filling Text) (Filling Text) (Filling Text) (Filling Text) (Filling Text) 
  (Filling Text) (Filling 
 Text) (Filling Text) (Filling Text) (Filling Text) 
  (Filling Text) (Filling Text) (Filling Text) (Filling Text) (Filling Text) 
  (Filling Text) (Filling 
 Text) (Filling Text) (Filling Text) (Filling Text) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 2:03 am PT
Review:  Pros
  
  * Good sense of movement.
  * Melee combat though generally not the option you'll choose is fun and well animated.
  * In 
 a world where every other game is grey and brown, the bright colors in this title make for a welcome 
 change.
  
  
  Cons
  
  * Gun play isn't quite as fun, though when push comes to shove it's generally the combat option 
 you'll take because it's quicker.
  * Coming across sections where the next course of action isn't immediately obvious breaks the flow 
 of all the neat acrobatic stuff you get to do.
  * It's short.
  * Didn't find the characters, the world, it's dilemma's to be especially interesting. Same goes 
 for those animated cut scenes.
  
  
  Not a whole lot to say here.
  You play as Faith. You're a Runner, which basically seem to be underground errand boy/girls who 
 deliver goods, Intel, whatever by leaping from building to building.
  Theres more to it then that, but I honestly didn't find the plot or any of the characters to be 
 likeable, so I'm not going to dwell on it. We'll say I don't approve and leave it at that.
  
  The game plays better.
  
  At least it is while you're running around, for the most part.
 
  Jumping from building to building, leaping over and sliding beneath obstacles, figuring out the 
 fastest routes. Note that I'm not saying the game is open world, just that on occasion there is 
 more then one way to progress - not that it really makes a difference in the end.
  So all the acrobatic stuff flows quite well but eventually you'll hit a dead end at which point 
 you'll usually have to look around - typically up and down - to find which way it is you need to 
 go.
  These dead ends break up the flow of all the fast paced movement quite severely.
  
  Enemies can also break up the flow somewhat.
  Sometimes you can just run right by them, but later 
 in the game confrontation is quite difficult to avoid and unless you're going for the not-firing-any-guns 
 achievement there really is no reason not to disarm them and shoot up the joint a little.
  It's a lot faster then trying to melee them and it'll save you a lot of frustration, they can take 
 you out quite quick.
  
  Melee combat is fun. You have a couple of different attacks you can do, as well as disarming your 
 opponent and jacking their guns. The gun play isn't quite as fun.
  Guns are effective, but they aren't really fun to use. Theres no kick to them.
  Enemies won't 
 splatter blood even a little.
  If it weren't the easiest way to progress through some places I'd have avoided the guns altogether.
 
  
  In fact if I could I'd probably avoid the combat altogether.
  This game is at it's best when it's focused on the platforming, but it keeps shoving guys with 
 guns in front of you - especially later in the game.
  
  The game looks good enough.
  It's more colorful then the average FPS is these days, which is something.
  I like me some grim 
 dark stuff, but something a little brighter now and then wouldn't hurt.
  Only problem I have is with the red.
  Red in the game generally points out which way you should 
 be going. Fine.
  But in at least one or two sections of the game the entire room shows up red and you're left scratching 
 your head and poking around everywhere like an idiot.
  
  Sounds are okay. Voice acting doesn't really stand out in anyway, but it's not annoying.
  Musics 
 fine, what little there is. It's non-intrusive.
  
  The biggest complaint I have against the game is that it's way, way, way too short.
  Shortest 
 game I've played in a while and I've played Fable 2. Even that went for 12 hours and even after 
 I had finished it I still felt like playing it. I managed to finish Mirrors Edge in 5 hours and 
 that's despite getting stuck in spots and having to look around in the same area for where I'm 
 meant to go for 20 minutes before making progress. I dare say if I didn't find myself getting confused 
 in spots I would've shaved another hour off that.
  
  After you're done with the story theres time trials, speed runs and whatnot to do.
  But I'm not 
 finding that stuff compelling enough to really rope me back in.
  In my book as soon as the stories over it's over and in this game it's over fast.
  
  It's not 
 a bad game.
  Leaping around the roof tops and being all acrobatic evokes a feeling similar to that of when I'm 
 playing a Spiderman game and I'm just swinging around New York, jumping around buildings and whatnot. 
 It's relaxing. The games acrobatic portions are relaxing. The combat is average at it's best and 
 mind numbingly dull at it's worst and it's all wrapped up in a story that I didn't care about, 
 played out by characters I didn't care about in a world that I just did not care about.
  Give it a rental. It's worth at least a look because of the good sense of movement it manages to 
 portray, it does a good job of putting the first person in FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmcjdk6
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 9:11 pm PT
Review:  "A return back to prime video gaming."
  First off, this is a REVIEW. A critique, what works well, what doesn't work. Not my personal opinion. 
 What is my opinion is how I weighted each of the 5 categories.
  
  About 4 years ago, gamers started to demand STORY. Story needed to be in everything. All of the 
 sudden, Doom 3 of all games, needed an elaborate story in order to do any good with reviews. Essentially, 
 this robbed hardcore gamers of the actual game as developers spent more time with an engrossing 
 single player campaign rather than the multitude and variety of modifications that could be implemented 
 into a game, However, in recent times, there has been much less of a stress on story and more stress 
 on actual gameplay. DICE (responsible for the Battlefield series) , clearly know how to make great 
 game with fantastic gameplay elements; however, the way normal reviews go down these days... story 
 and ease take a front seat to actual gameplay. Pure gaming has been all but dead, and any game 
 that tries to return to it is immediately destroyed in reviews.
  
  This game is not for the story driven, and will not be reviewed for such people. Mirror's Edge 
 does take the concept of pure gaming and runs with it, executing it to near perfection.
  
  Graphically, the game looks amazing. Technically... it's pretty garbage with low res textures, insane 
 bloom, pathetic color pallete, but DICE came out blazing with their presentation which is honestly 
 more visually appealing than any other game I've played. For those that haven't seen or played 
 the demo, it's more artistic and incandescant in general; allowing certain effects like bloom to 
 be used to practical use and make the game look fantastic. But that's when you are outside. Inside, 
 is a whole different story. It simply does not look good. This game revels in light, and fails 
 miserably in darkness. Indoor scenes look like a last gen game.
  
  8/10 (15%)
  
  Sound. Music is great, it truly fits the style and era of the game, catupulting it far ahead of 
 any other game I have played, it truly enhances the gameplay experience. Voice acting is a above 
 average, moderately enjoyable. I thought there was too much radio chatter going on in Faith's head 
 or earpiece, but that's my opinion. Some might enjoy the company, some might not... who knows.
 
  
  9/10 (20%)
  
  Presentation. While I explained up above that story is not too important in a game, it should follow 
 some sort of seamless pattern atleast. It does, to an extent, and their are easter eggs of information 
 regarding backstory all over the place in this game; but should have been told during the actual 
 gameplay rather than mic chatter about more blues. Regardless, it does make sense, and it does 
 pan out to some extent; it just seemed far too short and lacking actual back information. On a 
 first playthrough, the game should clock in at about 6 hours. Subsequent playthroughs afterwards 
 can range anywhere between 2-4 hours. Little to no character development make this game seem more 
 like a sequel than a first. However, with that said, the story still is not bad, but rather pretty 
 good, and the artistic style of the cutscenes help enhance it a bit; still better than some oft 
 long winded games.
  
  7/10 (10%)
  
  Gameplay. This game is NOT chiefly a "Trial & Error" game as some reviewers would spew. What this 
 game is, is precision. With Runners Vision on (and the B button which centers your vision on your 
 next objective) , which conveniently spells out the path for you in red, all you as a gamer are 
 responsibly for is timing. Timing has nothing to do with trial and error. Some requires common 
 sense, I. E. disabling some snipers before you can get to your objective. Again, this is not trial 
 and error unless you want it to be trial and error.
  
  However, without Runner's Vision, this game becomes quite a bit slower paced and quite a bit more 
 difficult, but still not trial and error. You will die, and you will die alot. In some instances, 
 you will die a multitude of times by the "blues" (the main enemy of the game) before you figure 
 out where to go. However, after a few hours with the game (or after you beat it) , it begins to 
 flow much better than before. This is how game of old went about things. Nowadays, if people can't 
 pick up and play a game and pwn at it from the first level... they don't want it, its too hard, 
 insertotherrandomexcuses here. Look at fighting games and how miserable they sell/score these days...
 
  
  The combat in this game is tertiary, while a bit clunky at times (mostly when you're fighting more 
 than two of these 'blues') , it's quick, fast paced and extremely hectic. If you do choose to fight 
 it can either be successful or disasterous, with the spread being about 50/50 in between unless 
 you are just a timing god. This forces the gamer to make a decision of fight or flight, and most 
 of the time, the answer should be flight as there are only a handful of instances where you must 
 fight or face death.
  
  What's wrong with the gameplay? Some of the puzzles are too simple, and/or can only be done in 
 a certain fashion. Granted it's still fun, but there should be a bit more freedom to choose during 
 many of the puzzle sequences. And some of the forced fighting sequences are a little to difficult 
 (the security room ...)
  
  9/10 (30%)
  
  Replayability
  
  The gameplay modes include Speed Runs and Time Trials. Because the game is so short, speed runs 
 fit extremely well in increasing replay value. These two play modes are trial and error. If you 
 die, fall, or mess up on either of these gameplay modes... back to the start you go because you 
 will more than likely not make the time hack. But, then that's what expands the replayability. 
 Not everything this game throws at you is cookie cutter and obvious. Downloading other peoples 
 ghosts will really expand how you see Mirror's Edge, and all the moves, objects and stuff you can 
 use to either improve your time or keep the flow of the action continuing. Time Trials are extremely 
 addicting. Following another persons ghost and realizing that you might be able to cut a second 
 or two off the time if you try to jump coil ove the wall rather than knee scrape it is quite the 
 blast, and what a gamer should want.
  
  10/10 (25%)
  
  So the math adds up as....
  
  12%
  18%
  7%
  27%
  25%
  
  89% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KepNaki24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 11:36 pm PT
Review:  (Keeping in mind that I am biased to this game, I put my personality aside and tried to judge the 
 game as fairly as I could.)
  
  Mirror's Edge, a 3D First-Person Platformer game. An interesting thought, definitely looks good 
 on paper, but can easily be improved. The game is hard to describe by itself; you almost have to 
 play the game and see it for yourself.
  
  The Good
  1. Interesting Gameplay: Playing the game from the perspective of a parkour runner certainly makes 
 it playable. However, it could easily go much farther than it did.
  2. OK Story: The storyline is decent enough to keep you intrigued, but it isn't quite enough on 
 its own to keep playing.
  3. Versatile Environment: The fact that you're in a world where anything can be jumped on and over, 
 crawl into and underneath, and run into and around makes it innovative, and may be its saving grace.
 
  
  The Bad
  1. Weak Combat: Hand-to-hand and gunfighting is way too underdone. With only 5 attacks you can 
 do and 6 guns to grab, it makes fighting almost impossible and incredibly frustrating when you 
 have to.
  2. Limited Mobility: While you are in an environment that is free, you only get selected areas. 
 I would like to see where the area is much bigger and much more open. Think of Assassin's Creed, 
 where you can go anywhere and do almost anything.
  3. Too Short On Characters: The fact that you get to see only 4 characters seems a little awkward, 
 when other games have at least 6 characters, makes the flavor of the game fairly bland with not 
 much character development to make it interesting.
  
  Mirror's Edge, all in all, is a solid game with a good idea. There are just a few things it needs 
 to tweak and plenty of other things it needs to add in to make it better. It's good to rent it 
 and see if you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge amazed people when it was first shown to the public. DICE Stockholm  the developer 
 best known for the Battlefield series decided to take a break from traditional military combat 
 and instead replaced capturing command points with parkour running through a utopian, near-future 
 city. Mirror's Edge gives players an enjoyable game that twists the fps genre into something never 
 done before.
  
  Mirror's Edge puts you in the tennis shoes of a "runner" named Faith. "Runners" are people who 
 deliver sensitive information to clients who can't risk sending it via email. Runners navigate 
 through the city's rooftops doing impressive parkour-style moves like running up walls and doing 
 summersault landings. The game's story follows Faith trying to clear her sister's name from a murder 
 of mayoral candidate in the utopian Daily City. (Funny how this game was coincidentally released 
 right around the Presidential Election) . Faith's quest will take her throughout the city running 
 from the increasingly dangerous police in order to prevent her sister from being arrested. 
  
  The first thing you'll notice about Mirror's Edge are the graphics. They look clean, bright, 
 and smooth. As you progressively run faster, the screen will start to blur and you'll hear Faith 
 panting as she runs faster than sound. The game is entirely in first person which is what keeps 
 this game out of the crowd. Even when you do a roll, the camera rolls right along with Faith which 
 unfortunately will give some players serious motion sickness. Gameplay-wise, Mirror's Edge is more 
 of a platformer than a first person shooter. You do have the option to pick up a dropped gun, but 
 the shooting feels somewhat clumsy, the guns slow down your movement and when the clip is, you'll 
 be forced to drop it since you can't pick up ammo. Hand-to-hand combat is the best way to fight, 
 although it doesn't feel good enough to make you want to fight enemies. You have a couple punches 
 and kicks, but the ability to disarm your enemies is the best. Not only does it neutralize them, 
 but it also gives you their gun (if you really want it) . The music of Mirror's Edge should not 
 be overlooked. The fast paced techno beats add to the game's fast pace and don't make the game 
 feel cheesy at all. The game's main theme "Still Alive" sounds great and really reflects what the 
 game is about.
  
  Mirror's Edge has only three major flaws. The first one of those is that there are some extremely 
 frustrating moments throughout the game. You'll often feel ridiculously outnumbered and you'll 
 find yourself loading the same checkpoint dozens upon dozens of times. The second major flaw is 
 the game's length. Mirror's Edge will take an experienced gamer under 10 hours to complete. The 
 game's 9 chapters take 45-60 minutes to finish. And while each chapter might seem long, the game 
 falls short when you add them up altogether. The third problem would have to be the lack of content. 
 Once you beat the short story mode. You're left to play the time trials and speed runs. Time trials 
 make you complete certain parts of a level in a certain time limit. You have no enemies to worry 
 about and the game often gives you paths that you never took in the story mode which makes it somewhat 
 fun. But the real problem is that some of the levels are extremely difficult and will result in 
 controller throwing since they require perfect timing and precision. The speed runs simply make 
 you try to beat the entire level under a time limit (with enemies) . While these give you achievements, 
 there's almost no other reason to play this mode.
  
  But when you look beyond these flaws, you can still find a fun, and almost beautiful game to play. 
 The running almost has a Zen-like feel to it that feels nothing short of amazing. You actually 
 feel like you're running through a city that feels alive and busy. In fact, this game might make 
 you want to go outside and stretch your muscles a little bit. And don't feel bad about that because 
 I did it (and it's good for you) . These are the things that make Mirror's Edge a great game. While 
 it lacks in length, it certainly makes up for in feel. Definitely worth a rental, and it makes 
 a good purchase as long as you pay no more than $40.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saurabh123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Imagine playing Assassin's Creed or Prince of Persia in first person! It may sound like a horrible 
 thought to many, but EA DICE has managed to pull off the same concept very innovatively. Unfortunately, 
 the innovation is balanced by occasional stumbles making Mirror's Edge just about an average ride!
 
  
  Gameplay:
  ME's protagonist Faith is a "runner" (remember the movies District 13 B or Casino Royale on-foot 
 chases?) in a criminalized world of the future. Climbing building, free-running and slo-mo acrobatics 
 come naturally to her. Roofs, ACs, Vents, Shafts, Ledges etc are your constant companion as you 
 dash across the city landscape to complete your objectives. The next object / path to be taken 
 is marked in red making it pretty apparent where to go (which is useful considering how confusing 
 the whole white landscape can become) but then also making the game pretty un-exploring. Slo-mo 
 is incorporated at a button touch which is useful in combats, but there's nothing like Max Payne 
 here! 
  
  The star of the show is running in first person. As faith approaches a ledge to jump, you can feel 
 your own tension building up coz if you fail, it'll feel like YOU yourself are falling down! Sliding, 
 jumping, grabbing - all runner moves have been executed to perfection in first person. There's 
 no forgiving either, you miss a ledge by an inch and you go down!!
  
  The biggest letdown are the fight sequence which are downright frustrating. Since you have the 
 option of running away and dodging bullets (as the game will repeatedly tell you to do!) ..... 
 not much effort has been put up in guns either. They feel lame and uninspired! Enemy AI is smart 
 as they try to take you down in a group while you'r advised to pick them off one by one! Hand to 
 hand combat looks pretty engaging at first site, but can get frustrating at times coz executing 
 combos in first person is not an easy task (especially the ones involving wall running attacks)
 
  
  There's lot of trial and error too. With runners on your tail in later missions, it becomes little 
 repetition before you can finally realize the best running path. But overall, its not a very difficult 
 game.
  
  Graphics:
  The city landscape is superbly detailed and presented well during various times of the day! Too 
 bad that you'r supposed to follow a linear path across it because it could have seriously benefited 
 from an Assassin's Creed kind of free roaming layout. The cel-shaded animations added a fresh perspective 
 to the presentation and are crisply done. The entire city is awash with white color making any 
 other stand out in stark contrast (almost an anomaly!) . Indoor environments are neatly done too. 
 The best part is looking down anytime to see (and realize) you'v got hands and feet, which move 
 and react accordingly! The occasional motion blurring while running adds cool thrill effects. The 
 climax scene from the top of the sky-rise looks awesome.
  
  Sound:
  No great music during game-play, but tracks when you'r supposed to run away from choppers or runners 
 are well done and considerably heighten the thrill and inertia of "not looking back"! Sound effects 
 are supreme, but music otherwise sounds pretty routine.
  
  Story:
  Not much to boast of either. Faith's parents dead in protest, she works with an organization whose 
 clients are influential people tucked away in jails! The game's main objective is to save her sister 
 who has been wrongly framed for a murder. Playing a female protagonist is a novel approach but 
 the game never lets you feel the difference (which may or may not be good!) . Even the climax, with 
 a small twist, is nothing impactfull.
  
  Last comments:
  A very innovative game that can be played once. Had DICE paid attention to other small, not so 
 hard to oversee tripping points, the game could have had better reviews. But nevertheless, i liked 
 it for once, and i'd recommend others to try it as well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: st0k3d
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2009 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Ea's new game of Mirrors Edge is about as good as it gets when coming up with revolutionary ideas. 
 But if your going to have this great idea, make sure you make a great game to go along with it. 
 The game isnt terrible by any means but here are the problems I see in the game.
  
  First of all the running, as its the whole object of the game. I didnt mind the roof top running 
 which was probably the best part for me, its running with the controls. Never ever in the history 
 of gaming has even made the main button which you use 99%... the RIGHT BUMPER. (xbox 360 controller) . 
 I could understand maybe the A button that might have been a nice choice. Although the controls 
 to work fairly fluently, they dont work well enough for a game like this.
  
  The person herself that you control will help out a lot by grabbing onto edges, etc if you just 
 make it, but to much time is spent retrying certain spots over and over. I can live with like dying 
 on Halo 3 over and over on legendary difficulty solo, but on easy difficulty of a platformer... oh 
 heck no son.
  
  Lastly and probably the worst idea, trying to add gunplay. I have nothing against gunplay in a 
 platformer, but if your going to do it, do it atleast half decent. The disarming sequences are 
 lame, the pistol is terrible, the shotgun has the stupidest animations when you kill them. you 
 shoot them from 20 feet back and all that happens is they fly 30 feet back, which could be cool. 
 If your going to add gunplay, its going to have to be an M rated game so theres some actual blood 
 and violence. The sniper rifle is lame and not fun. Sniping on Halo 3 or Gears... fun.
  
  The career is short and un fulfilling with a weak story line. Your telling me I went through all 
 of this trial and error suffering just to save this persons sister. Makes me want to jump of the 
 edge, listen to the cool falling sound effects and then never restart again.
  
  In the end, Mirrors Edge is a decent game is your looking for a rental for the week. Ive been ripping 
 on the game quite a bit but there are a lo of enjoyable moments. When you string a bunch of jumps 
 together, it actually feels pretty cool.
  
  St0k3d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOLLYWALLYHOOD
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 11, 2009 10:39 am PT
Review:  i personally think the game is horrible and others will most likely disagree. i really do not like 
 the style of it what so ever, besides the good graphics and sound effects. The rest of the game 
 is just a real big dissapointment for me. Hopefully DICE and EA games make somthing better next 
 time. Not a stupid Jumper game that is HELL not worth $59.99 + tax. XD. No offence im sure there 
 are many people that will disagree with what im saying but i really hate this game. no offence 
 to those who like this game. I don't at all. its not worth a 8.2 score overall when better games 
 that deserve good scores get really bad scores and reviews (Tomb raider, Dynasty warriors, ect....) 
 FAMOUS for getting really bad critic scores when the game itself was actually good. Im sorry but 
 its happened way more then once and still does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setsuka13
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2009 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game and after reading the review here on Gamespot, I was kind of shocked 
 it got a 7.0 out of 10. Still, I took into consideration what they said (the trial and error.) 
 and I understand. Mirrors Edge gets docked for that. But that's about it. Gamespot also docked 
 it for "Weak gun play mechanics.", but the protagonist (Faith) is a skilled RUNNER, not SHOOTER. 
 She's supposed to suck at shooting SMG's, pistols and Shotguns. If she was skilled at it, it'd 
 make the game seem less realistic. 
  
  So this game is a first person action adventure where you leap across rooftops and do acrobatic 
 things in a very pretty environment. The game throws enemies at you, but you usually end up booking 
 it in search for safer ground. When you do have to fight, it occasionally is tough, but it's usually 
 fun. The game has a ton of frustrating trial and error. For example, you see where you need to 
 go, but your not sure how, so you end up dying a hundred times to try and get there. When you do, 
 the game picks up the pace again, but not soon after the last one, you find yourself in another 
 T&E situation. You will curse at your screen and get pissed off, but luckily the levels aren't 
 too long. This is the worst part part of the game, because there is so much of it. 
  
  Still though, you will have a lot of fun and will be glad that you played it.
  
  The Good
 
  -Gorgeous
  -Unique
  -Flat out fun
  -Realistic
  -Interesting story
  -Fairly lengthy
  
  The Bad
  -TRIAL AND ERROR!!
  -Long load times are semi-frequent
  -Shooting 
 is reasonable, but tough
  -Again, the trial and error here is flat out awful
  
  Great game. I'd rent it first, because it can be beaten within a weekend if your persistent. Still, 
 it is worth checking out for it's unique and fun brand of first person adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eric721
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 7:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is really under appreciated.
  
  I don't know why this game has such a crappy grade from this site, because I can honestly say that 
 this game is amazing. The graphics are great, the game play is fun and exciting, the controls are 
 excellent, and the atmosphere is really cool with all of buildings that look like they've been 
 made by apple. The only negative of this game is that it could have been a little longer. But if 
 you do the time trials and hard mode, you'll be satisfied with it's length. The plot also isn't 
 incredible, but honestly no one would play a game like this for the plot. I feel that this game 
 should have gotten much more praise, but that's just me.
  
  I would highly recommend mirrors edge, but apparently it isn't for everyone. You might as well 
 give it a try, because you're likely to love it or hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsweens24
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Potential is a funny thing. Almost everything, invariably, has potential. Every idea, every whim 
 and every fancy - each and every one has potential. And boy, did Mirror's Edge have potential. 
 First person platforming? Good idea in theory. Throw in free-running? Excellent idea. Unfortunately, 
 potential needs to be realised, and DICE have cocked up the execution rather spectacularly.
  
  The thing is that there's actually - and potentially, for that matter - a lot to like about 
 Mirror's Edge. For starters, the environments are absolutely stunning, all bright colours, spectacular 
 skyscrapers and harsh sunlight, with the red of 'runner vision'-highlighted objects made easy to 
 spot and head for thanks to the starkness of the rest of it. But again, good potential, bad execution 
  the character models and animations are lacklustre considering the amount of polish that's on 
 the environments. Enemies are the same three models repeated endlessly, and that detracts from 
 what is otherwise a fantastic-looking game.
  
  There's even a half-decent story thrown in about an attempt to rid the world of the runners that 
 serve as an underhanded method of communication that suffers from no wire taps or surveillance. 
 Unfortunately, whilst the concept is good, the story itself is half-baked and not fleshed out enough 
 to be satisfactory.
  
  The free-running too - when you are indeed allowed to... y'know... run freely - is excellent, with 
 responsive  albeit slightly counter-intuitive  controls and a real sense of freedom to move and 
 do what you like (within the context of the game, of course) .
  
  It's just such a shame that it fails to capitalise on this earlier potential. The level design 
 iswell, horrific. There's perhaps too much structure to it, too much order, and thus it almost 
 defeats the purpose of being able to free-run when you've more or less got a predetermined path 
 of obstacles to get through. That is, when one of the obstacles isn't a heavily armed battalion 
 of policemen.
  
  Which brings us onto Mirror's Edge's most crippling flaw  the combat. Put simply, the controls 
 are simply not capable of coping with the combat that the level designers want you to be able to 
 deal with. To steal an analogy, it's like the gameplay designers and the level designers weren't 
 in communication at all. the gameplay is designed for evasion, with quick takedowns incorporated 
 into a rather clunky combat system that relies on movement over brute force  ideally suited to 
 targeting one man in a wave of enemies, defeating him and breaking through the lines to keep on 
 your path.
  
  To make matters worse, there are frequently moments where you simply cannot avoid the combat, and 
 this is where the frustrations ebb in. Even if you lower yourself to using guns to defeat your 
 foes, they're frustratingly inaccurate and ineffective, and you'll find yourself constantly breaking 
 glorious momentum to try to beat the crap out of the wave of baddies who are in your way, to pretty 
 much no avail.
  
  This is repealed somewhat by the eminently playable time attack mode, where by you are simply presented 
 with a goal and allowed to approach it how you like, the aim being to get to it as quickly as possible, 
 and you have the option of playing through a true-blue story level complete with baddies, or specially 
 tweaked time-attack levels with no baddies whatsoever. But seeing as this is purely a single-player 
 game with little to no multiplayer content, you can't help but have a bad taste in your mouth after 
 the demoralising and frustrating single-player campaign. The concept would've made a fantastic 
 movie - unfortunately, it's wasted on a mediocre game. Worth a rental if anything, but preferably 
 avoidable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 9:10 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is something to keep your tattooed eye on. The game is not quite ready to be a masterpiece 
 but it might eventually get there if EA actually listens to critics. It's a slick journey through 
 a vivid world, but it is also encumbered with painfully frustrating hurdles and precarious gameplay. 
 Players beware: you will curse. 
  
  The main problem with Electronic Art's new baby is the pacing. We have a game based around freestyling 
 ("parkouring", for all you Euro-types) , which translates to large dozes of running and jumping 
 over urban trappings. And though the running part is decently executed the game also gives players 
 a healthy serving of "figure out what the designers were thinking". I personally hate figuring 
 out what designers were thinking, because it usually ends with me being scraped off the sidewalk 
 and being forced to watch the same level reload a hundred times. Mirror's Edge has a lot of "reloading", 
 mainly because pressure put on the player makes it hard to discern where you have to go and how 
 to get there. If you are expecting a fast-paced ballet of action, get ready to put in more hours 
 getting used to the levels than actually enjoying the game. A single playthrough isn't enough, 
 simply because Mirror's Edge is best played once you know what to do. 
  
  
  REFLECTIONS OF A NOT-SO-DISTANT FUTURE
  
  Electronic Arts does a great job staging a futuristic 
 world where dissident couriers called Runners are the last bastion of free speech in a perfectly 
 sterile society that controls all means of communication. The world is clean and comfortable for 
 those who abide by its Orwellian rules. Those who reject it are cast out. We never see the outcasts 
 but we know they are a happy lot. Runners are their lifeblood because unrepressed communication 
 means their freedom. Ironically, Runners live above both societies under the clean, blue sky, dashing 
 from building to building on the edge, leaving behind them but a reflection on the mirrored windows 
 of corporate sky rises. Hence the name: Mirror's Edge. 
  
  The story revolves around a nimble Runner, Faith, embroiled in a conspiracy that involves her sister, 
 a cop, who was framed for murder. As conspiracies go this one is your typical yarn with the expected 
 betrayals and twists -- in short, nothing extraordinary. But the plot is told through exquisitely 
 animated cutscenes worthy of a good anime. Electronic Arts does a wonderful job with colors like 
 few games before it, accentuating the sterile nature of the city in contrasting shades of white, 
 blue and red.
  
  Mirror's Edge offers an interesting feature called Runner Vision, which shows us the world through 
 the eyes of a Runner by painting objects of interest in red, like doors, pipes, beam and ramps 
 that can be used to parkour through. It helps. What doesn't help is constant pressure put on players 
 and tenacious first-perspective. 
  
  
  BETWEEN THE GLOSS AND THE REALITY
  
  Like its closest rival, Prince of Persia, Faith can climb, wall-run, swing on poles and bounce 
 off walls. But that's where the similarities end. Faith can also slide, zip-line, jump over objects 
 and bounce off specific items. Players can roll into a ball while landing from high up and spin 
 around 180 at a whim. Levels are cleverly designed around the game's running mechanics. You don't 
 simply jump over objects, you freestyle though them in sprint. We see Faith's arms, legs and body 
 as she flows through the levels. 
  
  All this running around in first-perspective without a HUD or life meter can be a bit dizzying 
 at times but it makes parkouring that much more fun and realistic. The game could have really benefited 
 from some third-perspective action, though, especially while wall-running and performing other 
 precise maneuvering. It almost feels like Electronic Arts refused to add a third-perspective feature 
 out of fear that Mirror's Edge would be labeled a Prince of Persia clone. Some advice: don't play 
 this game with your parents around. They'll be astonished at how many swear words you can string 
 together when you careen to your death for the X'ed time because you didn't give Faith the right 
 amount of time to properly pivot before bouncing off a wall, or because you didn't quite connect 
 with a wall before wall-running or walking a narrow ledge. 
  
  There were parts in Mirror's Edge were I stopped expecting to reach my objective and started counting 
 the new ways I would die. That's a not a good thing for a game that prides itself for being fast-paced; 
 dying sort of puts a halt on things. It's one of those games that requires you to die until you 
 figure out how to approach certain parts, or better, how not to approach them. This is clearly 
 the biggest flaw. Pressing the "Alt" button focuses Faith's vision at an objective, but that feature 
 still needs work. Your Runner will often aim at the final goal, ignoring the ones in between, giving 
 players the wrong idea how to tackle a level. 
  
  The environment is killer. One false step and the white settings below get a new shade of red. 
 But if falling to your death because of awkward controls wasn't enough, EA added rabid cops trying 
 to mow you down with everything but heavy artillery (actually they have that too in the form of 
 military choppers) . The result is Faith running for her life like a gazelle just about anywhere 
 she goes, crashing through doors to always escape in the nick of time. Again, it's exciting when 
 you don't die. And die you will. 
  
  
  "RUN FAITH RUN" 
  
  Electronic Arts has a good concept on their hands. The ultimate effect resembles the cult movie 
 "Run Lola Run", where a slim female character always manages to hit the elevator button before 
 the bad guys get to her. At times your heart will pump as fast as Faith's. Things unfortunately 
 often go wrong when you have bullets whistling past your ear. Jumping over structures like fences 
 and pipes is a pleasure in itself. Had the game omitted much the bullet action in favor of more 
 parkouring, things would have felt less tedious. Players will often find themselves looking for 
 a vent shaft or the next plank to jump on while gunners are practicing their aim on you. 
  
  Combat is designed around Faith's physical ability, not her skill with firearms. The latter 
 doesn't even let her reload. When a gun is empty she has to drop it and find another. Theoretically 
 Faith has all the skills needed to take on any adversary in hand-to-hand combat. In practice, though, 
 players will prefer blasting someone away -- much easier. In theory, our Runner can grab and disarm 
 an opponent at an opportune moment (when the weapon turns red) . In practice, your opponent always 
 has three or four mates watching his back. In theory Faith can wall-run and kick her opponents 
 into the ground. In practice, your opponents rarely stand next to a wall long enough for you to 
 perform any acrobatics. A time slow-down feature helps players perform the aforementioned moves, 
 though results may vary depending on the surroundings and opponents -- some enemies are harder 
 to time your grabs against. 
  
  EA should have changed the premise of most scenes. Most of the time odds are stacked a bit too 
 high against us. Having played through the entire single player mode I never had a chance to unexpectedly 
 disarm an opponent, even though according to the tutorial it is possible. 
  
  Ultimately, Mirror's Edge starts too quickly, especially with so much potential. How do Runners 
 perform jobs? How do regular citizens react to them? How do their employers live? How do cops behave 
 under "normal" circumstances? What does Faith do in her spare time? We don't know because the game 
 begins in "fugitive" mode. A few normal Runner missions and street-level stages would have set 
 the tone and deepened the world our heroine lives in. Not always having a target on her back would 
 have also allowed Faith to fully use her skills. 
  
  But despite the shortcomings, Electronic Arts still does a great job conveying this new playground. 
 Complimenting the clean graphics is an amazing futuristic ambient score. Voice acting is also superb, 
 though your guide, Merc, could have been more helpful and cops have a stupid habit of shooting 
 first then yelling "stop or we'll shoot!" Sound effects are detailed and plentiful. Faith sometimes 
 groans a bit too much, even while doing the smallest of things, but her presence is well established, 
 both visually and audibly. 
  
  The game is rather short, clocking in between 5 and 10 hours, however a second playthrough is recommended 
 to fully enjoy the experience. Speed Run mode is nothing more than rehashed solo missions with 
 a timer. Time Trial is where the fun is at. It allows players to run through checkmarks without 
 the cop presence. Too bad EA didn't expand on it, like adding NPC Runners to square off against 
 and creating open-ended "freestlye" races. One has to wonder if the game would have been better 
 off focusing more on Time Trial missions similar to Need for Speed or Midnight Club rather than 
 plain old Story mode. The latter almost seems inadequate. Multiplayer is reserved for the most 
 fanatic of fans. I wouldn't attempt any of the multiplayer modes before having mastered all the 
 levels; it's required to even have the slightest chance against all the young Runners out there. 
 
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  Mirror's Edge delivers a solid performance for its first attempt but it wobbles in some parts. 
 The game can be infuriating at times due to trial and error. Too much is asked of Faith. She's 
 a Runner but the game treats her like an 80's action hero. Levels are well designed, unfortunately 
 there is always someone trying to kill you, and they usually have friends, which limits the player's 
 choices and reaction time. The concept would have been more interesting had it shown us more of 
 this futuristic world and less of the whole "conspiracy". It's recommended to hardcore gamers. 
 
  
  
  GRAPHICS 85
  Excellent levels with beautiful colors. The future never looked cleaner. Lack of HUD and seeing 
 parts of Faith's body adds to realism. Not enough street missions.
  
  GAMEPLAY 70
  1st-perspective can be frustrating. Cop pressure limits player choices resulting in needless trial 
 and error. Good controls and speed mechanics.
  
  PRODUCTION 72
  Great animated scenes. Future conveyed well but more could have been done. Missed chances to elaborate 
 the Runner lifestyle. Extra modes lack creativity.
  
  SOUND 80
  Nice ambient music and plenty of cool sound effects, especially when running. A few miscued voice 
 effects and missed chances to improve gameplay with Merc.
  
  LASTING APPEAL 75
  Solo lasts 5-10 hours but replaying the game can be fun, especially in Time Trial. Lackluster extras. 
 Online modes reserved for the best players.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neutralx2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge, a first person action-adventure from Digital Illusions, is a game unlike anything 
 you have seen before. Set in a society where communication is heavily monitored by a totalitarian 
 regime, you play as Faith  one of many runners who transport messages while evading government 
 surveillance. Inspired by Parkour, the gameplay is based primarily on running across rooftops and 
 interior spaces in an attempt to get from point A to point B while avoiding the police. As such, 
 there is a heavy emphasis on movement, such as maintaining momentum and fluidly chaining together 
 moves. There is a bit of gunplay, however Faith is not very effective in combat and the game teaches 
 you early on that it is always best to avoid conflict.
  
  At first glance, the setting of Mirror's Edge sounds pretty interesting, but the storyline is actually 
 pretty boring. Your sister has been framed of murder, there are mumblings about a secret project 
 called "Icarus", and it's up to you to clear your sister's name and uncover what exactly that secret 
 project is. Most of the story is told in stylized vector art cutscenes that actually look really 
 cool, but the actual content is boring. Throughout the game you will meet a handful of forgettable 
 characters that seem to exist only to provide a few lines of exposition before you move on. It's 
 hard to have any attachment to any of the characters (Faith included) , making it difficult to care 
 about the plot.
  
  Moving around these environments is generally fun thanks to some well thought-out controls. Instead 
 of requiring complex button combinations to pull off Faith's crazy acrobatics, most are mapped 
 to one of two buttons: move up and move down. These actions are context sensitive, so what they 
 do will depend on what state Faith is currently in. If you are on a pipe, pressing up will climb 
 and pressing down will slide. While she is running, pressing up will cause her to jump while pressing 
 down will cause her to kick. It is all very intuitive and easy to wrap your head around after only 
 a few minutes in the tutorial level.
  
  Everything about the game's presentation screams high production values, especially the visual 
 style which is just as unique as the gameplay. The city is filled with giant skyscrapers made of 
 cement, glass, and steal, all brightly light and saturated with solid colors. Its not just all 
 for looks either, important buildings and areas often use color to contrast with the rest of the 
 city while "runner's vision" highlights important objects and doors with bright red. The game is 
 at its best when the controls and runner vision all come together. You will find yourself flying 
 around rooftops, keeping momentum, making crazy jumps, sliding under obstacles, and running along 
 walls all while dodging bullets. However, when things don't come together it really drags the whole 
 game down.
  
  There are far too many instances when there is no obvious place for you to go. You might see your 
 final destination in the distance, but how to get there is completely baffling. This grinds the 
 fast gameplay to a halt and causes a lot of frustration. Sure, you can take your time and simply 
 stumble around until you come upon where you are supposed to go, but who wants to do that? What's 
 even more annoying are the sequences when you are being chased by police and don't know where to 
 go. They will kill you in a few shots, making exploring very difficult. It can get really maddening. 
 This game has way too many trial and error sequences, where you will repeat the same stretch of 
 game over and over again while you try to figure out what the level designer intended you to do. 
 The main cause of this problem is that the levels are extremely linear. Adding more routes around 
 the environment would have gone a long way towards alleviating these headaches. 
  
  The level design starts off great, gradually teaching the player how to string together moves in 
 really awesome ways. The subway level in particular sticks out in my mind as being exceptional. 
 The problem is that after the first few levels, the designers have shown all of their cards and 
 the game becomes extremely repetitive. The real problem is that while the Parkour elements of Mirror's 
 Edge are fun, it's simply not enough to base an entire game on. After the novelty of the first 
 person platforming has worn off, there is really nothing left to keep your attention. A good story 
 would have helped a bit, but it still would not have addressed the core problem.
  
  It also doesn't help that the game occasionally forces you into confrontations with the police 
 where the only real way to make progress is to kill all of them. Faith is extremely weak, and can 
 be permanently downed by only a few shots or two punches. You never start levels with weapons, 
 meaning the only way to get armed is to close the gap on a cop, while attempting to dodge bullets 
 and disarm him. If he has any buddies in the area, as they often do, this can become extremely 
 difficult to pull off. Even if you do manage to get your hands on a gun, you only have the ammo 
 that is left in the clip. Once it's gone, Faith throws it away and you are back to trying to take 
 down cops with ranged weapons using only your fists, feet, and frail body.
  
  It really hurts me to give Mirror's Edge a mediocre review. As someone who plays a lot of games, 
 it's refreshing to see new ideas and intellectual properties. Mirror's Edge is one of those games 
 that when its fun, it is really fun. It's just unfortunate that the overall game is more frustrating 
 then it was enjoyable. If you are someone who rates games simply based on how fun it is, Mirror's 
 Edge is a game that you should pass on. However if gaming is more of a hobby then a simple diversion, 
 Mirror's Edge is worth checking out simply to experience its unique ideas, both in gameplay and 
 in visual design. Just don't expect to have a lot of fun while doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 23, 2009 9:43 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge tries to make a bold leap in the platformer genre, but unfortunately, it doesn't 
 always have a smooth landing. The game does offer the occasional sense of thrill and momentum while 
 you slide under pipes, bound over objects and leap over chasms. However, Mirror's Edge more often 
 than not tends to trip over its own feet when it throws you a tedious jumping puzzle or the sense 
 of confusion. There isn't anything quite like Mirror's Edge, and it deserves a rather cautious 
 look by anyone who enjoys platformer games.
  
  In the fictitious, totalitarian-governed society of Mirror's Edge, you play as Faith, a female 
 runner who delivers messages from sender to receiver. What these messages are about is never made 
 clear (much like the rest of the plot) , nor does it matter much; the conflict revolves around Faith's 
 sister, Kate, a cop who's been framed for murdering a mayoral candidate promising to bring change 
 to the totalitarian government. Faith tries to get to the bottom of this murder and clear her sister's 
 name. The plot itself is bland, boring, and entirely forgettable. None of the characters are interesting 
 (including Faith, who lacks any sort of personality) and why you're sent to do something or chase 
 after someone is never really explained. The story is told through either animated cutscenes that 
 look like the animated show featuring Jackie Chan or through in-game cutscenes. Can't they just 
 pick one type of cutscene and stick with it, for crying out loud?
  
  For the majority of the game, you'll be running across rooftops, jumping across chasms, rebounding 
 off walls, and just about anything else a runner can do. The main twist here is that all this is 
 done in a first-person perspective rather than the third-person camera view featured in the Prince 
 of Persia series. As you run, you start to gain momentum. Once you gain momentum, you'll be able 
 to jump farther or wall-run for a longer amount of time. Things like sliding down the side of a 
 building, balancing on a narrow beam, and jumping on top of objects in a rapid succession are all 
 fun to perform and look neat, but it would've been nice to see what Faith looks like during these 
 stunts, and that isn't possible in the game.
  
  It's very exhilarating to sprint across rooftops and leap on top of various objects. However, Mirror's 
 Edge has a tendency to bring the sense of exhilaration you experienced just a few seconds ago to 
 a halt with a simple tedious jumping puzzle or sense of confusion. One simple mistake can send 
 you plummeting down to the street below to your death, or it'll at the very least interrupt your 
 momentum. A good example of a tedious jumping puzzle is when you have to get onto a ledge in an 
 indoor environment. Most of the time you encounter these puzzles, the solution will be to wall-run 
 and leap in mid-air onto a pole of some sort and then to leap onto the ledge from the pole. If 
 you're confused on where to go next, there's always the option of Runner Vision. This centers the 
 camera on where you're supposed to go next. Unfortunately, it isn't all that helpful because it 
 often points you to a long-term or short-term objective. 
  
  Another inconsistently helpful tool is the game's art design. It does have a too-clean-to-be-good 
 feel to it, which is largely due to the amount of white walls and surfaces you'll see. Nevertheless, 
 everything looks sleek and impressive. Important ramps, doorways, ladders, boxes, poles and other 
 objects are painted in a bright red color, which is an important visual tip. However, the color 
 sometimes won't fade in until you're extremely close to the object, and in other situations, Mirror's 
 Edge expects you to figure things out on your own without the visual assistance. 
  
  For a game that relies so heavily on momentum, Mirror's Edge has a way of bringing the speedy pace 
 to an unexpected halt in more ways than one. Some of this is due to the game's simple trial-and-error 
 design: fall, die, and start again. Thankfully, the checkpoint is usually right where you died, 
 which is extremely helpful. Some jumping puzzles remove the sense of speed entirely, like the one 
 where you descend into the depths of the water supply system, and then come back up again (which 
 doesn't make a whole lot of sense) . Other times you'll be running down a hallway inside a building 
 (which is usually painted in either, green, orange, red, or blue) and end up inside an elevator, 
 reading the news on the wall's electronic panel while the level loads. These sequences aren't terrible, 
 but they're not particularly engaging, either. 
  
  Things really start to go downhill when the men in blue make their debut. The best strategy is 
 to just run right past these guys whenever possible, but occasionally be forced into combat. Some 
 foe-heavy scenarios are particularly annoying and frustrating, such as the sniper sequence in the 
 last level. If you feel it's necessary, you can engage in melee combat, but it requires careful 
 decisions and perfect timing. You can perform jump-kicks, slide-kicks and punches, but these are 
 best used as hit-and-run tactics for escaping. Somehow punching dudes in the face ultimately seems 
 awkward and incorrect. Trying to melee down more than one or two enemies will result in an automatic 
 death. You can disarm an enemy by pressing Y when their weapon flashes red, but this is best done 
 when you enter a limited slow-motion mode, and this makes it easier to disarm an enemy. Obviously 
 you weren't intended to use guns in the game, because the aiming is imprecise, you don't know how 
 much ammo is left, and the enemy AI is atrociously bad.
  
  Once you beat the game's story mode, which lasts about 6 hours (and it somehow felt way too long) , 
 you can participate in speed runs and beat-your-record races. I'd imagine that only a small percentage 
 of people would actually enjoy these race modes. When you really think about it, the single player 
 story mode is merely practice for being a show-off on Youtube, but those people will most likely 
 see Mirror's Edge at its best, unlike casual players.
  
  The visuals in Mirror's Edge are far from cutting-edge. They're far less impressive than what I 
 saw in various Youtube videos and video reviews. There are often times aliasing issues, along with 
 various clipping issues, on doors, character models and buildings. Some surfaces are pretty impressive 
 with divots and scarring, while others look extremely bland. The character models for enemies can 
 use some work, but Faith and other characters look good, and the draw distance is significant. 
 The audio department is overall better than the visuals. The sound effects, such as Faith breathing 
 and her footsteps on the ground, heighten the sense of speed and exhilaration. The voice acting 
 could've been better, but it's not cheesy or anything. The musical soundtrack is also great.
  
  Mirror's Edge is the perfect example of awesome ideas that didn't come out the way they were 
 intended to. The world is a bit too restricting, along with the amount of combat attacks, and that 
 hinders the experience. Even with its various flaws and frustrations, Mirror's Edge does make some 
 great leaps; it just doesn't quite nail the landing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Mirrors Edge takes you on a unique ride filled with wild highs and terrible lows. You'll play as 
 Faith who's an information runner in a city that restricts information. Through the course of the 
 game you'll pull off some amazing stunts as well as be shot at multiple times as you progress through 
 the story. Aside from the 9 chapter story mode this game features a time trials and races modes 
 to play. You can pull off some amazing feats in this game which really is what is so unique about 
 the game. Its somewhat like Tomb Raider only in first person and much faster. Surprisingly the 
 camera is rather solid in this game and isn't a hindrance to the game play. The game is all about 
 speed and when you get going it's an amazing rush. The races where you can try to beat the time 
 are where the game shines the most as once you figure out the right path to take it's quite impressive. 
 The story mode also has some exceptional moments in it. On the flip side it also has many areas 
 where the game stumbles as well. One such area is the combat. Faith does not carry a gun and is 
 quite fragile one or two hits and she's done. The game allows you to disarm enemies but it's very 
 difficult to time. In most cases fighting will result in death and its best to just run. There 
 are many areas in the story where you are forced to go through areas swarmed with enemies these 
 can get rather frustrating as it will take you several tries to get the correct path and move on 
 with the game. There are many areas where the games checkpoints seem off as you may have to repeat 
 a very difficult sequence over and over until you make it. There are also lots of very difficult 
 puzzles in the game which require absolute precision to solve. If you are not a fan off doing the 
 same thing over and over again this game isn't for you. The exhilarating stunts come with a lot 
 of hiccups and trial and error along the way. The later chapters in the story have some enemy segments 
 that are extremely difficult. If the combat where better and the game didn't require so much precision, 
 this game would be a lot more fun. It's still good and a nice break if you are tired of playing 
 shooters. You should get a good 10-15 hours out of the game if you decide to beat all the races 
 time trials and the story mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fresh_C
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is an interesting experience for a video game because it takes the old hackneyed 
 practice of platforming and makes it the centerpiece of its game play. And while this sounds bad 
 on the surface, Dice and EA have managed to make it work with the use of a first person perspective.
 
  
  The game is at its best during the roof top chase sequences where all that's required of the player 
 is simple running and jumping. When the screen blurs along its edges as faith runs full blast, 
 it's hard not to feel immersed in the game. I personally moved my body along with each and every 
 movement of the screen making me seem like an extremely excited bobble-head. To date, this game 
 is the only thing that has ever given me motion sickness (this includes rollercoasters and boats) .
 
  
  And this game, the running and jumping portion, is excellent in and of itself. There are a few 
 moments where you may be confused about where to go, but when you're on the rooftops it shouldn't 
 take you very long to figure it out.
  
  However, the game has its fair share of areas that are a little less straight forward. Whenever 
 you are placed in doors for extended periods of time, things tend to get a bit more complicated. 
 Your runner's vision (which seems to light things up frequently outside) is considerably less useful, 
 it seems. You'll find yourself much less certain of the proper paths to take. These sections can 
 be frustrating, but if you look hard enough there is always a clear pathway out.
  
  However, the absolute worst thing about the game would have to be the fighting aspect. Nothing 
 could be more frustrating than having to stop your momentum just to throw weak and ineffective 
 punches at heavily armed cops. And the disarming button times can be brutal. Realistically it does 
 make sense that your opponents would have the upper hand on you strength wise, and that bullets 
 would... well, hurt. But I think the game designers made an error in forcing the player to fight 
 so often. It would be a much more enjoyable game if most cops could be avoided instead.
  
  All in all, this game is worth a playthrough. It's a very entertaining game, when it's at its best 
 and still decent when it's at its worse. Rent before buying though, as you could easily beat it 
 in a few days if you were so inclined. The (weak) storyline is only 9 chapters long with each chapter 
 running about an hour. The only game extending feature set in place, would be the time trials and 
 speed runs, which are geared toward the more skillful players. If you can handle occasional frustration 
 and have a thirst for two-legged speed, then this is a game you should check out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_hosi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 12:37 am PT
Review:  Mirrors edge is, quite simply, an awesome game. It may be the best at everything. but what it has 
 is balance.
  
  The platforming is fun, finding your way around is challenging and figuring out how the heck your 
 going to make the jump is fun. Keep in mind that this game is a platformer so you WILL miss your 
 jumps and fall to your death.... alot. but once you figure out the jumps it is fun to just charge 
 through the level and get your momentum flying. Speed runs are a blast and trying to break the 
 records keep you going back time and time again
  
  The shooting, however, is very weak. Combat is best avoided but there are several points where 
 you are forced into battle with several enemies at once. this can be problematic if you try to 
 fight head on with them but given a bit of luck and plenty of running you can disarm one of them 
 and use their own weapons against them. If you don't like the gun play you can also charge them 
 and use melee attacks. this is rather effective and most enemies will go down after only a few 
 blows.
  
  The story is ok, nothing particularly special about it. You are a runner, you transport information 
 that would be disapproved of by the government. This world is a distopia, if you haven't guessed, 
 so even minor disturbances have the police charging after you guns blazing. Your sister gets into 
 a jam and its up to faith (you) to save her. there is a twist or two that some people may not see 
 coming but for the most part its a simple, straight forward story.
  
  The graphics in this game are great, its cutscenes are nicely done and the game play is comparable 
 to the best on any console. Its physics are good and it feels like you are really doing the things 
 you do. The first person prospective is a bit disorientating at first but you do get used to it 
 (just hope you don't get motion sick)
  
  All in all this game is very fun, if you are looking for a new-age platformer this is for you. 
 The speed runs are challenging and fun and finding the fastest path through the level is a must.
 
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXl_IMoRTaL_lXx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 10:32 pm PT
Review:  OK. This game is fun. It's really good, but not great. This game could've been one of the best 
 of all time though, and I expect an amazing sequel. The controls in this game are amazing. THe 
 motions are quick and respond greatly. THe controls are simple, yet complicated at the same time... 
 There's more depth then meets the eye in Mirror's Edge. This game overall, is revolutionary. An 
 FP Platformer. Amazing! Unfortunetly this game tried to throw in some gunplay... yeahhh... avoid 
 that. There's an achievement for completing the game without a gun for a reason! It's a suggestion! 
 If you start shooting, it takes the feeling away. Unfortunetly the hand-to-hand combat isn't very 
 fulfilling either.. You'll most likely find one combo of running hits or something that you like 
 the best and repeat that throughout the game. So this needs to be polished in the sequel, it's 
 close but not quite. 
  As for the platforming, when the game allows you to really run, it's amazing. When the player actually 
 KNOWS where to go, in scenes like chases are being hunted by the police the game is TOP NOTCH! 
 However, there's plenty of times when the player does not know where to go, or a jump doesn't work 
 out just right, which is the biggest reason the game is not a 10/10. Also, the music, audio and 
 animation are amazing. It captures an amazing feeling and attachment to the story. The music, superb
 
  Checklist for ME2.
  Better combat
  No guns...
  Let the player know where to go.
  More captivating story.
  Better animation in cutscenes ( I wasn't a fan ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthBlivion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 1:31 am PT
Review:  You're put in the role of a runner (or free runner) whose job it is to transport sensitive information 
 from one party to the next. These runners have become very important because the authorities in 
 the metropolis the game is set in, monitor all information. The story kicks off when the protagonist 
 sister is framed for a high profile murder and as the game progresses Faith tries to find information 
 to prove her inoccence while at the same time trying to uncover the conspiracy of the city government.
 
  
  This game is ambitious and it delivers with the fast pace, excellent perspective and mostly precise 
 controls. The only negatives are the trial and error puzzles and the wall running in certain areas 
 is inprecise.
  
  +Immersive world and characters
  +Fluid, precise controls
  +Encourages stunts
  +The exileration of vertigo
  +Wonderful action sequences
  + Excellent 
 pacing
  
  
  -Puzzles break up the speed which is one of the strong points of this gameplay type.
  -Wall running 
 across certain gaps is imprecise and requires repitition.
  
  There's a lot of positives to be taken from the game. It's something I'd recommend every gamer 
 to try at least once as it is a very unique title and premise. 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 4:08 pm PT
Review:  this game is revolutionary in many, many ways. to able to pull this off took great skill. the parkour 
 theory is amazing. how well the first person mechanics work is great. the best thing about the 
 game is how remarkable the environments look. everything is so vibrant and immersive. the world 
 feels so believable and awesome! playing this game truly gives you vertigo at moments. when you're 
 leaping from rooftop to rooftop, it really does pull you into the game and it gets you excited 
 every moment. the puzzles in the game are complicated and hard to figure out at times. but when 
 you figure them out, it's hard to believe how they can put something so realistic into a game. 
 the only flaws were two things. the game was WAY too short. we're talking about 10 tops. and they 
 storyline was completely stupid. it made no sense and it was ridiculous. other than these two flaws, 
 the game is really fun. but seeing as how it is very short, you might just wanna rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jitza02
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2009 8:06 pm PT
Review:  This was a really fun game but certainly had a few problems. First of all, sometimes if you don't 
 hit obstacles right, you will fall... alot... and die... alot. HOWEVER, once you figure out what 
 to do, it is a real blast. Guns, while not the main focus, shoot well if not simplistically. You 
 will get shot... alot, but once you learn some combos and disarms (can be a pain especially with 
 the assault rifles) it is relatively smooth sailing. The puzzles, as mentioned above, can be frustrating 
 but very satisfying once you get past them. The story mode was satisfactory, but can be short, 
 especially when you get the hang of speed runs. It should be noted that the FPS is actually done 
 WELL. It really adds into the immersion and was honestly enough my favorite FPS of the year and 
 it was not a First Person Shooter. An intriguing game worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonwhite88
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 4:25 am PT
Review:  I lent this game off my sister knowing is wasnt worth buying i could just tell it was gonna be 
 one of those games. At the beginning it was fresh, innovative, fast paced and a enjoyable play 
 but how wrong i was. The first few chapters got quite repetitive and slightly boringbut i stook 
 it out because it just had an alure to it which made me think there is gonna be more. But there 
 wasnt. From chapter 6 - 9 this game made me so fustrated i could have snapped the disk if it belonged 
 to me. Every level was the same jump, run, jump, run and climb, oh and miss stupid jumps. When 
 trying to jump onto a pipe you have to be so precise if your just a millometre out your f*cked. 
 Melee combat is also absymal. The makers of this game, whatever there name is, have tried to start 
 off a knew genre of game and be revolutionary but they have failed. I hope there is not a sequel 
 cuz i it sucks so bad and if i did play it i would probably glow green and rip my shirt open while 
 stomping two footed on the disc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EarthwormJohnUK
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2009 5:40 pm PT
Review:  When I think of Mirror's Edge developer EA, the first thing that springs to mind is playing fifa 
 on the megadrive and being amazed by the voice intro ('It's in the game') , the second thought that 
 crosses my mind when i think of EA is the endless number of sports games littered with fashionable 
 indie/rock "trax".
  
  With this in mind I have found myself impressed and surprised by the recent upturn in decent new 
 IP that EA have developed, first there was Skate- a reinterpretation of the skate-em-up that Tony 
 Hawk had so much success with and then single handedly pummelled to death (i blame the introduction 
 of Bam Margera) . Then there was Dead Space, a genuinely scary alternative to Resident Evil that 
 managed to take the good old 'trapped on a space ship with only mutilated corpses and aliens for 
 company' vibe and make it feel fresh again.
  
  Mirror's Edge is another bold change in direction for a company that until recently had decided 
 that the world needed more Fifa Street. The story of Mirror's Edge revolves around a free-runner 
 named Faith who, in the futuristic world in which the game is set, works as a courier for revolutionary 
 types (well, that is what i assume but in the game you only ever deliver one package) that refuse 
 to accept the dystopian society in which CCTV and "swift justice" are the norm. I'm not sure why 
 courier companies have been banned by the government but we should be thankful for that because 
 a Mirror's Edge in which you play a Fed Ex driver would be a little hard to enjoy.
  
  The world of Mirror's Edge is a beautiful and striking one, this is helped by the simple primary 
 colour scheme that offers a refreshingly bright and welcoming environment in comparison to the 
 dirge of brown and grey lands that have become the mainstay of modern first person shooters.
  
  The majority of the game revolves around parkour (a french term for 'not getting the bus' if 
 i'm not mistaken) and the game excels in providing a smooth and fluid simulation of the sport. 
 The only other games that I can think of that are able to focus provide such free-flowing and enjoyable 
 movement would be Ubisoft's Assassin's Creed or Prince of Persia; these games, like Mirror's Edge, 
 are able to transform the simple task of moving from A to B into an enjoyable process that rarely 
 becomes a bore. 
  
  Mirror's Edge can often prove to be a very unforgiving game, whilst it is incredibly rewarding 
 to string together a fluid string of moves together, it can also mercilessly punish you for a mistimed 
 press of a button which leads to your character falling to her death.
  
  The game, whilst it should be applauded for offering an original method and set of controls (be 
 prepared to use the shoulder buttons, a lot) it proves to be sadly flawed by the half hearted (and 
 much criticised) combat. When i first started playing the game i assumed that more hand to hand 
 combos would be achievable as you progressed, a la Spiderman, unfortunately this is not the case 
 and you, the spirited free-runner/delivery girl, must resort to the same pattern of 'slide kick, 
 punch, punch, jump kick' through out the game. 
  
  Faith can thankfully disarm security guards/policemen with a simple quick time event move which 
 looks nice when it is performed initially but quickly grows old. Upon the disarmament of your foe 
 you can then use their gun and the remaining ammo to take out your other enemies. It is next to 
 impossible to beat a group of guards in hand to hand combat so you are then faced with the option 
 of gunning them down or simply running away. The shooting element of this game is by far the weakest 
 part of Mirror's Edge, although this can be viewed as either a positive or a negative depending 
 on your viewpoint; you can think that this ruins the game or encourages you to think more tactically 
 whilst giving the main character a vulnerability that is rarely seen in a game protagonist.
  
  A large part of the game (when not running away from the rozzers) is the need to work out how 
 to actually scale a building, often it is simply a matter of climbing up a drain pipe or jumping 
 up a wall but often the game demands that you attempt ridiculous combos to reach your goal. This 
 3D first person puzzle element reminded me of Portal and the need for experimentation to proceed, 
 it never reaches the same level of Genius as Valve's output but it is still pleasing to see a company 
 willing to place thought over violence, especially using the first person view point and the connotations 
 that go with it.
  
  The story line is fairly weak and unimportant and each level follows a fairly simple structure: 
 get to this place, meet someone, run!!! The anti-totalitarian element, whilst hackneyed, is still 
 relevant and apt for the world in which we live in today. Given such an emotive idea that has been 
 powerfully utilized by other media in the past (1984 and Children of Men for example) it is disappointing 
 that nothing exciting materialised from it as the game went on.
  
  The tempo of the game is well paced often driven by the soundtrack that feels futuristic and hip 
 enough whilst never becoming distracting enough to make you think about it. Oddly though the bgm 
 seemed to sporadically drop out for periods of the game, I can only assume that this was designed 
 to create tension, instead it just seemed like a glitch in the game. 
  
  Mirror's Edge is a strange game, there are certain elements of the game that i love (the way in 
 which Faith kicks and barges into doors and the wobble of the camera perspective is a simple trick 
 but effective) whilst other parts are laughable such as the cut scenes; I can see what DICE were 
 trying to achieve, the simple colour scheme works but the animation is terrible and often seems 
 tired (I personally would have gone for an Animatrix-esque style for the cutscenes) .
  
  Like I said, it's an odd game, it tries to create a new way of approaching the FPS and it succeeds 
 in a number of ways, unfortunately a bold style and an element of uniqueness can only carry a game 
 so far before basic faults begin to grate.
  
  Despite EA's new venture into original titles I'd like to hope that Mirror's Edge will be given 
 a sequel in true EA style. Now that DICE have established what works and what needs improvement, 
 Mirror's Edge 2 could be a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhilMargera
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 3, 2009 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start? Mirrors Edge, what a silly name. Im sure it was an afterthought, by the 14 year 
 old gamedesigner. This game seems to be highly influenced by lame sci-fi movies like The Matrix, 
 nothing here seems wholly original or particularly interesting. Playing though this game was a 
 chore, thankfully I borrowed it, so it only cost me time. The gameplay is like a first person view 
 mimicking the Prince of Persia-type gameplay. The graphics are hideous and unacceptable in the 
 modern age of High Definition gaming. I cant seem to understand the hype surrounding this game 
 and I have accepted that I just dont have the same taste as "the Majority".
  Give me The Sands of Time or another action-platformer that can draw me into its atmoshere and 
 keep me moving forward to see where the next corner takes me. This game was just too dry, too bland 
 and I cant say I will ever play even one more level of it again. I trudged forward hoping the game 
 may redreem itself in the latter chapters, but the half-baked futirstic, color-by-numbers storyline 
 bored me to tears and the game controls kept me frustrated.
  This game seems to do well with a lot of gamers, but its definitely not for everyone. Please borrow 
 or rent this game before laying down cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 11:59 am PT
Review:  When new games come from well-known companies, expectations are high being that so much money and 
 publicity is needed to even cause a blip on the industry radar. Insert mega publisher/developer, 
 EA.
  With the sports world in their pocket on a yearly basis and very few companies able to match their 
 library and ongoing franchises, one would assume not much is necessary in the sense of change. 
 It's the range in creative offerings that's in dire need -- Insert DiCE's FPS adventure Mirror's 
 Edge.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  At first glance, the game appears to be your standard FPS with bright colored backdrops. Instead, 
 you take the role of leading lady Faith; lightly dressed, acrobatic, 90 some odd pounds of pure 
 adrenaline, who fears nothing and scours the city like an urban Tarzan.
  Since you stake your survival on being keen with speed and urban acrobatics, better known as Pakour, 
 avoiding combat is your bread and butter. No doubt, you can easily attack the various security 
 guards and swat force soldiers with punches, kicks, and environmental take-downs. If you're feeling 
 real bold, you can also disarm enemies and use their own weapons against them. Relying heavily 
 on mobility, carrying weapons around hampers such activities that allow you to grab, swing, slide, 
 jump and basically stay alive. 
  
  Without such gear commonly seen in shooters, the game really offers a unique experience that conveys 
 speed and hair-raising stunts not easily done by the common person. Leaping across building tops, 
 swinging to and from nail biting areas, outrunning heavy gunfire, maneuvering under and over various 
 objects, and this is all done with ease and proficiency as long you keep the break neck speed demanded 
 for survival.
  Adjusting to the controls and finding a play style that works best for you isn't very difficult, 
 but maintaining such consistency while keeping stride is where frustration can sneak up. Nothing 
 screams failure better than bouncing around the surrounding area with grace and taking down a few 
 baddies decisively only to sprint for a massive jump and come up terribly short. Definitely not 
 welcoming segments for gamers who suffer vertigo.
  Beyond the well told 9 chapter story that takes you to the highest buildings and far underground; 
 addicts of speed and skill can tackle the extra modes unlocked after completing the game for real 
 digital Pakour challenges. 
  
  VISUALS
  Having a distinct "look" in the modern gaming industry is a lot tougher than most gamers bother 
 to understand. You either take the ultra realistic approach that glamorizes grit and grime, or 
 you can tiptoe around bright colors and cartoon-oriented settings. Finding a middle ground is make 
 or break for most games, but I truly feel Mirror's Edge really hit the sweet spot dancing on both 
 ends of the fence.
  Displaying a futuristic downtown city without a bunch of technology nonsense is so-so at first; 
 yet the simple colors and the subtle details like birds soaring about, planes and helicopters trafficking 
 the skies, sun rays shooting through tight spots, window reflections, and the overall calm of the 
 city below simply fits. Even while underground in dirty sewers beneath the city, the art style 
 and color composition really helps portray dark places with immensely clean polish. Since you explore 
 a majority of the game world bouncing off and around every wall or object, level design really 
 shines, as you never question the believability or the fluidity of props and area arrangements. 
 And this feeling is cemented big time when you explore other game modes that encourage speed-runs 
 and time trials.
  One area of note that kind of bothered me was the difference in art style once you transitioned 
 to new levels. Its not a terrible flaw or a deal breaker, yet the in-game graphics were so pretty 
 and lush its hard to see why the art team decided on cel-shaded cartoon characters to help tell 
 the story. A welcomed and tasteful approach none the less.
  
  AUDIO
  By far, my favorite aspect of this entire game was the wonderful music selection! In no way would 
 I discredit the great voice work and decent array of sound effects that covers every object or 
 surface possible. I just feel the talented people who understood what kind of adventure you were 
 on realized how strong this production value was and capitalized greatly on it creating a very 
 inspiring and motivational soundtrack. 
  
  EXTRAS
  Besides having wonderfully crafted music that can be played from the start screen, there are a 
 few other entertaining modes that help extend the single player adventure. Replaying the 9 levels 
 from the story as quick as possible unlocks a few achievements and testing your dexterity through 
 time trials that breaks down these same levels into segments offers about 200+ points.
  Matching your skill against friends and leader board elites is pretty cool thanks to ghost mode, 
 but unless you crave the challenge of battling for seconds, you can live without them. From start 
 to finish, you could rake in about 500 points simply enjoying the game and mastering the controls. 
 Go that extra mile for another 200+ points and you can track down hidden bags, perform special 
 combos, and stumble across a few other secrets without any real hassle. 
  
  OVERALL
  What I adore about Mirror's Edge compared to other games is the genuine breath of fresh air it 
 invites to the industry as a whole. Especially FPS adventures! Like the Scooby Doo cartoon that 
 always had a "new" mystery every week, you never really felt intimidated by the surprise twist. 
 Which leads to stale detective stories -- a horrendous crime all in itself. I strongly believe 
 this is a curse that's taking over the popular gaming genres and it can be cured with a little 
 more faith in the unknown or unfamiliar.
  Instead of the common shooter; give me less guns, demand that I maneuver my way out of danger rather 
 than blow it up, give me a different cast of characters to work with, pitch me a corny story that 
 at least stimulates thoughts beyond running from point A to point B. Give me more! If I cry and 
 complain, there is a good chance publisher's and developers will be told where they lost me. If 
 I cry for more, you know what to serve in larger portions. It's a win-win situation in my eyes 
 for all parties. And I really hope the gaming industry doesn't shy away from future projects that 
 dare to twist the familiar foundations we've all come to love and hate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Admittedly I was never really interested in Mirror's Edge and only played it because I was at blockbuster 
 and needed something to play on a couple boring days off from work and school. Mirror's Edge has 
 an intriguing concept but ultimately misses that precious leap that would have saved it from falling 
 flat on it's face. Its not to say mirrors edge is a complete loss, its just that could have been 
 so much more. Time for brass tax.
  
  Pro:
  - Amazing graphics
  - Interesting concept with at times great results
  - Combat is brutal
  - Great art style
 
  - Music fits action perfectly
  - When the action does take off, it's fast and tense 
  - Nice list of unlockables
  
  Cons:
  -World feels empty
  - Story is way too weak and bland 
 for a single player only game
  - Aside from Faith and Ropeburn, cast is forgettable
  - Cheap deaths as a result of being a fraction of a second off with controller input
  - The plot 
 twist is seen a mile away
  
  With such a great premise, one would hope EA would take another crack at this game. If done proper 
 a second time around, this could become a great franchise. The potential is there, EA just needs 
 to up its game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silver9700188
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  From the moment i tried the demo, i fell in love with this game! Great visual, sweet music and 
 awesome innovative gameplay. Everything about the game just made me want to buy it as soon as it 
 came out.
  
  For a while now, i've been following the trends with games (halo 3, gta IV, GoW...) and i often 
 get into the habit of becoming a gamerscwhore. You know, just get the achievements done for the 
 sake of increasing stupid gamerscore, barely realizing if I actually enjoyed the game that much. 
 Even though i'm trying to tell myself i am getting achievements just to make sure i finish everything 
 possible with a game, i still think this is a stupid waste of my time...
  
  In any case, this game has brought me back to my roots: playing a game cause it's just loads of 
 fun!! The levels are just superb, intuitive and highly satisfying with great puzzles and filled 
 with action. I actually wished the game never ended.. (yeah for DLC maps !!!) I know it isn't for 
 everybody as it can get frustrating at some points, but if you are a quick thinker, this game won't 
 let you down!
  
  If you are looking for a fresh single player and highly addictive game, you should consider getting 
 Mirror's Edge! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swehunt
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 4:19 pm PT
Review:  I've had this title on my mind since I saw the first screen shots of this beautiful estetic game.
 
  
  Are you like me bored to death by the brown/grey/black FPS games theese days? I am honestly sick 
 of that all new releases in the FPS genre has fallen into that the standard should be boring and 
 litteraly all blown up estetic, this title is nothing like any other game it is butifull, this 
 aside i'll go deeper in that further ahead in my review.
  
  ------- ------ ------ ------ ------- ------ ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- 
  [i] First 
 we take a look in the [b] story/synopsis [/b] [/i]
  
  This is the story of "Faith", a ung girl witch make her way thru as a runner, delivering secret 
 documents, far away from the very strict regime. The government has surpressed all democracy and 
 now the only way for the "free people" is to hide and do things in the secret, this is where faith 
 fits in, she and other runners make the delivery of papers witch never will see the hands of the 
 corrupt goverment. 
  But one man stand up strait and runs for gouvenor, he promice to set the power and back to the 
 people, he gets killed and Kate, Faith's sister is framed for the murder she didn't do.
  
  Without spoiling anything i can tell you that this will evolve and the story goes deaper in to 
 this as you play the game.
  
  ------ ------ ------- ------- -------- --------- --------- -------- --------- ------ 
  [i] [b] Game 
 play [/b] [/i]
  
  Faith is a runner, and what she does best is obvious running/jumping and doing a whole lot of air 
 acrobatic. 
  If you look at any game play video one quite fast figureout this game don't play just with one 
 buttom on your controller.
  You'll nead to know all the buttons on your controller but it really isn't that hard to "get a 
 grip on it". litteraly... After 5 minutes of the first tutorial you'll know all you nead to play 
 thru the game, but there are dussins of "combos" to figure out while playing also.
  
  Unlike most FPS games this game does not meaning you will be shooting and blasting your way thru 
 each chapter, but more often you will find that the best way is go another route so you won't be 
 running in a gunfight. But in some situations you'll pic up a gun or automatic riffle to get the 
 "blue".
  Faith isn't rambo with the guns, but she can use them if she get hands on one, but you cant bring 
 the riffle when you try to jump, so for most time it isn't a good idea to carry any weapon.
  
  There are some frustrating "trial and error" in this game but it does somewhat fit's in plaze, 
 you'll feal really good when you for the 8: th time actually get the "wallrun and jump" combo rigth 
 and lands on the edge of a house roof.
  
  ------ ----- -------- ------- -------- --------- ---------- ---------- -------- -------
  
  
 [i] [b] Visual and sound [/b] [/i]
  
  Wow, i really don't know where to start. 
  
  This game is sooo difrent to any game visually, brigth and colorfull, and the look of the city 
 you're playing in is almoust abnormal beautiful and very detailed.
  From the first to the last chapter evry objekt is rendered very tastefull, even if the variety 
 isn't the best. 
  "Motion blurr" and nice textures is all over the game.
  I am amaced that the game played as well as it did on the 360, because it's filled with beautiful 
 graphic, and actually not a single hicup from the xbox!
  
  The moust cut scenes (between the chapters) are drawed in comics style, even if it's very diffrent 
 from the gameplay visual it does in a good way tell the story. There are small cut sceenes also 
 with actual gamepley fotage, thoose are also very nice.
  
  The sound is very good, and the best part is actually Faith's footsteps and breathing, it makes 
 this game very "adrenaline pumping" to play, the music does extend theese fealings, the music is 
 soft when you're taking it easy, and just as the first gunshoot arrives the tone has changed and 
 the beat of the music is in a whole other paste. 
  You will at times feal really stress'ed when you have some "coppers" running behind you and you 
 hear their footstep and the music playing fast. Adrenalin!
  
  ----- ------ ------ ------ ------- ------- -------- -------- ------ ----- ------- ----- 
  
 
  [i] [b] Conclution and personal thougths on the game [/i] [/b]
  
  As i already written in the first llines this game has a whole diffrent approach visually than 
 all other FPS games i've played.
  I really hope this set a new standard estethic so we can see more fps with more gun action in brigther 
 enviromets instead of dark cellars.
  
  I like the story, it's very involving even tho it does leave out many things, you don't get to 
 know as much about the charractors, but my guess it that this is just the way "Dice" wanted the 
 game to be.
  The story does end in a way that indicate that there are atleast one sequel coming soon, this is 
 good because i was very sad when i saw the end credits, i just sat a while and admired the names 
 of thoose made this great game alivalable for all game fans.
  
  This is the best game i've played in modern time, and i enjoyed ewry second of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samusarmada
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 10:58 am PT
Review:  The necessity of combat pervades itself throughout general game design. It is seen as a requirement 
 to face an obstacle head on rather than approach it in a different manner to the extent that even 
 the usually placid puzzle genre has had its fair share of head to head showdowns. It is surprising 
 then to find a first person game no less that attempts to break this standard. Rather than assault 
 your enemies head on Mirrors Edge would have you avoid them, rather than armour up Mirrors Edge 
 would have you go loose, rather than take in the controlled, beautiful world around you Mirrors 
 Edge wishes you to escape it. As a premise it is glorious and as a final product it encapsulates 
 its vision. Mirrors Edge may occasionally stumble but it can't help but leave you breathless at 
 the same time.
  
  Much of this is down to how new everything about the game feels. A lot is made of the so called 
 "first steps" moment in certain games-your first steps onto Hyrule Field or the first steps out 
 of the sewers in Oblivion, but never has it actually been the steps themselves that make these 
 moments. Actually moving in Mirrors Edge has a learning curve and almost immediately you notice 
 the subtleties that every other first person game lacks: the simple head bobble with every motion, 
 the necessity to accelerate into a run rather than immediately speed into it, the sight of Faith's 
 arms and legs when sliding, climbing and even when moving or simply looking around, the perfect 
 motion blur-not just while turning but through sprinting as well. These are necessities in a game 
 like Mirrors Edge because moving is what its game design pivots on. It would be hard to make a 
 game about simply running around with the movement system in Halo because the contextualisation 
 with the environment (the auto grabbing, the shimmying) and more importantly the flow and progression 
 of movement is simply not there. 
  
  Perhaps what is most overlooked about Mirrors Edge is a feature that is so haphazardly dealt with 
 in every other game in the genre. Not since Metroid Prime has a game so perfectly nailed first 
 person platforming and it is for the same reasons as Metroid Prime-the momentum, the sense of weight, 
 the immersion of the interface that it does so. Mirrors Edge's placement of the jump button on 
 the left bumper is a brave decision, but one that thankfully frees up the right stick for synchronisation. 
 It's a pleasure to see a first person game move away from such stagnated traditions (right trigger 
 may still be for attack but the left trigger for crouch?!) and it's a focused and carefully judged 
 control scheme that emphasises viewpoint more than actions.
  And it is these features that Mirrors Edge requires most. The rooftop runs needing the B buttons 
 focus in the direction of your target, the right bumpers 180 twist to not only allow for wall 
 jumps and bar rotations but also to allow or a quick twist due to a slow, albeit necessarily slow 
 sensitivity and the X buttons slow motion ability to allow those with a partiality for continuity 
 to keep their momentum while judging the best route available. Jumping, sliding, wall kicking and 
 wall running are your means of progression however and your ability to string them all together 
 without a slow down of your momentum in any of them results in chases that can be as varied as 
 you want without compromise. Even falling can be strung into the flow with a correctly placed L 
 trigger squeeze resulting in either a roll or a slide on landing.
  
  It is in these rooftop chases that Mirrors Edge delivers its best moments. The runs themselves 
 are outstanding and the variations that can occur-be it through focal landmarks, chasing down targets 
 or even being chased yourself-results in moments you wish would last longer. Sadly, after liberating 
 beginnings Mirrors Edge increasingly sets you in ever larger enclosed spaces- the Portal like environment 
 negotiation more akin to a puzzler than a platformer. Though Portal in design (and surprisingly 
 in incidental humour) in focus the game is always about the free running so such sections become 
 claustrophobic due to frustration. Even Faith herself seems irritable; her fleet footsteps and 
 constant acceleration better suited to free flowing avoidance rather than stop-start progression. 
 The fact that these sections take so much longer to actually figure out let alone accomplish mean 
 that they seem to occur far more frequently than the parkour jogs. 
  
  Tied between the two are combat sections. With your role in the game as a courier you are advised 
 to flee from all adversaries and it is indeed a far more satisfying and liberating feel to do so. 
 Should you choose (or be forced as the game progressively loves to) to engage in combat then you 
 can apply a basic selection of punches and kicks. It's a smooth enough system and the ability to 
 punch on the run gives you the welcome chance to stun but you are still vulnerable to combatants 
 who are all armed with guns. This forces you to approach combat differently because the old methods 
 of either gung ho charging or from a distance point shooting are impossible. As your enemies almost 
 always come in groups it is necessary to hide or dart around to try and draw out and isolate enemies 
 so you can get the jump on them. It's a different approach and one that only feels half as satisfying 
 thanks to some mediocre AI, but kill or disarm (with a finely timed button press) your enemy and 
 you can obtain a firearm to level the playing field. 
  
  Gunplay is relatively disappointing in Mirrors Edge though. While it is again refreshing to see 
 the absence of an iron sights viewpoint as well as even an aiming reticule, the general implementation 
 is mournfully by-the-numbers. While shooting has never been its focus one of the main hypes about 
 the game was how its viewpoint would change the first person shooter. Many of Mirrors Edge's features 
 become lost when holding a gun and your jump distance and sprint peak weirdly fall down to the 
 levels of Master Chief. It's a nice touch how heavier weapons affect your movement and abilities 
 more than pistols as well as how weapons are both single use and feature no ammo counter, but these 
 are half steps that really needed to be fully addressed if some of Mirrors Edge's greatest innovations 
 were to gain influence.
  
  For all of these supposed innovations however Mirrors Edge features a selection of bizarrely archaic 
 game staples. The baffling inclusion of exploding barrels makes little sense given the cleanliness 
 of the environment presented and their potential gameplay benefit is simply non-existent in a game 
 that otherwise discourages gunplay. Inexplicably Mirrors Edge also features valve puzzles in what 
 is surely the most ridiculous design choice in recent times. Their only potential benefit to a 
 game about constant movement is allowing the game to load seamlessly; a concept which again proves 
 to be unfounded thanks to Mirrors Edge's at times horribly placed mid-level loads.
  
  Even with all these hesitations Mirrors Edge's single player is still a brisk but exciting thrill 
 ride and much of it still has to do with how invigorating the running sequences are. For those 
 looking to go beyond Mirrors Edge's short 8 hour campaign a time trial mode is available allowing 
 you to race through the fastest sections of the game. As a substitute for actual multiplayer it's 
 pretty limiting. The actual online competition for best times is now more down to refinement than 
 experimentation, as the maps stark layout lead to rather obvious shortcuts. Those with a slightly 
 grander aim can speed run entire levels on completion, but don't expect it to reach the popularity 
 of Quake or Metroid any time soon. While the single player is short, the hidden bags and pull to 
 go without firing a gun for the entire game ("Test of Faith" achievement) will please completionists 
 and a fairly accommodating hard mode is available for those who want to dabble in Mirror's Edge's 
 utopia just that little bit longer.
  
  And linger you may want to. After you get over the initial disbelief that the Unreal Engine can 
 produce something other than brown you can't help but marvel at the clinical tautness of the world 
 on offer. It's as functional as it is stylish (a rare thing indeed) as its cerulean skyline and 
 clearly defined structures allow for easy navigation. Even inside the game is striking; with distinct 
 colour duets uniquely accompanying each interior and Mirrors Edge can join the group Eternal Sonata 
 formed of having sewers that are as clean as its outside world. An almost arrogantly stylish piece 
 of design comes in the form of Runner Vision; a for-your-eyes-in-their-mind feature that presents 
 all potentially useful objects in a stark red. It's optional for those with a panache for going 
 solo but it acts as a visual pleasantry as much as anything, particularly in the rooftop sections 
 that can look rather bland with only cool whites and blues in the majority. In keeping with the 
 flavour, but not achieving quite such successful results is Mirrors Edge's stark and abstract use 
 of lighting. While this static lighting is well produced, in the deepest areas of the city the 
 lighting team have only placed lights around where you need to go, resulting in periods of almost 
 total darkness as you slowly rotate around looking for a glimmer of light. Turn runner vision off 
 and it becomes horrific as none of the pipes or beams (that were once coated in red) are even noticeable. 
 Fortunately, such ill feeling can be catered thanks to Mirrors Edge's cool, ambient soundtrack. 
 It all seems to be based around the made famous "Still Alive" track that sadly only appears for 
 the credits.
  
  With the uniqueness of the world on offer it is immensely disappointing to witness a story that 
 only barely scratches its surface. Instead of focusing on the wider themes of the city and its 
 restrictions Mirrors Edge opts for a conspiracy clad tale that involves the protagonist's sister 
 as a kind of emotional pull. The trouble is that you have no real connection to main character 
 Faith; the cartoon style cutscenes clash with the games natural presentation of her and it simply 
 adds to the numerous visages we have of the character on box arts, packaging and trailers. What's 
 more the story is simply overly formulaic-with deaths, betrayals and twists making it obvious that 
 there was no other way the story was actually going to get you excited. What is perhaps key to 
 the story's failure is that the route you take to get to each point is simply far more entertaining 
 than the story points themselves. It provides a strong contrast to linear JRPG's like Eternal Sonata 
 where the journey to each plot point is simply a dungeon trawl that makes you want the story all 
 the more.
  
  For all its faults, all its disappointments and all its incongruence's Mirrors Edge is an achievement 
 like no other. Its seamless integration of platforming and lone racing give it an almost delicious 
 balance between Mario and Sonic that no platformer, let alone one in 3D and in first person has 
 ever accomplished. Truth be told, if this were set in 3rd person it would not receive nearly as 
 much praise. It's a stripped out experience that focuses solely on the platforming (even when it 
 is at its darkest) but it's such an involving and immersive stripped out experience that it becomes 
 fully fledged through intimacy. And for all its numerous gripes, in reality they are secondary 
 to a core design that is simply evolutionary, albeit not revolutionary to the perspective. It may 
 break a few mirrors in the process, but on final reflection it achieved what we thought was impossible 
 and is a true example of how risk can lead to a worthy reward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KartoTolmex
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2009 4:49 am PT
Review:  Before I begin to review Mirror's Edge, I have to point out that you have to play it. It's as simple 
 as that.
  Originality is a rare commodity these days and it doesn't bode well for it to be discouraged. Even 
 if it's only a three day rental (which is all you need really need with it) , then at least you've 
 experienced one of the rare instances of invention in the 21ST century gaming industry. 
  But if you can spare the budget price (15 UK if you look around, or $25 I believe is the cheapest 
 in the United States)
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Minimalistic is the first word that comes to mind when thinking of the design of Mirror's Edge. 
 The game mainly consists of primary colors accompanied by whites, and it works fantastically. 
 
  Everything looks great when Faith (the character you control) builds momentum and reds and blues 
 rush past in a hazy blur, and it really does make it feel that you are really are running across 
 the rooftops of fifty-storey skyscrapers.
  However, this is in stark contrast to the dull colors of the vent sections, and accompanied by 
 how slow paced these sections are, they really do bring you crashing back to reality. This is a 
 minor niggle, as it isn't enough to degrade your experience when you're back running across the 
 roofs, and you want give another thought until the next vent section.
  
  Sound
  
  SFX
  From footsteps pounding underneath you, to gunshots in the distance, each sound will impress. 
 Not really much that can be said here that everything sounds as it should, and at the same time 
 doesn't get in the way of anything else.
  
  BGM
  This is where the game houses most of its appeal for me. A poorly designed accompanying soundtrack 
 can ruin even the best of games, but a well crafted musical score can really turn a work of art 
 into a masterpiece, and in this instance it's definitely the latter. The whole score is well placed; 
 and range from quick, tense tones when you're dashing across the rooftops to quiet, melodic melodies 
 when you're concentrating on twenty foot jump that you have to land inch perfect. 
  A couple of sections really do shine, The Atrium was my personal favorite, and I find myself playing 
 the track from the main menu whilst I work, it's that relaxing.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The game takes place from the first person perspective, and this can take some getting used to. 
 To start with, it really will be a struggle to time your jumps so that you're not jumping miles 
 too early and speeding towards the streets below, or far too late and just end up dashing off the 
 edge and wind up speeding towards the streets below.
  But, by the third level I would estimate, you'll find yourself thinking that this couldn't be done 
 in any other way. You'll begin to see shortcuts (the runner vision that highlights relevant objects 
 such as springboards and doors is a stroke of genius) , and start planning routes way in advance 
 of reaching them, which is what this game is all about, keeping the flow.
  
  However, this brings me to a major complaint I have, the loading. As mentioned previously there 
 are vent sections that break the pace up, but there are also elevator sections where you're forced 
 to stand in a confined space for up to a minute twiddling your thumbs. I understand that a game 
 has to have loading times, but they can be hidden a lot better than what has been presented here. 
 And for a game that is all about keeping the pace going, you would think that loading times would 
 have been a primary concern.
  Although, this is the lesser of two evils, as I have known games to suddenly interrupt you to load, 
 because you've gone through a section too quickly for it to prepare the next part for you on the 
 move.
  I know it sounds like I can't make my mind up about this, but it boils down to the individual and 
 how much loading times bother them.
  
  Mirror's Edge disappoints in the story department. It doesn't really have one, it's like the game 
 was designed in full and someone suddenly realized they need some explanation as to why any of 
 this is going on. And then they spent five minutes on developing a story and that was the end of 
 it. But then you could say you're playing the wrong game entirely if you want complicated sub-plots 
 and the like, so you can actually let this slide. 
  
  Another niggle I had was the choice to have the "roll" command (enables you to complete impossibly 
 large jumps with minimal slowdown) mapped to the same button as the "let go of ledge" command. 
 While this maybe something strange to pick up on, it really adds to the frustration when you only 
 just make a jump, only to let go of it and fall to your death, because you weren't sure whether 
 you needed to roll or not. Couple this with the fact that you can't change the control scheme and 
 it's almost like the developers wanted you to make these mistakes to increase the longevity of 
 the game.
  
  
  Lifespan
  
  This is a short game. Incredibly short, the first playthrough will last you around six to eight 
 hours, which then unlocks time trials, speed runs and hard mode. Hard mode entails enemies doing 
 more damage, and the runner vision being turned off (the highlighted objects) which actually gives 
 a more pure feel to the game.
  Speed runs are the story's chapters, but under a very strict time limit, the first two chapters 
 are forgiving, as is chapter seven from memory, but the others require you to memorize the fastest 
 route, and make no mistakes following it, and this can get very frustrating on the longer, fifteen 
 minute runs.
  Then finally you have the time trials, selected parts of the story chapters that you complete via 
 checkpoints. These are also quite strict, but this is easier to swallow by the fact that you can 
 download ghosts of fellow players. So if you're having trouble on a particular course, you can 
 then leech of somebody's meticulous route planning and claim yourself a respectable time.
  All in all this tallies up to about twenty hours gameplay more or less, dependant on each individual's 
 skill. This estimation doesn't include collecting the runner bags, but as there's no reward per 
 se for doing so I didn't really see the point.
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  Overall this game is very deserving of your attention. As mentioned at the beginning of the review, 
 originality really needs to be encouraged to ensure we get further games that deviate from your 
 shooters, racers, shooters, RPGs and shooters.
  Cult classics like this (games like Ico, Shadow of the Colossus and Psychonauts get honorary mentions 
 here) need to be in your collection. Sure you can finish the game in a day, but it exudes such 
 charm that you'll come back and play it again and again, as it is an only child in an oddball family, 
 when the rest of the street is giving birth to clones of next doors children.
  
  It's missing multiplayer options, needs a little polish here and there, but if it gains enough 
 respect, that oddball family may just give birth to a perfect sibling. (A sequel for those who 
 don't understand the metaphor)
  
  Available for Playstation 3, Xbox 360 (version reviewed) and PC
  
  Review Score: 8/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViolentMarv
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2009 7:40 pm PT
Review:  First off, i recommend you rent or try the demo of the game before you decied to invest any money. 
 Not everyone will like mirrors edge or what it has to offer, some of you will feel that the game 
 is lacking in gun play, or painfully diffcult. The reality is that your not "a merc" you have no 
 gun/wepons skills. Your player does have some martial arts exprenice however it is limited, to 
 disarming and incapacitating enemys. The real point to this game is free running, your ment to 
 get from Point A to Point B in the most quick and efficient manner possible. As you tie together 
 your movements you gain more momentum, allowing you to jump further and higher. All and all i think 
 its a great game, it offers something new, a very face pased, heart pumping action packed type 
 of game play, that isnt based on shooting, killing, blowing stuff up casting spells or all the 
 regular features you expect a next gen action game to have. The reality of it is, you are a messanger, 
 you can do many crazy things when it comes to the free running, but still your only human, bullets 
 will kill you, very quickly in fact, so play smart, avoid the blues...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gkwon
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 11:08 am PT
Review:  I absolutely loved it!
  Ever since I accidentally came across the trailer for Mirror's Edge on the EA site, I've been eagerly 
 waiting my chance to get hold of it.
  Like the Gamespot review says, for all it's momentum based action it can be a bit stop n start, 
 but otherwise I found it very entertaining and visually stunning!
  I found myself near completely submerged in the game and felt my heart stop every time she fell 
 off a platform or building.
  Parts of the game are so frustrating to overcome you can feel like launching the controller across 
 the room, but I find the games that make me feel like this are usually the most satisfying to complete 
 and come back to.
  The levels are very challenging and the combat takes a lot of getting used to but once you do, 
 brilliant!
  I would recommend this game to anyone who would be willing to give it a try, providing your patient 
 enough to come to grips with the controls. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonny7892
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2009 8:02 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is in no way revolutionary or stand-out amazing however it is not the solid gold 
 turd that some people make it out to be. Sure it has its flaws but it overcomes them in many ways.
 
  
  For example it is nice to see a fresh visual style for once. I am tired of the browns and grays 
 that have become commonplace in many new games, GTA 4 and GOW 2 to name a couple. The bright whites 
 and reds really are nice to look at. 
  
  So the graphics are good But you probably won't have enough time to appreciate the scenery as you 
 are chased by a variety of goons through a variety of environments. However this chasing can start 
 to become repetitive and sometimes it feels like you are running just for the sake of it. This 
 feeling is not helped by the average story which is mainly told through cutscenes which are not 
 very well animated.
  
  Gameplay is apparently the biggest problem for Mirror's Edge but this simply is not the case. Trial 
 and error is supposedly part of this problem but it really isn't. there is no more trial and error 
 than in any other game. In fact I probably died less in Mirrors Edge than in GOW 2. Linking several 
 moves together into one flowing action is very satisfying as well and the special movements are 
 only laid out on three buttons; LT LB and RB. LT controls downward movements such as slides or 
 rolls, LB controls upward movements such as jumps and climbs and RB is a swift 90 or 180 degree 
 turn. This simple system makes controlling Faith very easy. Combat is usually a last resort for 
 you except for some sections of the game in which you are forced into a match of fisticuffs and 
 the combat is only controlled using RT which is punch, kick and shoot. However combing your special 
 movements with melee combat can deal much more damage and leave opponents open for a disarm.
  Disarming opponents is supposed to give you an advantage but since guns slow Faith down like they 
 weighed a tonne they are only temporary measures for protecting yourself.
  
  In conclusion Mirrors Edge is packed with new ideas and plenty of flair but it doesn't seem like 
 this will spark a revolution of FPS platformers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sevey13
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is an Action Adventure game unlike any other available on the XBOX 360. As a whole, 
 the game is fun to play (I never regret spending a few hours playing through the campaign) but 
 taken in pieces there are some issues with the game. The best way to describe the game is to imagine 
 that a classic Mario or Sonic platformer has been made 3D with twisting routes and enemies that 
 shoot back. While you have the goal of getting from point A to point B, how you do so is relatively 
 undefined and the challenge in the game is figuring out the best way to get there. This is the 
 game's greatest strength and (every now and then) its main weakness.
  
  In Mirror's Edge, you play from the first person perspective of Faith, a runner who is part of 
 a network of underground counterculturalists who work to undermine the totalitarian government. 
 In an early level, you get called to the office of a mayoral candidate who has anti-totalitarian 
 leanings only to find him dead and your sister framed for the deed. After escaping, you run around 
 the city to find the truth behind the murder and to find a way to free your sister.
  The game opens with a tutorial that helps you get acclimated with the controls. The controls were 
 off putting at first because both the jump and duck functions are controlled with the left bumper/trigger. 
 It feels unnatural at first (I would have liked to see each action mapped the different triggers) 
 but once you get used to it by the end of the first level, you don't even notice.
  
  Gameplay when it sticks to its base is fun. It's when the game deviates from the formula that the 
 main issue sets in. Your arsenal of jumps, ducks, wall runs, twirls, and slides works very well 
 when you are on a sprinting across a rooftop and are trying to get to the next one. Right in the 
 middle of the game, however, the game takes a turn away from that concept. There is a series of 
 about 3 levels that became somewhat of an exercise in frustration for me. The worst level in the 
 game was when the character heads into an ambush in a mall and you spend the entire level pretty 
 much within the confines of the building. There are several points in that series of levels where 
 the path implied by the momentum of the game is wrong; indeed the game creates a checkpoint halfway 
 down the wrong path, meaning that not only are you looking in the wrong place for an alternate 
 route but in order to find the correct one, you have to double back and try to outrun some quickly 
 gaining gunmen.
  
  The mall is the game's low point, however. Once you push through the level preceding it and the 
 level after it, the game quickly recaptures its glory. There are a few points in the game before 
 and after the mall level where the gameplay comes to a standstill as you have to figure out how 
 to get past a half-dozen or so enemies. This wouldn't be so bad if the enemies weren't there (once 
 they are cleared the route to the next room becomes apparent) , but they when they keep killing 
 you before you can figure out even where they are, it becomes a bother. The best way to put it 
 is that when the game strays from its base of speed-based platforming, it loses its momentum. Once 
 the game regains its view, it runs smoothly and enjoyably.
  
  And what a view! I am a staunch believer in the idea that graphics can only augment a game, not 
 be the chief point (hence the failure of the PS3) and in Mirror's Edge the graphical treatment 
 the game gets do an incredible job of cementing you in the game's reality. The incredibly use of 
 primary colors (generally in the warmer section of the palette) against the blanket of white and 
 grey is a feast for the eyes. As you run past the buildings, you can't help but be amazed by the 
 stark contrast between a white building with grey windows and the blue billboard sitting atop it. 
 The game uses the color red to suggest your path, and the color stands out very well. The game 
 also uses blur to an excellent effectwhen you are running at top speed, your peripheral becomes 
 blurred out as you focus on what's ahead rather than what's passing. The comic book-style cut scenes 
 are also top-notch.
  
  The music and sound in the game are pretty good (sound better than music) . Music doesn't really 
 play that central a role in this game, but the pulsing beats pounding when you are at max speed 
 certainly help you feel more like a speed demon. The sound is incredible. Plenty of good voice 
 acting and some great imagination on the part of the sound engineers as to what falling from the 
 top of a 40 story building would sound like.
  
  All in all, Mirror's Edge is a spectacular game. With the exception of a bit of physical drag towards 
 the middle of the game, it is a well thought out game through and through and a game I would like 
 to see a sequel for. If you like a game that is fast paced but doesn't sacrifice story or scenery, 
 Mirror's Edge is the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAG23
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 17, 2009 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I'm pretty sure that you guys can already tell that i'm not really that fond with this game (not 
 really that happy) There are so many things that dissapointed me in this game. First comes the 
 controls. Sometimes i wanted to wallrun but instead she jumped and just killed herself. How retarded 
 can you be? Other times you try to jump towards a ledge but you end up falling for no particular 
 reason. The confusing gameplay also at times sucks. It's especially frustrating and some people 
 decide to break their controllers if they're that brave. So, yes i was dissapointed in this game. 
 That's why people shouldn't trust videogames with females as the protagonists (not to be too sexist) 
 but they all kind of end up the same. The story is kind of wierd as well and it has an even wierder 
 ending . When you finish the game, you think "was that a REAL ending?" Although Mirror's Edge has 
 all these problems, it can also be fun at times. When it is fun, that's when i appreciate the game. 
 EA is seriously losing control. What happened to your new Need for Speed game? Oh yeah, it disappointed 
 tons of people. Same with this game. I thought it would be much better than what it really was? 
 I either want someone else to work on the sequel this time around (if there really is going to be 
 a sequel) or EA doing a far better job. All they're focused on nowadays is stupid sports game. 
 Then, stop making freaking action games! Anyways, if you guys would really want to play this, i 
 suggest renting it first but other than that, it's not worth your 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JacDG
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 7:42 am PT
Review:  I have always had a love for platform games I played from the first Rayman, to Sly and Ratchet 
 & Clank series, the genre seems a little too sadly died a few consoles, Mirror's Edge now seems 
 to have reinvented the genre, although one can not call it is a pure platform game. 
  
  When I write a review, for me to try to be as objective as possible so more can get something out 
 of it, but should have his own opinions to shine through, an extremely difficult combination, which 
 can be Key to write a good review, but this time it will be an extremely subjective declaration 
 since Mirror's Edge is probably one of the games that will be loved or hated. 
  
  Since I saw the first trailer, I have been in love, I remember clearly how I sat and mbede, thinking 
 if it is like this then I am happy, and fortunately has kept developers what they promised at the 
 time. The game was developed by DICE best known for their Battlefield series, they have really 
 taken a huge leap, and some great opportunities, they have landed on their feet and have created 
 something amazing. 
  
  You play as Faith, a Runner. Runners, a bunch of athletic Pakour providers are the only decent 
 source of information in an over-controlled society where everything is monitored constantly, almost 
 the entire population has accepted the monitoring Runnerne ensure that the information being delivered 
 to the few who want the old world back. 
  One day it will be borgmesterkandidat working to get the city freed from monitoring murdered and 
 Faith 'sister Kate who works for the police, are arrested for the murder, Kate is obviously innocent, 
 and thus must Faith cleanse her name. The story is told through some cutscenes either Hades or 
 loved, I personally felt they were not pretty but not ugly, they remind a lot about advertising 
 from Esurance and will others who have seen American television probably think they have not, can 
 check up on youtube. 
  The story could have been very good, which is unfortunately not spent much time to tell it, the 
 cutscenes are just to give a reason, and a transition between the levels and I never got to feel 
 something for the characters, a pity because there Indeed some good and surprising plot twist. 
 
  
  DICE has really been involved in a risky project, as an Action / adventure platform game is set 
 in 1 person all the way is simply stunning, innovative, and know I have to free running / Pakour 
 games are usually poor management and poor camera, but Mirror's Edge has also had problems with 
 motion sickness. 
  To proceed with the case, then starts Monday with the introduction of management which is different 
 than would be expected, since almost all management takes place from the shoulder buttons, a brilliant 
 decision because it makes it much easier to live into the role, simply because it is not is normal. 
 The management is mostly perfect, there may be problems when it comes to Prepare a wallrun as it 
 is done by pressing the jump button. It is amazing to see how complicated it looks when you look 
 at another play, but when you hold the controller in your hand is the management easy and natural. 
 
  Mirror's Edge has really been a tremendous pleasure to play, not least because of the gameplay 
 which gives me the same feeling as the trailer did, and has so many Holy Shiit poetic moments that 
 I might have chosen to call them. The game is filled to bursting point with heart galloping, intense 
 action, whether you are hunting a helicopter or survives a murder to jump, then sits heart zooms 
 under the tongue large parts of the game. 
  Mirror's Edge goes against the flow by inviting to be a pacifist, and helped by a stylistic disarmament 
 system offers some tough scenes, then serve pacifist good idea at the beginning of the game when 
 enemies are mostly affordable and comes a time but as SWAT people are beginning to emerge, like 
 a three to four people at a time, the fighting a pine and the biggest criticism of the game, especially 
 if you go to implement the game out to shoot a single enemy. S. W. A. T. Members are extremely difficult 
 to disarm, and a meeting with more than one of these being fatal, furthermore, I find it hard to 
 believe the slim Faith, which apparently can survive falls from almost inhuman heights, making 
 trskoene by two strokes with a butt but perhaps it is just me? Especially the seventh course in 
 the game is for me as the worst in terms of enemies, the seventh runway also offers the game's 
 only real nvekamp which is abnormal frustrating. 
  
  The core gameplay is fantastic, however, I enjoy running around the world, although the game to 
 focus much on momentum, it's so easy to love those moments where you are waiting to jump, because 
 it probably has seen the like in the playground when it was small when you have to make the big 
 leap from rock to rock or something similar. The game focuses on trial and error which for some 
 will be a big problem, amazingly enough annoyed Trial and Error me not least when it came to the 
 platform sequences, it gave me the opportunity to refine and test new routes, but some will certainly 
 find just as annoying as the fighting against the police, and they should really pay attention 
 to exactly what aspect of the game as it is incredible individually whether you like this kind 
 or not. 
  Load times are a problem, there is no outright loadingskrm as such, but you spend a good time 
 to be in an elevator when the world seems loader around you, it is possible to read the news, but 
 it is not something that gives extra depth the history and near the last elevator ride, it's a 
 pain to be locked up, added some odd small loaded inside the game. 
  
  Mirror's Edge separates itself from almost anything we've seen before in so many areas, including 
 the graph fish presentation, everything is white, clinical and sterile, with the exception of the 
 pastel works so much clearer in the surrounding bars, technically speaking, the graphics not nice, 
 but like the rest of the game is just something special that. The environment is very balanced 
 and, everything from travel to drains and large centers. There are two bright colors throughout 
 the game, the color black as representing SWAT and the color red, which is a guide, which guides 
 you the right way, not necessarily the fastest it will even find. The sterile designs that make 
 the message about the surveillance society is widespread, the game also contains a certain symbolism, 
 rats that crawl around everywhere in the city, may well be an impact on how dirty and corrupt city, 
 the strict monitoring is being used so that those with power can control. There is absolutely no 
 skin, only a small circle in the middle of the screen is to find in the game, it is to prevent 
 nausea and although it may be turned off for a 100% 1 personal experience. 
  I really would not have gone in depth with sound, but I found it fascinating, the sound of Faith 
 respiration shoes against the wall and the wind mixed with swish shot final flying around the ears, 
 just works. In the small details in the actual game itself, music dazzling beautiful, I have actually 
 taken myself to dwell on the music menu, and it fits perfectly with the clean design, and The icing 
 on the cake, the Mirror's Edge one of the best game soundtracks ever, with Swedish Lisa Miskovsky's 
 Still Alive. 
  Unfortunately, the Mirror's Edge very short, a 5-7 hour experience is not much that is Time Trials 
 and speedruns and 30 tariff stored in around the game, it's certainly not something that appeals 
 to everyone, it is quite good pastime . Genspilningsvrdien depends on how much you like the concept, 
 I'm already my fourth through Play and enjoy it more each time. I can also get angry over that 
 were not spent much time on the story, told a better story could have given some extra playing 
 time, and made everything more complex. 
  
  Mirror's Edge has been for me a brilliant experience when you jump, climb, rutsjer, sliding and 
 running around the murerne several hundred meters up in the air, away from everything it an incredibly 
 unique experience which can not be found elsewhere, Trial and Error will to be what is critical, 
 you may like the part you enough to love the game, Mirror's Edges battle system and keeping some 
 of the few minuses in the game, which all in all a brilliant, brilliant and all the way of the 
 most innovative games for a long time, it should be played by all.
  
  
  Again sorry for the bad spelling and weird sentences but, i just used google translate, and translated 
 my review from Danish 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinnie_jones_
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 16, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  This low mark may not be giving the game its due, for the first few levels I was confused at the 
 game's poor reviews - it looks fantastic something I've never in a game before the simple and cleans 
 colours make a nice world to explore, and the gameplay is brilliant after soaring accross the rooftops 
 and outrunning the police in exhilirating chases I was sorely confused as to why it only recieved 
 a lower mark.
  
  Then the frustation kicked in, you will find many sections where you will need to re-do and re-do 
 and RE-DO the same run, jump and grrrrraa --- WTF! Much of the time you will try many bizzare options 
 only to realise the first, and most simple, option was correct and for some reason your character 
 decided to not grab on. I found myself scraping the skin off of my thumb trying to a certain wall 
 run in Chapter 5. Many of these re-do sections completely hault the flow and ruin the experience. 
 Furthermore none of the areas are hard to figure out, you will just literaly be re-trying the same 
 jump until for no reason Faith decides to make the jump!
  
  And what really let's it down are the failed oppurtunities - the combat is odd, you are tauht how 
 to punch and kick and string combos until you realise that you can quite easily disarm them in 
 the slow motion, I'd have pefered they just removed the ability to combat back. And the most dissapointing 
 feature is the linear feel to the levels, it's odd for a game that promotes speed runs you can 
 only find a very few ways to do the levels and most aren't revolutinary which is a shame because 
 finding a way to cut the level down to a few precise jumps would have been excellent.
  
  The game is worth a rental to see if it might suit the more patient gamer, however it is too short 
 to worthy a purchase even if you loved the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Predator702
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Mirrors Edge to me is.... special. I've always been fascinated with parkour and now a game that 
 does it.. and does it well. I've never had so much fun in a first person shooter... not shooting 
 anyone and just running away. First.. the story... nothing special, pretty cliche and predictable.. pretty 
 much there for having a reason why the main character Faith, is running around everywhere. They 
 couldve done sooo much with a story to explain some things (i. e. all the runners wierd black tattoos 
 and such) . Ill keep my fingers crossed for a better storyline in Mirrors Edge 2, but for now.. the 
 story is easily forgiven with how much fun this freakin game is. This is one of those games that 
 is short... but long. Meaning youll beat the story part of the game in about 8 hours, but after 
 there is more to do. You have speed runs for every chapter, a harder difficulty taking away your 
 runner vision and then the throw my red 60 dollar controller against the wall because im so frustrated 
 time trials. I said the difficulty is just right.. because it is.. when applied to the storyline. 
 but the time trials will quite literally piss you off.. they are fun.. and you feel accomplished 
 when you hit a certain time or hit a certain string of moves and execute everything well.. but 95% 
 of the time its all about trial and error, starting over and redoing over and over and over and 
 over again. I'm not saying this to bash the game.. but thats what keeps me from giving it a 9.5.. and 
 the story is what keeps it from being a perfect 10. All in all.. this is a definate must have for 
 your collection if you are a FPS fan... and if youre a fan of parkour, or you do parkour.. im wondering 
 why youre still reading this and not playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2009 7:44 am PT
Review:  This is a real marmite game, you will either love it or hate it. Just imagine Prince of Persia 
 style platforming but done in a first person viewpoint in a modern setting through a city. Its 
 exactly as good or as bad as that sounds. If that sounds good then you'll most likely love it just 
 as I did. If not there's a high chance you'll probably hate it. But at least give it a rental to 
 make sure as its definitely worth a try & you never know, you may like it. 
  
  The game is set in a very clean & very white city. Basically the people in power have managed to 
 rob everyone of any sort of freedom to create a safe & crime free zone. You play as a runner called 
 Faith who refuses to conform to this new world & passes messages & packages around the city to 
 people just like her. Early on your sister is framed for a murder & you spend the majority of the 
 game trying to clear her name, uncovering a further conspiracy in the process. This entails running 
 through the city to find & meet people, avoiding the police as you go. 
  
  The first thing you'll notice is the graphics. They are fantastic. The game has a brilliant & very 
 striking art style that stands out in the glut of grey games out there. Everything is mostly in 
 white with the odd splash of primary colours indoors & of course the famous red runner vision which 
 highlights the obvious routes main points  such as ramps to jump off or pipes to scale in red. 
 This is very useful for beginners & helps you get straight into things. It also gets disabled in 
 hard mode which is a great touch for when you are used to the gameplay style. I never spotted any 
 pop up even when you can see miles into the distance, no glitches & there's never any slowdown. 
 A very technically accomplished game.
  
  Next is the gameplay which will take you completely by surprise. Your character has a full body 
 rather than just a floating gun or pair of hands. Every step makes the camera move in a very real 
 & convincing way. You can build some great momentum & when Faith is running it really feels like 
 it. She also takes some time to build up to running speed rather than going to it instantly. Instead 
 of shooting everything like you'd expect, the main objective in this game is to run & beat the 
 environment rather than the enemy. Its all about momentum. To tackle the levels you'll duck under 
 pipe work, vault over metal fences, slide down zip lines, run along walls & smash through glass 
 & doors plus more. When you build up momentum & carry off all these tricks in one smooth movement 
 in quick succession it creates a overwhelming sense of accomplishment & just feels fantastic. Its 
 something you'll have rarely felt before thanks to the more immersive view that really places you 
 in the game & words cant really do it justice. Its also the only time ive known platforming in 
 a first person game work well apart from in Metroid Prime, which is an accomplishment in itself. 
 
  
  The game leads you through some pretty varied locales. Now they sounds quite clichd  office blocks, 
 sewers, corridors, subways. But thanks to the visual style & the way you can tackle these environments 
 they feel fresher than, well, ever. But the game is undeniably at its best in the outdoors hopping 
 along rooftops. Luckily its split almost 50/50 between indoor & outdoor sections. But neither is 
 boring to play. 
  
  It has a slight puzzle element to it too. You can find out whereabouts to go by holding down one 
 of the buttons. This will make Faith look in the right direction. Then its like a puzzle trying 
 to figure out how to get there. Whether it's the top of some scaffolding or 10 blocks away over 
 some rooftops. Moments like this slow down the pace of the action nicely from chasing people or 
 outrunning the cops & give you some breathing time.
  
  Unfortunately there are some pretty big problems. First there's the combat. Its mostly melee based 
 & any gun you get can only be used until the clip runs out. Neither the melee combat or the guns 
 are that satisfying to use. Which shouldn't be a problem in a game that's more about running than 
 shooting. However towards the last quarter of the game it basically forces you to fight. Yep, for 
 the last part it turns more into a FPS & throws a lot of its accomplishments out the window. You 
 also have little health, so prepare for a load of irritating deaths caused by the clumsy combat. 
 Its not all bad though, a couple of the most exciting running & platforming parts are hidden in 
 this last section of the game too, thankfully. 
  
  But another problem that causes frustration appears particularly during the harder closing levels. 
 Its the success rate of pulling off moves. For most of the time Faith does what shes told, however 
 there are quite a few moments where she just either doesn't listen or because you didn't face a 
 ledge a 100% dead on she just becomes a Lemming & refuses to grab it, falling to her death. When 
 this happens for the 20th time you'll be close to throwing your pad through the screen. Especially 
 during the speed runs & time trials that are included to increase the games lifespan.
  
  Ah yes, the lifespan. Its also an incredibly short game. It can literally be polished off in a 
 few hours. You can replay it  which I did a couple of times because its great fun for the most 
 part. But most of the replayability comes from the speed runs & time trials. These are the single 
 player missions that need to be done in  you guessed it  the fastest time possible. This is where 
 you find the levels aren't quite as linear as first thought as the most obvious route highlighted 
 is not always the quickest. It may sound a clich & ridiculous (I thought so when I first read 
 it) but you really do start to look at the environment differently & develop your own runner vision 
 & routes. 
  
  This is great. Except for the levels are about 6-20 minutes in length & not one mistake can be 
 made to complete them in the allotted time. Still, sounds like a good challenge to me. However, 
 when you're one your 20th go, you've just done 6 minutes worth of the level perfectly, to then 
 mess up in the last bit because the game  not you  has decided not to jump when you said or not 
 grab that ledge, ruining all your hard work, it's a frustration unlike any other. In a game with 
 this type of challenge, the controls [i] need [/i] to be spot on. For it to be the games fault & 
 not your lack of skill is almost unforgivable. Not good enough.
  
  However. I'll still pick up the pad after launching it across the room & press restart. I cant 
 help it. There's something about this game that's so addictive. Its also nice having a new female 
 lead character. It gives you a chance to shout out all new & wonderful swears & names at the screen 
 when it goes wrong, which it will. But you cant believe how much fun & how satisfying it is to 
 string a perfect run together. How good it feels when its all working properly & Faith is doing 
 what's she's told, none of the problems matter anymore. Its constantly entertaining, frustrating 
 & will leave you wanting more. Maybe a sequel will be made that fixes all these faults & we may 
 have a classic on our hands, until that day though this is a great & refreshing game that should 
 at least be tried by everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kewendel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is underrated by GameSpot. I gave this game a 9.5. The only reason I did not give 
 it a 10 is because the shooting in this game is a little annoying. When you pick up a gun, you 
 have very limited ammo. You only have enough ammo to kill 2, maybe 3 guys if you have good aim, 
 unless you pick up a LMG. However, shooting is not a big part of the game. In fact, you can go 
 through the whole game without shooting any one. 
  
  The whole point of the game is to run. You always have the option to just disarm the enemy and 
 knock him out instead of killing him. Sometimes it may not be obvious where to go to next. Luckily, 
 you can just press B and you will automatically be turned to your destination.
  
  The story is intense. The game design is innovative. The controls are smooth and the graphics are 
 amazing. In my book, this is a must-play. I hope they make a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moriel73
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first, this game is NOT a shooter. This is a role playing game, you are a "runner" who jumps 
 buildings. Mirrors Edge is VERY addictive!. I like how you have to find a way out of every situation 
 you get yourself in, looking for air ducts to get through or a pipe to climb. Mainly I love the 
 building jumping, its so cool. Im sure you have seen these guys on "you tube" where they run and 
 jump from building to building rolling when they hit the floor. THATS THIS GAME!! Really fun! Really 
 addictive! 10 out of 10!!! This game at first looks like your typical First Person Shooter, untill 
 you start to play. it is a platformer in every sense of the word. jump from roof top to railing 
 as you literally fly over and under objects in a way that has never been done before in this genre. 
 
  This is a kick-ass game. The story line gets pretty interesting into the first chapter and the 
 moves and gameplay stay up throughout.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocketSauce1408
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 10:17 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Beautiful graphics. 
  
  The Bad: The story is hard to follow, all the missions are about trial-and-error, combat is broken 
 and unresponsive, guns are utterly useless, figuring out where to go next is a pain in the @$$, 
 even with the red highlighted objects.
  
  
  My first review. Here we go.
  
  When I first played Mirror's edge, I thought this would possibly my next all-time favorite game. 
 Instead, what I got was one of the most disappointing and frustrating gaming experiences of my 
 life. The first couple of levels of the game were fun, I must admit. It took a while to get used 
 to the controls, but I managed to grasp it fairly well. The fun ended at the second part of level 
 3, when I found myself desperately trying to run from a group of armed cops inside an office building. 
 After about ten attempts, I finally manged to escape the building only to be faced with three more 
 cops on the roof. Since I had no choice but to fight them, I ran in and did a slide-kick, which 
 did nothing. I then tried to follow the game's advice and fight one-on-one. The other two cops 
 filled me with lead. 
  
  In addition to the issue mentioned above, the other constant annoyance with this game is that figuring 
 out where to go is frustrating as all hell. I found myself randomly leaping everywhere in hopes 
 of landing on a platform to proceed, but nope. I just kissed concrete every time.
  
  The story is an issue too. The only thing I recall is that Faith (the protagonist) , is trying to 
 rescue her sister from the government or something like that. Everything else is a blur. I was 
 too distracted from my constant dying to pay attention to the story.
  
  And finally, what's the point of guns if they don't do donkey d**k?
  They slow you down, no more 
 ammo is present if you empty a clip, and they hardly even hurt the enemies! Even pistols aren't 
 reliable! The developers must put the guns in the game to trick you into thinking that if you use 
 a gun, you'll have an easier time taking care of the enemies, but no. How cruel is that?
  
  In conclusion, if you really want to give this game a try, just rent it. It's not worth the full 
 $50-$60. The only good thing I can say about this game is that its got some of the best graphic 
 details I've ever seen. But that's not saying much. The heart of any game is its gameplay, and 
 Mirror's Edge just falls flat on its back when it comes to that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh_3691
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2009 11:54 am PT
Review:  First off why is nobody buying this game? I mean I know the human race is scared of something different 
 but surely every now and then people want a bit of innovation instead of the next tedious Gears 
 of War game. Well enter Mirrors Edge to show us all that a First-Person Platforming game can work. 
 Kind of. Ok so the game is set in the future as is every game these days and you play as Faith 
 who is a runner (or as I like to call her a glorified postman) who goes running on rooftops to deliver 
 secret messages. The government doesn't like this as they want to control all aspects of our lives 
 1984 style and so send the whole of the city's police force after you. The main aspect of the story 
 though is that your sister has been framed for murder and you have to solve the mystery by running 
 a lot and gathering information. To be honest the story is pretty crap with some painfully predictable 
 plot twists and you never really get emotionally attached to the characters.
  
  The controls are relatively simple and work well most of the time but there are instances when 
 the game just doesn't respond to what you want it to do but maybe I'm just overambitious or crap. 
 The game uses a momentum based system so if you want to clear that long jump you need to be running 
 pretty quickly, fair enough I thought but the problem is with all the bullets flying and obstacles 
 in your way it can be difficult to maintain a fast pace thus you slow down and miss that tricky 
 jump. The main problem with the controls though is with the combat controls which are clunky and 
 under-powered, you can disarm an enemy by pressing Y at the right time (thought you could stick 
 in some QTE without anyone noticing eh.) but I bought this game to get away from shooting people 
 and so refused to do it which meant that I died a lot. 'What's wrong with that' you might say but 
 the whole point of this game was to use your kick ass skills to avoid fighting and DICE seem to 
 have missed their own boat which is pretty stupid really. Other problems is that the game is too 
 short with most competent players finishing it in 6 hours and it becomes pretty repetitive with 
 you inside most of the time which defeats the point of free running. Plus the game constantly makes 
 you run to the elevator to hide a secret load screen but this happens 2-3 times a level and begins 
 to become annoying as it seriously disrupts your flow. To counteract the quick story mode the developers 
 threw in some time trials and speed runs of the levels but these are severely cruel with their 
 time limits (the speed runs feel like they were timed by the reanimated corpse of Stalin) and create 
 frustration more than enjoyment.
  
  This game can't be mentioned without the visuals and they are genuinely stunning with a fantastic 
 art design all the way through. The way everything is white and gleams makes me wonder why people 
 think this government is so bad, sure freedom of speech is limited but that's overrated anyway 
 and I certainly don't see why the Royal Mail had to go underground because of it. Sorry I seem 
 to have gone off track anyway I don't see why DICE decided to make the cut scenes be told through 
 a cartoon it makes the world seem less real and are poorly done anyway. The music is very good 
 and the title track is incredibly catchy and fit's the game really well, it's all very calm and 
 tranquil and adds to the immersion.
  There are no multi player modes which is a shame because a race between two people would have been 
 really awesome, you can download ghosts but I wanted a live race were I could dropkick someone 
 of the top of a really tall building, hopefully to be included in the next game.
  
  Ultimately all I have seemed to do in this review is moan but in no way is Mirrors Edge a bad game 
 in fact when your running along at a high speed it provides a genuine sense of adrenaline and becomes 
 one of the best games of the year but the combat needs fixing, the levels varying and some tweaking 
 of the level design. Hopefully this will all be done in Mirrors Edge 2 but if people don't buy 
 it there won't be one so people of the world put down that FPS and try something truly original 
 you might just enjoy it.
  
  Pros
  
  + Bright, colourful graphics with a fantastic art style
  + When it flows it feels truly exhilarating.
 
  + Fantastic Musical score.
  + It's different and innovative
  
  Cons
  
  - Story is a bit weak
  - When disrupted the gameplay feels stiff
  - Poor combat
  - Short 
 with no multiplayer mode
  
  Overall
  
  8/10
  
  On a side note Mirrors Edge is a stupid name and was never going to bring in the sales, if they 
 named it Shooty Shooty Bang Bang Blood Gore Boobs now that would have sold but not in Australia 
 of course it would have probably been banned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 2:13 pm PT
Review:  When someone mentions a first person viewed game, you automatically think of a shooter. It's true, 
 there are those games on the market that may not feature such a thing, but an FPS is the most common 
 genre when it comes to games. The developers known as DICE have tried something different but with 
 a little sprinkle of FPS, ever heared of Parkour? Tomb Raider, Assassin's Creed and many other 
 games have all had a go their acrobatic skills, some have succeeded, others tried and failed. Mirror's 
 Edge has definately succeeded in originality and has made this parkour seem too fun for words, 
 unfortunately, the game gets too frustrating when it comes to fisticuffs. 
  
  The Basic Plot
  Throughout the game you'll be seeing through the eyes of the character Faith, 
 she is what is called a 'runner' and her job is to deliver packages to other runners or objectives 
 by... well basically running and jumping across rooftops. However, you'll only ever deliver one 
 package through the entire campaign as you'll be uncovering the truth of Faith's sister who is 
 framed for a murder she didn't commit. It's not much of an amazing plot, but it makes sense and 
 it all comes together in the end. 
  
  The Gameplay
  Mirror's Edge plays brilliant most of the time, the first person view suits the game perfectly 
 as you'll be jumping from roof to roof, vaulting over obsticles, running across walls and even 
 sliding down huge slopes while a helicopter attempts to shoot you down. You actually feel like 
 you need to run, there's no turning back, just run! During the first half of the game, objects 
 and such highlighted in red will guide you to where your suppose to be heading, there are other 
 ways to get to your objective, but it's recommended that you take the suggested path, during the 
 2nd half of the game these red objects won't appear as often or will only appear if you're really 
 close, leaving you to figure things out on your own or press the B button to look toward where 
 your suppose to go. This B button works sometimes, but other times can be as helpful as a brick 
 wall outside your garage door. One main highlight of this whole jumping, falling and vaulting movement 
 is that it feels so real, it actually feels as though you're moving a real body, the gravity feels 
 spot on and even when your jumping from huge distances to another roof, it feels possible... just 
 don't get any stupid ideas. Unfortunately, sometimes you can't just keep on running, you'll eventually 
 run into some enemy that needs to be taken out and this is where it becomes frustrating. The hand 
 to hand combat looks good, thats without a dought, Faith can do some cool attacks like a wall run 
 kick or sliding kick or even a punch-punch combo, she can even disarm the enemy... if your timing 
 is right, Faith can't take too much damage before dying and if you don't time this disarm trick 
 right, you'll be beat down faster than you can say 'Damn!'. Sometimes you can avoid fights by taking 
 some crafty slides and routes that may dodge a few bullets, but other times it's impossible and 
 you'll find yourself either getting really angry, or finally disarming an opponent and shooting 
 everyone down. Oh, didn't I tell you that you can use guns? Yes, there are pistols, smgs, rifles, 
 shotguns, snipers... you get the point, but the problem is that if you decide to just shoot your 
 way through the game, you're playing it wrong, not only will you lose an achievement opportunity, 
 but it slows you down and wastes time, even if it does make things a bit easier. If you have the 
 patience and try and try again, you'll find yourself mastering the arts of combat and disarming 
 without having to shoot anyone.
  
  The Graphics and Sound
  It's hard to believe that Mirror's Edge is running on the Unreal 3 Engine, the textures, lighting 
 effects, everything looks superb. If you look down to the ground, you can see Faith's legs and 
 arms and if you run or vault over things, you'll see her arms and legs swing about as they should. 
 There's never a time the game looks ugly, even when you're indoors or on the streets. The scenery 
 looks amazing, it's almost breathtaking when you look around to see miles of skyscrapers and buildings, 
 or even the people and cars down on the streets, it's almost makes you wish it was a freeroaming 
 game, fortunately you'll be in all kinds of different areas throughout the game. The voice acting 
 is great, the guns sound solid, but the best of it all is hearing the wind rushing through your 
 ears and Faith's heavy breathing as you run, spot on. You won't be disappointed when it comes to 
 the graphical presentation.
  
  Multiplayer and Other Game Modes
  Multiplayer doesn't come in to Mirror's Edge, a mode named 'Race' isn't what you may first think 
 because instead of racing another player, you'll race their 'Ghost'. The ghost is like a recorded 
 run of another Xbox Live player, if you manage to beat this ghost, you've basically beaten that 
 player on that perticular race. It challenging and can become rather addictive if you're wanting 
 to beat the leaderboards. Once you complete the single player, you'll also unlock a mode called 
 'speedrun' which requires you to play a level from the story and beat the time given, succeeding 
 to do so will give you an achievement and that feeling that you've obviously become some kind of 
 parkour master, because these can be very hard. 
  
  Anything Else?
  There are some unlockables that include artwork and videos, pretty interesting to look at. The 
 achievements are very well thought of and are worth getting if your willing to put time and effort 
 into the game.
  
  Verdict
  Mirror's Edge is a superb game, very original, beautiful and highly entertaining. The combat can 
 be a real pain in the arse but doesn't stop the game from delivering an enjoyable experience. 8.5/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightymike93
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 10:14 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games i have ever played for the 360, very addictive and enjoyable; if 
 your a casual gamer a hardcore veteran or anything else inbetween!
  
  The only minor problems with this game; the painful loading times (with the occasional one interupting 
 the flow of your run (but this can be easily rectified by installing the game to the hardrive) ) 
 and the short length of the story, other than that this is one of those games that as soon as you 
 start playing you just can't stop.
  
  The great thing about this game is that you feel totally immersed in the plot right from the off 
 and when running away from the cops and numerous helicopters taking that leap from the edge of 
 one building makes you feel like your heart is in your mouth, when you land a difficult jump you 
 feel a huge sense of accomplishment. But the best thing about this game is the fact that while 
 you are not playing you feel like a runner, you plot a path around nearby rooftops and buildings 
 and you just want to feel the thrill of being chased. This can ultimately lead to trouble with 
 the local authorities, but mainly leads you back to the game seeking the next thrill and planning 
 another route and re-inventing the way you play the game.
  
  Top marks: 10 out of 10 X-D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebraz83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 10:51 pm PT
Review:  This is a very impressive game, especially considering it's the first real Parkour or free running 
 game to be made. That being said, it could have been a little better.
  
  There is a lot of trial and error. A lot. As you play the game you'll fall to your death, and get 
 shot or knocked out by an enemy quite a bit. It's kind of like playing an instrument. You'll rehearse 
 a song over and over until you get all the notes right. It starts to come together after a while 
 and once you get it all down, it's pretty sweet.
  
  The trial and error does get frustrating at times and messing up a beautiful sequence of jumps, 
 vaults and slides only to miss the edge of a building or to catch a sniper round at the very end 
 can make you want to chuck your controller. 
  
  Missing a jump or falling off a ledge is a little easier to deal with than failing a certain part 
 due to an enemy. The combat in my opinion is the weakest part of the game. This is not a combat 
 game, not by any means. Don't go into it expecting to kick some ass. The best chance of success 
 lies in evading your enemies rather than confronting them and that's when it's the most fun. The 
 most frustrating parts of the game are the ones that require you to come in contact with an enemy 
 in order to proceed. Missing your half-second window of opportunity to disarm an enemy means they 
 hit you and most likely kill you or stun you long enough for another nearby enemy to put you down. 
 When you do successfully disarm them and actually get to use a gun, you don't really want to. Gunplay 
 seem a little out of place in this game. Not to say that the shooting mechanics are bad but this 
 game seems too different and innovative to resort to being another first person shooter.
  
  When you do have the opportunity to evade instead of fight, that's when the game really shines. 
 Traversing the terrain is fun, and when you're being chased or shot at while you're doing it, it's 
 an absolute rush. It's satisfying to make your way out of an area overrun with blues (cops) in 
 a way that would make someone who is watching you play go, "how the hell did you do that?" When 
 it's right, it's very right. When it drags, it's slightly disappointing.
  
  The reason I say it's only slightly disappointing is because any shortcomings or slight misses 
 in design are forgivable in a game that is truely a first of it's kind. You can tell that it has 
 the potential to be better but you don't really know what better is since it hasn't been made yet. 
 Although it's pretty short and lacks much replay value if you aren't all about improving your time 
 trial scores, it's a very good first installment. It's good enough to get you excited about future 
 installments when they can improve upon and perfect the great ideas they introduced in this one.
 
  
  Don't let this one slip by without giving it a try. Due to it's short length and lack of any multiplayer, 
 it may be more worth a rent than a purchase, but it's definately worth playing. In a time when 
 many of the games out there are sequels and just more of the same, it's nice to play something 
 truly original. That being said, I can't wait for the sequels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: didipot
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2009 4:15 pm PT
Review:  
  This is a good action FPS... Totally new approach, and you may say, they got it right! 
  
  Remember it's hard to be innovative with sucess, and they turned Parkour possible in a game 
 for the 1st time... nice work
  
  This isn't a weapon based game, but more a find a way to run and jump so you don't get killed.
 
  
  It's fun and it has proper action! Basic story, but makes sense and it's not boring!
  
  The bad, is that it ends soon and the online mode it's just a race for best time, so not very 
 addictive... After ending the game, you'll probably expect more from online, so you could spend 
 more hours playing.. but that's not what the online brings. Of course, there will always be "racers" 
 speding hours trying to do better times, but not for all.
  
  My score is based in innovation, graphics, action and a story that drives you for hours. This is 
 the first Parkour based game, but sure it wont be the last.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad-aussie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 1:18 am PT
Review:  Mirror's edge is a very good game to play the graphics on it are just great but i did fine when 
 i first watch my first cut scene that it wasn't what i thought it would be but i found it to be 
 too cartoonish as in the film clip wasn't realistic or anything like that.
  
  The storyline seemed really good for the game i did think they could have made it a bit longer 
 since there was no multiplayer in the game what so ever so that was bit of a let down. 
  
  Effects on it was just great cause as your are running, jumping etc it shows how it would feel 
 if you were doing in real life. 
  
  The fighting is another good thing about this game in which you can disarm a enemy form behind 
 or in front them which the sound is great when you hear the sound of arm snap.
  
  If you are planning to buy this game i would wait until it is 30 bucks or something like that cause 
 as i said before about how the game great and all i just don't think it is worth paying a lot for 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walker1846
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Mirrors edge would have togo down as being one of the most unique and innovative games of 2008 
 can you also believe it's published by EA, It's different and it always pay's to break the mould 
 of countless unoriginal sequels.
  
  To start off with Mirrors edge is not a first person shooter it's more like a first person version 
 of Prince of persia albeit you are a female protagonist and its set in a fictional futuristic city 
 where crime has been conquered and the government has led the population to beleieve that it is 
 the perfect place like a dreamworld, the setting is similar to the matrix it's just that the story 
 to mirrors edge sucks in that Faith who is the character you play belongs to a group of runners 
 in which they deliver sensitive information and Faith's sister has been framed by the cities police 
 force for some reason any way who cares how does the first person view work?
  
  It works great, There is no HUD whcih leads to more immersion and at it's best Mirrors edge stands 
 head and shoulders above the pack it feels really good when you are evading the cops by ducking, 
 weaving and jumping over obstacles while running on 20 storey rooftops it's really exhilerating. 
 However it is flawed in nearly every chapter there is always a situation where you have to take 
 the trial and error approach and boy will it get frustrating but there is positive with this in 
 that a checkpoint is always triggered every 100 metres.
  
  With more positives come's more flaws in which the graphics are stunning and uniquely represent 
 the bleak and boring utopia and the voice acting is passable but what about the combat? for starter 
 don't even bother with guns as the gunplay is sloppy and the close qaurters fighting is not that 
 great not to mention faith will die in about 6 shots so it's best to isolate your opponents taking 
 them out one by one or by completley evading them.
  
  It is flawed but it is great fun at it's exhilerating best.
  
  +Fun free frunning
  +Beautiful 
 graphics
  +challenging
  +not a stereotypical female game character
  
  -weak story
  -trial and error gameplay
  -too linear
  
  While not perfect it is a promising new series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hphatecraft
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2009 10:44 am PT
Review:  I'm gonna keep this review as short as the actual game. You should be able to complete the Story 
 mode in under 6 hours. Oh, and the story isn't all that compelling. However, the gameplay is awesome 
 and there are some great game mode alternatives.
  
  If you enjoy games like Wipeout then you will likely love Mirror's Edge. It's invigorating to get 
 into the rhythm of the game. When you rip through a level without a single misstep you'll feel 
 an exhilarating sense of accomplishment that few games can match. Unfortunately you will feel a 
 little cheated by the length and variety the game offers. All in all, I loved every minute of Mirror's 
 Edge, and if and when a sequel arrives I'll be in line to purchase it. It's one of those rare games 
 where both the style and gameplay feel well matched. It's definitely not for everyone, but there 
 are a lot of people who will find a soft spot in their memory for this experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garvaos
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 1:47 pm PT
Review:  For me the First perspective in games is one of my favourites. From a young age I was playing First 
 person shooters with my dad on the pc. So I have grown up with and experienced my fair share of 
 first person games.
  
  Mirrors Edge takes the first person perspective to a new level in gaming. A first person platformer 
 I think is an awesome concept, this game has taken the concept and made it into an exciting and 
 fresh gaming experience.
  
  The second you set your eyes on the flawless city landscape your breath is taken away. The metropolis 
 you are going to be running through looks flawless and clean. The use of bright colours and slight 
 visual effects when you are running makes the visual side of this game a fresh new and breath taking 
 experience. Dice have nailed the visuals in this game. So if you have a nasty fear of heights, 
 be warned.
  
  The game play it self is straight forward with the use of only four buttons. One for jumping/high 
 movement, one for crouching/low movements one for interacting with switches etc and the all important 
 attack button (and of course not to mention the analogue sticks for movement and looking) . This 
 straight forward control system is good for anybody to pick up and play, but the real skill is 
 when it comes to the timing of your movements and keeping the flow of play going.
  
  The game plays well, once you have the momentum going you feel unstoppable but it doesn't last 
 long and is stopped by either not knowing where to go next or an enemy with a gun hailing you with 
 bullets. Which can be frustrating, many times I have had to start a section again because I have 
 been over run by the enemy, or have had to take the trial and error approach when it came down 
 to figuring out where to go next. But with all that said by the time you want to go through the 
 game again (and believe me you will) you will have a greater chance of getting your momentum going 
 and experiencing the true feel of the game. 
  
  The use of weapons in the game is fairly spaced and simple, which is good because this is no way 
 by any means a shooting game but the inclusion of guns do help when you want to get out of sticky 
 situations.
  
  The story is simple and solid, you do feel compassion for the main character. But what this game 
 does lack is good cut scenes. The cut scenes are cartoon based and feel very out of place with 
 the graphical genius of the game play. The cut scenes and the game play don't merge together well. 
 But don't let that change your mind because what the game lacks in cut scenes it makes up for in 
 game play.
  
  The online race and time trial modes are a great way for you to show off your moves and keep the 
 game flowing well. With you racing against the clock it brings a great element to the game when 
 you are done with the campaign mode.
  
  So to sum up. Mirrors edge combines plat forming and the first person perspective well, making 
 a great gaming experience. Even though the enemies feel cheap from time to time and the cut scenes 
 aren't that hot. It is defiantly worth playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: planemadmatt
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 8:43 am PT
Review:  Not for the faint hearted or impatient type, Mirrors edge will take you to a whole different genre 
 of gaming, freerunning. The game is addictive but very difficult in places. You just have to be 
 patient. I will continue to play this game for many months to come, I still have to complete the 
 game! The graphics are just, well, stunning. you have to play this game on an HD TV to get the 
 best out of it! The levels are fairly long and can take about 15 - 30 mins depending on your patience 
 and ability. Overall, I think that this game is completely original and deserves a very high rating. 
 Ever heard of motion sickness? This may well occur in this game. It has never happened to me but 
 the game engine uses movement technology and blurring that can make people sick so just watch out. 
 I would recommend this game to everyone because as I said it is completely original and will rack 
 up your gamer points very quickly! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 6:48 am PT
Review:  To make a review of a game like Mirror's Edge is rather difficult. First you'll have to compare 
 the game with other, similar, games - in order to find flaws and strengths of the game. Then you'll 
 have to consider your own, personal taste and opinion. And finally, you may want to consider how 
 the game could be received by other people.
  That is, if you want to write a proper and objective review.
  
  But sometimes a game just make 
 such an impression, that the above-mentioned methods of reviewing a game seems difficult - if not 
 almost impossible.
  Mirror's Edge is such a game.
  
  First of all, you cannot compare this game to other games, as there are few to none to compare 
 with. If you really wanted to, you could perhaps compare it to Prince of Persia - but even that 
 would be a stretch. How many first person parkour games have you tried lately? Exactly.
  
  And trying to find out whether or not the average gamer will like this game, is an impossible task, 
 as the game really is a different experience.
  
  So all we have left, is my personal opinion of the game. First a quick look at the story and the 
 idea behind the game.
  
  In the future, the paths of communication are tightly controlled by the government. Getting information 
 across undetected requires the use of "runners" - parkour specialists that can get from one side 
 of the big city to the other by running, jumping and climbing on the rooftops.
  Our female protagonist, Faith, gets involved in a complex plot, as the mayor tries to bring an 
 end to the runners and his competition at the same time.
  
  The story, interesting as it may be, comes second to the actual game. DICE has made an extremely 
 good job of making you feel like you're actually running from one rooftop to the other, and the 
 controls are excellent. At first, the difficulty and puzzle aspect of the game seems a bit daunting, 
 and you'll probably fall a few times before you get the timing right - but it doesn't take long 
 before you are flying, crawling through air vents and running in and out of buildings. 
  At its best, the game is rollercoaster ride at the top of the world, and at its worst, you'll be 
 falling repeatedly at a hard spot. Generally, though, the game isn't too difficult, and a good 
 in-chapter autosave system makes sure you don't have to start all over when you're stuck.
  
  It has to be mentioned, that from time to time you'll have to fight against armed guards - 
 although Faith is a martial arts expert, and a master of disarming her attackers, these sequences 
 can best be described as a break of pace - they are not particularly bad, but neither are they 
 great. They just help making the running aspect of the game less tedious and fresh 'till the end 
 of the game. Unfortunately there are a few too many stretches were you'll have to run constantly 
 in order to not get shot, and although the tension is appreciated considering the nature of Faith's 
 profession, I still feel that the amount of guards shooting at her is on the excessive side. Considering 
 Faith is unarmed, some guards attacking her with police batons or stun prods would've been appropriate 
 IMO.
  
  This is a minor issue however, and shouldn't detract from the overall experience - Mirror's Edge 
 is a beautiful game, not only gameplay wise, but also visually. The striking visuals has a lasting 
 impression, and the first few levels set the bar of what you'll expect. Most of the game you'll 
 be running across clean, white surfaces, with only a few of the primary colors (blue, red, yellow) 
 to break the white walls and the blue sky. The lighting is near perfect, and its impressive how 
 many surface details DICE has managed to make visible, with such a high contrast and brightness. 
 The shadows are generally good as well, but some artifacts - especially on the characters - can 
 be seen from time to time. Generally speaking, though, the visuals are great, not only from a technical 
 standpoint, but more so because of the very conscious design choices. It helps that the framerate 
 is steady all the way through the game, with no apparent hickups at any point. Which, of course, 
 is a necessity in a game so dependent on reflexes and timing, as well on the reflex puzzles. When 
 the single player (story) experience is over, the game has a lot of time-based races for the player 
 to try, complete with ghost runners for both your own runs, and for online players. This works 
 flawlessly, and expands on the idea of the "runners".
  
  So, to sum it up: Try the demo - it gives you a great impression of the game - then, if you find 
 the demo at least mildly interesting, buy the game. Mirror's Edge is a surprisingly fresh and innovative 
 approach to the puzzle/platform genre, and DICE has to be commended for their excellent execution 
 on both game mechanics, design and story. 
  
  Note: I don't want to comment too much on the Gamespot review, but its safe to say that I don't 
 agree with their paltry 7 score to the game. Suffice it to say that Mirror's Edge may not be in 
 everyones taste, but I recommend everyone considering themselves gamers to at least try the demo, 
 in order to find out whether or not you are among those who like the game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nobana
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 10:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is a true mix of frustration and satisfaction. I'll start off by listing the cons. 
 
  
  * Intermittent trial and error gameplay
  * Context sensitive actions that often frustratingly go horrible wrong
  * If you happen to fall 
 and not die during a vertical based jumping puzzle, you have to start all over again rather than 
 take a checkpoint you it may have saved near the top. There is no "revert to last checkpoint" option.
 
  * There is no save function, fueling the frustration of all of the above.
  * Fighting is sometimes very difficult.
  *The game is short, 1 play through lasts about 5 hours 
 including all the trial and error.
  
  Don't let any of these flaws prevent you from giving this game a rent however, as this game also 
 offers:
  
  * A great, engrossing storyline, that while short, has a few twists and tricks up its sleeve.
 
  * Absolutely perfect graphics that make a great use of the Unreal Engine.
  * Innovative mechanics that take 1st person platforming to a unprecedented high.
  * The shortness 
 of the game makes it perfect for a single, immersive playthrough. 
  * No game has ever made running away so exhilarating. 
  
  In short, give this game a rent. 
 Its not for everyone, and it doesn't have enough content to warrant a purchase. But it deserves 
 a rent among almost any other game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ibboinvader
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:48 am PT
Review:  The first thing I will say is that I commend EA DICE for trying something new. I think that there 
 are too many shooters out on the market and to be honest i'm getting bored of it, so it came as 
 a refreshing change to see that someone's pushing the boat out with platforming and FPS. 
  
  First of all the graphics. The game has a very simple design of pretty much all white but uses 
 bright basic colours, which helps with the games theme of a very contoling, organised government. 
 To help you with the route of the level, objects pop up in red to show where the next jump or ledge 
 is. It is a very good system and it helps a lot.
  So the graphics take a less is more aproach which works when you hear the story.
  
  The story 
 is..... ok really nothing special. You play Faith a runner who doesn't want this kind of controlling 
 government so she sends messages in bags to other runner in the city trying not to get caught. 
 But then your sister is framed for murder and you have to unframe her. Nothing we haven't seen 
 before. But I don't the story really matters when you are racing across building trying to get 
 away from authorities. The story is very short and will take maybe 6 or 7 hours to finish. But 
 there are time trial modes aswell but it doesn't much longevity to the game.
  
  And the gameplay. It has one of the greatest senses of speed i have ever played. When you get a 
 string of moves together its very rewarding. But its frustrating when you come across a puzzle 
 and action grinds to a halt, and it doesn't help when you are under gunfire and don't know where 
 to go. You can wield guns but its nothing special, its not that satisfying and its sometimes easier 
 to run past your enemies. Which by the way are pretty stupid they just stand there waiting to be 
 shot. But the game ain't about that.
  
  So in conclusion Mirrors Edge is definantly worth a look and its a refreshing change. Maybe not 
 worth 40 but rent it at least, a good few hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chsh4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 8:00 pm PT
Review:  as i said mirror's edge is a game that has the right ideas but it's not polished to what it should 
 be. first off with the story. the story is ok if a little shallow. but the cartoony cut scenes 
 just seem to take away some of the more serious aspect of the game. there was enough story to keep 
 you playing but not much else. it's also disappointingly short. i got to the last level and my 
 feeling was a general. what? that's it?
  
  graphically the game looks pretty good and the colors scheme they use works well with the incorporated 
 "runner vision" to make things of interest stand out. though the scenery gets very repetative, 
 especially in the indoor levels. there eventually is a feeling of "what the hell. i was just in 
 this room" in some of the longer indoor levels. the runner vision is not much help inside either.
 
  
  sound wise it sounds pretty darn good. the voice acting could use a little work. but all the running 
 and jumping sound effects sound really good. the real highlight is the soundtrack for the game. 
 it sets a really good mood for what you are doing while you're playing.
  
  in terms of gameplay the beginnings are definately there. and they work really well for the game 
 it would just be nice to see them fleshed out a little more. the control scheme works and for the 
 most part controlling faith is a breeze and you can string up some good runs. but there were instances 
 that the controls failled me and i found myself dying over and over when trying to jump sidways 
 during a wall run because the look behind button which is supposed to turn you so you can jump 
 turned me the wrong way. other than that the controls for faith's moves worked well. it would be 
 nice to see her with a larger arsenal of running moves in the sequel though.
  
  combat could have used help. now i understand that the game is supposed to be about the running 
 so the shooting mechanics weren't supposed to be overly great. and don't get me wrong they worked 
 fairly well. but they felt a little clunky. it also would have been nice to know how many bullets 
 are in the gun so that you don't suddenly run out when you are shooting at a group of cops. in 
 terms of the melee combat. the disarms look cool and are easy to perform but the punching didn't 
 really work at all. the more advanced melee moves such as slide kicks, jump kicks and wall kicks 
 are hard to pull off and time correctly.
  
  overall mirror's edge is a game that has great potential in sequels. if the developers take the 
 time to do some serious fleshing out and polishing of this game. it is definately worth a play 
 and i would encourage you to play the whole thing it is a game that could be a great franchise 
 farther down the road. if you would like to comment on this review please send messages to my gamespot 
 inbox. thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordkory
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge follows it name perfectly well. It travels on the in-between between great and original 
 gameplay and incredibly frustrating and useless level design punctuated by frustrating and unresponsive 
 combat.
  
  When playing through its large puzzle jumping areas, you get a feeling that this game is like Prince 
 of Persia - running on walls, dodging pitfalls and making maneuvers to Swiss watch timing. The 
 ideas and ambition behind these activities are incredible when it works out well. 
  
  However, unlike Prince of Persia, you are almost constantly under enemy threat and attack, and 
 your sense of direction can get confused and cause you to head in the wrong direction during a 
 key moment, resulting in numerous deaths. Coupled with a haphazard runner's vision that can supposedly 
 guide your way to your destination, all these errors combine to form an annoying experience that 
 forces you to continue until you're too frustrated to play any longer.
  
  In addition, be prepared to die quiet often and repeat level sections over and over again. There 
 will be plenty of areas where the jumps don't seem to connect for any logical reason and directions 
 are haphazard resulting in your plummeting to your death over and over and over again. The load 
 times between each death is only about 5-8 seconds, but doing an action over and over again, the 
 wait can be a bit unbearable at times.
  
  Finally, combat is unexplained and simply throws you into situations where you have to fight off 
 multiple enemies. For a tutorial, Mirror's Edge tells you how to punch, kick, and disarm an enemy 
 and then hopes for the best when you play through the game. The loading and hint screens tell you 
 to string together attack and movements to eliminate multiple enemies, however, it never offers 
 any explanation on how to accomplish this! And the best part is that the game warns you to avoid 
 enemy encounters whenever you can, even though there are sometimes no obvious way to avoid combat 
 situations.
  
  All in all, I would advise you to avoid Mirror's Edge. The game looks great and has a unique style 
 which is greatly appreciative, but I think the designers were a bit over-ambitions with this title 
 and simply bit off more than they could chew, and were forced to spit out a game that has a great 
 graphic polish, but littered with terrible level design and annoying combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steeley92
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 7:57 am PT
Review:  most first person shooters are practically the same, just point the reticule there and shoot, boring!!! 
 But with Mirrors edge offers a completely new first person shooter. I love the idea of this game, 
 with open environment s for you to free run about. It would be better if there where more shooting 
 opportunities throughout the game though. 
  
  the graphics are amazing, and the environments are beautiful. I like the way they have put the 
 movies in between the chapters in a anime style cartoon, which looks quite strange at first, but 
 very intuitive. 
  
  the story, which i didnt quite understand at first was a little weak, and i thought needed some 
 work.
  
  the combat was really good, with the ability to disarm and knock out the peace keepers, and being 
 able to fight fist to fist or with a gun is something very new and fun to do. 
  
  i really like this game, and the developers should definitely make a sequel to it, only with a 
 better story and some new fighting and shooting ideas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 11:53 am PT
Review:  Mirrors edge is a game based on a girl called faith and her struggle in a corrupted city, she is 
 a runner who runs information to ideally collapse the goverment running the city, it's an interesting 
 story which is presented to you in animated cut scenes.
  
  The first thing that jumped out at me in mirrors edge were the graphics, you experience the veiw 
 of a semi futuristic city through a first person view, but don't misunderstand, mirrors edge also 
 takes you underground, through train stations, office buildings, down massive slopes and many more.
 
  All textures are smooth and colourful making mirrors edge a pleasure to watch aswell as play.
 
  
  Music also fits in well, most of the game includes running from A to B as fast as you can and the 
 trance/club beat helps to keep you going.
  I seriously reccomend going and listening to some, it's suprisingly good.
  
  Now, onto the 
 important part, gameplay, does it play as good as it looks and sounds?
  Short answer- just about, if you haven't heard of the genre 'trial and error' then I'll quickly 
 explain.
  Whilst running from A to B there are often several routes you can take, some harder than others.
 
  Expect to die loads, but then if you do die try another route, this is trial and error.
  
  Levels aren't timed but you often have guards shooting at you, you can either ignore them (you'll 
 have to sometimes, especially with helicopters and snipers) but on some guards you can disarm them, 
 beat em up or throw them of the side of a building.
  When you disarm a guard you then have hold of his gun- before you ask, yes you can use guns but 
 the gun gameplay is dull and very difficult, your aim ring is very small and guards without guns 
 just run away anyway.
  
  There's a total of 8 chapters which will take at least 12 hours to play through, a maxiumun of 
 20 depending 
  After that there's also time trial mode which involves doing certain levels as fast as you can.
 
  
  Over all if you think you'll enjoy the game then buy it because it's worth playing for its unique 
 appeal.
  I hope this review helped!
  ~gormo~
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  This is gonna be a hard game to review. ME is a unique game... like Portal. You can't put into words 
 how to describe it and the feeling of playing it is just wonderful.... but like Portal it also 
 suffers the same problem (along with some others) .
  
  Review stuff first...
  
  Graphically the game stunning. Most people don't see what the beauty is in this game but trust 
 me.... its beauty is everywhere. The graphics, the colors, the animations... everything. Aside from 
 the environments I have never seen such amazing animations from a FPS (is this even a FPS really? 
 lol) . Faith when you look down on her as she moves about is flawless as she move. Not some partially 
 static object that has a few crappy animations built in.... its one perfectly flawless animation. 
 It feels so very real which I think adds to the over realism of the game.
  
  Gameplay wise its basically First Person Parkour! You just spend the game running around buildings 
 avoiding evil cop like people while at the same time figuring out physical puzzles (quickly) . Now 
 there is a difference in how this game is played. Well first off you get NO guns. With that in 
 mind you can either take someone elses and use its limited ammo when need be...
  
  ... OR do the much more adrenaline pumping thing of not firing a SINGLE bullet and simply disarming 
 anyone you see in game! This changes the game entirely. It makes it harder... especially on harder 
 difficulties and really makes it feel like your running for your life! And did I mention you get 
 a nice big ol' achievement for this? I may not care for achievements but this one was was worth 
 it and felt rewarding.
  
  As you run you to some extent follow a certain path but its up to you how to get there.... hop the 
 fence, under the pipe.... or maybe over the roof, across the beam.... etc. Some ways are faster. 
 Some are slower. Some are cooler! And along the way are hidden bags. I forgot the purpose of them... I 
 think its just for achievements. Usually the easier way to run is red... well that is objects tend 
 to be in red if you want to simple get their directly.
  
  The audio in this game is amazing too. Sounds tell you everything and music fits in with what your 
 doing especially the "Still Alive" song... not to be confused with that OTHER Still Still song.
 
  
  There are some minor problems. Some people get confused by the level design or even sick from the 
 running around. Some just plain get confused as to where to go at certain points and the somewhat 
 unforgiving saving point system doesn't help. But for me I didn't mind that much.
  
  Perhaps the biggest problem with the game is... well theres nothing to do after you beat it. I 
 mean myself I played it like 15 more times... its fun. But theres really nothing to unlock, no 
 MP.... nothing. Zip. Zero. Zilch. Which is sad because the game is so amazing.
  
  There is a time trial mode which basically you compete to do fastest time from Point A Point B 
 kinda thing. This is done to set personal records and overall see if you can beat other peoples 
 records from online. But lets face it with millions of other players thats not much fun seeing 
 as how people have already maxed out the fastest time.
  
  So overall once you beat the game a few times (for fun) this is pretty much as good a cup holder. 
 So just rent it. Although there is a level pack coming out that looks pretty cool. But once again 
 its just about time trials. Yawn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mossfan1245
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is one of the most innovative games out there right now. It's one of the first ever 
 first-person platforming games. You play from the perspective of the main character, Faith. Her 
 sister was captured and blamed for a murder that she didn't commit. Faith's objective throughout 
 the game is to prove her innocence and save her sister before she gets sentenced to prison. When 
 you play through the game, you feel like a runner jumping and sliding under every obstacle that 
 gets in your way. Occasionally you face police officers trying to impede your progress. You can 
 either disarm them or take them on hand-to-hand combat. This is made easier by the use of "Runner 
 Vision". What this means is that objects throughout the game will turn red meaning Faith can use 
 it to help her through the level. Runner Vision is also used when trying to disarm enemies. Sometimes 
 using weapons can be tricky as it may take a few shots to subdue them. Rightfully so, carrying 
 weapons also slows down Faith so you can have an option to let go of them. However, as soon as 
 the weapon runs out of ammo you have to find a new one. There isn't much of an online mode. The 
 time trials can be somewhat frustrating as you need to be precise to get the best time on each 
 map. To make things a little easy, you can download ghosts of other runners and study their runs 
 to help you out. Other than this and the speed run mode, there isn't a whole lot of replay ability. 
 Still, this is a good game to play. It's a good first step in the first-person genre. It's definitely 
 worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathHeart95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Imagine you're running on rooftops in a city. You slide under a pipe, and proceed to jump off the 
 rooftop onto another roof, rolling to lessen the impact of the fall. You see to your right an enemy 
 coming out, and you run towards him, disarming him and throwing him to the ground.
  
  That sums up the experience of Mirror's Edge, DICEs latest game, and probably most original one. 
 You take control of Faith, a runner in a totalitarian city where there is no freedom. Runners deliver 
 packages to help get rid of the totalitarian government, although it turns out that there is more 
 to the story than that. I don't want to give too much away, but I will say that the story is somewhat 
 interesting, just enough to keep you attentive to the dialogue.
  
  Now, for the most important part of Mirror's Edge; the gameplay. It is simple, yet awesome. You 
 use the left trigger for low movements (such as sliding) , left bumper for high movements (jumping, 
 grabbing, etc.) , and the right trigger/bumper for attacks. Yet it all works out surprisingly well. 
 By the end of the game, you'll find yourself making combos that look awesome, which makes the experience 
 all the better.
  
  Also, the art is phenomenal. Although not the best game graphically, the artistic value of the 
 graphics are great at representing how dull the city has become. Basically a mixture of white and 
 a light blue, it looks pretty, but, as I said above, is boring, which is a great representation 
 of the government controlling it. It also makes it easier to use "runner vision", which tells you 
 where to go by marking certain pipes, ramps and such red.
  
  Now, no game is perfect, and this game does have some problems. The amount of trial and error is 
 infuriating at times, and once you get to your 10th try you'll be very, very, frustrated. Also, 
 the length of the story mode is way too short, only lasting eight hours or so. Time trials don't 
 add too much time either.
  
  So if you're a person that gets frustrated easily, this is not the game for you. I would recommend 
 to rent it first, although you might beat it during the rent. Still, this is pretty much a must-buy 
 for anyone who likes doing stuff that looks fancy. Besides, how many first person platformers do 
 you own? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZachBdude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  beggining the game i felt like i was going to get frustrated and stuck on many parts. after learning 
 the very comfortable controls and getting used to the moves that the character can do, Mirror's 
 Edge flows very well. in the first few chapters i had to stop on most of the buildings to see where 
 i had to go next, but soon after i had figured out how to look for where i was going next. most 
 of this game can be played through only jumping over objects but a second time though or a thorough 
 inspection of the level has had me finding different, and much more fun, ways to get to my objective. 
 the police can almost always be passed by with a quick run, jump, roll, slide and more running, 
 but who doesn't like a good kick to the face or disarming an opponent, taking his gun and filling 
 his partner with a whole lot of bullets! the shooting is a bit weak and slows down the game play, 
 but sometimes it is necessary to take a big ol' machine gun out of the hands of an unexpecting 
 cop. when you do find a big machine gun and lots of enemies to shoot at, you will (well at least 
 i did) get quite trigger happy. the endless ways to get to an objective makes for many hours of 
 replay, and on top of that there are two game modes to play: time trial and speed run. time trial 
 has you get to checkpoints as quickly as possible to get stars and achievements (WARNING: may get 
 very frustrating) . speed run has you complete an entire chapter in the least amount of time possible 
 (WARNING: very addicting) . there are challenging parts and there are easy parts, but most of the 
 game will have you thinking quickly and doing things that flow better than expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  DICE is well known for their multiplayer-based shooter Battlefield. It's a fantastic series, but 
 where's the originality? DICE recently left the Battlefield series to start something new, something 
 original, something you've never played before. What is it? It's pretty much a first person platformer 
 with as little of a focus on guns as possible. 
  
  You are Faith, a runner. Your sister gets accused of a false crime, so you kill people and run 
 across rooftops to free her. The story is moronic and never kicks into gear. It tries to be story 
 based but never quite makes it. The story is often to clich to ever be taken seriously. It's obvious 
 they put some effort into the story, but it ends up being a messy crime story. 
  
  The gameplay is very interesting. You jump across buildings, run across walls, all of the acrobatic 
 things you can think of. The catch? It's completely in first person. Fighting, running, jumping, 
 are all in first person. You've done these cool tricks before, but never like this. All of this 
 running and jumping could get tiring, but it's quite entertaining. The platforming is not as easy 
 as most platformers. You need perfect timing and perfect speed. There many jumps you'll think are 
 impossible, they aren't, you're just doing it wrong. This can get pretty frustrating as you will 
 die a lot.
  
  That brings me to this games major flaw, its difficulty. This is not the type of game that is going 
 to go easy on you. Enemies are extremely smart and platforms are extremely hard to hit. There were 
 numerous times during this game that I just wanted to throw my controller across the room, but 
 I kept my cool, sort of, I did swear a bit. I highly recommend starting off on easy. Normal difficulty 
 is brutal and don't get me started on hard. If the game was a little more forgiving I would enjoy 
 it more. 
  
  Combat and gunplay are another focus on Mirrors Edge. They try to keep the use of guns as small 
 as possible, but on higher difficulties it's almost necessary to use them. Gun controls are a little 
 slippery. Sensitivity can get annoying, if you turn it down it's hard to run, if you keep it up, 
 it's hard to aim, but hey that's just me. Gun controls could be improved, but it's nice to at least 
 have guns. Combat is pretty average. It's pretty much one button with a couple of doable combo's. 
 You can tell DICE focused more on platforming and running than gunplay and combat.
  
  The story is pretty short. The game can be beaten in about 7 hours on Medium. It's a rewarding 
 experience, but they really could've added more to it. The extras they have are alright, but not 
 enough to really keep me playing. Time Trials can be a pain, and the timed levels really aren't 
 fun. I doubt a multiplayer component would really work on this game, but a lengthier campaign would 
 make me happier.
  
  Overall Mirrors Edge doesn't quite meet up to my expectations. I was really hoping for game of 
 the year material, but the short length, punishing difficulty, and laughable story prevent it from 
 being game of the year material. It's an enjoyable and unique title though. If it fixed those flaws 
 I named, it would be true love. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubbrulez
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Well this is Mirrors Edge, EA's new IP and in my opinion, the most innovative game of 2008. Let's 
 get onto the scoring:
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  They're extremely stylised, unlike anything I have ever seen. it's got such a clean, gorgeous, 
 even sexy look. The character models are very detailed with great little unique details all for 
 their own. The environments are utterly stunning, with vast cities sprawling out below as you leap 
 like mental across skyscrapers with huge rushes and vertigo and an attractive motion blur. Very 
 impressive indeed.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  This is where the game comes SUPREMELY alive. It's just so fun with amazing parkour jumpiness and 
 the combat may be a little punishing a first with its intense timing preferences, you'll be a master 
 by the halfway point.
  The majority of the game involves you doing vertigo inducing leaps across buildings and the like 
 and it's very visceral and impressive. It can get a little hard sometimes but you'll put up with 
 it because the game is full of incredibel set pieces that are incredible fun to play.
  
  Lifespan: 6/10
  
  This is where the game falls short. I completed it in 6 1/2 hours. Take that 
 as you will. It's brilliant though so replay it and do the races too. (:
  
  
  And there you have it. Adios! :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnHurt
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  While Mirror's Edge does impress with its visual design and fast pace, this is completely overpowered 
 by an immense sense of frustration at the linear level design and a broken game mechanic.
  
  The core of the game is stringing together jumps, rolls and wall-running in order t navigate 
 your character across the levels. Most of the time this works, however there are occasions where 
 it does not (Faith seems incapable of grabbing hold of curves) . The 1st person perspective is also 
 a large problem. Not being able to see Faith's feet at all times, means that you will plummet to 
 your death more often than you would care to. Some attention in this area could have made the game 
 a lot more enjoyable. For instance, having Faith automatically grab hold of edges if you accidental 
 nudge her off one, or making the grab detection a little more forgiving.
  
  Personally, this game produces a level of frustration in me which I haven't experienced since the 
 old 8 bit days. Replaying every single section of ever level multiple times does not make for a 
 satisfying or entertaining experience. I would have loved to have been involved in the usability 
 tests for this game. Having video of me effing, blinding and chewing the controller for large periods 
 of time would have made interesting viewing for the developers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: japops
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  This game takes place in a fictional city with corrupt governments and all that good stuff. You 
 take the role of Faith, a member of a group of "runners" who deliver packages and send messages 
 to each other. At the beginning of the game, your sister Kate, a police officer, is framed for 
 the murder of mayoral candidate Robert Pope. The rest of it is trying to prove her innocence and 
 whatnot. First off, the gameplay is pretty impressive. It's something I've never seen in a first-person 
 game. Kind of like a first-person Assassin's Creed. The parkour is very fun and the controls are 
 sharp. Running in and out of buildings and on rooftops is fun. The combat, when you must fight, 
 could use some improvement. Disarming a guard can get frustrating while everyone else is shooting 
 at you. Once you get the gun, though, it's pretty easy to just find some cover then shoot everyone 
 from there. The shooting is okay, but this definitely is not an fps. You should stick to avoiding 
 the guards whenever possible.
  
  Graphics are pretty impressive. The city looks great. It looks cool when you beat up the guards 
 in first-person. The guards look a little goofy, though. The level design gets repetitve after 
 the first few levels, but it's easy to look past.
  
  Sounds good. As you gain speed while sprinting, you can hear Faith's panting. It has some good 
 voice acting as well, and cool sound effects like doors slamming or Faith landing from a high jump. 
 Guns sound alright too.
  
  The story mode lasts a good 8 to 10 hours, but it seems like they could've thrown in a final level 
 to make the ending better. There's a good time trial mode, too. But I warn you, it can be frustrating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordloveflaps
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Didnt buy this game when it first came out as the reviews for it were average at best, but rented 
 it recently on a friends recommendation and it really is ace you really get the impression of speed 
 and escaping from the fuzz is truly fantastic with bullets whizzing overhead as you make a desperate 
 jump for freedom. I bought the new prince of persia at the same time and its barely been played 
 it feels incredibly dated and simple compared to this. I love the idea of playing a platform game 
 in first person as you really feel every bump and every missed step, also the sound is excellent 
 the pants and footfalls of your character followed by the ricochet of bullets and the great dance 
 soundrack creates a great tense futuristic atmosphere. I suppose the main fault is it can be a 
 bit stop start with some tricky sequences which do require you to die a few times to get an idea 
 of what route to take, but it never really annoyed me as when you do get it right you feel like 
 something out of the matrix but better ! .
  I think this game is an 8.5 at least its innovative, challenging and it looks amazing in full first 
 person, ignore the critics and rent this mutha ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6maxinator9
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  Mirrors edge was a game that really hooked me. It wasn't a normal game in the sense that its a 
 new idea and completely original. People complain about this game due to its bad gun play and fighting 
 scenes, but that's not what the games about. The game is all about free running/parkour. Your not 
 there to stick out large gun fights and battle off multiple enemies, your there to run and purely 
 that. If the subject doesn't interest you then don't play it, but if you're up for something new 
 and you get a great feeling out of jumping large gaps and making the best, most fluid run ever, 
 then give it a try. The first person aspect gives you a real sense of the game and that you're 
 actually a part of it. Third person games such as this one often take away the reality of it and 
 dilute from the real essence of the game. Although i enjoyed the game, I wouldn't recommend buying 
 it, its fun but the games short and can get tedious and annoying. Overall it's a great game but 
 i think they need to make the game larger and actually make a free roam type part of the game that 
 actually lets you explore in your own time and the way you want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  The answer is 'sort of'. Mirror's Edge is an original IP from Electronic Arts, it goes where no 
 other First Person game couldn't go, Platforming.
  
  The story is set in a city where peoples freedoms are taken away such as their communication. You 
 play as Faith, a 'runner' who basically delivers messages from and to people, since the right of 
 communication is gone. Animated cutscenes in between levels present most of the story, these cutscenes 
 do the job, but I would've liked to see better drawn animations or in game cutscenes considering 
 how well the game looks. As you progress the story becomes more of a modern cop drama, which is 
 unexpected considering how the game looks so peaceful and innovative, that you'd expect a fresh 
 story.
  
  Gameplay is simple, with the use of the shoulder and trigger buttons. You jump, duck, punch and 
 kick, with the Y button as counter attacking. The levels are well designed with objects turning 
 red advising you where to go, when the option of Runner Vision is toggled on. Counter attacking 
 consists of pressing the Y button when the opponents weapon turns red. You can chain different 
 moves such as wall run to jump to counter attack. Unfortunately the first person platforming isn't 
 perfect as you will make errors that aren't your fault, sometimes your inputs do not respond, they 
 do become very frustrating. Also in the 2nd half of the game, you will encounter many enemies with 
 weapons, and since you aren't a solider, you have very limited health, most of the time you can 
 avoid hostiles and keep running but there are some instances where you must defeat them before 
 progressing. I expected the game to be more peaceful, but with Battlefield games under D. I. C. E.'s 
 belt, it's not surprising.
  
  
  The graphics are phenomenal, with such an eye popping art style and realism. Textures are sharp 
 and lighting is superb. Especially at sunset, the sun just peeking out of the edge of a building 
 is astonishing. Even though overall the environments look fantastic, the character models do need 
 some work.
  
  Audio is excellent, especially the sounds expelled from Faith herself. It may sound weird, but 
 sounds such as breathing and footsteps are well done. Even though the game isn't primarily a shooter, 
 surprisingly the weapon sounds feel very powerful and better than most shooters.
  
  Mirror's Edge does what other First Person games could not, Platforming, and it does it better 
 than the previous attempts from other developers, but unfortunately it is not perfect. The artistic 
 visual style is never seen before, and realistic. Mirror's Edge is worthy to be another addition 
 to EA's new direction. Keep it up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam6996
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  EA has truly created a masterpiece. The things which youare capable of doing in this game are exactly 
 the same as the actions we proceed to do in life. Although some of the moves done in this game 
 are a bit over exagerated they altogether show the meaning of the word freedom. The graphics are 
 the first good point to this awesome game. Every smooth musce and wrinkle on every hand and face 
 of every human in the game are very very impressive. Also Enemy Ai is very intelligent. the cops 
 or the blue as they are called in the game act as if they were an official global SWAT team searching 
 for a murderer which makes you feel like you are being chased after while at gunpoint. Movements 
 of freindlies and movents of hands and feet are very realistic. After realising you are puffing 
 and out of breath after running past cops and jumping from building to building will give you the 
 feeling that you have just escaped the SWAT proffessional team.
  All in all a game which is very realistic when referring to graphics movements and enemy AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I think gamers as a majority are too picky. Sometimes you have to look past some flaws you may 
 experience and just enjoy the game as a whole. Mirror's Edge is the kind of game where its good 
 to do this. It has its fair share of flaws but they're mostly easy to ignore and the core mechanics 
 of the game are pretty revolutionary. Mirror's Edge has recieved some okay reviews, but I think 
 it deserves better.
  
  I absolutely loved the sense of speed and grace this game gave me while playing. Its unlike anything 
 i've seen in a video game. If you enjoy the first person perspective because you get immersed easier 
 because of the feeling of actually being the character, then Mirror's Edge is for you. As you run 
 faster you see Faith's arms swinging harder, as you jump through the air your arms and legs flail, 
 wind rushes against the screen as you go, and you hear her breathing heavier. You see everything 
 from her eyes and it flows really well and seemlessly.. as long as you dont mess up of course.
 
  
  'Messing up' means ruining your momentum completely; and if someone is chasing you and you have 
 to stop and look around then you're probably screwed, because you're going to die. Although you 
 can execute some martial arts moves, Mirror's Edge is not really an action game; its realistic 
 in the sense that if you stop and take on lots of guys with guns then you'll probably die, no matter 
 how good your fighting skills are. The combat aspect of the game is unfortunately not the most 
 polished either, and when you do stop and fight it can seem pretty clunky. So mostly you'll be 
 running away. Which is another thing I really loved about the game! An FPS where you're not constantly 
 killing people, but have the option of doing so if you chose to is very refreshing to me. 
  
  Of course with it being a platforming game theres some trial and error involved. It didn't 
 bother me that much, because it was so replayable to me that I didn't mind playing a section through 
 a few times until I got it right. When you do get it right, running through a level flawlessly 
 is a great feeling.
  
  One thing I didn't like were the puzzle sections. A puzzle in Mirror's Edge will simply consist 
 of an area with lots of ledges or something where you have to stop and work out exactly how to 
 get to the top. Puzzles suck in all other first person games and they dont work in Mirror's Edge 
 either. They're just irrititating halts where you want to continue on to the next area, because 
 you want to be happilly jumping across rooftops again. And for a game where you are supposed to 
 be constantly on the move its out of place. It does make for a change of pace in a very heart-poundingly 
 fast game, but if I wanted a break then i'd just pause the game rather than be hastled with some 
 aggravating jumping puzzle.
  You could argue that the whole game is like that because you always need to work out where to go 
 next. But the sections i'm talking about arent sections where you can think quickly and react fast.. 
 they are the complicated sections where you're supposed to stop and look around, which I didn't 
 like much.
  
  The graphics are great. I loved all the vibrant colours, how everything was so clean and picture 
 perfect all the time. I hate all the greyish brown games that seem to dominate the market these 
 days so it was real nice to be playing this colourful shiny game! The only cons I can say are that 
 sometimes everything gets a little TOO bright, and also my dad mentioned that everything looks 
 a bit same-y. Which is true sometimes, I suppose, but it didn't bother me. And finally, there was 
 some texture pop-in I noticed too. The whole game runs smooth as silk though, which is something 
 of high importance in a game like this.
  
  The soundtrack is also great, with a superb main theme and mostly great atmospheric tunes throughout 
 the game.
  
  The anime cutscenes kind of sucked. I hate anime anyway and it didn't help that it was really bad 
 anime either. The story is kind of vague, and its never explained what you're delivering in these 
 packages you're carrying or why the government is so evil.
  
  The controls took some getting used to for me. Being a PC freak and playing this game on a console 
 of course that goes without saying, but this game in particular feels clunky on a controller, more 
 so than most FPS games. You really need the smoothness of a mouse to perfect your movements in 
 this game.
  
  The game may only take about 5 hours to finish on your first playthrough. Though regardless of 
 how long it takes you to finish, its very replayable anyway, and its really supposed to be played 
 over and over, thats the point. Time Trials and Speedruns can add many more hours onto your time 
 if you enjoy that kind of thing, and its the sort of game where trying to collect all the achievements 
 actually feels fun and worthwhile.
  
  I would definately recommend this game. Its very unique and I hope to see more games like it in 
 the future. Ignore all the nitpicking of my review and the critics reviews too, because overall 
 the core gameplay is fine and unlike anything you will have played before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: overshine
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  In today's age of gaming, where shooters and adventure games alike are mass-produced for the "5-hours-a-week" 
 generation, Mirror's Edge combines a basic art style and simple controls with gameplay that's anything 
 but.
  
  Without fail, trial and error will plague your first effort to beat the game. This trend doesn't 
 remain forever-every play-through you'll find something new, whether it's alternate paths to the 
 objective, or perfecting your favourite technique to dash straight past a horde of SWAT troopers.
 
  
  Mirror's Edge will immerse you. Graphically speaking, you'll see about 5 different colours throughout 
 the game, but the "daylight fright" sterile environment is complimented by a hard-hitting soundtrack 
 that puts you in the perfect mood to run.
  
  If you're a hardcore gamer with an appetite for learning curves and a knack for improvement, you 
 can't look past this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit8488
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Okay, so Mirror's Edge has been getting VERY mixed reviews from the critics and fans alike so I 
 thought I'd put in my 2 cents about this game.
  
  First off, Mirror's Edge is not your typical first person game. Most people will just want to run 
 around and shoot everything full of lead in sight. In fact, this game is the total opposite. Yes, 
 you can shoot enemies but your encouraged NOT to. Mirror's Edge isn't about shooting everything 
 up, it's obviously about running and surviving not only huge leaps and jumps, but from your pursuers 
 who constantly try to take you down.
  
  Now the story is about Faith, a runner who is trying to uncover a murder that her sister Kate is 
 framed for. It isn't a groundbreaking story by any means, but there are a few nice plot twists 
 to keep it interesting. Faith is joined by other runners, Celeste and Mercury who help her out 
 throughout the game. Oddly, you never actually see Merc in the actual gameplay, he's only in the 
 2D cut scenes. Celeste, Merc, and the villiains all seem very one dimensional and don't really 
 have that much personality. Faith is the only character that really matters, besides her sister. 
 Sadly the campaign in Mirror's Edge is EXTREMELY short, on my first playthrough it took me about 
 6 hours. And on my second playthrough on Hard, it only took me 3, yes 3 hours to complete! This 
 is the biggest disappointment about the game. It should've been longer!
  
  Gameplay wise, you'll either love it or hate it. I personally, loved it. The sense of movement 
 they put in the game is amazing and immerses you into the world Faith is in. You can wallrun, jump, 
 180 degree turn, slide, climb, and many more things. Everything is easy to execute but your timing 
 needs to be really, really quick. Some of the platforming is tricky and your timing must be precise. 
 Disarming is also somewhat difficult to pull off, but again timing is everything. The gunplay is 
 also good but one thing I noticed if you pull off a headshot with a pistol, it doesn't kill the 
 enemy with one shot at times which I thought was odd. The enemy AI is decent though most of the 
 time they will just stand behind cover and fire at you or they'll just run at you so you can knock 
 them out right there. 
  
  The Time Trial mode is pretty addictive if your a perfectionist. There are a total of 23 time trial 
 levels, and you can earn up to 3 stars per level if you perform flawlessly, 2 if your decent, 1 
 if your below par. The Speed Run mode is much more difficult since you need to finish a full chapter 
 of the game below the target time. The times you're supposed to beat are tough. Thankfully, you 
 can download other players ghosts and try to mimick their moves or improve upon them in order to 
 beat their times. The ghosts are available only in the Time Trial mode.
  
  Graphically this game is gorgeous. The art design is top notch. Every level you play is totally 
 unique in every way. You won't seem like your playing the same level over and over again. Every 
 hallway, every room, every rooftop has a massive amount of detail. Character models are well done 
 but the animations could've been better. Most of the movement from cops or fellow runners seem 
 somewhat robotic.
  
  The sound and music in Mirror's Edge is fantastic. This is personally one of my favorite game soundtracks 
 of all time. The music is calm and soothing if your running around rooftops by yourself, but when 
 your in combat the music totally kicks up and makes the situation your in more frantic. 
  
  Overall, I think this game is worth playing. Even if your skeptical give this game a shot. Rent 
 it, buy it, download the demo, just play it. Don't let the dumb critics fool you, this game is 
 a blast to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilgrandelibro
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the 
 best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the 
 best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the 
 best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the 
 best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the 
 best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the 
 best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the 
 best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the 
 best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the 
 best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the best game!!! the 
 best game!!! the best game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodoo_goodoo
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 17, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Mirror's edge is a game that pretends to be better than it really is..... this steaming turd of 
 a game, relies on a few cheap thrills using first-person parkour, the roof-tops are, burn-your 
 f*cking eyes out white with globs of red spaced across the level indicating where the game wants 
 you to jump, the game has a flight before fight mentality that really gets annoying, when you try 
 to fight b/c it uses a totally out of place slow-mo when you attempt to take a weapon that rarely 
 works, on top of that the cut scenes have an esurance feel in particular, all in all this games 
 wanna be stylish visuals fail, its controls fail, being awkwardly placed, the sloppy parkour gimmick 
 fails- so if you're are looking for a Parkour inspired game with great visuals, Prince of Persia 
 is calling.... just don't get this boiled turd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  When you think about risk taking in the games industry you could certainly be forgiven for not 
 immediately thinking of EA. Recent history though has seen the once sequel-obsessed publisher come 
 to realise that creating interesting original IP could be a great way to improve their consumer 
 image after years of movie and sport related nonsense.
  
  Mirror's Edge, along with Dead Space, is one of EA's big risks, though they have certainly put 
 this unconventional first-person game into very capable hands. DICE, the developers of the Battlefield 
 series, have really stepped outside the traditional FPS box with Mirror's Edge. Based in a fictional, 
 near-future city you play Faith, a "Runner" delivering messages and information for businesses 
 that refuse to have their communications controlled by the government. The twist is that these 
 messages must be delivered by hand over the city's sprawling rooftops to avoid attention from the 
 police, who the game refers to as "Blues." This means first person parkour is the name of the game.
 
  
  Parkour is an extreme sport developed in France and is more commonly known as "Free Running." In 
 gameplay terms this results in some very technical and fast paced platforming. Now, normally this 
 is a big fat NO in first person videogames, but DICE's FPS know-how has allowed them to really 
 refine this experience. You have one button on the controller for upward moves like jumping and 
 vaulting low objects (left bumper) and one for downward moves like crouching and sliding under 
 low objects (left trigger) . You get used to these controls very quickly and in the early levels 
 you can string together moves relatively easily, which is when Mirror's Edge is at its best, when 
 everything just flows. You can also use the right bumper for a quick 180 turn.
  
  The problems come when you get a bit further into the game. The platforming sections gradually 
 require more and more precision from the player and this can often result in sections needing to 
 be repeated several times because of trial-and-error deaths. "Runner-Vision," which highlights 
 important objects and routes in red, helps to alleviate some of these issues but later sections 
 where you are under extra pressure from armed guards and police can result in extra mistakes being 
 made by the player.
  
  You are clearly encouraged to avoid confrontation with the authorities in Mirror's Edge. This goes 
 against the recent trend in games to "empower the player" by making you feel vulnerable and exposed 
 the minute you see an enemy with a gun. Instead, what you get is the thrill of using your parkour 
 skills to escape from "The Man". There were many times when I felt my heart pumping hard from the 
 intensity of the rooftop chases. It's also immensely satisfying to separate an enemy from their 
 squad and disarm them, before turning your new found weapon on their friends. Considering you almost 
 never have to use a gun in Mirror's Edge the weapons sounds and feel incredibly powerful and when 
 you manage to get hold of one you always feel rewarded.
  
  Like the run and jump gameplay the visuals in Mirror's Edge really do a great job of differentiating 
 the game from everything else that's out there. The whitewashed look of the city contrasts beautifully 
 with the harsh primary colours on advertising billboards and even Faith herself. I was shocked 
 when I realised that the game runs on Unreal Engine 3 because it's the first game on that engine 
 that doesn't look exactly like Gears of War.
  
  On top of the well written story, in which Faith is trying to find out who has set-up her sister 
 to take the fall for the murder of a mayoral candidate, Mirror's Edge also has Speedrun and Time 
 Trial modes. In Speedrun you replay story missions against the clock, whereas time trial mode creates 
 all new checkpoint races within often unused areas of the story levels. You can also download ghosts 
 of other people's Speedruns and Time Trials to help you improve you own.
  
  Overall, Mirror's Edge is a terrific example of what a company like EA can produce when they are 
 willing to invest some money in a risky project. It provides wonderful visuals with incredible 
 sound design and music. It makes fun the sort of gameplay which for years we've all been saying 
 is impossible. Unfortunately I find myself unable to score it higher because of its short length 
 and sometimes trial-and-error gameplay. That said I thoroughly recommend it if you're looking for 
 a break from the norm. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BringinDaRain
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Mirrors edge is a great start, very visual, and i like the art they used, controls are pretty easy 
 to pick up, BUT, the story sucks, i predicted everything, It can get frustrating, but not in a 
 challenging way. The length is very very very short. But fun, they can do so much more. Theirs 
 not much more after the game, after the achievements, WHICH ARE AWESOME. The cool thing about this 
 game, is if you become a pro, you can look so cool doing it. and you pick up the lingo.. For example
 
  :Yo, in mirrors edge, i wall ran, jump, hurdled this barb wirer, rolled, and then kicked dude 
 in the nuts for the k. o"
  Game is awesome, and i love it, just not worth the buy, CHECK YOUR BARGAIN BIN for a quick pick 
 up!!! or a rent, i beat it in 3days, and i dont play it that much.
  
  FOR THE LAZYS THAT DONT WANNA READ
  here you go, pros and cons!
  
  PROS
  Fun
  Great art 
 and visuals
  Cool idea
  COOL LINGO
  great achievements
  
  CONS
  Very short
  frustrating
  horrible story
  not worth 60
  Replay value is not there....
  Not for the motion 
 sickeness
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge : A first person RUNNING game from Electronic Arts and Battlefield 1942-developer 
 Dice.
  
  Story : So evil corporations are ruling and oppressing the masses with theirwell they're evil 
 alright, and whatever makes then so evil is enough to warrant a group of "runners" who leap across 
 rooftops to give each other information that this evil corporation doesn't want you to know about. 
 Plot develops into some kind of not-really-well-explained conspiracy involving protagonist Faith's 
 sister being framed for murder and you getting to the bottom of this. The motivations for all parties 
 involved isn't exactly explained other than "the bad guys are evil companies" and "the good guys 
 are sticking it to them" and for all I know, the plot was written by a graphic designer who wears 
 a Che Guevara shirt and listens to Rage Against the Machine without being too certain why it who 
 it is that he's being told to kill in the name of. The cinematics between missions all employ that 
 Flash-like computer animation style that's common in several cartoons and Esurance commercials. 
 Oh, and the story sucks. Try not to laugh during the final sequence. Your laughter, however, will 
 be more emotion displayed than throughout the entire game.
  
  Oh, and being a new franchise in this console generation, the game attempts to set up a sequel 
 or five.
  
  Mirror's Edge leaves a killer first impression. After you go through the tutorial where you chase 
 around an ally-turned-plot-device across the city as a means of explaining the unorthodox control 
 scheme, the game throws you into an exciting first level (also the game's demo) , where the player 
 leaps from building to building, pulling deft-defying maneuvers and watching in awe as Faith reacts 
 to the world around her, all the while bullets are whizzing past. All of this hits a crescendo 
 where you grab onto the side of a helicopter, which swings around dramatically before descending 
 in front of a glass building, as Faith stares into her reflection and looks like she's having deep 
 thoughts, as if the designers think this game is smarter than it really is.
  
  The pitch to Mirror's Edge, if you will, is that the game is a platformer akin to the recent Prince 
 of Persia games, but with a first person perspective and in a utopian city. Faith runs, jumps, 
 slides, shimmies, wall-runs, rolls out of falls and generally dies a lot as she makes her way across 
 a linear path. There's a great emphasis on the "first person" aspect as smart vision effects and 
 camera positioning makes you feel like you are indeed in the head of someone that's in a hurry. 
 You'll knock down many doors and it always feels like a jarring experience. To compliment this 
 emphasis on speed, the shoulder buttons have been redesigned for all you're navigational needs. 
 There's a button for actions involving going UP, a button for actions that involve going DOWN, 
 a button for turning around, and a button for destroying other things or lives.
  
  The name of the game is momentum and the more you run or wall-run, the faster you go and the more 
 of an adrenaline junkie you feel like. You'll definitely have a world of this loveable momentum 
 for that first level, but later missions are designed less for running and more for fidgeting around 
 the game world. I guess you could call it someone's idea of a puzzle element, but you'll often 
 find yourself jumping and trying to cling on to every object in a room trying to find out what 
 it is the game wants you to latch on to and thus use to advance. It also hurts that a large chunk 
 of the game is not played in those high-altitude building-jumping environments but indoors, in 
 confined spaces like boiler rooms and such, where you have less room to soar and more of a need 
 to find the exact pipe that you need to shimmy across.
  
  And then there are the guards. I was led to believe that one would be able to avoid confrontation 
 in Mirror's Edge with enough skill, but the alternative to not trying to engage the enemy is to 
 get shot at while you climb the necessary ladder. Your best bet is usually to try to wall-run and 
 then drop kick an enemy, but later levels see the enemies realize that this is a runner's technique 
 of choice and thus avoid the walls altogether. Faith's boxing skills are below amateur and thus 
 you won't get far engaging in fisticuffs, so you're best alternative is to time a button press 
 with you're enemy's melee attack to instantly KO him and swipe his gun (and whatever ammo is in 
 the clip) . While gun combat is preferred over fist-fighting armed guards for countless obvious 
 reasons, the shooting mechanics in this game are far from spot-on as well; headshots aren't anymore 
 damaging than leg shots and its all trial-and-error oriented. Mis-time your counterattack by a 
 split-second and you're as good as gunned down and starting back at the last checkpoint, ready 
 to bolt at the armed guard head on to try it again.
  
  The later levels seem to get worse and worse in all of the above regards. There's less of the thrilling 
 outdoor sequences and more of the claustrophobic indoor frustrationand plenty more guards to kill 
 your Faith. There are only nine missions, equally about 6 hours of gameplay, and I guess I should 
 just be thankful that there's no arbitrary fetch quest or back-tracking, but I couldn't say that 
 I was having fun playing the actual content. It seems that to properly get a thrill out of Mirror's 
 Edge, you need to memorize levels (and I mean really memorize them) , and then replay them in time 
 trial mode so you can brag about your times onlineor post gameplay videos of breezing through 
 a level on Youtube. If this game does one thing right, it's that if you can finish a level without 
 a single flaw in your approach, then you're Mirror's Edge bragging-rights video will look more 
 cinematic and breathtaking than someone's Super Metroid speed-run video. So I guess this game's 
 best value is not in playing it yourself but watching other people better than you playing.
  
  But Mirror's Edge does put me in an awkward position. It's an original gameplay concept and 
 I tend to feel that these should be awarded, and I tend to think that if the game succeeds, then 
 a sequel could improve and polish this concept into something unique and exhilarating. But if you 
 were to ask me whether or not to buy Mirror's Edge, the answer would be "no, unless you like to 
 post videos on Youtube of you beating Super Mario Bros in 15 minutes." The art style of the game 
 is strong but the gameplay is an exercise in frustration and you'll experience most of the greatest 
 possible thrills within the first level or two.
  
  Pros : amazingly, I've neglected to talk about the game's visual style, which is mostly breathtaking 
 I guess.
  
  Cons : To post your time trials online, you need to surrender your e-mail address and sign up for 
 an EA Account.
  
  3 1/2 stars
  
  I am fully aware I described myself in the story paragraph. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge, I've been waiting to play this for so long, it was one of my most anticipated games 
 of the year. Now I've finished it, and what do I think of it? Well, it's kinda inconsistent. It 
 goes from absolutely amazing to frustrating just like that, several times. It does take some time 
 getting used to, but there's a very helpful tutorial in the beginning. And when you finally do 
 get the hang of it, you'll experience a game unlike any other. It truly is very innovative, and 
 it's a nice breath of fresh air in a market dominated by FPS titles.
  
  The story, actually, I can't really talk about that. Why? You see, I sort of... skipped all the 
 cutscenes. Yeah, despite that they were cool, stylized and animated. I guess I just wanted to jump 
 right into the action, and for a game that's all about fast pace, you can't really blame me. I 
 will say this, I really like Faith, she's a great heroine.
  
  My favorite levels are the ones where you run outside, jumping from rooftop to rooftop and whatnot, 
 man, what a rush. Then you have to inside a building, what a bummer this proves to be. It's not 
 that these sections are terrible or anything, they're just not as good as the outdoor levels. Mostly 
 because it's these that are the most frustrating. Several times you won't have a clue on where 
 to go next, and you'll die countless times experimenting, trying to figure out how to get from 
 A to B. This could be fatal to the game, but thankfully, the checkpoint system is extremely generous.
 
  
  The game is short, but if you like time trials and such, there's a lot of fun to be had. If you 
 think I'm too generous with the games score, keep in mind, this is a truly innovative game. And 
 I hope the brilliant minds over at DICE starts working on a sequel soon. Mirror's Edge is a fun, 
 unique experience, just expect some roadblocks along the way. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Iv Being playing it for like 2 day and i did at medium (normal)
  the way you want to do achievements on 360 is even making the game harder such as if you want to 
 success to win without kill a single guard with a gun so you must avoid them run : and neutralize 
 them which reveal to be Extremely hard and for newbee who as never did Run Allot everywhere Will 
 End up Finding the Game Really hard such as mate iv know it how ever in some episode of the 9 Chapter 
 it does get Really hard to find out the Path to chose for success to get to ur goal 
  
  Id Like if the Series ad more Story it Was Deep & the Animation in Cinematic same as XIII Thirteen
 
  The universe is a bit Cartoon style but Awsome it a game to rent & try if you like it buy it but 
 it the sort of game unless u sure you want to do everything as Time Attack & obstacle run to love 
 to re-do the game multiple time to worth is money but it to try so have fun
  and wish you good luck it can be hard as Prince of persia 2 when you must run away if you play 
 at hard after did the game once 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skytiger666
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  It takes time to build up the skills to play this game properly.
  
  But once you have put the effort in - you realise it was all worthwhile.
  
  Doing the story 
 mission the second time is a blast, third time is just crazy.
  
  Time trials are where the constant high speed action happens.
  
  Watch ghosts of other top 
 players to learn how to do the levels fast - you don't have to spend hours solving puzzles if you 
 don't want to.
  
  I think the gamespot reviewer needs to invest more time into this game, to unlock the true beauty.
 
  
  Rooms that initially seem like a puzzle can be blasted through in 2 seconds - once you know the 
 techniques.
  
  Armed police with body armor can be beaten down - do a wall run then a jumping kick to the head 
 then a punch to the back of the head.
  
  I need to write a few more words to keep the website happy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kibbik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  Simply put this game is about running and jumping, to save your own skin at times, and figuring 
 outhow the hell do i get up to that vent ", which is really all i expected, and what this game 
 delivers well and truly. 
  
  At times it seems confusing, but when you figure out what you need to do and where, it's a case 
 of 'oh, that's fair enough'. some of the more elaborate moves are not eluded to in the tutorial 
 but the game does often suggest stringing moves together to see what happens, or you could just 
 check out the great videos on youtube.
  
  But to be honest i found the puzzley parts a welcome break from the free flowing areas which are 
 exilerating, but would get boring if that's all this game consisted of. i actually felt genuine 
 relief when Faith steps out onto a sun drenched rooftop, after navigating the bowels of a dark 
 basement, and any game that stirs up emotion ( other than anger ) is fine by me.
  
  I liked the cartoony cut-scenes which for me felt right-on for the style of the game, while the 
 in game graphics are at times dazzling bright and so clean you can't help but sense there is something 
 ugly lurking beneath this city. matched with a gorgeous and befitting soundtrack that would make 
 an RPG fan take notice ( the final credits song could be on the charts ) this game is one of those 
 rarest i have played since the platforming days on my C64.
  
  The campaign is short but there is real satisfaction ( after the initial frustration ) of completing 
 the time trials and speed runs, where stringing together awesome manuevers is a must, and i'm finding 
 real replay value becuase of these, and the imaginative construction of each level makes it a small 
 thrill when i find a faster way to get to the next checkpoint.
  
  Play the downloadable demo first and if you like that then i can't recommend Mirror's Edge strongly 
 enough. carve some rooftop!!!!
  
  edit: had to change it 9.5 from 9 when i saw the video of the download content 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  In this game you jump from building to building like I just said before. The game has some of the 
 best graphics. But the game is boring and it has some terrible controls. I think the game is really 
 stupid if you ask me because you just jump, rail, and balance from building to building. The game 
 is all about this girl named Faith. The game is all about speed because sometimes you have to run 
 from a side of the wall. The game is just about Faith the mercenarie trying to help her friend 
 from running from the police. You can fight the police in some parts of the game but if you grab 
 a gun the only way is to try and take it from them. You can't pick up a gun up from the floor or 
 ground. The game is all about being on top of skyscrapers jumping one to one. The game has pretty 
 good sound. The game is really boring. And the game deosn't use much guns.
  
  The good of the game is that it has great sound. And amazing graphics.
  
  The bad of the game 
 is that there isn't that much gun fire in it. The game gets boring real fast. The game is all about 
 jumping to one building to the next. 
  
  Overall this game is pretty boring game and you shouldn't get it. I rate this game 7.0 outta 10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codenameaf7
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  After the huge amounts of hype the game's been getting due to gameplay that no-one has seen themselves 
 (although it has been done) because its another game aimed at a market who are new to gaming, but 
 as a gamer, I unfortunately can't recommend it.
  
  1. Graphics and sound
  
  The graphics are hard to describe. Everything is as polished as you'd expect from a game on the 
 Xbox 360, but many of the rooms/items in the game feel so bloody similar. You will enter a room 
 and many of the items in it either look re-painted or the same thing being with the rooms you'll 
 go into. Also many of the objects in this game range in quality. Some, you will notice whether 
 it's just a low-resolution image texture or look flat while others look pretty great. Let's put 
 that aside. The animated cutscenes however, are abysmal. If you haven't already seen in another 
 video of this game, the cutscenes are of cheesy-cartoony-advert kind of bad. The sound acting isn't 
 far behind. The game's dialogue sounds like it was pretty much read by a bunch of robots. The moans 
 and sound effects done by Faith are of an acceptable standard I guess. The one odd thing about 
 this that I never understood is it's concept of realism. You can trip and lose lots of health, 
 but you can get thrown by an enemy in the air and after smacking the concrete with your head, all 
 you can shout is something sounding like "ouch!" or "ow!" -- what the hell is up with that? 
  
  2. Story
  
  Umm... the story is pretty much a gimmick. It's something along the lines of 
 a Nike advert (runners) and an  -- something along the lines of 
 "I can change this corrupt government" and eventually the government not being too happy with that, 
 then eventually being a plain revenge-driven goal over your sister. I didn't really care or even 
 payed attention to what it was about as I couldn't wait to just play it.
  
  3. Gameplay, AI... and the rest. 
  
  Gameplay is pretty straightforward. The basic layout of 
 the game is pretty much based on that of games like Breakdown (you can see your arms and legs) 
 and Chronicles of Riddick. The fighting mechanics are quite similar to those of Breakdown. Also 
 there's a slow-mo mode that basically slows down time (kind of a Matrix-time thing) when your enemies 
 are attacking you so you can run up to them and beat the hell outta' them or disarm them.
  
  Use of guns as actual weapons in this game is horrible beyond belief. The enemies have a pre-written 
 script of falling in the exact same freaking way when getting gunned down. No satisfying headshots... infact 
 its just the opposite. The game is very unresponsive in this area for some reason. Out of the 3 
 times you shooting an enemy, only the 3rd time (when the bloody game's waken up) will the enemy 
 actually realise he's supposed to die by now. Same thing with the fighting. Often you will attempt 
 to punch an opponent but somehow end up missing.
  
  The acrobatics are a major pain in the ass. While a game like Prince of Persia gives you a more 
 or less open view of your surrounding so you understand what you have to do, where you have to 
 get to and how you will get there, Mirror's Edge gives you an extremely limited view and while 
 often it may be pretty obvious in working out where to go, it can also be extremely frustrating. 
 You die far too many times from some things like jumping off the edge a tad bit too early or missing 
 the pipe slightly and it has NO FREAKING REWIND FUNCTION! If they can throw in a time machine in 
 an already pretty fictious story, the whole experience would be at least 10 times better. Also 
 the first-person view should be farless restricting in the future, giving people a better chance 
 to feel the trills during the jump (so you can easily see what the risk involved is rather than 
 just staring at your destination during leaps) . The final thing I have to add is that they have 
 got to add some sort of multiplayer modes.
  
  Mirror's Edge is a decent combination of a GTA game without the free-roaming ability, Breakdown-style 
 FPS combat and Prince of Persia-ish acrobatics, but due to its issues, major annoyances and somewhat 
 highly monotonous gameplay and level designs, there is no point in picking this title up until 
 it at least hits the bargain bins as its just not worth it, but missing it isn't a sin, even if 
 you are a serious gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalahari00
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  It is a great game with innovative look, feel and gameplay. I highly recommend buying this game. 
 This game is like playing Prince of Persia from a first person perspective. It makes you feel like 
 you are doing the things you are trying, instead of watching someone else do them.
  
  This is the most fun and the most frustrating game I have ever played. Very frustrating when you 
 get stuck on really easy parts. I have never been so angry as this game made me at times -- and 
 I never get angry, so now I know that I am capable of getting really angry. Very hard on Easy difficulty 
 level, controls are almost impossible to master. 
  
  But at the end of the day, it is a good game. It is the most innovative game I have played in a 
 long time, and can be really fun at times.. just remember to walk away from it when you get stuck.
 
  
  More than once I was so upset that i was ready to sell it as a used game... something I have never 
 done, since it would cost the developers revenue. But now that I have finished the game, I hope 
 they sell enough copies to get a shot at the sequel and fix the issues with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxxGothic
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Trial and trial was the phrase that came to mind when I started playing.
  
  Yes, the whole free running/ wall running element is very enjoyable until you get interrupted by 
 the smallest object, miss a jump or get shot down by the gun totting psychos who pass for the city's 
 law enforcement.
  
  As combat goes it's all a case of timing with the melee which can be fun when you get it right. 
 Well timed punches and kicks can yield satisfying results as long as you don't miss your target 
 or get gunned down by your targets friends. Unfortunately two well placed hits from your target 
 will have you counting stars sooner than your like.
  
  The gun play element of Mirror's Edge is too realistic and you get shot twice you'll be back at 
 the previous checkpoint. 
  
  Faith is not Gordon Freeman or even "Soap" MacTavish so don't expect the same fps elements, meaning 
 no hud. This game makes you wonder why they bothered having guns yet it doesn't the law enforcement 
 types from coming at you with everything in their arsenal, including that damn chopper with the 
 gatling gun which you'll remember from the Matrix.
  
  And that is the first but not the last of the movie references. Some of the references are fun 
 like the number of rats you see in the game. It put me in mind of the movie District 13. Then you've 
 got the slow-mo button. Make sure your close to your target before you use it otherwise your sidewalk 
 paste.
  
  The visuals are very minimalist and almost monotone so the insides of unfinished buildings can 
 be a treat if your getting sick of the crisp scenery.
  
  Overall Mirror's Edge is the game that didn't know what it should be. You have the underplayed 
 shooting element, the often frustrating puzzle element, the sometimes fun melee element and the 
 dizzying first person element. I have no clue what could make this game appeal to the impatient 
 gamer, so rent it if you don't want an unwanted shock when you decide to buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordan1985221
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  First I have to stay that at the beginning I was drawn into this game through the hype and videos 
 released, and loved the item of a game with free running and with you begining able to finally 
 do some of those cool moves we have all seen and love from the matrix. The game is fantastic and 
 really give you something new but not to out there to alienate those non hardcore gamers. The gameplay 
 is very fun and get you thinking where to go and what you need to do to get there, alright at some 
 points people may see the flash of a controller flying at the tv but this is to be expected. The 
 graphics are amazing and really give this world a very polished look, this however may of been 
 to well done, I mean where is the litter, pigeon poo and other things that a real living city has. 
 And once in a while the sunlight flares off the very white surfaces blinding you and causing you 
 untimely death. But the real problem lies in the combat system or lack of proper use of guns, but 
 then again it's really not a shooter. I personally think that the choice of making it a FPS and 
 not third person is inspired, if it was a third person it would lose it's self in the sea of crap 
 out there. The use of the colour red to guide you to your destination is a nice touch as well as 
 the little red Mirror's Edge graffiti marks to show you that there are bags to collect close by. 
 The level designs are really well done a little linar but this isn't a bad thing as too many games 
 are so open that you get lost and frustrated with them because of it and you have enough to worry 
 about without get too lost in the city. The levels are just the right size in my mind and checkpoint 
 are not too few or many, however the introduction of a replay video of what you did in the last 
 level simiular to Halo in mutliplayer matches would of been nice, I hope to see it in the sequel. 
 The you have this conspiracy storyline which is just this side of believable, I just thank the 
 makers didn't push it any further because it would of broken what little concentration I have if 
 they did. The major problem is the fact there are only nine levels in all and the story ends on 
 such a cliffhanger that there could be room for a sequel, but what do you expect from EA and the 
 game industry in general. But all in all this is a great game and would be something I would advise 
 people to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This game has ALOT of goods and bads. For one, if you are not a hardcore gamer, then dont even 
 look at this game. This game is also pretty challenging for the people who dont like shooting and 
 wont shoot in the game or you want the 80 point achievement for not shooting anyone. But even without 
 that, this game is really hard and the puzzles are hard.
  
  (CAUTION: RENT FIRST) {I BEAT IT IN A DAY}
  
  Good-
  *The whole game is crazy and exciting.
 
  *There are lots of things to do, like Campaign and Time Trial.
  *You can share your time on Xbox Live
  *Lots of collectibles to collect. (Sneaky Bags!)
  *Lots 
 of fun and innovative way to get across places.
  *Unique Game
  
  Bad-
  *Aiming for Gun SUCKS
  *Story Line is really sketchy
  *Really hard puzzles (cough cough level 
 8)
  *Bad Achievements that are not fun to get
  *Short Campaign
  *Crappy drawn cutscene anime stuff.
  *Time Trials are hard
  
  The achievements are not fun. 
 I got 685 from the first day I played it. You get 20 points for each level you beat, so thats about 
 200 from that and an extra 60 thrown in for beating the game, and another 80 for not shooting (BUT 
 I HIGHLY DONT RECCOMEND doing that, extremely hard but i got through it.) You really gotta think 
 hard on how you wanna do stuff in the game to survive, and the puzzles are tricky. But it is short 
 so RENT. GOOD GAME THOUGH
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slong
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge does what other games, to date, have failed to do: It takes the 2-d side-scrolling 
 platform games and brings them fully to a 3-d world.
  
  In other attempts to achieve a real platforming experience, you could jump and flip and bounce 
 off things but generally only in a straight line. While playing ME you can do all of the above, 
 plus flip, climb, swing, slide, et al. and do it wherever you want to do it, given that you don't 
 get yourself killed. Faith's lithe movements make the game feel like it's flowing. As you get more 
 and more moves strung together it flows faster and faster. Sitting in your chair, you tend to tense 
 up as she does each action, quite as if you've been drawn into the game. THAT is what's so great 
 about platforming.
  
  I know that others have talked about weak combat and having to repeat levels, but I think that 
 they are looking at the game for things that it's not intended to excel at. If you want a once-through 
 game, play Prince of Persia. Great game, but you can't die so it's kind of like one big push through 
 the game. If you want to learn the game, learn the moves, and really 'immerse' yourself into the 
 character and her abilities, play Mirror's Edge. 
  
  For combat you can go just about ANYWHERE else. There are thousands of games out there for that.
 
  
  On a final note, as amazing as this game is, I think that the biggest thing that ME adds to the 
 gaming world is what it shows to be possible. How many times have you played a shooter and been 
 disgusted that you can't jump over a fence, even though you're an incredible being with super strength 
 and agility? If more games are made with the freedom of basic movement that ME shows to be an asset, 
 I think the face of games as we know it will change.
  
  Sj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilsamchillin94
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  best game ever.
  pretty good graphics. great scenes. nice scenic background. good story.
  overall
  best game ive ever played
  deff. worth the price
  you should buy it
  you wont 
 be sorry
  best game ever.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  pretty good graphics. great scenes. nice scenic background. good story.
  overall
  best game 
 ive ever played
  deff. worth the price
  you should buy it
  you wont be sorry
  best game ever.
  pretty good graphics. great scenes. nice scenic background. good story.
  overall
 
  best game ive ever played
  deff. worth the price
  
  
  
  you should buy it
  you wont be sorry
  best game ever.
  pretty good graphics. great scenes. nice scenic background. 
 good story.
  overall
  best game ive ever played
  deff. worth the price
  
  you should buy it
  you wont be sorry
  best game ever.
  pretty good graphics. great scenes. 
 nice scenic background. good story.
  overall
  best game ive ever played
  deff. worth the price
  
  
  you should buy it
  you wont be sorry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tupacalv21
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  My and my cousins beat this game in about 3 to 4 days and we did it without shooting anybody. Doing 
 this made the game more challenging. I know if we beat the game shooting people the game would 
 have been a million times easier. So if you haven't played it yet I recommend try and get the Trophy/Achievement 
 for not shooting anybody the whole game. After you beat it without shooting anybody you can beat 
 the game easily in hard mode using guns. Don't read all the negative reviews there all full of 
 crap written by idiots that can't even beat the game and can't realize how much of a awesome game 
 this is. There will be a sequel and I am definitely looking forward to it. Yes, this game was experimental 
 for being the first game of its kind. That's why the sequel will be a huge hit. Mirrors Edge & 
 Metal Gear Solid 4=Top games of 2008 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xprimentyl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Every now and again, game designers sit around their conference tables and decide (rightly so) 
 that the industry NEEDS an infusion of something NEW. So many have pursued tried and true ideas, 
 added small twists, maybe slightly better mechanics or an interesting, gimmicky dynamic and passed 
 of copy-cats of age-old games. Let's face it, for the most part in the FPS genre, we've been playing 
 Doom with different textures and environments for 15 years. Don't get me wrong, I love my FPSs; 
 don't know what I'd do without them, but when it all boils down, the games have not been that dramatically 
 different: you run through corridors, shoot lame AI baddies and blow up crates and barrels.
  
  Then comes something like Mirror's Edge. At it's core, it is a First-Person game, but the focus 
 is so far from "shooting," calling it an FPS is simply wrong.
  
  Mirror's Edge puts you behind the eyes of Faith, a gorgeously realized underground information 
 runner in a not-to-distant dystopian future wherein the idea of privacy has been quelled as the 
 government monitors and polices everything we do. As a "runner," Faith utilizes the art or sport 
 of Parkour, free-running, that focuses on the quickest and most efficient ways of getting from 
 one place to another through feats of incredible agility and athleticism: scaling walls, leaping 
 over obstacles, tumbling and climbing up and down pipes. At the brink of much-needed societal change, 
 Faith's sister (her professional opposite, a cop,) is framed for murder. Faith then sets upon a 
 pretty straightforward quest to clear her sisters name and incite change. Nothing revolutionary 
 there...
  
  What makes Mirror's Edge stand apart is the fact that it is a First-Person title that really makes 
 you FEEL you are your character. No mere screen-bobbing or looking down and seeing your feet to 
 give the illusion of first-person here; Faith's movements are fluid and weighty; you see her arms 
 pumping as she runs and every turn, jump, tumble and impact FEELS like it's happening to you. (As 
 frustrating as it is, falling 20 stories to the ground below is a terrifyingly satisfying feeling!) 
 Watching Faith reach out and grab ledges and poles, hearing the sound of her hands clamping down 
 or her feet gaining momentum as she runs and her grunts of exerted force never get old. These mechanics 
 have never been done so well in an First-Person title; it's funny that in the dozens of FPSs I've 
 played, the first time I ever really FELT it would be in a game where guns are rarely given a second 
 thought!
  
  Graphically, this game is astounding. The scheme of bold, monochromatic colors set against the 
 bleach-white cityscape gives Mirror's Edge a unique, beautiful and surrealistic feel. This is immediately 
 counteracted by the fact that the environments and lighting are at times, disturbingly realistic.
 
  
  The sound is excellent. Like I said, her footsteps on different surfaces, her breathing, the sound 
 of her flesh squeegee-ing across glass and metal as she glides like water from one place to another, 
 the sound of the wind blowing past "your" ears as Faith gains momentum, all of these are perfectly 
 realized and set to an unlockable ambient electronic soundtrack that changes with the pace of the 
 game. (Special kudos to "The Shard  puzzle" track!)
  
  The gameplay itself does get a bit repetitive and the scaling puzzles become a little obvious after 
 you train yourself to "think" like a runner, but the longevity and the replayability comes in the 
 form of time trials and global leaderboard-tracked "speed runs" for each of the campaign's 10 levels. 
 There is a huge level of pride in picking up on the nuances of Mirror's Edge's non-intuitive control 
 scheme: (i. e.: for the 360, Left Bumper is the "Jump" button and the typically mashed "A" button 
 is mere context-sensitive, rarely-pressed after-thought.)
  
  Overall, Mirror's Edge is a remarkably refreshing installment in "video gamedom;" it will likely 
 not appeal immediately to a wide variety of gamers, but it is an amazing ride worth a few playthroughs 
 at least (because you can always do it FASTER!) I can already foresee a cult following that will 
 raise hell whenever an FPS comes out to utilize these mechanics and the vocal majority sounds off 
 like it's something new! I believe everyone should at least try Mirror's Edge out to appreciate 
 the experience; the set-pieces it has brought to the table in movement and unique First-Person 
 feel have undoubtedly raised the bar. Enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayo_93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Okay, so welcome to Mirror's Edge. You are Faith, a young girl in the suppressed Korean State and 
 your sister has been framed by an evil Korean leader. To save her you must do what you do best.... Run.
 
  
  To start this game is different and I liked that. It was really nice to see a new game (not mario 
 etc) try its hand at a 3-D platformer. The game is relatively realistic, it is a video game so 
 they can push the realms of realism; which free runners do in real life everyday. What does that 
 mean? It means you will be jumping from ludicrous heights and ridiculously far, to try and save 
 your sister. The game leads you around rooftops and building using red highlights. I was skeptical 
 of this thinking it would make the game either too easy or awkward but I thought it generally worked 
 well. You instantly understand that the fun of this game is not figuring out where to go but the 
 fastest way to get there. And it is immensely satisfying when you hit a sequence of jumps/falls/slides 
 or whatever perfectly. The story itself isn't great but it tries to keep you interested and it 
 probably could have done that better without the weird anime cut scenes. I also forgave it because 
 my favourite platformers are still Mario and any story is as interesting as "the princess is in 
 another castle." 
  
  Mirror's edge, however feels like an experimental game. It does feel incomplete and problematic 
 at times... i. e. it is not always too obvious where you are supposed to go next or how you are supposed 
 to get there. As I say the story could be ironed out some more and the game could definitely be 
 longer. None of these problems takes too much away from the game though. The end result is a game 
 that leaves you feeling pretty satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KlausRottingham
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge takes a defining leap into a combination of genre's that have never really mixed 
 before, and sometimes it is painfully obvious as to why it has never been tried. You play as Faith, 
 a runner who works as an on-foot courier set in an oppressed totalitarian society which looks far 
 more utopian than it's shady dealings let on. Since the streets are littered with police (or Blues) 
 runners take to the rooftops and make their deliveries in the relative safety of the city's skyscrapers. 
 However, not long into the game's story, Faith becomes embroiled in a murder of an important mayoral 
 figure whose death is incorrectly pinned on her sister. The game's story is pretty cut & paste 
 stuff consisting of fairly predictable characters and just enough plot twists to keep the player 
 semi-interested but do not be expecting Mass Effect proportioned background depth. The story is 
 progressed mainly in anime cutscene form in between episodes which seems a strange choice when 
 it would have been so much more immersive to keep the scenes unfolding in Faith's eyes in a sort 
 of Half-Life or Bioshock method.
  
  The gameplay is mostly simple with players not really using a huge variety of button combinations 
 to reach their destinations, and combat is just a case of disarming an opponent before mashing 
 the attack button. Most levels consist of you having to get from point A to point B without being 
 shot to death and / or falling down to the streets below. When you string together the moves required 
 to pass the obstacles, it looks and feels amazing. When sprinting, Faith's arms are shown pumping 
 away in the corners pf the screen and you can hear her panting as she vaults a fence before jumping 
 from building to building before smashing open a door and running through corridors... into an elevator. 
 It seemed that every time there was an open stretch of buildings and objects to surpass, there 
 was a dead end in the form of an elevator to mask loading times or a cramped room which features 
 some annoying jumping puzzle.
  
  Mirror's Edge_01
  
  
  Since it is in the first person perspective, it is difficult to see where Faith's whole body is 
 which makes jumps in tight spaces increasingly irritating to pull off and wish that you could be 
 back on the rooftops. It is these kind of abrupt gamebreakers which stop Mirror's Edge from being 
 a really great game and turn it into something of a disappointment. For every wall run and leap 
 of Faith (clever huh?) there is a small room in which you will fail multiple times to reach your 
 goal or a large group of heavily armed enemies ready to tear you apart.
  
  The combat mechanics in Mirror's Edge are shallow and uninteresting with there being one button 
 for attacks and another for disarming. Once Faith has a weapon in her hands, she can fire it until 
 it runs out of bullets before it is automatically discard it. The guns are fairly bland and boring 
 to fire which is not helped by it being nigh impossible to take on more than two enemies at a time 
 without being destroyed as Faith is a pretty fragile person who can only really take two or three 
 hits before hitting the floor.
  
  One thing Mirror's Edge has got going for it is an incredible art design. The majority of the environments 
 are strikingly white with the brightness and contrast turned all the way up. The only exceptions 
 are seemingly random objects that are all in a bright, vibrant colour. The interesting part of 
 the art design is that no two colours will be seen next to each other, if you are in an area with 
 green billboards, you will be hard pressed to find any other colours in the surrounding area to 
 be anything other than white or green. Again, an exception being the optional 'runner-vision' which 
 shows the player which objects are the easiest way to reach their destination, although this feature 
 has a mind of it's own and more often than not it will abandon you when you need it most.
  
  Mirror's Edge_02
  
  
  Mirror's Edge is a perfectionists game. It will take several playthroughs 
 of levels and Time Trial stages in order to complete the level mistake free which does add longevity 
 to the title, but also takes away from the fun factor of the first time you play the game. The 
 online leaderboards certainly act as an incentive to really practice all of the levels and et the 
 best times, but it is not as fun as it could have been or should have been as you spend so little 
 time doing the one thing the game does really well which is running fast and jumping high across 
 the rooftops of the city.
  
  Although a disappointing experience, Mirror's Edge can still be a fun game in doses, but more than 
 once the player will be left feeling confused after they successfully completed a jump they had 
 just failed, without doing anything differently from the previous attempt. This will inevitably 
 lead to the player feeling relived rather than satisfied at what they have just accomplished. At 
 the very end of the game a shot of the entire city is shown (it is of Coruscant-esq size) and it 
 gives you with the feeling that you haven't explored even nearly enough of it to be satisfied and 
 there will be a sour taste in your mouth when you think of what the game COULD have been rather 
 than what it actually is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NT082786
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is for gamers that appreciate doing something else that's not just killing and shooting. 
 Its goal was to deliver a fluid platforming game in a first person view. It is very similar to 
 Tomb Raider in many aspects and it's like no other when it comes to deliver adrenaline when running 
 like crazy from rooftop to rooftop.
  
  While the storyline is very weak, it doesn't fail to put you under pressure and oblige you to exploit 
 your talents as runner for an experience no other game can give you. Also, inherently, this game 
 is not for everyone. The best way to know if you'll enjoy it is by trying out the demo. If you 
 like it, be prepared to be thrilled by the explosive single player campaign and to get addicted 
 to the time trials that require real skill.
  
  Granted, the game is very short, if your are not into time trials, speed runs, and replays; if 
 that is the case it is definitely a must rental. And while it's not that much of a breakthrough, 
 Mirror Edge is unique and fresh enough to make you remember why you like video games and brings 
 to mind the multiple possibilities that gaming has in the future and today, to deliver and experience 
 that books and movies can't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forerunner0027
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is an experimental new IP from EA Games' Swedish studio DICE. It is ostensibly about 
 a woman battling against the Orwellian government of a nameless near future city-state. But really, 
 it's a game about momentum: making constant forward progress, never looking back, and betting your 
 life on split-second choices. 
  On paper, anyway
  Mirror's Edge is the world's first FPPG (First Person Parkour Game) , and places you in the awesome 
 split-toed running shoes of Faith, a lithe Asian woman with the skills of an Olympic gymnast and 
 an ultra-marathon competitor, who works as a 'Runner': an outlaw letter carrier who delivers packages 
 to persons unknown across the rooftops of the city. 
  I'd like to take a moment to talk about the game's strengths, so that it's weaknesses are put in 
 a clearer frame. When the game's mechanics 'click', you will soar across the tops of the city's 
 gossamer towers like the wind itself; gliding effortlessly over fences, under pipes, and up scaffoldings. 
 Faith becomes an avatar through whom we can experience the kind of athletic prowess that all but 
 a few of us can only dream of. More than any other game I've ever played, Mirror's Edge could have 
 befitted from a silent protagonist but I'll get into that momentarily. The city itself is one 
 of the most memorable I've seen in years; a beautiful, sparkling clean grid of stark white spires 
 flecked with stripes of primary color, a far cry from the gray-brown grit of most game spaces. 
 But despite the game's novelties, Mirror's Edge's story is a very, very, worn hat. 
  Exposition tells us that Faith has been working as a Runner since shortly after her activist mother 
 was killed in a riot; but who she and her obligatory voice-in-the-ear support character Mercury 
 work for, and what the packages she delivers contain, is never even remotely explained or explored. 
 It hardly seems to matter though, because at the end of the first mission Faith gets a call from 
 her estranged sister Kate who is, (gasp!) a 'Blue'; A member of the city's brutal jackbooted, oversized 
 shoulder padded police force. Kate is framed for murder, and Faith decides that the only way to 
 clear her sibling's name is to run around town, breaking into corporate offices and shaking down 
 people who are about as likely to be a key part of a massive government cover-up as my Chihuahua 
 is to get a stock brokers' license. The usual revelations and betrayals occur, though the characters 
 that die and/or stab you in the back are so obvious that they may well wear t-shirts to the effect. 
 It all feels arbitrary, for instance: the Blues are supplanted as your tormentors in the second 
 half of the game by (gasp again!) a private military corporation who are supposed to be much more 
 despicable than them; but the only reason we are given to accept this is that they are a PMC, but 
 the Blues don't seem to have any problem with gunning down an unarmed woman. The falsehood of the 
 city's utopia seems suspect too: the only case for the government's ill intent is some expository 
 bluster about data-mining, and Faith's good word; every visual cue given points to the city being 
 a wonderful place to live in.
  Now a word on the gameplay when it doesn't work: The campaign can be finished in less than an hour, 
 but it will probably take you eight times that on your first try because of the game's incredibly 
 bad level design. Despite how open the cityscape looks, there is only a single rigid path to your 
 objective which is highlighted by 'Runner's Vision', which turns the ladders, pipes, and ramps 
 you must use bright red. Logic would dictate that this would make the game insultingly easy; but 
 in practice, you'd be amazed how hard it can be to pick out a red vent or pole from an orange background 
 when you're running by at 20MPH. adding to the frustration are some truly obnoxious jumping puzzles 
 that you're forced to soldier though in all of the badly lit and claustrophobic indoor halls and 
 access ducts that around half the game takes place in.
  Now we come to combat: the most broken part of this mirror. Faith has only a few ineffectual punches 
 and kicks at her disposal, and she can't take more than two or three gunshots before dying, leaving 
 escape as your sole viable option most of the time. This could be a great concession to realism, 
 and serve as a metaphor for the futility of an individual fighting the system. The problem is though, 
 it seems that every member of every assault rifle toting SWAT team Faith runs afoul of is an expert 
 sniper, who can score a head-shot on a moving target at a thousand yards; leaving you no choice 
 but to neutralize them before proceeding. Faith can disarm arm a cop, taking his gun and instantly 
 knocking him out with it; but the weapons seem like more of a curse than a blessing, as they cut 
 her movement speed in half, and can't be reloaded or iron-sight aimed. In fact, Faith doesn't really 
 seem sure which end makes the loud noise.
  In conclusion, Mirror's Edge is a game that dreams big and fails big, but it also treads new ground, 
 and at times seems to conjure the hair-pulling good times of a 16-bit platformer 
  5 out of 10 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephyzero
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  ugly. i can't stand this game. so many advertisements, at least use a different face than that. 
 it's painful to look at it. i duno why they use her face. this game is so bad, especially with 
 her. ugly. dice should have used their time and effort to create battlefield 3 and not this crap. 
 omfg. why would they even bother create this crap? we want battlefield 3, not some crappy game 
 about a ugly girl running from stuff. such a bad game. so so so so bad. they need to take this 
 off immediately. duno why its getting high reviews. bad. ugly. . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jainist
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  In a game that requires you to be aware of your surroundings constantly this game utilises a first 
 person view that gives no concept to periperal vision. This makes the gameplay extremely flawed 
 in just about every movement the character makes. Everything pretty much looks the same so if you 
 are expected to play this at high speed I would say that is impossible as you have no concept of 
 direction unless you get within feet of the red stuff, by which time it is usually too late. The 
 button configuration is not editable and they have used the wrong buttons for actions such as jump 
 and downward actions.
  
  Overall I found this game frustrating but unfortuantely I can recognise the potential behind this 
 game as the I like the idea, just the controls are not there yet. Back onthe shelf and let's get 
 through other games first before trying this. Certainly a renter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crackdud
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Mirrors edge is intensly different from what I am used to, and stands out as a genre opener. However, 
 this formula is at a necessity that some other game will perfect, standing out of what this game 
 could truly be. 
  Good stuff first, the environments and graphics are breathtaking in simplicity. The controls are 
 easy to learn in a couple sit downs of play. Not only that, this game generalizes strategy to how 
 you approach enemies, overcoming obstacles based on situations, and teaches how to avoid reckless 
 charges and be smart of your decisions. The flow is also excellent in movement and it really pushes 
 you into the game and enjoy every successful jump, climb, or escape route you take.
  However, this game is a double edged sword with the blade coming at you being arguably sharper. 
 Character faces are neglected in real detail, losing focus on the environment. While the game does 
 emphasize against the use of guns, the times when you can use them are frustrating in how you direct 
 them. The AI are not the sharpest pencils in the box and sometimes just stand there waiting for 
 you to get out of cover. Speaking of which, there should be some sort of cover system integrated 
 into this game like gears of war did, not to mention the jumps and climbs can be frustrating if 
 you don't achieve it the first few times.
  Regardless of such mediocrities dirtying the window of opportunity for a new experience in gaming, 
 Mirrors Edge is able to spill thrills and create amazement in it's uniqueness and physical style. 
 Now the concept has surfaced, who will come to perfect it in the future? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkElf2112
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  When Mirror's Edge first surfaced at E3 it looked like it would revolutionize the First Person 
 genre. The free flowing, high flying motion of the gameplay looked to be a new take on an old standard. 
 I have never heard of DICE, the game's developer before now and Electronic Arts (the real boss) 
 is known for pushing games out to get the profit immediately rather than let a game mature. One 
 wonders what if someone like Valve had gotten a hold of this project...
  
  Graphics - The game has a sterilized, stark look painted with mostly primary colors. It's simple 
 but looks good for the most part. Cutscenes are done in a stylized Japanime style that reminds 
 you of a certain insurance company's commercials that you may have seen. The cutscenes do not look 
 so good. DICE does succeed it capturing the feel of height and distance with the style and overall 
 the game's look works.
  
  Story - Not bad. A simple tale of getting to the bottom of the matter and punishing the guilty. 
 The storyline is interesting enough but not really engaging. The writing is not a weakness of the 
 game but it's no bonus either.
  
  Gameplay - Ahhh, now we get to it. First the good. Although the gameplay is quite linear, when 
 you are running, ducking, sliding, leaping, and rolling after and away from opponents this game 
 utterly rocks! DICE has spot on captured the feeling of flight, speed, and momentum like no other 
 game I've played. Now the bad. There are about a half dozen such moments in the entire game. This 
 is the first time I've ever seen a game get in it's own way. Great moments such as a pursuit or 
 being chased are ground to a screeching halt by irritating, infuriating, and most of all unnecessary 
 "jumping puzzles". One word sums up Mirror's Edge like no other. DIE. You will die over, and over, 
 and over, and over, and over, and over, and over, and over, well you get the idea. Often these 
 absurd precision jump requirements come at a point in the game that should be straightforward. 
 Basically imagine N+ but in 3D. Many times I screamed at the TV "I just want to play the game!!!! 
 Let me get me to it!!!!" It's easily a 5 to 1 frustration to fun ratio the way the game is set 
 up. Again, I can only dream what a top-level game maker such as Valve could have done with this 
 game.
  Combat in the game is flawed as well. You are discouraged from using guns but are at a huge disadvantage 
 if you don't. If you do use firearms, combat becomes way too easy and pointless. There is no multi-player 
 element to Mirror's Edge and unless you want to deal with the time trials, it's also very short. 
 There were moments in this game when I was grateful for that brevity.
  
  This game wasn't a lot of fun. The wonder of the style and motion of the game wears off by Chapter 
 3. Mirror's Edge is actually no better than a 5.5 or 6 tops but I gave it a 7 because it at least 
 it tries something radically different and for that the developers should be applauded. Call it 
 an A for Effort if you will. Someone has to experiment to continue pushing the envelope. If you 
 are a little burned out from shooters and want to try something different rent (don't buy) Mirror's 
 Edge. If you actually buy this game you are either independently wealthy or simply have no respect 
 for the value of a dollar.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tr3v3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Mirrors Edge is a unique twist on the first person genre,
  and it works out well.
  
  Pros- 
  -Highly Intense gameplay, you will get a lot of thrills from this game.
  -Pretty solid 
 story-line, could easily be translated into a movie.
  -Soundtrack is beautiful.
  -Replay value, theres Time Trials you can do, where you try to outrun the other persons ghost and 
 beat their time. After beating the game, you unlock "Hard mode" which is pretty challenging and 
 many will love it. Also unlocks speed runs for chapters which are really challenging. 
  -Poetry, this game is majestic, stunning graphics, beautiful environments, The whole feel of it 
 is just great.
  
  Cons-
  -"Trial and Error", You will die a lot due to not doing something right, Though, I don't exactly 
 find this a con, it will turn off other players, or not, it matters on your tastes. By the way, 
 I have gone parkouring a couple of times, and the game is realistic on the trial and error part.
 
  -Combat, the combat system is hard to get a little used to, many players will hate it, I, for 
 one, embraced it. All you have to do is know how to be decent at the platforming and combat elements 
 in the game, and you'll have a blast.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I was really into the whole freestyle walking scene back in 2002, and thought it was going to be 
 a great idea for a video game, and it truly is! There is a lot of fun to be had playing this game, 
 yet there are plenty of frustrations to be had as well.
  
  The game is pretty hard, and oftentimes finding where you need to go is extremely tough and frustrating 
 when the runner falls, or doesnt do what she is supposed to do. The game is full of plenty of glitches 
 where she will not jump as high, far, or as well at certain times while perfectly at others. You 
 may and WILL have to replay certain sections over and over and over again as you will most likely 
 fall and die when she doesn't jump perfectly.
  
  The scenery was cool, the concept was good, and the whole storyline of what you are doing is perfectly 
 fine, but the graphics are pretty cheasy and not well drawn out and sort of hinder the game experience.
 
  
  I am an easy person to get motion sickness over, but i didnt get it once with this game as people 
 said should happen. Though flying and jumping through the air and over obstacles was fun, it can 
 be very challenging and like I said, DIFFICULT at times when she doesn't jump right. I found myself 
 cussing up a storm at the tv when she wouldnt jump far enough and then the next time she does it 
 perfectly.
  
  I worked to acheive the acheivement of beating the game without shooting anyone, which is hard 
 in itself and requires more skill, but is do-able.
  
  Lastly, you will have fun with this game, though you can beat it shortly, I would say rent it, 
 see how you like it, beat it in 2-3 days and then return it. It's a great game, but with too many 
 issues and glitches, it's nothing to go spend $60 to buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harkness2001
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  I found that the game play was solid and innovative. The story is just average. You know fugitive? 
 Find the one armed killer? Basically that's the story in nutshell. 
  As far a game play goes it's fast and furious. It looks good and makes you feel good when you manage 
 to pull off a string of moves. However, having to turn valves seems kinda funny because it brings 
 the game to a complete halt for a few seconds and breaks the action. Thankfully they are few and 
 far between. Mostly the action flows smoothly and there will only be a couple of times then the 
 platforming puzzles get in the way of the game. These may make you want to pull out you hair but 
 if your patient you'll be okay.
  Just get ready to die... A lot. This game will have you doing sequences over and over. In few sections, 
 even the slightest mistake will be your downfall and you'll have to do it all over. So once again... if 
 you have patience this game is good.
  Sound is good and background music fits the action well. Voice acting is also decent.
  Overall 
 this is one of a kind that almost makes the cut as a great experience. Only a few things hinder 
 it from reaching that. Still, its a game that's worth being played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrashMacKenzie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Remember the days when jumping from one place to another was the pinnacle of video gaming?
  
  No? Well, ask your parents.
  
  Video games have moved on to shooting, leveling and rocking 
 since then. Yet, with the launch of EA's new soon-to-be trilogy, Mirror's Edge, jumping may have 
 it's day again.
  
  Mirror's Edge is a first-person platforming game that takes place in a city under the control of 
 a fascist government. The only way to freely send information in the city is to use a Runner. 
 
  
  Runner's are highly athletic individuals who deliver messages via the metropolis' rooftops. The 
 story centers around one such Runner; Faith. Faith's sister Kate is setup for the murder of a mayorial 
 candidate and she is determined to clear her name.
  
  First let's get the problems out of the way. The story is not terribly impressive, it's not very 
 long and Faith is a rather stereotypical 'tough chick' character. But, by far, the games greatest 
 weakness is the combat.
  
  It's possible to go through the game without firing a single shot, (in fact there is a achievement 
 for doing so) but this can prove rather difficult. Yet, even with a gun, it's no picnic given that 
 Faith's aim is suspect. Combine that with the fact the Faith can take very little damage before 
 dropping, combat is a serious pain and easily the game's biggest flaw.
  
  Now that that's out of the way, let's focus on the positive. The actual running and jumping and 
 swinging and sliding is buckets of fun.
  
  Sure, there's some trial and error that has to be done as you move through the game, but when you 
 chain together a few of Faith techniques and traverse a few cluttered rooftops without ever breaking 
 stride, it's a feeling like few others in gaming.
  
  Some have criticized the game's stark environments, but the developers say that it was designed 
 that way intentional to reflect the sterile nature of a city under complete control. For me, it 
 worked.
  
  Mirror's Edge falls a little short of it's ambitious goal, but the game is enjoyable and serves 
 as a solid jumping of point for a new intellectual property. 
  
  Yet, due to it's lack of length or replay value (unless you're into time trials) , I'd only suggest 
 a rental. But, it's a rental you should enjoy.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evo700
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge brings a completely new style of gameplay to the table. The graphics are superb. 
 The character models and environments are really nice to look at. The gameplay, well the game play 
 is freakin' great. None of us have ever playing anything like this. What other first person game 
 allows you the freedom to do even 1/16 of what you can do in this game. The answer is "None". I 
 wouldn't mind playing through this game a half dozen times trying to beat my own time. I give the 
 replay value two thumbs up. The story however, could have been more fleshed out.
  
  Summary
  
  Graphics: 10
  Gamplay: 10
  Story: 7
  Replay Value: 10
  
  Also for those 
 who gave this game a bad rating for not knowing where to go next, "Sometimes, in this game, you 
 have to think and look before you leap."
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: martinreynoldsd
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  I am outraged that I was able beat this game in roughly 7 hrs. It is definitely not worth the 59.99 
 that I had to pay to buy it. It really is a Great game but was way too short. This game can be 
 very frustrating do to the 1st person camera. Although it does bring you into the game it works 
 against you when trying to perform a string of moves to get to your objective. The game play over 
 all was outstanding but I recommend renting, do to the overall shortness of this game. I also had 
 some trouble posting my scores from the time trail. I am not sure if that was a problem only I 
 had or if other people were affected by this flaw. Games today need to step up the content I can 
 not justify paying so much for so little. I hope they make a second game and add more levels to 
 the story mode. If not just increase the size of the levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mobius8041
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  First off, this game reminded me so much of Portal. The way puzzles were set up and the interesting 
 way that you have to solve them, in this case by free running. The first person running and action 
 is very well done. The story is alright, although I never would have expected it to be amazing. 
 It's quite obvious that the story was designed to revolve around the concept of free running. Graphics 
 are great. Playing this on a HDTV is something worth doing. The game does has its share of flaws. 
 Some puzzles and combat experiences are frustrating and take way more tries to complete than they 
 should. Mirrors Edge is also a little on the short side. I happened to rent the game and was able 
 to complete it in a few play sessions. Mirrors Edge is one of those games and almost everyone can 
 find enjoyment in and I would recommend it to someone looking for something new to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Parkour n. - The art of movement in which a person runs and jumps to overcome any obstacle as quickly 
 as possible, while making it appear totally effortless, also referred to as freerunning.
  
  Parkour is quite the artform. You've seen it movies such as The Matrix, and in countless martial 
 arts films starring Jackie Chan and Tony Jaa. People run up walls, vault fences and leap from rooftop 
 to rooftop with a total disregard to health insurance. You've also seen it in a few video games, 
 such as Prince of Persia. No video game, however, has done parkour quite like Mirror's Edge. Developer 
 DICE has created a game where you'll use parkour to survive while doing so in the first person.
 
  
  The world of Mirror's Edge is one of corruption. Bags containing important documents and other 
 sensitive materials are delievered to clients discreetly using specialized courriers name runners. 
 The game's heroine Faith (most likely named after the phrase "leap of faith") is one of those runners, 
 very light on her feet, deadly with her hands and not an ounce of vertigo. When a routine delivery 
 attracts too much heat, a conspiracy unfolds and Faith soon finds her sister Kate framed for the 
 murder of a mayor-elect. Now Faith has more important matters at hand than delivering packages: 
 clear her sister's name, and find the real killer.
  
  A common misconception with this game is that it's considered a first-person shooter. It is, however, 
 a first-person adventure. Yes, you CAN shoot if you'd like, but you'll find greater enjoyment in 
 avoiding combat. This is a game that's built on speed, as fast as the human body can go that is. 
 You can run along walls, jump from wall to wall, vault over and slide under obstacles, swing from 
 bars, climb pipes, etc. You'll do just about everything you can do to keep your rate of movement 
 uninterrupted. 
  
  The control scheme is actually rather unique. Any vertical movement, such as jumping, climbing 
 or wall running is done with the LB button, while any lowering movement such as sliding or rolling 
 to avoide a hard landing is done with the L trigger. Combat actions are done with the R trigger, 
 and interacting with objects is done with the A button. It may seem a bit odd at first, but once 
 you spend a little time with the game, the controls become second nature. 
  
  If you want combat, the game does offer a good amount, but the cards are definately stacked against 
 you. You have basic hand to hand maneuvers you can do, but rest assured you're not going to finish 
 off an opponent and start whaling on the next if there's more than one guy around you. You'll need 
 to go after them systematically if you wish to survive. That's where the Y button comes in. When 
 you get close to an enemy, he'll attempt to gun butt you, and for a brief second the gun will flash 
 red. Hitting Y at this point will disarm the Blue (authority figures in Mirror's Edge) with a very 
 cool sequence that's unique for each type of weapon holder. You can either shoot the rest of them 
 down, or press Y again to drop the gun and flee, or go after another Blue. 
  
  To further emphasize that this game was designed for freerunning are the races. You can either 
 do a speedrun of a story mode chapter, or you can do a time trial of a level broken up into checkpoint 
 segments. You can connect to EA servers (when they're working, of course) and upload your times 
 and compare yourself to others to see just how fast you think you are. Gamers who live to do speedruns 
 will absolutely adore this feature, because the beauty of the level design is finding and memorizing 
 the best routes possible.
  
  It's very fun maneuvering through the architecture of this game. Running from rooftop to rooftop 
 while vaulting over ventilation fans and fences, and using zips lines can be an exhilirating experience. 
 Just looking down the sides of one of these buildings can induce the slightest bit of vertigo. 
 The game doesn't just take place on rooftops, however. There are countless offices and lobbies 
 you'll be running through. There's a sewer system you have to find your way down into. One of the 
 game's most thrilling levels is a subway system, which has you riding a train, then leaping to 
 another train all the while avoiding signs. No matter what surrounding you're dropped into, though, 
 you get a wonderful feeling by figuring out just how you get from one spot to the next.
  
  This is a very artistic game visually. It's almost reminiscient of a game that Suda 51 might have 
 produced (Killer7, No More Heroes) . There are bright colors everywhere. All the rooftops are an 
 almost blinding white. Office interiors will vary from blue to green to red in hues that just seem 
 to hum off the walls. The game has a feature called Runner's Vision that will mark important obstacles 
 to interact with and doors to go through with red to make them stand out and catch the gamer's 
 eye so he's not wasting time guessing where to go. This can, however, be turned off, and it's turned 
 off by default on the hard setting and time trials. The game's cutscenes are also done in a in 
 sort of a rough cel-shaded anime style. It's a very cool game to look at through and through.
 
  
  The game's audio is just as cool. You'll hear the footsteps Faith takes as she starts building 
 up speed, the clangs as she grabs the edges of vents, the distinctive reports of each gun being 
 fired at her, and the jarring sounds of glass breaking as she kicks her way through windows. The 
 voice acting is decent, nothing really outstanding or noteworthy, but the soundtrack is superb. 
 The pieces are composed in just such a manner to complement the surreal nature of the game, and 
 they intensify when the action does. This is one of those games best played at a high volume.
 
  
  The game's not perfect, though. Flaws arise in areas such as camera control (you can't turn your 
 head to look around when you're suspended from a bar for instance) and forced combat can become 
 frustrating. There are a few sections where you just can't run past every enemy in order to move 
 on, and trying to take them down one at a time ends up being too problematic. The game works fine 
 when it's one or two at a time, but when there's a hall full of Blues, it's just flatout messy. 
 There's also a few annoying control issues such as missed footing, missed leaping, and a tendency 
 for the camera to try to keep its focus on a Blue after you attack him when all you want to do 
 is stun him and run away. The story also doesn't seem as fleshed out as it could be, but it's still 
 interesting nonetheless.
  
  Flaws aside, it's still a spectacular game. Playing a game where the focus is to avoid combat and 
 escape is just as adrenaline pumping as a game that has you take on wave after wave of foes. Graphically, 
 there are few games like it, and although the story mode isn't that long, the speed runs and time 
 trials give Mirror's Edge more than its weight in gold when it comes to replay value. DICE has 
 turned an interesting concept on paper into a rewarding gameplay experience that any fan of adventure 
 games should treat themselves to. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bakahashi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  Mirrors Edge was well worth the wait. I remember seeing this game talked about half a year before 
 its release. I knew from the moment I saw the first trailer I would love it. And I did.
  
  I felt the need to review this game simply because I feel it's underrated and want to give my opinion 
 on it.
  
  Story: 7.5/10
  
  The story in this game is good, but it seems to be full of plot holes, once I completed the game, 
 I felt as though I was missing something. A good thing then that two more Mirrors Edge games are 
 coming out. In a nutshell, you are a "runner", someone who delivers information via snail mail. 
 Well I say "snail mail", it's more like "run across rooftops and try not to die mail" haha, but 
 for some reason the cops all of a sudden take a keen interest in stopping you, also, someone frames 
 your sister for killing some politician. You find out why later on, but for me it felt like the 
 story was slightly missing, in the sense where they were clearly making way for it to be continued 
 in a second instalment.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  The graphics aren't spectacular by any means, but they're not terrible either. From a distance 
 everything in the game is uniquely sterile looking and tranquil, but up close it looks slightly 
 dirty and certain parts of buildings look really fake. To be honest, you'll spend too much time 
 running to care about the graphics.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  Lovely. I love the sound in this game, it's exquisite. Hearing the puffs and pants of Faith as 
 she runs for dear life is so sexily seducing, and hearing her groan as she tries desperately to 
 scale some massive wall, it's just so satisfying. Especially when hails of gunfire go off in the 
 background, or the footsteps of someone chasing you rings in your ear like some kind of emergency. 
 The dialogue is also wonderful, I had absolutely no beef with the voice actors this time around, 
 they all did a great job. No complaints whatsoever.
  
  Cutscenes: 10/10
  
  The cutscenes in this game are what make it extra lovely for me. They're all cartoons. Or Manga, 
 maybe more like Manga. Well they're 2D animations anyway. No game has done this on any next generation 
 console yet that I'm aware of, so for that reason alone I give it the seal of uniqueness. Bakahashi 
 approved. They also bring out the anarchistic tone of the game to the surface, which is another 
 thing I love. However, in the next game I would like to see the addition of 3D cutscenes.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  The gameplay is obviously what makes this game as good as it is. It's 
 so refreshing and unique. It certainly beats that miserable failure of a game, Assassins Creed. 
 The free running element to this game is executed brilliantly, and done in first person view too! 
 This adds a feeling of extra awesomeness to the game that I haven't felt anywhere else before. 
 There's something really satisfying about leaping across buildings seen through Faith's eyes as 
 if you were inside her body. Her sexy, Eurasian body... *cough* However, it's not perfect. You 
 die in this game. A lot. The reason the game lasts for quite a while the first time you play through 
 it is because of all the dying you do. However it gives you an incentive to play the game a second 
 time round because you'll want to go through the game again without dying. Also, the gunplay in 
 the game is terrible. I won't lie. Most of the time you'll leave guns behind to use your fists, 
 or just run away. It's like the developers put so much effort into the running element of the game, 
 but made the gunplay some kind of second rate "let's get it out of the way" thing. I'd like to 
 see mele weapons in the next game instead of guns, or have the gun system improved. Or both.
  
  Verdict: 9/10
  
  A beautiful, atmospheric, anarchist action adventure with Manga cutscenes, 
 you can't go wrong. But beware, if you don't like dying, this isn't for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airmartin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  Mirrors Edge puts you in the feet of a runner known as Faith who's job is to carry messages across 
 a city in which information is heavily monitor, using the rooftops.
  
  I've seen a few reviews which chose to compare Mirrors Edge with Valves Portal; which in my eyes 
 is a perfect comparison. Both games take the first person genre and doing something completely 
 different and original. However the only difference is, that Portal was praised for it's brilliance, 
 whereas Mirrors Edge has been buried by the stampede of winter releases. It's only when you sit 
 down and take a run with Faith, that you begin to realise it's true beauty. 
  
  Mirrors Edge looks, sounds and plays beautifully; despite it's trial and error moments, it's only 
 when you build up the momentum that you start to love it. One would assume that the control scheme 
 for this style of game would be one to cower at, however DICE have really nailed it on the head, 
 allowing you to use only 3-4 buttons for a the majority of the game with which you can execute 
 all of Faiths stylish moves. 
  
  Visually the game could easily stand at the top of most modern day releases, with stunning lighting 
 effects coupled with the brightly couloured interiors of the nameless city setting, it really gives 
 the game a unique look and overall style. Although the main objective of the game is to encourage 
 the player to look at the environment differently; DICE don't leave you completely in the dark, 
 by highlighting potential paths in the bright red associated with Runners.
  
  The audio and soundtrack of the game also fit nicely with the style that DICE were trying to create. 
 With music composed by electronic artist Solar Fields which compiled of fast 4/4 beats when being 
 pursued or the ambient twinkles when pondering over a puzzle. Whatever the scenario it really fits.
 
  
  In conclusion, I'd have to say that Mirrors Edge is defiantly worth a rent if not a buy, just to 
 take a look at what DICE have created in terms of innovation. Despite it's frustrating trial and 
 error moments, it does stand out as a quality game; I just can't help but feel that most reviewers 
 were expecting another shooter hence the bad reviews. Either way, try it, you won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gambia87
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. I even bothered to play it through more than once. Mainly for the 700 
 or so gamerscore you can gain from that. But, I genuinely enjoyed this game. It has it's flaws, 
 but I ask you, what game doesn't? The one main problem I had was getting a bit lost occasionally 
 and some of the time trials are completely unreasonable along with the speed runs. But, this is 
 a very good game, and after seeing The Guardian's view on reviewers lacking understanding innovation 
 I would have to agree. This isn't like any game you've ever played before and I bet this style 
 is picked up by other games.
  As for the graphics, this game is so pretty. I'd play it through again just to look at it. Granted 
 the PC version actually looks better, but this is still a really good looking game, and it's not 
 in realism brown which just makes it awesome.
  If you're stuck for a game to buy and you really must buy a game, make sure it's this one, it's 
 well worth the price you could probably pick it up pre-owned now due to someone else's idiocy.
 
  Much love, your friendly neighbourhood Gambia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadster
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  I for one have wanted to play a game which is totally fresh and original for a very long time, 
 and after playing many Doom, Unreal, Quake, Half life and Wolfenstien clones, i was starting to 
 get bored of constantly playing them.
  
  now i've grown sick of the constant shooterfests we see in 1st person games over the last few years.
 
  
  Mind you metroid prime 1 and 2 echoes were also pretty good FP Adventures with emphasis on exploration 
 and scanning rather than just attacking every enemy in sight.
  
  
  then when i heard about mirror's edge i was skeptical, this was before i played the teasingly short 
 demo on my xbox 360, and i have to say.... OMG.... i want more, until the game was released i played 
 the demo constantly, and after completing the game which was really good with a few frustrating 
 bits i felt satisfied and also wanting more.
  
  I really enjoyed playing Mirror's edge, even though i found myself cussing a lot when i messed 
 up the hundreds of times, this was actually the 1st game i've played which actually did something 
 completely different and was really an original game, i didn't want a game with emphasis on shooting, 
 and i'm REALLY glad this wasn't an all out shooter.
  The running and parkour physics in this game made it feel quite realistic, and i for one don't 
 like heights, but this didn't bother me so much.
  
  Visuals (10/10)
  Eye popping visuals what more can i say, sure they're not totally realistic, but the primary colours 
 made mirror's edge really fun to play.
  This game gives you a real sense of vertigo when playing especially when you're being pursued by 
 enforcers and cops and you end up plummeting (When was the last time you played a game and got 
 the real sense of "Oh sh!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! t!!!" when you plummeted to your death?)
  
  Audio and Music (10/10)
  I can't fault this in ANY WAY, Sound was just brilliant and compliments 
 the Visual presentation
  
  Controls (11/10) 
  Finally, a game with fitting control scheme, Simplicity!!!
  pulling off moves once you get used 
 to them, is actually very easy, leaping from a roof top, dropping from a vent shaft, rolling to 
 break a fall, accurate wall jumping
  
  Gameplay (9/10)
  Ok, this game loses a mark for being frustrating but it's only if you're just learning the ropes 
 or trying to get a timed jump just right.
  
  I just hope this isn't the end for mirror's edge, i'd love to see Dice roll out (No pun intended) 
 some more downloadable game content like for example extra episodes for single player , as i got 
 the over all impression this was like a comic book story, it just seems to me that games like these 
 always get the once over treatment, which is disappointing, but who knows what Dice will bring 
 out in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing graphics, art style, and soundtrack, smooth tight controls, all your parkour 
 moves are here, decent story
  
  The Bad: Extremely short, combat is a bit cumbersome, time trials can be almost impossible to master, 
 steep learning curve for controls, can we some say Portal rip offs?
  
  For one, I rarely buy games like this on day one without knowing that I'll at least want to play 
 it 2 or 3 times and Mirror's Edge was a great buy, but I wish I would have waited for a price drop 
 first. Now don't get me wrong go spend $60 on this and you'll have one hell of a time, but for 
 the length and content ME cuts it a bit short. ME is a parkour/free running/building jumping/limber 
 skinny people running around like monkeys on roof tops game and is very well executed.
  
  The first thing I'd like to mention is the warming soundtrack EA created for this game. EA has 
 finally listened to the fans and got rid of the horrible EA Trax; a bunch of wannabe punk and metal 
 bands mixed with lame hip hop and R&B that everyone with half a brain and decency turns off. EA's 
 new IPs (Dead Space and ME) have an original rich sound track that fits the game very well. ME 
 has a slow soothing OST with lots of low bass and some poppy techno thrown in. The game's main 
 theme by Lisa Miskovsy (ironically titled "Still Alive") is a charming song that really gets the 
 feeling of the game across: A woman, and message deliverer for the resistance, named Faith who's 
 sister was framed for murder and she must find the killer of the person her sister, Kate, was framed 
 for and must bring all of this to an end. In a rebuilt city corrupt and full of backstabbers Faith 
 must scour the rooftops to find entrances into buildings to find her targets.
  
  Scouring these rooftops is both fun and beautiful thanks to the game's amazing graphics. EA's next-gen 
 engine (used and updated from skate.) makes ME one of the best looking games ever made. Everything 
 is highly detailed with buildings as far as the eye can see, reflections off of windows and everything 
 is just highly detailed. The game looks similar to Portal (hmmm... just mere coincidences here?) 
 with lots of HDR lighting and lots of blinding whites, blues, reds, and oranges. The art style 
 really helps the game's feel and works brilliantly. The cut scenes however are a bit different 
 and detract from the feel of the game with cell shading similar to those eSurance commercials (with 
 that hot pink haired eSurance chick that has tons of porn available everywhere) . While this style 
 works it really is a detraction from the actual game. The voice acting is really good here, and 
 the characters are decent except Faith is the only character you get attached to thanks to the 
 game's absurdly short length (6-8 hours depending on how you play) .
  
  Now back to how the game plays, it plays well and feels well with a few flaws. The game's control 
 scheme has it's plate full with lots of different button combos that take a little while to get 
 used to let alone master. You have all of the parkour moves available to you such as building jumping, 
 wall running, pole swinging, zip lines, three step jumps (LB, RB, LB) , wall climbing, shimmying 
 etc. Additionally you can make runs faster by pulling your legs up instead of double stepping jumps 
 or hopping over rails. This makes time trials go faster and keeps your speed up. Finding your way 
 in ME is fairly simple since you have "Runner's Vision" which makes certain items turn red and 
 you use them according to what they are. Boards leading off buildings usually means to jump down, 
 small objects in front of a larger object means you double step your jump and vault to a ledge, 
 you can crawl in vents, and a lot of time you must climb poles attached to walls and even jump 
 to them! The game is fast and is very smooth, and you don't have to afraid of sluggish controls. 
 The whole game is responsive and reacts on your command.
  
  The biggest flaw in the game however is the combat. Most of the enemies have guns and you don't... this 
 always proves a problem. Most of the time you just run away but when you're forced to fight you 
 must take on 5+ enemies in one room using melee combat, jumping kicks, sliding kicks to the nuts 
 etc. The combat itself works well, but actually using it against enemies with machine guns, shotguns 
 etc. doesn't work out too well. Try taking down 5 guys in one room with shotguns just with your 
 fists... not too easy. This requires disarming (timing is a must of course) and either using their 
 guns against other enemies in classic FPS action or just being very fast and outsmarting the enemy 
 with kicks off of walls and all that. While the combat is manageable it's flawed and makes up most 
 of the trial and error in the game. The game has little trial and error outside combat since most 
 of the deaths are on the player. Try finding out where to go, without runner's vision, while 10 
 guys are shooting at you; that can be very tough to do and some spots I had to try 20+ times just 
 to get it all right.
  
  With that flaw aside ME proves to be an amazing game and should be played by all FPS fans, parkour 
 fans, or just action adventure game fans (PoP fans can come out of hiding now!) With ME's wonderful 
 soundtrack, graphics, art style, story, and game play you will stay busy with the time trials and 
 speed runs. I hope ME2 improves upon all of this and I will be there when it comes out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Just before I start out with reviewing in my usual categories, I have to come right out and say 
 it: Mirror's Edge has the most amazing level design and graphical interface of any game I have 
 ever played. Ever. So f that's enough to swing your vote to go and pick this one up at the store, 
 off you go!
  
  Graphics ~ 9/10
  
  As stated above, the graphics in this game are absolutely stunning. I happen to be a fan of contemporary 
 stylings of art and design, and this game really hit home with me. The color use of white, red, 
 orange, yellow, green, and blue really make this game look like a piece of artwork. When you finally 
 close your mouth and wipe the floor under your chin/mouth area from your awe strickeness brought 
 on by the contemporary art style, you will become a little disappointed when you first see a cut 
 scene.
  
  The cut scenes, in my opinion, were where the game dropped the ball. They really made such an effort 
 to make the playable game aspects look amazing, but when it came to the cut scenes, it looked like 
 they just decided to rush this part and get the game on the market. Sure, the voices are dead on, 
 and they look good by cell shaded standards, it doesn't complete the package. They should've put 
 in the extra few hours/days to make those cut scenes look as great as the game did. They did do 
 this at the very end of the game, which was a nice surprise once i beat it, and I couldn't help 
 but wonder why they didn't do that for the other bits.
  
  The cell shaded cut scenes look good, for cell shaded cut scenes. I've seen pretty bad, and these 
 were above par. The voice acting was dead on, and I mean dead on. Bottom line is, they could've 
 done so much better, but they decided to keep it, alright instead of amazing.
  
  Audio ~ 8/10
  
  The audio in the game was also fantastic. Since you are playing first person 
 all of the time, they did a good job incorporating the footsteps corresponding with the speed you 
 area traveling, which made the feeling of speed all the more real. This is also the same with the 
 breathing which was changing as you went faster and ran longer distances. This was all great, but 
 they needed to take it to one more level for it to be perfect. Faith is in shape, there is no doubt 
 about it, but when she runs for a good long while, she's going to have to pant eventually. That 
 being said, she doesn't pant at all, unless she is shot at. Though it isn't perfect, it's pretty 
 damn close.
  
  Gameplay ~ 10/10
  
  The game itself, is perfect. Very hard, but perfect. When it comes to difficulty, this game turns 
 up the dial to brutal at some points. Why? When you come to many of the buildings, it's not going 
 to be as simple as jumping through a hole, or as easy as climbing some shelving units. Not going 
 to happen. These puzzles are all about the logic, and how you can use your surroundings to get 
 to where you need to go. The first too levels are not too bad, but once you get into the meat of 
 the game, beware!
  
  What I really love about this game is the new angle that they take. They really do a great job 
 bringing the first person aspects into the game. It's really great to see a new direction, not 
 just the run and gun action game that we've come to know and love. No, this game is all about running, 
 and some gunning. Don't buy this game because you like to shoot things, or because you like to 
 blow off thousands of bullets into nowhere. That doesn't happen. Why? Because the guns have very 
 little ammo in them when you pick them up, thus you have only a few options to take care of 'business'. 
 
  
  Alternatively, they built into the first person aspects of the game the ability to melee attack 
 an enemy. Using various combos to either, knock someone out, kill them, or just take their gun 
 as they go to attack you. They can be used in many situations, and some are necessary to use when 
 you get further into the game where the Tazer Ninjas come in, yes, there are Tazer Ninjas. You 
 can punch, kick, slide, and jump. This way, you can make your own individual combos to satisfy 
 the needs of the situations at hand. 
  
  Overall
  
  Overall, this game is amazing, that's just it. It's kind of short, but when it really boils down 
 to the meat of the situation, you get an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veni-vidi-vici
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge introduces a delightfully fresh gaming experience, which is worth checking out, but 
 is probably best as a rental.
  
  The action takes place in a futuristic utopia where the Big Brother-esque government maintains 
 a low-crime lifestyle for its citizens by implementing full-scale surveillance. Those who don't 
 want to live in such a society are driven to its fringes where they are left to piece together 
 a living from the crumbs off the master's table. With such tight security in place, those who live 
 on the edge contact one another via human runners who carry the messages. You play as one such 
 runner.
  
  The gameplay is inspired by Parkour, with the main protagonist a traceuse named Faith. Hooray for 
 a new female protagonist whose doesn't have boobs that get in the way. On the Parkour front, if 
 it was a major drawcard for you, especially if you've done some yourself, it does a pretty decent 
 job of capturing its adrenaline and philosophy except at times you are indeed literally running 
 for your life, though there's much more time spent indoors than I expected. Certainly there's a 
 greater interaction with the environment in this game than the enemy, so those hunting for a great 
 FPS in the traditional sense shouldn't really consider this a suitable offering in that respect, 
 as the gunplay isn't really the game's focus, and in any case isn't something to write home about. 
 Mirror's Edge tackles the genre in different manner, with the camera situated right in Faith's 
 head, providing a wider perspective with slightly more peripheral vision of the world and your 
 own body than is usually afforded. The first person platforming actually feels like an excellent 
 choice for this game, delivering the adrenaline rush straight to you.
  
  The environment with which you interact is a visually stunning one, and the game has a distinct 
 colour scheme of faded pastels and metallics interrupted by bright reds. Red indicates that an 
 object can be used by Faith. The gameplay has you running across and sliding down rooftops, up 
 walls, leaping between buildings and swinging on beams, taking advantage of these objects without 
 losing momentum, and doing your best to avoid gunfire. It is challenging, fun, and captures the 
 exhilaration of Parkour when you manage to string together a sequence of climbs, rolls and epic 
 leaps, etc. The music compliments the action well, and keeps your heart racing as you go.
  Be prepared for a lot of trial and error though. You'll die plenty of times figuring out and executing 
 a perfectly-timed flight path  well, I pretty much consider it flight  and figuring out how to 
 take out enemies in an efficient, fluid sequence. It can be frustrating, but oddly it's not too 
 bad dying. It beats seriously hurting yourself in actual Parkour. You just dust yourself off and 
 try again, and nailing it feels great.
  
  This is pretty much a play-for-each-moment kind of game your main impetus to keep going is the 
 thrill of the chase. The story isn't especially suspenseful or unusual and is certainly not one 
 of the game's strengths. It's not an epic campaign either, so perhaps forking out full price to 
 keep this game might feel a bit much. But you will get many a thrill, and it's a unique and delightful 
 run, so check it out if you can.
  
  Being a gamer who loves co-op, this game would have come pretty close to perfect with a better 
 story and maybe many runners relaying together as a team, or racing to the destination, to give 
 the lonely single campaign more levels of enjoyment. Some sharper fighting wouldn't have gone astray 
 either. Nevertheless, it's a promising premise, and I wouldn't mind checking out any sequels. It's 
 level of potential is exciting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsman86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Very fast paced action game that i thourougly enjoyes playing on all three diffuculty levels. The 
 diffucltys themselves felt right and were no to hard even on the hardest diffuculty. Also some 
 great puzzle pop up throghout campaign which are very fun to sole and figure out. I also really 
 anjoyes this games sound track and felt the music wasperfect for the gameplay and its surroundings, 
 this is what i thaught made the game feeel so special. I felt though that the time trials were 
 a bit naff in the fact they make u rush through the level repeating it over and ocer to get the 
 right paths and the fastest paths. The games shooting system was far weaker than its hand to hand 
 combat which worked quite well and also a lack of online muultiplayer modes which would have made 
 the game even better. Overall a great single player gasme just the camaign lacked length ! And 
 hopefully there will be a sequel as there ending revealed that it was a possibility. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is game like no other. The main purpose of the game is running and jumping. You play 
 as Faith, a degenerate as a child who now resides with a group known as runners who try to fix 
 the city they reside in. The story for the game is pretty simple, you are a runner who is doing 
 simple missions but eventually get entangled in the murder of a man who is running for mayor and 
 your sister, a cop, is framed for it. The game's length is really short (like around 6 to 7 hours) 
 which kind of sucks but it's unique style of gameplay makes up for it. The game's original soundtrack 
 is also amazing. The music fits perfectly with the game and will change depending on the situation 
 such as if your being chased by a bunch of cops, the music will change to a heart racing tune and 
 while your just going through the level normally, the music will be kind of exploratory. Overall, 
 Mirror's Edge is definitely an amazing game but the length, it may not be worth it but if you like 
 extra challenges like Speedruns (beat the story levels under a certain time) and races, then maybe 
 it might be worth it but for the average Joe, it may not be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syph26
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  Mirror's edge had me intrigued from the first time I saw it in action and when i played the demo 
 I was not let down one bit. After purchasing the full game and playing the first few chapters that 
 was unchanged. After this point the game, played with any difficulty above easy, gets harder to 
 find your way for one, but also has more people trying to kill you. Unfortunately getting shot 
 at tends to make you run for a seemingly obvious exit that's not always there, leaving you cornered 
 and, well, dead. Not my cup of tea that's for sure. And of course there's the length, but it's 
 forgivable since there are so many non-story related things to do (Speedruns are frustratingly, 
 amazingly insane) .
  
  If you play the game with skill, and think about what you have to do instead of run around in circles 
 confused. I'd bet you'll like this game. Just remember, look before you leap :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chriskjos37
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  Quite frustrating at times, but shouldn't any challenge be that way? Great unique gameplay and 
 flawless graphics. Similar to portal in that each room is a puzzle, and the quickest route is the 
 answer, yet I always wished for some shoot em' up action in portal. The time trials aspect is especially 
 fun because you learn the quickest routes of the levels. Once you go back and play the story mode 
 you find yourself nearly invicible. It would've been nice for a higher difficulty setting, but 
 maybe I've just been playing the game too much. Speed run is an awesome game mode aswell. Another 
 thing about the game that could've been more fun was the weapon choice. I enjoyed the realism of 
 only limited amounts of ammo, and not being able to manuever with bigger weapons, but they should've 
 added some melee weapons like a kitana or even a baseball bat or something. None the less, I still 
 love jumping off crates and landing the perfect roundhouse. The first-person view of this game 
 is revolutionary, and I know that there will be many copiers of this game, probably none as worthy.
 
  Mirror's edge delivers, and will leave you begging for a sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslayer1111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  I admit, I was very very excited for this game. I saw this on Youtube and I remember saying," That 
 looks like uber fun.". Though now I feel it let me down. Dont get me wrong, DICE did a great job 
 on the game, but it kinda punches me in the balls about some of its flaws I can't ignore.
  
  -Story-
  Runners transport information in a city where everything is watched, and controlled. 
 Think of runners as the Jason Stratham of rooftops , Not cars. Faith is such a runner. One night 
 her sister is framed for the murder of the running mayor of the city. So now, Faith is on the admirable 
 mission to clear her sisters name and to learn the truth. ehhhh Alright.
  9/10
  
  -Gameplay-
  Run, jump, slide, run, run some more, punch, crouch kick, wall run, vault and a 360 
 Kickflip to end it all. The game is routine, nothing new. You may get some new "ways" to run away, 
 but either way the game is linear, VERY LINEAR. There might be another way to get somewhere, but 
 don't worry, If I took a different way than you took, Ill see you anyways. I did like the combat 
 and how I can crouch shot a guy 4 times before he decides to call it quits. I called it quits twice 
 when Faithy here fell 1000 feet to her doom for not jumping right.
  9/10
  
  -Visual-
  Loved it, hands down. They did a good job of the city buildings and the various Red hallucinated 
 objects you see. MAkes good use of the HD quality of my 32".
  10/10
  
  -Sound-
  The music I wish was a little better, but I really like the catchy tune from the menu. The running 
 sounds sounds as though as your.. running.. and you can hear Faith take sharp breaths for air while 
 you sprint for 30 seconds for an achievement. Realistically real.
  10/10
  
  -Online-
  Time trials, speed runs. How fast can you do it Mr. Hurricane? The faster, the shorter the route, 
 the better. Im not into this , but its kinda fun saying to your buddy that I can outrun you on 
 mirrors edge.
  9/10
  
  -Overall-
  The game... IS rentable. I mean, if you want to see Faith's failure all the time, then buy this 
 game. Either way, rent this, beat this, take the achievements, bring the game back, and go back 
 to playing Call of Duty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DWhite07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge was introduced in June 2007 by EA games, known for the sports game "Madden". Now, 
 it has been released to the general public. What follows is my review of Mirror's Edge.
  
  Graphics 10/10: As soon as you step into the shoes of Faith the Eurasian protaganist, you find 
 that the city is amazingly beautiful. Its as though Jesus made it. 
  
  Story 8/10: While it has a fun story, Mirror's Edge fails to deliver a good length to the game. 
 One minute youre figuring out what to do, the next you are watching the credits.
  
  Gameplay 7/10: Although the game reaches above and beyond with the gameplay, once you start to 
 fight people, gunplay and fighting is about as weak as an egg. 
  
  
  While not giving a totally amazing performance, this game will give you a wild ride from beginning 
 to a very near end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  after a loong wait, finally i can play Mirror's Edge, and for some reason, i have no doubt to tell 
 you, Mirror's Edge is a revolution, or maybe a evolution of gaming exerience.
  
  Mirror's Edge is not an ordinary FPS. As you all might know, it's an first person parkour game. 
 A sweet and awesome combination of Assassin's Creed and Call of Duty 4. Congratulation to EA DICE 
 for their amazing ideas!
  
  The story follow Faith's story about runners who run and jump through skycraper's rooftops, walls, 
 cranes, ledges, and scafoldings carrying a sensitive information on an utopia city. For the first 
 time, it's allright, until Faith's sister, Kate, who is a cop (they call it Blues) , committed a 
 murder of a major candidate. Now Faith must run like hell to gain evidence, finding the truth and 
 free her sister.
  
  The gameplay, (LB) for jump, reach a ledges, grap a pipe (LT) for dash, crouch, skill roll (RT) 
 for open door, fire a weapon (RT) for look back especially for wall-jump (B) for look to your objective 
 (A) for interact with button (X) for slow motion (Y) for disarm an enemy (Left-thumb joystick) 
 to run your ass as fast as you can! The main objective of every mission is to run and escape from 
 your enemy. It can be Blues team, SWAT team, or even a Helicopter. You can fight them or run pass 
 them. Not like GS said, it's quite easy to knock them out, all you have to do is split them out, 
 dash and kick (my Faith is a ball crusher!) , then punch them with 3 punch-combo! It's not necessary 
 to disarm them, cause it's quite difficult, but it's cool once you able to do that. It's free to 
 choose your path of escaping, but you can follow the runner vision as a clue for your path. the 
 most important thing is to keep your pace as fast as you can.
  
  The graphics, Mirror's Edge have a quite lack of graphic, there are many rough surfaces but, it's 
 not important, cause you will run all the time so, there will be not much time for sightseeing. 
 I love to see Faith's body and legs when look down, but, there is not much of Faith's reflections 
 on this game. Many detail things like blur image after Faith climb a ledges, do a high jump, or 
 climb a pipe. 
  
  The sound, intense scores, Faith's breath, scream, everything is perfect!
  
  Soo... everything 
 is great, this game is highly recommended. Buy it, don't rent it!
  
  Have we arrived to the edge of gaming evolution? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djTeka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who has played this game will tell you: It's different. 
  That's what I would call it as well, but there's much more to it as well. 
  
  Oh, before I 
 forget, I was reading the other reviews, and have this to say: 
  http://www. askoxford. com/asktheexperts/faq/aboutspelling/learnt 
  "What is the difference between 
 'learnt' and 'learned'? 
  
  These are alternative forms of the past tense and past participle of the verb learn. Learnt is 
 more common in British English, and learned in American English. There are a number of verbs of 
 this type (burn, dream, kneel, lean, leap, spell, spill, spoil etc.) . They are all irregular verbs, 
 and this is a part of their irregularity." 
  
  I figured, that since DICE is a Swedish video game developer, they might be a little more European 
 in their spelling, hence the 't' instead of 'ed' in some words. 
  Like the extra 'u' people from the U. S. say the Europeans add, or the necessary 'u' the Europeans 
 say the people from the U. S. take out, like colour, favourite, neighbour, etc. 
  
  Now that I have lost almost everyone's attention, here's the short experience/review. 
  
  I 
 tried this game out with the demo, only having seen the trailer, and hearing that some people have 
 experienced motion sickness from just watching the game. 
  Thought to myself, "sounds like my kind of game". 
  Rented the retail version, since the demo 
 seemed good enough, but not long enough.
  
  I can't say enough about how beautifully put together this game is, putting aside some control 
 issues (which is to say, it takes effort to learn how to play well, effort some would be too lazy 
 to put in, evidenced by the lower scored reviews) , is an achievement in art design. Even if EA 
 published it, so what? It was, DICE, the people who made the Battlefield games. 
  I don't have anything against EA personally, other than buying out the NFL license and changing 
 each Madden just enough for every single fan to not whine about it. 
  Ooh, updated rosters and some single-player 'mission' mode, so exciting
  
  Sure, this is a 
 first person perspective game, but that doesn't automatically mean headshotting enemies and watching 
 each piece explode in a chunky bloody mist (see Fallout 3) , like many people expect nowadays.
 
  
  I have played through using a few guns, and the second time, no guns, and found it was much more 
 fulfilling to run away from the enemies when I don't have to resort to cheap guns with limited 
 ammo while the enemies have all the ammo they get the chance to squeeze off before you smack them 
 in the face and dash past them. The sense that you don't need the guns to win, they just make you 
 slower. There's the sense that you can go anywhere, more so than any of the Spiderman games.
  
  I can't wait for the multiplayer DICE has talked about making, if that comes out.
  Just imagine 
 jumping all over the city with your buddies, man can't wait.
  
  I have bought it now, I don't regret it for a second, and I suggest you do the same.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigmatic01
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  I dont understand gamespot giving this game such a poor review 7/10?!!!!
  
  Is it because ea games didnt hand them anything in return for a good review? I mean come on check 
 out some of the games they review and give a gleaming 10/10 when the game wasnt even that good!
 
  
  Now onto the game itself, i love it, jumping across roof tops, wall running, sliding down glass 
 roofs, it gets no better! Some people will argue that the diffuclty aspect makes it frustrating 
 but to me it serves to make you a better player, after an hour you will be wall running and jumping 
 over everything you can just for the buzz. 
  
  i finished the game roughly in about 7hrs all in all, that is the only dissapointment for me as 
 i wanted more, but i've started playing it through again to find the runner bags, and also the 
 speed runs across each level, if you have this game and played the time trial you will understand 
 what i mean its addictive to find the fastest route and cut your time down. Such as playground 
 one where i got my personal best to 1:04:88
  
  
  seriously though guys this game wont be for everyone but its a jump in the first person genre that 
 came across just the way it was meant to.
  
  cant wait for the next installments and i do hope there will be more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Within the first hour of gameplay, it is easy to become immersed into this visually stunning first-person 
 adventure game. Mirror's Edge is fast, challenging, and most of all, a lot of fun. The entire game 
 feels somewhat reminiscent of the first "Matrix" movie combined with the "Bourne" series.
  
  The difficulty is all in figuring out where to go to progress in each level. Although most 
 paths are highlighted to direct you, it can still be difficult to set up your path and execute 
 a perfect run. The enemies are very easy to either knock out or avoid completely unless you are 
 confronted by a horde of enemies, then it is a bit more difficult, especially if you are going 
 for the "don't shoot any enemies" achievement.
  
  The story is good. It is not spectacular in any aspect, but it is still very interesting. The game 
 is short, which takes its value down a bit, but it still manages to deliver enough thrills to make 
 it a success.
  
  Mirror's Edge is most likely not a game worth buying, but it is definitely a must-rent title. On 
 the outside, the game looks kind of bland and boring, but once you actually sit down and play it, 
 it is very fun and entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueeyedtasha87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  Ok so some people have told me that this game is a carbon copy of other FPS's but seriously its 
 not. For a start how many games actually let you slide down ramps, jump over buildings and stand 
 on top of cranes over looking a city? Well this is the first game I have found that allows you 
 to do that and so much more. The graphics in it are amazing, the amount of time and effort put 
 in to how you see the world, I mean you can even see fingerprints on hands and wrinkles on faces. 
 Nothing is left out, and I have not found any glitches yet. The game (in my eyes) is perfect, it 
 is one of those games you cant put down. I found when I first put it on that I played it 4 hours 
 plus without actually realising it. There are very few games that I have found actually done that 
 to me. 
  
  But back to Mirrors Edge, the buttons can awkward to begin with but once you get into the game 
 the buttons become free flowing and easy to use. As its not the typical jump controls, it makes 
 you really think about what you are doing and how you are going to do it. One other great property 
 of the game is there is no real set route, if you can see a ledge and can get too it then you can 
 get that way. When you do put it away you miss playing it. Ok so in general I think Mirrors Edge 
 is a game that I would love a sequal too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  EA opens the door to the wonderful world of parkour with their latest game, Mirror's Edge. You 
 take control of Faith, an underground courier, otherwise known as a Runner. Things kick off right 
 away when the police decide to open fire on Faith for no reason, then Faith's sister is framed. 
 Faith then finds herself trying to uncover a conspiracy and save her sister.
  
  The gameplay is a nice concept but at times can be unresponsive. You'll run on rooftops, through 
 train stations and various buildings all the while avoiding various enemies. It's focused on trial 
 and error, but when you finally find the route you want to go and manage to string together the 
 right moves, it's euphoric. That being said, after failing your 10th or 11th attempt at a certain 
 maneuver it can be very frustrating. It's even worse when Faith passes through the object or refuses 
 to grab onto the ledge and splatters onto the streets below. The game certainly has a way of bringing 
 the momentum it relies on to a halt. There are also a few times during a level where the game will 
 freeze up while it loads up the rest of the level, which can take away from the immersion. Oh, 
 and let's not forget about the elevators which also load up the game in the background much like 
 Mass Effect.
  
  Once you complete the single-player mode, you can take what you learned and put it towards speed 
 runs and time trials. Both come with online leader boards and is really for those who are trying 
 to get the most out of Mirror's Edge. It's for those who want to top the boards with their skills 
 they worked to perfect. That's not to say casual players won't find them enjoyable however.
  
  The art design is wonderfully done. It's bland white environments contrast with it's vivid 
 colors. As a runner, you'll see various points of interests in a vibrant red. However, the red 
 hue will occasionally kick in too late, thus ruining your momentum, or the game will force you 
 to figure out some of the more intricate puzzles on your own. The audio itself deserves a reward. 
 Faith's breathing and footsteps add to authenticity and the music fills in the silence. The voice 
 acting is also tastefully done. There are two different kinds of cut scenes. The in-game cut scenes 
 are well done and the animated cut scenes you'll see between levels are stylish and are a nice 
 distraction from loading screens.
  
  You'll find yourself constantly on the run from various enemies. The game suggest that you avoid 
 confronting enemies head on so it's best to run past that them, but you can fight them or disarm 
 them and use their weapons against them. Faith seems to be made out cotton, so engaging more than 
 one foe at a time is a one way ticket to your last checkpoint. If you're having issues getting 
 the timing down to disarm an opponent you can use the feature to slow down the game. It comes in 
 handy at first but doesn't add too much since it only last for only a few seconds.
  
  Mirror's Edge is a lot of things. It's frustrating, pretty, confusing and annoying, but best of 
 all, it's fun and offers a challenge. If you get past it's trial and error gameplay, you'll find 
 a thrilling, new experience waiting for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XD4NTESINF3RNOX
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  Mirror's edge is a fun and easy going experience that you can keep going back to if you want a 
 break from all the same stuff. I love the fact that it is some what like a modern day PoP which 
 is a really cool idea. It has some roof top chases which are very exhilarating and gets the adrenaline 
 flowing. Another cool part about the game is that you can slow down time for like 10 seconds, which 
 really helps you out with the disarms, when i first got the demo I played it about 20 times and 
 when the game came out I got 4 achievements just for beating the prolouge which was awesome. This 
 game has pretty easy achievements except for the bags which they are pretty tough too get. All 
 in all I would consider this game as a Christmas present or a rental since there is so much other 
 stuff that is coming out right now. But it still is a lot of fun and you can spend hours doing 
 the time trials which are a pain. The reason I put ten hours or less is because i still haven't 
 beaten it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louajew
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  I have not beaten this game, but I am on the last level. I've only played the story mode on normal, 
 so take this review for what it's worth.
  
  First things first: all the reviews have been complaining about the trial and error portion of 
 the gameplay. I actually like this part. Yes, there are points when the action is so fast and hectic 
 that it is difficult to complete a difficult segment without dying, but in my opinion that is part 
 of the fun and challenge that is Mirror's Edge. And in my opinion, it is not impossible to get 
 through every stage without dying. Just very very VERY difficult.
  
  As a first of its kind first-person platformer, Mirror's Edge succeeds in immersing you into its 
 environment. The action is incredible, and refreshing in that it's often better to avoid combat. 
 And the jumping and stunts are exhilarating. The game is not perfect, but is succeeds far more 
 than it fails.
  
  Now the bad news: I wish I rented it. The game is very short. I am on the final level, and have 
 spent about 7-8 hours playing. And I've died A LOT. Other than the time trial mode, replay value 
 seems extremely limited. I might play the game one time through on hard difficulty, which unlocks 
 after you beat the game on normal. And of course there are time trials, if you're into that.
  
  When I pay $60 for a game, I expect to get something extra out of it. GTA IV, Fallout 3, Oblivion... these 
 are games that consistently keep on giving. Even Assassin's Creed had an exceptionally long story 
 mode. This game simply does not feel replay-worthy. But the first time around, in my opinion, is 
 a blast.
  
  Bottom line: Rent, don't buy. Unless money ain't a thang. But definitely try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TalSet_11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  i'll be the first to admit that i was skeptical when i heard/read about this game at the onset. 
 about seven months ago, i saw the first screenshots for this game. it seemed like one of those 
 ambitious games that would be canceled before anyone even knew it existed. i put it out of my mind. 
 but a few days ago, when i saw it on the shelf at best buy, something possessed me to buy it. i'm 
 here to say i'm very VERY glad i did.
  
  now i'm not a platform junkie, but this game does something with platforming that i never thought 
 possible: it makes platforming realistic. it seems trivial, almost benign in nature, but this is 
 a heavy-hitting game with a lot of substance. the freerunning mechanics are absolutely revolutionary. 
 i never thought i'd play a game where a first-person perspective meets freerunning combat. while 
 this game does have a few quirks, it pulls off the intended effect with a gusto seldom seen in 
 recent games.
  
  story aside, the gameply as amazing. running up/along walls, vaulting over pallets of... whatever... 
 sliding down a slanted ledge and then vaulting over an air-conditioning unit. it's like assassin's 
 creed, but in the future, and with more emphasis on acrobatics than combat. but don't let that 
 fool you into thinking the combat sucks. it doesn't. 
  
  did anyone here play "Escape From Butcher Bay" for the Xbox? remember the first-person fighting 
 mechanics and how raw they were? how dope and responsive first-person fighting could be? this game 
 does it in a more fluid way. there aren't that many moves. there's a jump kick, a slide kick, punches 
 and whatnot... and then there are disarms. if an enemy is trying to melee you and you hit Y (i 
 don't care what it is on the lamestation3) at just the right moment, you'll disarm your opponent 
 with cinematic flare. then you can use their weapon on other foes in the area, at the expense of 
 your freerunning skills as long as you hold the weapon. the combat doesn't feel overly complicated 
 or ridiculous; you don't have that many moves that you can pull off, but then again, would your 
 character (in a logical sense) be a freakin' kung fu master? to all those who say "but talset_11, 
 we want roundhouse kicks and hook kicks lolz!!!111!!!!" i say, "well, you don't got 'em. deal with 
 it."
  
  the graphics are amazing. i hope this game sends a message to other developers that a game world 
 can be fluid and changing, rather than the static yawn-fest of environments we've been getting 
 from games lately. the game world feels like a big place where you're a small part. it feels like 
 you're interacting with only one rooftop out of thousands, rather than the only one around, and 
 that makes the game feel more cohesive. you feel like you're a part of a world, rather than a straight-up 
 protagonist where all world events are based on your actions.
  
  the sound design is among the best i've seen lately. footsteps and other freerunning sound effects 
 sound convincing and real. gunshots sound like... gunshots? the voice acting is absolutely superb, 
 without feeling a bit hokey like it did in GOW2 ("I lost her again.... damnit! *breaks car window* 
 dom didn't have much feeling in that game)
  
  with environments and gameplay mechanics like those in play in Mirror's Edge, any gamer with a 
 taste for the unusual will certainly get his money's worth. any gamer who truly loves games that 
 go outside the norm and do something unexpected and completely original, while injecting enough 
 convention and love into it will absolutely love this game. to those of you who are into FPS's 
 or pure action games, i doubt you'd enjoy this game. this game has a lot in common with prince 
 of persia, or PORTAL. each area is like a little puzzle. but once you've played through a little 
 bit and get the feel for the game, the invigorating feeling you get from jumping from building 
 to building and then vaulting a fence really tugs at the heart.
  
  all in all, this is a game i dont' think i'll ever forget. it delivers exactly what it promises: 
 fun of a different, and very original kind.
  
  peace, y'all.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is first game (as far as I know) to re-enact parkour. Parkour is "urban running", 
 and I'm sure that if you search up some Parkour videos on Youtube, you'll be impressed. Your character, 
 Faith, is a 'runner' in a futuristic totalitarian society. Runners duty's are to deliver messages 
 from client-to-client to prevent the government from knowing about them. Their delivery routes 
 are usually jumping from rooftop-to-rooftop, and rarely ever actually on the ground. Runners are 
 rarely hunted by the police, but after almost being killed by them, Faith decides to get to the 
 bottom of it. What she uncovers is a plot involving corruption, murder, and a secret project called 
 Icarus. The whole story is actually very uninteresting, its also sort of predictable, but during 
 missions you don't really know what you're doing. You just move ahead, until you reach the end 
 and go, "Oh, THAT's what I was doing." 
  The story is also revealed by cutscenes in between missions. The cutscenes are crappily-animated 
 characters voiced by sub-par voice actors. The combination just makes you go "Ew." and eliminates 
 the need to watch them.
  The graphics during the game are incredible. The clean, white environments are a great contrast 
 from the dark, grubby environments that seem to be a staple in today's games.
  The combat in the game is melee or shooting. Melee is sort of fun. Shooting isn't. And during the 
 end of the game there's alot of shooting. Which kind of made me like the game less...
  Apart from the story mode, there is a Time Trial mode. You can run different courses or missions 
 from the Story Mode trying to beat the time. You can race against your own ghost, your friend's 
 ghost, or the ghost of the world-record holder. The whole Time Trail mode is fun and very addictive 
 and adds lots of replay value (because the Story Mode has hardly any) .
  The core gameplay of Mirror's Edge is so fun that it is recommendable as a rent, but no purchase. 
 The short story and time trials are bound to keep you busy for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zutolor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun, it's has some challenge to it, you jump off buildings and you beat up police 
 to get guns, what not to like here. you start of as a runner named Faith. a runner is a person 
 who runs a lot and try to deliver illegal stuff. it looks beautiful except for the animated cut 
 scenes look like those commercials for that car insurance. but it still is fun. In the game you 
 run in to police/ Swat/ some random strong people with guns that work for the government and you 
 beat them up than steel there gun and ammo then shoot the next person till you run out of ammo 
 , but the game is not really a shooter tho, because it doesn't focus on the shooting it focus on 
 running around and trying to pass on a package to another runner or you run away from the FBI. 
 You also get to meet people when you run like faith's sister. and as i said, this game look's beautiful, 
 it looks very nice look's realistic and the gameplay it self is pretty strong, good voice acting, the 
 story ok. this is my first game i played from EA dice and there good at . (never got around to 
 playing Battlefield 2.) and i think this is a good game for anybody. but as all games there are 
 some flaws. your moves don't always work but that isn't to often and when you do the tutorials 
 make one mistake bang you have to watch the person do it over and over again, and the controls 
 are a lot weirder from other games, LB is jump LT is duck/ slide RB is look behind you RT is punch 
 / shoot, Y is steel gun X is slow mo it's quite odd when you get used to other games like Halo 
 or Oblivion or The orange box. but the game is fun overall
  
  Graphics 9.5/10
  Gameplay 8.5/10
  voice 8.5/10 
  controls 6.5/10
  story 7/10
  combat 8/10
  noise/music 
 8/10
  overall 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueguykisame
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  
  The first thing I noticed when I began playing was how bright, crisp and beautiful the graphics 
 and colors are. You start off just getting a feel for the controls; acrobaticly getting from rooftop 
 to rooftop. The further in the game you get, the more enemies you come across. In the training 
 mission, there isn't a single enemy. In the prologue, there's three heavily armed opponents. This 
 number basicly increases every chapter. During the first few chapters, you find yourself rarely 
 fighting enemies, but simply jumping, wall-walking, climbing, and running your way through the 
 level. The enemies that you do come across you simply run from. In the final chapter two chapters 
 you find yourself disarming, punching, jump-kicking, shooting, and sniping your way through many 
 enemies. Overall? I think this game was a near-perfect mix of first person acrobatic puzzles and 
 shooting (though the shooting could have been a bit more intense. For example, the ability to slightly 
 zoom in on your aim for guns other than just snipers would have been nice...) . The puzzles and 
 shooting was also a bit difficult, so I found myself replaying many fights and jumps over and over 
 again; preventing me from beating the game in a heartbeat or finding the gameplay too shallowly 
 easy (the difficulty wasnt quite hard, but it was a bit harder than just right.. soo.. yeah... 
 I guess I'd consider it hard...) . Along with the mix of acrobatic puzzles and fighting, the story 
 was excellent. It takes place over only a couple days, yet its not too shallow. It wasnt amazingly 
 deep like.. kingdom hearts, but it was great for a two-day, fps/fpa (acrobatic) game. 9/10. Amazing, 
 but not quite revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ace-of-spades93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  mirrors edge is a good game in fact its a very good game, you have to search a bit though.
  for the first few chapters you will be blown away by mirrors edge the graphics are serene, beautiful, 
 crisp and unique. its so simple yet so effective att making you feel like your fighting a sterile 
 heartless machine.
  go a bit further and your gonna get frustrated very frustrated. keep trying though and you'll find 
 that what you had to do is actually quite simple. it would however be nice to have a little more 
 help on easy mode instead of just being shown where to go not how to get there.
  so after yu finish the game and trust me it wont take long. start again you will love it. no more 
 getting stuck or not knowing where to go justa whole lotta running jumping and kicking.
  ahhh kicking. another component to a broken combat system. 
  when you punch an enemy it doesnt 
 satisfy one bit, they just get up and hit you back. they shoot you down in seconds and you just 
 end up pulling one of their guns from their cold dead hands and pummelling them, which again doesnt 
 satisfy. i know your meant to ditch the guns for good old fasion cowardice but making the guns 
 that bad just isnt funny.
  so overall this is a good game trust me and you should definately try this out =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Takeshi1689
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  ***An Important Note*** I played and beat both PS3 and 360 versions of this game, and I have reviewed 
 both. The difference in the scoring is explained in this review.
  
  I feel the need to start with this. A piece of dialogue in the game that made me wonder... is this 
 DICE's fault or EA?
  Jacknife: You need to be careful who you hang around with.
  Faith: I learnt that a long time ago.
  Yeah those twelve years of English really paid off right 
 there... Seriously..."learnt" isn't a word, right? Or did I miss that memo?
  On to the serious review: I tried not to spoil anything in this review. I am very sarcastic and 
 rant quite a bit during this, but all my arguments are sound.
  
  Game-play
  The game's strong points are also its flaws. You die quickly and repeatedly in combat and from 
 falls ---i. e. realistic. I respect that, yet the game is unforgiving. YOU DIE ALL THE TIME. You 
 jump; you die. You move; you die. You fight; you die. You die, you die, YOU DIE. Throughout it 
 all I must have died 200 or more times ---no joke. A better name for this game would have been "YOU 
 DIE" or at least "A Leap of Faith". That would be a better and more fitting title than "Mirror's 
 Edge". At least you restart from a checkpoint and not the chapter's beginning. Though... that can 
 be worse. In certain spots, I would die, get a little further and almost make it to a ledge... and 
 die only to get put back before the part that gave me the most trouble.
  
  The game has horrible pacing. Going from fast running sequences and park-our (obviously the most 
 fun in the game) to one-sided gun fights that require you to either kill yourself dashing through 
 or fight and finally ending the sequence with very slow and tedious platforming puzzles. Well... actually 
 it doesn't end there, it repeats that pattern ---multiple times in each chapter. The action speeds 
 up and grinds to a halt. On a semi-related note, the gun fight is ridiculous. Gun have infinite 
 ammo for baddies, but maybe a clip of 5-10 shots if you pick it up. I understand why... but seriously... what 
 the heck?
  
  There were certain spots in the game in which I was at a complete loss. I died dozens of times 
 in certain places only to find that there was a much easier way of getting to my destination than 
 the way I was trying. I've come to two conclusions on these annoyances: 1) The game awakens the 
 player's suicidal tendencies and/or 2) The creators wanted the player to be suicidal through the 
 actions of Faith or their own actions.
  
  A simple matter of opinion to most people, but I felt it was substantial enough to affect the score: 
 the controller. The PS3 controller felt more responsive to the game than the 360 controller. Although... neither 
 were fully responsive. The 360 would be fickle as to what commands it would acknowledge.
  
  Visuals
  Overall, the game doesn't look awful. It doesn't look as great as it could for a next-gen 
 game. Textures are almost non-existent. The character models and clothing are the best looking 
 aspects. I'm mixed about the bland coloring. The white is blinding. The style and use of colors 
 and the lack thereof is a great depiction of the city's lifelessness. I do respect the artistic 
 side of it. The 360 version had some issues with constantly being too bright in certain areas, 
 making it impossible to see through the blinding light; and too dark in some areas making it impossible 
 to navigate the abyss. The PS3 didn't have this issues, as I could always see in the light and 
 in the dark. This took a few points off the 360 version.
  
  Sound
  Probably the best part of the game: the music. The theme of the game is amazing. The levels have 
 certain themes as well. With combat, chase, puzzle, and ambient pieces all exclusive to each chapter.
 
  
  Story
  The story captivated me. I wanted to suffer through my constant suicides to see the ending. The 
 pacing was a tad too quick with the story, though it did match the feel of quickness and struggle 
 to try to stay alive. The ending also left the possibility of more games.
  
  Overall
  I have to admit, the game was fun despite all the struggles and massive suicides. Both versions 
 are identical with the few minor exceptions of the controllers and slight visual problems. The 
 game is not worthy of a 10 and nowhere near worth $60. I'd recommend people to rent it and beat 
 the game at least once. The two greatest parts of the game were the chase on top of the boat and 
 the sniper part during the final chapter.
  I'd like to give the game a higher score... but I'm mixed up here. For as much fun as the game was; 
 it was equally as frustrating. Maybe it would have been better off as a movie and not a video game... Find 
 out for yourselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Esgi7
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's edge was everything I expected it to be when I first saw the trailers. It has awesome 
 graphics, cool freerunning moves, an impressive soundtrack, and brilliant level designs. The controls 
 are simple, but when used properly can string together some amazing moves. All in all, the game 
 impressed me.
  
  The controls don't take long to get used to, and once you've got them down, everything else will 
 come naturally. You'll progress through increasingly difficult levels filled with obstacles, enemies, 
 and amazing heights. The sound effects, like breathing and shoes pattering on concrete, while combined 
 with awe-inspiring visuals, give this game an incredibly realistic feel. (Especially when you fall 
 to your doom and hear a wonderfully sickening crunch)
  
  The gunplay of this game is not the greatest, but then again, it doesn't have to be. It's not a 
 shooter. If you choose to use guns, which you'll probably find yourself doing a lot of in the last 
 levels, it isn't very difficult to get the job done with them. Perhaps the controls can be a little 
 too sensitive for long distance aiming... but that's usually not a problem. And if guns aren't your 
 thing, you can still take down enemies with simple but effective melee moves or a cool ,cinematic 
 disarm attack.
  
  All in all, Mirror's edge is a solid, revolutionary game that is at least worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taumarine
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is a pure breath of fresh air for all gamers. It reaches new heights with its stunning 
 gameplay that you can literally dive into. Mirror's Edge makes you feel freedom like no other game 
 has done before. Mirror's Edge has the best story i could imagine to go along side a game like 
 this. Mirror's Edge has completely amazed all those with high expectations and will continue to 
 amaze others who will eventually play this modern day classic. Mirror's Edge is easily a cult classic 
 in its own right and will always have a place in my mind to jump, slide, crawl and beat the crap 
 out of all those that stands in its way. Don't listen to the negative reviews please, Just listen 
 to your heart, Have faith in the Game and play it, I feel sorry for every single soul who is being 
 forced away by the low reviews and hope that you will have a change in heart. Overall no-one can 
 critise this game, Only praise it, for there is nothing like it and there never will be. I think 
 i've fallen in love with this game, and i hope you will learn to love and appriciate it as i do 
 to. Mirror's Edge stands alone, But only to unite all those that have faith in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manticore32
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is game unlike any other. Its immersive, innovative, and incredibly well made. You 
 are Faith, a runner. A runner is a courier who relays top secret information to people, specifically, 
 people who are opposing the city's government and police. The city is corrupt and you're the last 
 part of a city who stands up for what it believes in. However, the game is not about the messages 
 you relay as you'd expect, but about your sister, a cop who has been framed with the murder of 
 a mayoral candidate.
  
  The combat is a mixture of martial arts and guns. You can either choose to beat your opponents 
 into submission or disarming and shooting your way through the always armed cops. The martial arts-esque 
 combat feels better but usually, the best idea is to just run through. Theres also a slow-motion 
 element which makes it easier to disarm and shoot, if you just want to get through the combat.
 
  
  The visuals are outstanding. The game is the first of its kind and the visuals do a great job of 
 representing it. The graphics are outstanding and the animations of the other humans you meet are 
 realistic. The cutscene art is unique and very well done. The rooftops around are very well done 
 also, wherever you need to get to is marked in red and this bright color really stands out in the 
 dull white world that the city has turned into. Instead of a health bar the game substitutes the 
 world turning black & white instead of a shooter red.
  
  The sound is another great part of the game. You feel like your Faith running, jumping and sliding 
 away from the cops. All of the sounds are extremely well done and even the soundtrack was quite 
 good.
  
  The games difficulty is a weak point of Mirror's Edge. Its easy to know where your going with runner 
 vision but its still a very punishing game. Mirror's Edge is also a little on the short side with 
 only 9 chapters. The replayability is good though as you can return and do time trials online on 
 all of the chapters.
  
  In summary, Mirror's Edge is a unique game with a very fast paced puzzle/adventure style.
  
 
  PLUS + :
  
  Fast paced combat
  Unique Story
  Graphics
  Realistic Animations
  
  
  Minus - :
  
  A Little Too Hard
  Too Short
  
  Sound: 9.5
  Controls: 9.5
  Visuals: 
 10
  Combat: 9.0
  Overall: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REgrl4life
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have played. Much better then Kingdom Hearts II, and Lost Planet, 
 and much more. 
  
  
  art 10/10: This game has amnazing are style with splashes of primary colors with red to know where 
 to go.
  
  characters 10/10: From the protogonist Faith, from castell, to Mercury and faith's sister. All 
 the characters are amazing.
  
  audio 9.5/10: Their is some audio mishaps, like one you get shot, but other then that, the audio 
 is fanatastic.
  
  graphics 9.9/10: Their are some minor graphic issues, but most are not noticable because this games 
 graphics are amazing.
  
  soundtrack 10/10: This games soundtrack is amazing, such as the song Still Alive, the main games 
 theme song, it makes this game even more fantastic.
  
  
  For some parting words, you should so buy this game if you own a Xbox 360 or a PS3, and if you 
 own a PC, then wait till January, because you have to buy this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokey9942b
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Let me just state that I have not bought this game, I only rented it about 7 hours ago.
  
  First things first. Graphically this game is exallent, reflections appear to be realistic, and 
 the shadows are spot on. Even the lens flair and the moment of every thing being out of focus when 
 you come up over the edge of a building. Sound, very good, VOs are fairly convincing and match 
 the characters appearances, weapon sound effects are quite good and the fact that while running 
 across a rooftop you can hear Faith breathing heavily is a nice touch.
  
  The actual gameplay is the best thing about this game (obviously) and the free-running aspect of 
 the game is very entertaining for the first half of the game, however the second half you'll probably 
 find yourself looking for an enemy to disarm rater than a way to get around them as it is mostly 
 indoors which renders the free-running somewhat limited, that being said, you'll still find some 
 areas which you'll most likely remember for a while, such as the first time you train-surf or the 
 bit where you have to jump between two massive cranes, although I was a bit disappointed that you 
 don't ever get the chance to jump clear over a helicopter and the fact that when you really look 
 you'll notice that the game is very linear and utterly devoid of any real exploration to find a 
 suitably path. Also of note is that some areas can become tedious, such as trying to get to the 
 rifle in the second half of the game (took me 4 attempts and a few goes of the time trial mode)
 
  
  So in closing I give this game a * rating of 7 as it is a good game but it fails to accomplish 
 exactly what i was hoping for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX13
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  First thing I have to say is this title has some of the most realistic environments I have ever 
 seen on a console. The lighting, textures, and bump mapping are spot on with Mirror's Edge. Kudos 
 to DICE for the visual art.
  
  Gameplay: The control scheme in Mirror's Edge is instinctive and, easy to remember. Nothing to 
 complex here to worry about. I would say the most difficult to pull off is a 90 degree running 
 wall jump. Though that's not very hard in the first place.
  
  Timing in essential though. You will have to stop and think at times and, you will have to try 
 some parts more than once to get it right.
  
  Sound: Excellent. The ruffling sound of your pants as the air roars past you while you use a zip 
 cords is awesome. The sound of falling to the street still makes me cringe. Faiths running and 
 grabbing is on the money as well. Along with a refreshing soundtrack Mirror's Edge is a great source 
 of ear candy for those with attention to detail.
  
  Graphics: I couldn't count the times I would just stop and stare at the world around me. Then get 
 rushed by a squad of guards because I spent to much time sight seeing. 
  
  The combination of excellent lighting, textures, bump mapping, and camera use make Mirror's Edge 
 a must see for me. You have got to play in HD or you're missing out. If you have to run your 360 
 to your PC monitor. It will be worth it.
  
  Story: Save your sister from false prosecution of murder. Throw in a little twist and, that's about 
 it. This is probably the weakest link in the chain. The cut scene where flash animation that played 
 while the next level loaded making transition from each other seamless. The animation style chosen 
 was similar to that of the Esurance. com commercials though. I keep wait for a woman with a hot 
 pink bob hair cut to come from around a corner trying to sell me car insurance. 
  
  Mirror's Edge is an the most refreshing first person adventure that we have seen since Portal. 
 The story is short but the replay added by races and time trials give the game decent replay value. 
 Worth the purchase in my book. A must for renting.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin75
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  I went through the game without firing a shot at anyone. First I would like to say for only 80 
 gamer points it wasn't worth the misery I went through to get it.
  In the early chapters it was fine and challenging at times but okay. Then it got to the point where 
 it was just basically saying if you use a gun your life and experience will be better. This was 
 not only frustrating but annoying as well. This is especially in the last part of the 8th chapter 
 and the 9th chapter
  
  Additionally there are problems with hit detection with combat. And who the heck made those dark 
 runners invincible. They are sporting some kind of supper fabric mentioned in an elevator news 
 thing. Those did at a bit of side stuff which made the game more richer but sadly there weren't 
 enough of these and the speed of the text needs to freaking slow down. But back on subject of combat 
 since I played through using just melee moves (which again I must tell you it isn't worth the misery 
 to get a meager 80 gamerpoints) so I would like to think I got it down pretty well and let me tell 
 you that the system needs refining and more moves. But ultimately the system is simple to use and 
 has a tiny bit of mastery though you can't beat those dark runners you will meet later. You need 
 to run away from them. Also another problem I came across is why does every other character (not 
 the blues or the PKs) have better melee powers than me. I meen some can do back flips which you 
 can't do, trust me I tried. But this could be looked past if you weren't forced into combat serveral 
 times. 
  
  But lets get to the platforming. There is hit detection issues like with combat. Sometimes you 
 won't grab on to the ledge even if you should. This should have been the best aspect of the game. 
 Which it kinda is but not as good as it should have been. Plus we should have had more of it on 
 the roofs. Yeah you only go to give one run the rest of the game is about saving your sister. There 
 is time trials for each stage but if they think I am going to go through that again with a time 
 limit forget it. You can do it but I didn't as of this review.
  
  There are time trials other than the chapters for you to do. But this requires and EA account. 
 Which is free. You can play offline which I guess means it won't be in a leaderboard.
  
  There is a story though some would tell you it doesn't matter, I say it does. It isn't a deep story 
 but it has deep moments. Sorta. It has twists and turns but could have been deeper and flushed 
 out the characters more. Though it is okay.
  
  Presentation: The art style was pretty good. Except for the time I came across white trees on the 
 roof. Yeah someone was way to happy with the white. The style at first good later becomes kinda 
 annoying and bland. 
  
  Graphics: It isn't Gears graphics but it does have problems with it. There are issues with blandness 
 but some would say it works. It kinda does but it also kinda backfires a bit. Great to see the 
 character in first person. That is a bonus in my books. IE your body isn't invisible and your hands 
 and feet pop up on screen.
  
  Sound: The music is okay and fits the game. Gunfire sounds okay and your character pants while 
 running so this is a very good aspect of the game.
  
  Gameplay: This is where the game falters. It was fun in places and frustrating in others. Combat 
 is needs improvement. And the story could have been better.
  
  Lasting Appeal: Well it doesn't really have that much lasting appeal other than time trials and 
 speed runs. There could be more downloadable down the road but that is to be seen.
  
  Overall: Overall it is a good entry into a new franchise. Hopefully the sequel will be better and 
 for the love of gamedom please no don't shoot anyone achievement in the sequel. That was bad enough 
 getting it in this one. So definitely a rental and a maybe on buying. I own it but I don't really 
 rent so that isn't a big indicator. You could do worst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 14, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  Maybe, but it's still a long road ahead. Mirror's Edge takes ideas from plateformers like Super 
 Mario Bros and Assassin's Creed, and turn it into a FP style of punch and run game. While this 
 seems like a good idea on paper, it makes for an average and frustrating gaming expierence. 
  
  First off the graphical presentation goes from cell shaded animation in cut scenes to full 
 blown photo realistic detailed playable graphics. This I feel hinders the game presentation, while 
 you are expecting one thing, you get the other. I'm not saying that I don't like one or the other 
 style of graphics, just mixing them that way is visually unpleasing (and I am a visual arts major, 
 so I would know) . Alone the cell shading is good and alone the detailed graphics are good but together 
 I feel like it's mixing oil and water. 
  
  Next the controls are kind of wonky. They are slow to respond and poorly set up for the controller. 
 Which makes the jumping around the tops of buildings difficult. Even more so when you have to fight 
 your way through from one building to another. 
  
  Frankly the game repeats itself over and over again as far as the game play is concerned. It's 
 kind of a good idea for the first level, but an entire game's worth I feel is boring, and while 
 the plot is kind of interesting, it left me with the sense of "ok I get it, move on."
  
  While there are some noteworthy musical scores here and some decent sounds/voices. The game is 
 kind of lacks alot of them though. 
  
  I give props to EA for trying but I found this game difficult to play through, kind of boring, 
 frustrating because everytime you "die" you have to restart the exact same jump sequence over and 
 over and over again until you get it right. That takes away from a lot exhileration that would 
 be possible from the a game like this. In short this is a game you either love or hate, much like 
 Killer 7. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NonyoBizness
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  This game is much better than I had anticipated. I was a bit worried that this game may be repetative, 
 but it was not at all.
  
  This game was a lot of fun. It's funny how the game was TOO hard for most of the reviewers, because 
 the words "trial & error" come up a lot. So therefore, maybe it is a bit challenging (it's not 
 TOO long, but it's not TOO short.. it's average in game length) . I enjoy playing challenging games. 
 I did not have to "trial & error" much, maybe it's because I figured it out faster than half of 
 those 7.0-8.0 reviewers out there. But all in all, it's a very fun game.
  
  I went through it on Normal and then on Hard. I can play this game over and over, it is so much 
 fun and gives you that feeling of freedom. Once you get the moves down pat and figure out what 
 you can use to your "running" advantage.... it becomes even better. Apparently those with only 
 a "Good" review of this game haven't gotten to the point where they fully had a grasp of the game.
 
  
  This game is beautiful, has beautiful visuals and music. I really enjoyed it. And who cares if 
 you can beat this game in several hours, I beat Gears of War 2 on Hardcore and Insane each within 
 several hours.... so? The only games I expect to take a lot of time to beat are rpg games... and 
 while Bioshock was pretty long for an action/adventure/fps... it had an rpg-like essence to it, 
 so it was fitting.
  
  All in all, if you enjoy first person games, love when the controls are spot on (once you get the 
 hang of it) ..... and are looking for combat other than the simple melee attacks of games like cod4, 
 cod: waw, etc..., and enjoy just an overall beautiful game.... BUY THIS GAME. 
  
  I don't know why the gs reviewer said that the combat was lacking... the main point of this game 
 is NOT combat, but you are able to disarm an opponent with ease (once you get the hang of it) ... 
 which I find awesome. On my second playthrough (which was on Hard) , I found out some new moves 
 that can be pulled off... like running combos so to speak.
  
  It's really fun. I enjoy this game more than I have any other game since Mass Effect and Bioshock 
 (The next game I'm looking forward to is Left 4 Dead) .
  
  And I hope that DICE comes out with a multiplayer where you can free roam, race, etc... as they 
 say they are working on.
  
  But regardless, this is the type of game you will want to play more than once. By the time you 
 finish it the first time around, you should be very familiar with the movement and disarming opponents/combat... 
 so your second time around, third, fourth, etc... will be even more empowering and enjoyable.
 
  
  And one last thing, there are usually a few ways to get from point a to b..... 
  
  I wonder how half of these reviewers got their jobs being that they apparently aren't too good 
 at video games. LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacohashi
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  I really, REALLY tried to like this game, this was quite possibly my most anticipated game of the 
 year. Unfortunately, there are several problems that really hold this game back from being perfect.
 
  
  Okay, first of all I am a fan of free running, I am also a fan of games that convey a good sense 
 of speed, the speed factor alone can make me love a game, even broken games like Sonic the Hedgehog.
 
  
  Mirrors Edge follows a character named Faith who...... whatever, the story doesn't matter, the characters 
 aside from Faith are stale and boring, and worst of all not fleshed out enough. Some of these characters 
 had a lot of potential, but it falls flat in the end. All you need to know is Faith is awesome 
 at free running/parkour, and that people like to shoot at her.
  
  In terms of gameplay, Mirrors Edge both excels and flops, some parts in the game had been the most 
 fun I have ever had in a game, and others, well just plain sucked, and bad.
  
  When you get up to a good sprinting speed and are vaulting and sliding with perfect precision, 
 you really get what this game SHOULD have been, the blur effects and camera add an intense feeling 
 unlike any FPS I have ever seen before. 
  
  But there is a problem, a BIG problem. These sections are few and far between in comparison to 
 the numerous puzzles you will have to solve. And when I say puzzle, I mean arbitrary jumps or hidden 
 ladders that take up to several minutes to figure out. The problem is that they don't really require 
 any thought, but more random running around and trial and error. The runners vision that highlights 
 red rarely shows up during these "puzzles" and that just makes it worse, and more frustrating. 
 
  
  I should mention that when I read reviews saying it involves a lot of trial and error, I went "what? 
 nah these reviewers just suck at the game". Well was I ever wrong, the trial and error they referred 
 to wasn't the running, but the annoying, stupid stops in between.
  
  I should also note that the elevators did not bother me one bit. I enjoyed reading the little blurbs 
 about current events and funny anti-runner articles. And besides, its like 20 seconds, and always 
 after you narrowly escape from the "blues" (cops) .
  
  Aside from these "puzzles" are many running paths that are broken, throughout the game I found 
 very few (such as chase scenes) that actually kept that feel of speed the demo did. Most involve 
 WAY to much looking around, the routes are often very indirect and clunky. And unless you know 
 EXACTLY where you are headed, you will find yourself continually losing momentum and screwing up 
 your rhythm, which again ruins the very foundation this game was built upon.
  
  The combat is simple, but not necessarily bad. When you pull off a wallrun kick into a crotch punch 
 and knee a guy in the head, you can really see what Mirrors Edge TRIED to do. However, there are 
 many instances where a slight miscalculation will spell death for you. Again, not really bad but 
 just..... lets say it has a steep learning curve.
  
  Since I am on the subject of combat I MUST bring this up: The last level is absolutely ridiculous, 
 I don't think I have ever seen such blatant cheapness to be passed off as difficult. Now throughout 
 the game, you will likely be faced with 1-4 enemies at a time, and all in a wide area. Now on the 
 9th chapter, it skyrockets! I will even be specific so you can understand: The first encounter 
 involves 2 cops with pistols, 3 swat team guys with NS2000's and G36C's, and 2 heavily armored 
 soldiers with LMG's. So we have almost double the enemies all with varied weapons to utterly destroy 
 you.
  
  I manage to create a flawless system of running away and fighting that finally takes down them 
 all. I go into the next area, we have 2 cops, about 5 swat team guys, and 1 LMG heavily armored 
 soldier. Not to different, but the layout of the area poses a problem, as there are many areas 
 to get stuck on or trapped and shot and killed in a few seconds if you break your maximum speed.
 
  
  After all of that, you walk up and press the elevator button (it does not give you a checkpoint) 
 and when you do, 7 more swat team soldiers flank you in 2 groups of 2 and 1 group of 3. After dying 
 so many times, I basically gave up on this game. Well at least the story mode. This just ruined 
 it for me, the last level of a game should always take what made the previous levels good should 
 simply be amplified. Instead however, they decided to make it frustrating and just utterly unfair.
 
  
  
  The sound is beautiful however, from the voices, to the music, to even the steps of Faiths feet 
 as you speed along. Really nothing to complain about, but a lot to praise. Its simply fantastic.
 
  
  
  All in all, I must say its refreshing to see EA deviating from the typical FPS and creating a FPP (first 
 person platformer) . Also, I try to give the game a break considering, that aside from Dead Space, 
 this was one of the few games that they really pumped up the innovation. Frustrating or not, you 
 have to respect the great idea and graphical advancements that are in this game.
  
  I am afraid I can give this no better than a 7, however, this is one of the few games I am really 
 hoping they will make a sequel of. FPS games are a dime a dozen, innovative FPP games are a true 
 gem, regardless the numerous of frustrating issues.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: celestial_todd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is a great game in my opinion.
  It's exciting, fresh, new, and unique.
  But I would like to clear that Mirror's Edge is not your average FPS, in fact I wouldn't even call 
 it FPS more like first-person action.
  For you hardcore FPS shoot em' up gamers, Mirror's Edge might not be for your since it is actually 
 easier to melee/run away from enemies rather than to disarm and shoot. 
  
  
  Pros:
  New and exciting, like never before, fast paced, fun, great graphics, easy acheivements.
  
 
  Cons:
  Testing and trouble-some puzzles slow the game down if your running away from enemies, not much 
 depth, short story, hard to find "Runner Bags" (your always on the go or running away from enemies) 
 you can die easily (3-4 hits/shots will do it) gun-play isn't exactly perfect.
  
  
  Overall I think every gamer looking for something new and unique; yet short and inconspicuous should 
 rent/demo Mirror's Edge.
  
  
  PS: I am personally happy with this game because it's unlike anything I've ever played before and 
 I pre-ordered so I got a free "Runner Bag"
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmyeatsknives
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Innovation in 2008? Surely it can't be! Mirror's Edge is a great game. It's one of the most innovative 
 games I've played. First-person parkour, what more could you want? The graphics are top notch with 
 bright, colorful textures, almost a cell-shaded look. Not to mention the lighting. The characters 
 up-close look excellent, with wrinkles and eyes that don't looked bugged out, unlike most games. 
 A nice touch is when your character, Faith, starts to pick up speed, the edges of the screen start 
 to blur. The voice acting and sound effects are also great. You get to hear every breath and grunt 
 from Faith as she runs and jumps, which isn't as annoying as it would sound. Some of the dialogue 
 is kinda cheesy, but it's forgettable. Now, the nit-picky. The controls aren't as good as they 
 could be. I found myself using most the left-side buttons and ended up having a cramp in my left-hand. 
 The a. i. is mad hard, a single, unarmed girl shouldn't have to take on 4 SWAT guys with AK's. In 
 other words, too much combat, and disarming a guy shouldn't be this hard. The running works like 
 a charm, once you get use to it. It takes a lot of concentration. But once you string together 
 some moves successfully, there is a great sense of satisfaction. My biggest complaint is that the 
 game is way too trial-and-error. You will repeatedly dieover and over and over. But thankfully, 
 the game auto-saves very frequently, so you don't have to retrace your steps as much. I think the 
 biggest enjoyment and shocker is that this is a new i. p. from E. A, who, for those who somehow don't 
 know, isn't exactly a company known for innovation. This is a great step forward for E. A. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobguy94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, this game deserves much more than a 7, it is a fast paced, super fun, and mind boggling 
 game. It is easy to see right when you start the game that you are in for something pretty amazing. 
 The only drawback is the game is a bit short. But if you are going to play the game more than once, 
 do the time trial, and find all the hidden bags, that ups the hours to about 17 or 18. The best 
 part about this game is that it is so original. DICE and EA were really going out on a limb with 
 this one and I am very happy this game got positive responses. This game is the first in a series 
 which gets me even more excited. There is another drawback, however, the cut scenes are not so 
 great. The in game cutscenes are fantastic, the other ones seem a bit bland. All in all, this game 
 is a fantastic game and is a marvel to look at, I give this game a 9.5 because it deserves it and 
 this game is among the best and most unique games this year in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinion
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Dice did a great job, but I wish it had been just a bit longer.
  The story is "good," but a little shaky in some parts.
  
  Graphics are decent and the controls 
 are quite good but not the best. I actually adjusted the video settings and my TV brightness as 
 all the "white" was just too much for me.
  Sound production is top notch. The enemy AI is decent, but the disarm moves are a bit limiting. 
 I don't think they intended this to be much of a combat game and this will displease many people.
 
  
  I would recommend you rent it first as the main story is no longer than 6 hours, and if you enjoy 
 it that much then please buy it and enjoy the time trial modes.
  Replaying through the chapters and unlocking all the time trial modes will add about another 3-4 
 hours to your experience, but improving your time trial runs is (of course) all about moving through 
 the best routes as quickly as possible while using Faith's moves as best you can.
  
  Personally, I can't say I feel motivated to play through the story again, but I do enjoy the time 
 trial mode. I wish Dice had implemented a "free roaming" mode just for fun, but I'm probably one 
 of the few people who would request such a thing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alizerothree
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is definitely one of the most unique games I have played this year. I would describe 
 it as a 3d platformer that plays a bit like the scrolling levels from Kid Chameleon minus the spike 
 wall. You run through these lovely urban environments from point A to point B. The interesting 
 thing is that there are multiple ways to get around. You can wall climb, wall run, and do other 
 moves and maneuvers and are never forced to take the same path twice. It's also cool that you can 
 chain together moves to add to Faith's fluidity.
  
  As for the game play, what I got from it is that you start from point A and go to point B. Every 
 now and then you will come across hostiles which you will most likely have to run away from or 
 you can try to disarm and use their weapons against them. Some of the levels trike trial and error 
 and Faith will end up splattering on the ground numerous times before frustration sets in. The 
 game did become more enjoyable once I got a bit better, because honestly, I admit, I was terrible 
 at it even after playing the demo.
  
  Once I got the hang of Faith, it was just more of the same level to level. The coolest section 
 of the game was riding the subway, but even then that felt a bit uninspiring. The game had me dodge 
 left and right, and jump and dodge over obstacles as they flew by me. It just reminded me of those 
 old auto scrolling platformers where you just run and duck when the time is right, but Mirror's 
 Edge looks good while it does that.
  
  I played for about 3 hours and got to Chapter 5. The game is extremely short, and the time trial 
 modes alone won't make this game last for me. There could have been more, I don't know what, but 
 it's missing a key element and some substance that could have made it amazing to me. It's a great 
 experience so far, when it's not frustrating me, but i don't feel as if it was worth the full retail 
 value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnderSR388
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  I feel this game isn't getting its fair shake in some review circles, so I thought I'd share my 
 thoughts and opinions on one of the years most unique and engaging takes on the FPS genre.
  
  GRAPHICS: From the moment Mirror's Edge loads to the main menu, you are greeted with a smooth, 
 clutter-free interface that is a breeze to navigate. The menus reflect the basic feel throughout 
 most of Mirror's Edge. The sterile, stark white environments with splashes of color speak louder 
 then any overly textured, huge explosion filled FPS on the market. DICE set out to separate itself 
 from the pack by taking the genre in a whole new direction. Following in the steps of 2004 sleeper 
 hit Breakdown, all in game action is seen through the eyes of protagonist Faith as she speeds across 
 rooftops, subways and a water treatment plant at dizzying speeds. Red set pieces within the environment 
 guide you through the many urban labyrinthine levels. This works well for the most part, but you'll 
 soon realize that sometimes your own routes will lead you to the best times and around enemies 
 more often then the developers predetermined routes. The lighting in Mirror's Edge is simply phenomenal! 
 The unique subtleties of the sun glinting of nearby sky scrapers or how everything is bathed in 
 realistic shadows is very striking and lends to a heightened sense of realism. The anime cut scenes 
 between levels provide a break from the in game engine to give players with enough story to keep 
 each level interesting.
  
  SOUND: Mirror's Edge has one of the best soundtracks I've heard in years. There has been very few 
 soundtracks that fit a game so well. Every song, every beat feels as if it's been specifically 
 tailored to fit. Nothing seems out of place or like it's been shoehorned in, like previous EA games 
 (EA TRAX anyone?) in my opinion. Some of the best sound effects can be heard as Faith effortlessly 
 soars across the rooftops. Every footstep sounds right, every jump feels good. Faith will even 
 breath hard when pushed to run for long distances. Heaving as she vaults over vents or large chasms 
 between buildings. The sound of air rushing past Faith's ears as she glides to her landing is astounding 
 and really captures the freedom that someone in her trade might experience. Gun sounds are solid, 
 if not downplayed, since the main focus isn't direct frontal confrontation. The voice acting is 
 also very solid and all parts are played in believable fashion.
  
  GAMEPLAY: One of the most appealing aspects of Mirror's Edge is the ability to play almost as a 
 pacifist. Most enemy engagements can either be avoided by reading the environment and finding the 
 best path possible, sometimes that's not always in red, so be prepared to think at times. When 
 you do encounter enemies, Faith as a pretty decent selection of melee attacks, as well as disarms, 
 that keep the action fresh and fun all the way through. Knowing when to fight and when to run is 
 the only key to staying alive. Faith isn't a trained soldier, nor does she wear any kind of body 
 armor to protect herself. She's a free runner and I encourage you to play the game as such. The 
 way the game was intended to be played. I have yet or been compelled to fire a weapon at an enemy. 
 It much more rewarding not using weapons to solve your conflicts.
  
  OVERALL: I would highly recommend this game to anyone who's open enough to see the evolution of 
 not only FPSs, but of platformers in general. This game is everything we could have hoped for and 
 more. DICE delivered on the promises of all the concept art showed to us and in these times that's 
 rare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dilbert3k
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 12, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  If you like frustration go get this game, you will LOVE it.
  
  The controls are god awful, How gamespot could miss that I dont know.
  The developers made the 
 controls much more complicated then needed. Most actions could have been done with 1 or 2 buttons. 
 But they mapped them all over the place.
  
  If you play long enough it will become 2nd nature. But it becomes obvious very soon that they mapped 
 the controls this way to help make the game seem more complicated then it really is.
  
  Too bad too, as the controls ruin at least half of the games promise.
  
  The other half is 
 ruined by the punishing difficulty of the game.
  
  Timing jumps needs to be SPOT ON. Missing by the smallest amount will leave you a splatter on the 
 ground. Even on easy this game will drive you to throw your controller across the room.
  
  On the plus side it is very pretty. Nice sounds. I'd say if the game had decent controls and just 
 a tiny bit of forgiveness then the game would be a easy 7 out of 10.
  
  However I have learned my lesson, and will not buy any more EA games before I have rented them. 
 Total waste of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tito0909
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I won't do a big review, all I an say is: ''The perfect match between Prince of Persia and Portal'', 
 2 great games. Controls are hard to learn at the begining but you get used to it pretty fast. The 
 great presents great action, good difficulty, and an addictive gameplay. The only negative point 
 I can find to this game is the absence of a multiplayer gameplay (there are great possibilities 
 for this game in multiplayer, believe me) and the crappy animations that reminds me of a kid's 
 tv show. Seriously, a sequel of this game with a multiplayer background would surely be a potential 
 ''Game of the Year''
  
  
  I don't give a f*** about the 800 minimum caracters for the review, i'll just say 10 times that 
 this is a game worth playing...
  
  It's worth playing...
  It's worth playing...
  It's worth playing...
  It's worth playing...
  It's worth playing...
  It's worth playing...
 
  It's worth playing...
  It's worth playing...
  It's worth playing...
  It's worth playing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halosniper31
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Amazing, sure it is challenging, but why else do we even buy games then to be challenged. Controls 
 are hard to get but once you have em down you can go go go. First Person views are amazing and the 
 Gun fights are pretty cool. I am glad there is finally a game that isnt really all about run in 
 a room with your guns blazing and your practically invincible. I mean dont get me wrong, I am a 
 big Halo fan, but it gets old after a while. I though the game was more than it was hyped up to 
 be. I mean, it is nice to have a game where the sky actually is the limit. I do find it kind of 
 funny that now we dont have to go out and excersice when we can stay inside and "pretend" to excercise. 
 Shade celling was an interesting way to go but it kind of adds more to the game. It is really difficult 
 though and It will probably not be fun to people who like to have signs everywhere that are flashing 
 with giant neon lights and say GO HERE or ENTER. But if your up for a challenge I highly reccomend 
 this game. 10/10 All in All Mirrors Edge is Brilliant.
  
  
  On a Side Comment I would Like to Point out that everyone who has reviewed this game and given 
 it less than a 7, have all been complaining about falling and the trial and error and the "god 
 awful" controls, one review stated that you will die at least 200 times before beating the game 
 on easy and another review said that if your even off your timing by a fraction you will miss and 
 fall and die. On both accounts I would have to EXTREMELY disagree. I beat the game on NORMAL and 
 I died maybe 30 times throughout. if you jump and time perfectly you land maybe 20 feet from the 
 edge and not perfectly maybe 10 feet. you do not have to time perfectly for anything except the 
 whole rolling when landing thing. As for the "god awful" controls, really? Easy as hell controls 
 is more like it. If you suck at the game, dont blame the controls.
  I cant fathom why people keep judging games on how well they can play.
  All in all It was wonderful 
 and I keep going back to the time trials to see if I can beat my high score (Which I cant seem to 
 do) (Musta been on steroids) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fox-orian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is a bit of a different game compared to many of this years gritty action titles. 
 It's bound not to be in line with everyone's tastes, especially those who love the near monochromatic 
 grunge of games like Gears of War.
  
  However, it's worth a play-through, even if a rental to just check it out.
  
  Mirror's Edge 
 is one of those games that only seems to come around every once in a while. It's the kind of game 
 that offers a lot from very little and gives you an excellent taste before overstaying its welcome. 
 Some of the most enjoyable games in my memory have been similar to Mirror's Edge. Recently, the 
 best title that pops to mind is Portal. Portal focus on very specific things which they wanted 
 to pull off well. In Portal, they wanted the player to think differently by using two portals to 
 leap between. The player only had the ability to create a blue portal for the first half of the 
 game, then the orange portal with the device upgrade for the later half. It was all that was offered 
 to us, but it worked well. Portal's level design was great in that it was challenging the first 
 play through, if not frustrating at some parts. The game's artistic design never changed so that 
 we would learn-by-doing, so in the later levels we understood what to do to get to the exit without 
 having our hand held through the course. Friends would get motion sick watching you fling yourself 
 with fantastic acrobatics through the air, or falling endlessly through a loop in the floor, all 
 through a permanently first-person perspective. The game was over in practically one sitting. But 
 it was good, even though it seemingly offered so little. Valve made us want to go back to previous 
 levels and replay them as flawlessly as we could, and it felt awesome to actually manage to play 
 through a course without a mistake in record time.
  
  Another game is ICO. Remember ICO? In ICO, he could pretty much only swing a stick to fight. Yet 
 what kept us going through the whole game was the will to see Yorda to safety. In many situations, 
 the enemies weren't worth fighting because if you got Yorda to the exit of the room, she could 
 kill all of the enemies in the room for you. The developers of ICO wanted us to focus more on getting 
 Yorda to safety than beating up all the bad guys. If they had given us more ways to fight, it might 
 have made Ico seem to powerful of a character, and place an imbalanced emphasis on fighting over 
 escaping with Yorda. The challenging [and sometimes frustrating] platforming elements later on 
 in the game drive home the idea that Ico eventually cares more about Yorda's safety than his own 
 health.
  
  Now think about Mirror's Edge.
  We're given the ability to run and jump, and do it well [and intuitively.] We're given level design 
 that holds our hand to start with, showing us what to look for so we can be trained on how to find 
 our own routes in the later levels. Mirror's Edge wants the player to think about the environments 
 that surround them differently, using frankly mundane every-day things that you'd find in any city. 
 [For instance, we learn that an air-duct at body-height is one we should probably slide under. 
 A pipe jutting from a wall is something we can probably climb up. A fence blocking your path is 
 one you should probably vault over. Two boxes or air-conditioning units stacked next to each other 
 are probably something you should spring-board off of.] You play as a character whose primary strength 
 is agility and speed. She can fight, but only as a last resort to something blocking the way. The 
 game offers no crazy-awesome selection of guns or gritty gun battles -- as it's meant to be kept 
 mildly in reality. When your best offense is also your defense, (that is to run, jump, and go places 
 your enemies cant,) what need do you have for weapons? [DICE diminished the gunplay on purpose 
 for this reason. After all, as they also created the Battlefield games, they would've had no problem 
 turning Mirror's Edge into a "shooter."] Putting over emphasis on killing your enemies would have 
 offset the kind of character Faith is. You're not playing someone who's out to kill everyone in 
 her path -- just someone who wants to get her sister back and deal with who was responsible. Just 
 like in Portal, you'll have your fair share of mishaps and accidents on your first play through, 
 but it's all part of the fun if you ask me. Platforming games of the old days were practically 
 reliant on the player building skill to eventually blow through a level without stopping. And it's 
 amazingly gratifying once you become skilled enough to do so. [Remember how you always wanted to 
 flawlessly blow through courses in Sonic without stopping? It's kind of like that.] While the game 
 is finished in two to three sittings, it's my opinion that it tends to make the game stronger. 
 Just like Portal, you get to do a lot with very little, and feel as though you were left with something 
 good before it over stayed its welcome.
  
  [This of course leads to me admitting that unlike Portal, it would have been nice if Mirror's Edge 
 cost just as much.]
  
  Note about the graphics:
  It's about time a game has started to use radiosity light scattering in it's graphics engine. Brighter 
 objects, such as a bright yellow wall, illuminating dimmer objects with reflected light is something 
 that more games need to pick up on -- if only on a textural basis. There's something so awesome 
 about seeing bright colors spill from surface to surface from the games unbelievably realistic 
 sunlight. The next step, hopefully by the next generation, is to have a fully real-time radiosity 
 light engine that can calculate photon transport on the fly. Now that would be something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twobad4u
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  Although everything works well in the game, controls are tight and precise, except for a few under 
 your feet moments as well as some awkward gunplay moments. Taking place in very beautiful and detailed 
 yet surreal world .It's really just Prince of Persia maybe even some Assassin's Creed throw in 
 as well except know in first person. Not that that is necessarily a bad thing, just couldn't help 
 think it would have been more fun in the third person view with more moves throw in the mix. I 
 do believe a sequel will fix alot of these issues and deliver the game as it should be .Mirror's 
 Edge just doesn't feel as unique and original as one might think. You just get that been here before 
 ,done that before feeling while playing it .With so many better games out there to spend your time 
 and money on these days. It's just not worth it .Wait for a bargin price But I do give the A for 
 the effort despite the silly story as a blanket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xGlennx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  The review is correct, there is an incredible amount of trial and error.. but why should the game 
 designers be punished for making it the way they wanted it to be? I personally don't think the 
 trial and error should be a big minus on the games behalf, because other than the clunky start 
 of the game to get a hang of the controls it truly is a small revolution when it comes to games. 
 
  
  The controls are hard to grasp at first, but the incredible satisfaction when you start mastering 
 the controls are hard to describe. If you hate the controls give it some chance, if and when you 
 get it, then the game will truly reveal itself as the game 
  its been hyped up to be.
  
  I would compare the game with the first Prince of Persia, you don't play it for the action part, 
 but for the revolutionary game play mechanics. The hand to hand combat is part of the control mastery. 
 I would say the FPS part sucks, but to be honest if you're buying this game thinking its a FPS 
 you could do so much better with other games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
