-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MLB Front Office Manager
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/mlbfrontofficemanager/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Impressive depth for a console-centric sports management sim.
 Good presentation values.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Absolutely abysmal interface.
 Complete lack of personality when dealing with player transactions.
 AI managers regularly make bizarre decisions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  4, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.0, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 43 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Blue Castle Games
Genre: Baseball Management
Date: Jan 26, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An obtuse interface makes MLB Front Office Manager bewildering even to baseball-sim veterans.

  Sports management simulations have finally hit the big time. After years of indie obscurity, at 
 least in North America, the genre has finally been hauled into the mainstream by EA Sports and 
 2K Sports. But don't schedule a parade just yet. EA's NFL Head Coach series has gone through some 
 growing pains over the past couple of years, and now 2K Sports' MLB Front Office Manager is off 
 to a shaky start. The biggest problem with this latest attempt at taking management sims to the 
 masses is a gamepad-oriented interface that makes even the most routine tasks about as irritating 
 as trying to throw a curve ball while wearing oven mitts. Clunky controls and a near-total lack 
 of feedback make it hard to feel like you're in control of anything, let alone a $150-million big-league 
 ballclub stocked with equally extravagant egos.  

           Everything looks good on the surface, but good luck digging into the nitty-gritty of the 
 player database.      

  The basic approach on display here, however, is time-tested. The game follows in the footsteps 
 of independently developed baseball management sims like Out of the Park Baseball and Baseball 
 Mogul by putting you in the shoes of a Major League general manager. You start off by naming your 
 virtual head honcho, selecting from a few face and clothing options (are you Joe Suit or Johnny 
 Polo Shirt?) , and picking a personal background that determines your skill at specific duties. 
 If you set yourself up as an ex-manager, for instance, teams on the field get a leadership boost. 
 If you take the low road and choose the legal profession, you receive a helping hand when it comes 
 to contract negotiations. As time goes by and you chalk up wins in the Majors, you gain experience 
 points that can be spent on bulking up other skills.  

  There is no option to work your way up to the Show from the minors, so following this brief character 
 creation you simply pick a Major League team and grab the reins. You have pretty much total control 
 over your club from this point on. Budgets, lineups, pitching rotations, allocation of scouting 
 dollars, trades, and so forth are all under your watch, although you can flip over to automatic 
 and let the CPU take care of the more mundane jobs. The team owner sets a player budget that serves 
 as a de facto salary cap, but beyond that you're free to do whatever you want. If you have a bad 
 run, though, you can find yourself bounced to the curb and awaiting job offers from other clubs. 
 Virtually all of the hardcore stuff serious baseball fans expect is present here, including the 
 Rule 5 draft, player arbitration, and bidding on Japanese prospects.  

  Careers can be played as straight single-player campaigns, as a fantasy variation that employs 
 a rotisserie-style scoring system, or in online leagues with up to 30 players. Just about nobody 
 seems to be playing the game online, however, so finding an open league for your team is tough. 
 It's still only the start of February, but the lack of players isn't good news considering that 
 real pitchers and catchers are reporting to MLB training camps in just a couple of weeks. This 
 is also the first baseball game to hit stores in 2009, so you would expect a little more online 
 excitement around it.  

           One of the few things that MLB Front Office Manager has going for it is its good-looking 
 manager screen.      

  At any rate, the foundation of MLB Front Office Manager is solid. It looks very good, as well. 
 Big, bold letters and numbers splashed on the screen have a strong visual impact. This is a real 
 plus in a genre where, at least on the PC, most of the competition comes from indie developers 
 and looks more like spreadsheet programs for the office than something you would want to relax 
 with at home. 2K Sports makes great use of its MLB license, loading the game up with a wealth of 
 player photos and an attractive manager's screen where you can watch the action unfold on the diamond 
 and make calls from the dugout.  

  Implementation is where everything falls apart. A good sports management sim needs to have a database 
 at its heart. This sounds like a dreadfully dull way to present a game, but it is an absolute necessity 
 in this genre since you need to be able to easily sift through stats and sort players by the numbers. 
 Yet here you're working with screens almost entirely taken up by visual chrome and player photos, 
 save for a relatively small area filled with a couple of columns of players and the barest minimum 
 of stats. Player lists are abbreviated so that you can see only eight names on the screen at once, 
 forcing you to tediously scroll through multiple menus. Information is presented in an almost nonsensical 
 manner. The player negotiation screen, for instance, covers just six core stats for batters and 
 pitchers, like AVG and W-L. So you're forced to go rummaging around elsewhere in the rosters to 
 dig up thorough information regarding essential data, like at-bats and hits allowed.     

   

  Vital data, such as overall player ratings and potential ratings, is often tucked away 
 in layered information screens, necessitating a ridiculous amount of searching whenever you take 
 on even the most rudimentary task. It's tough just gathering the information needed when setting 
 up pitching rotations. And it gets even worse when it's time to sort through the dozens of players 
 who need the protection of a 40-man roster prior to the Rule 5 draft every winter. The menu screens 
 aren't linked to one another either, meaning that you can't zip from one screen to another. When 
 you're trying to re-sign a player, for instance, and he tells you he wants more years on his contract, 
 you can't move directly from the e-mail telling you about this demand to his negotiation screen. 
 Instead, you have to scroll down the main menu to Transactions, open its submenu list, scroll down 
 to Payroll, open it up, and then scroll down that list to the player's name to pull up his contract 
 offer page. It's the same deal with CPU-offered trades. They are a bit more user-friendly in that 
 you at least have the ability to instantly go to a comparison screen where you can check out the 
 players on the block. But leaving this screen strands you back at the main menu, and you have to 
 access your e-mail again to accept or reject the deal (which, incidentally, cannot be altered) . 
 Even the simplest roster-management tasks require five or six steps when they should necessitate 
 just one. You spend more time chasing your tail than making baseball decisions.  

           Menu navigation takes a lot longer than it should.      

  A lack of feedback makes 
 MLB Front Office Manager even more confusing. Although you have Oakland A's GM Billy Beane on tap 
 providing tips about contracts, along with memos that keep important dates on the top of the screen 
 so you don't forget about something like the arbitration, much of what you do takes place in a 
 vacuum. This is a particularly huge problem when it comes to handling players. While you're kept 
 well informed about looming deadlines, offers to free agents, to pending free agents, and to other 
 teams during trade talks are dealt with through pretty much absolute silence. There is no back 
 and forth with player agents or rival GMs, or any chance to counter an offer from another team. 
 All you get is a flat acceptance or denial with an occasional personal observation, such as that 
 the money being offered is "laughable."  

  Signings aren't even properly noted in the e-mail screen that covers all league communications. 
 You would think that losing Manny Ramirez to free agency would be enough of a big deal to the Dodgers 
 to warrant more than an e-mail buried among all the other league news of the day. A successful 
 signing never gets much press, either. If you ink somebody like K-Rod, you don't even receive so 
 much as a cheesy "I'm looking forward to playing for you this year!" blurb. The only indications 
 that your bid has been accepted are a one-line e-mail, maybe a follow-up note saying that the fans 
 are excited, and notice that the player in question has been added to the Pending Transactions 
 list and must be assigned within 10 days or released.  

           Most other sports sims would offer a lot more player stats for you to base your managerial 
 decisions on.      

  Finally, some of the decisions made by computer GMs are beyond bizarre. Every team in the game 
 seems to be working under the same management philosophy. Each offseason, everybody appears to 
 go after the same big-name free agents no matter what sort of budgetary restrictions they may be 
 operating under. So this leads to ridiculous scenarios where poorer clubs like the Kansas City 
 Royals waste $16 million a year on a washout like Jason Giambi, or the Cincinnati Reds dish off 
 $21 million a year on Mark Teixeira. Sometimes these single big-name signings fill up nearly a 
 third of a team's overall payroll. Team budgets are also all over the place. The LA Dodgers start 
 off with a budget of $111.6 million, while the cheapskate Toronto Blue Jays begin 2009 with a whopping 
 $139.2 million. Somebody either hasn't checked the lowly value of the Canadian dollar lately or 
 has a hate on for Dodger blue. Some trades come from the dark side of the moon. While most are 
 nondescript affairs shuffling minor leaguers around, the game hits you with a Bizarro World blockbuster 
 on a regular basis, like when the Red Sox trade away Jonathan Papelbon during spring training for 
 some guy named Nate McLouth. There may be some kind of bug in the game with Papelbon though, since 
 the Sox seem to ditch him for a lower-rated nobody in the first spring training every time you 
 start a career.  

  MLB Front Office Manager needs a lot of work to be ready for the big leagues. The game offers an 
 impressive amount of depth and great support for online leagues, especially for management-sim-deprived 
 consolers. But playing it is such a chore that anyone seriously interested in such simulations 
 will quickly move on to a more serious, if PC-only, effort like Out of the Park Baseball.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: afq2846
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 5:39 pm PT
Review:  First thing that must be said about this game is that its not a baseball game. Now I know you are 
 looking at this game and say whatttt.. yes its not a baseball game. Its more of a strategy simulation 
 based on baseball. You play a gm of a baseball team and you get to control the team. Even down 
 to the minor leagues. This can be rather trying because you really do not know the minor league 
 guys and it can be rather time consuming dealing with every roster making changes and such. Lets 
 start with the good parts of this game. There are a LOT of major/minor league players in this game. 
 You get to control the various aspects of your team. Now comes the bad things. You do not control 
 the actual game play. You manage and get to tell your players basic things like steal hit but you 
 cannot control any aspect. You just sit there and watch your pitchers walk many many batters or 
 your hitters just keep striking out. Another annoying aspect of this game is for some reason the 
 game will suddenly change your line ups. You set up your major league line up try to manage the 
 game and all of a sudden the line up is not what you chose. Another frustrating aspect of this 
 game is that random teams will just release a superstar for no reason at all. That takes away from 
 the realism of the game. It could be the middle of the season and the red sox will release david 
 ortiz. Anybody who knows anything about baseball knows that this would not happen at all. When 
 a guy gets hurt and then you try to put him back on your major league roster is becomes very difficult. 
 Manuevering players from minor and major league line ups is very annoying and takes away from the 
 game. Graphics are nice with different players pitching styles and hitting styles. This game more 
 then anything can become addictive if you give it a chance. Its not a very good game unless you 
 like simulations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidb5
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 4, 2009 8:51 pm PT
Review:  First off, I love baseball sims, I have had baseball sims on my commodore 64 where I used to enter 
 stats from old baseball teams and play seasons with these teams. I have recently played Baseball 
 Mogul where I find this a worthy game. When I heard 2k was creating a this game I got very excited.
 
  
  I was excited to get right in the off season. Minor flaws in menus are annoying to a point. But 
 what you would think is the most important part of the game is playing a baseball game with your 
 team. In my first game my starter pitched 7 great innings and I took him out of the game leading 
 4-2. My new pitcher came in, gave up a 2 run homer and in the 9th inning we gave up another run 
 and lost the game. Problem is, the starter got the loss!!! How the heck do they make a game and 
 can't get a simple stat like that right????? There was also several points when the ball was thrown 
 into 2nd base and the fielder never tug the batter out and was allowed to walk in safely. There 
 is just really no excuses for problems like this. Also when doing draft I wish the player selection 
 was a little better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obliviongeek9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 6:29 pm PT
Review:  When you create your general manager, you can choose everything about him. From his name to his 
 appearance to his background. The background is the most important part, as this will determine 
 your characters skills. You can pick any team you want, and in my opinion it is more fun to take 
 a team like the nationals or the pirates, and build them up from the ground up. By starting with 
 a solid core of young players and prospects, you can create a championship dynasty for years to 
 come. There is no satisfaction like seeing a player you carefully scouted and drafted 5 years ago 
 make a big difference to your big league ball club. The only fault in this game that cost it .5 
 of a point to me was the hard to navigate interface. You have to spend alot of time when organizing 
 your minor leagues for the Rule 5 draft, or even simply calling up a pitcher from AAA to fill out 
 your rotation. Other than that, this is a must buy for the knowledgable baseball fan that is familiar 
 with the rules and thinks they know how to build a dynasty.
  Think you could build a solid team in the Major Leagues? This is your chance to try it. It is so 
 realistic and there is nothing, except 3 team trades, that you can't do in this game that GM's 
 can do in real life. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
