-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Monster Madness: Battle for Suburbia
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/monstermadness/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A lengthy campaign with four-player cooperative play.
 lots of weapon and vehicle variety.
 online multiplayer has its moments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat controls are sluggish and imprecise.
 clumsy jumping and dodging mechanics.
 campaign can't be played in co-op online.
 graphics and audio are unremarkable.
 camera nearly wrecks cooperative play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.7, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 324 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SouthPeak Games
Developer: Artificial Studios
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date: Jun 12, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Monster Madness is a monster mess. 

  Monster Madness: Battle for Suburbia really wishes it was born in the '80s. It's got its heart 
 in the right place, aiming to capture the kitschy vibe of such zombie-murdering classics as Zombies 
 Ate My Neighbors and creating a gameplay design that feels like a 3D mash-up of Gauntlet or Ikari 
 Warriors. When you throw in four-player co-op play, a bunch of goofy competitive multiplayer modes, 
 a lengthy campaign, and a ridiculous number of monsters to kill, the recipe for some good old-fashioned 
 fun would seem to be in place. But Monster Madness botches the execution. This includes a counterintuitive 
 control scheme, oddly balanced difficulty, obnoxiously repetitive combat, and a nearly useless 
 camera in co-op mode. Eventually such problems become too numerous and too annoying to tolerate, 
 turning what could have been a simple monster-killing romp into a scattered, clumsy mess.  

          There are monsters. There is madness. That much is true.     

  Monster Madness revolves 
 around a quartet of teenage stereotypes (the geek, the bro, the goth chick, the cheerleader) who 
 find themselves in the midst of an invasion from a greatest-hits collection of the monster world. 
 For some reason, ghouls, ghosts, goblins, skeletons, mummies, werewolves, gremlins, vampires, martians, 
 UFOs, harpies, banshees, leprechauns, jack-o-lanterns, chupacabras, evil trees, demons, medusas, 
 imps, evil clowns, spiders, gargoyles, swamp monsters, the grim reaper, zombies, zombie dogs, zombie 
 pirates, zombie samurais, zombie Indians, zombie grannies, zombie tanks, and exploding zombies, 
 among others, are attacking suburbia. And the four hapless kids are the only ones around to do 
 anything about it. Armed with melee weapons, such as axes or plungers, they dive headfirst into 
 this monster-killing adventure, cracking bad jokes and pining for one another all along the way. 

  The story is more of an excuse to get you killing monsters than anything else, though it's also 
 an excuse to insert as much awful comedy as possible into the proceedings. Occasionally, the game 
 elicits a chuckle or snicker, but for the most part, the script isn't all that funny. Part of this 
 has to do with the jokes, which often rely too heavily on slightly obscure and rather lame pop- 
 and nerd-culture references. The other part has to do with the voice acting, which is largely flat 
 and unremarkable. Even in the rare instances where enthusiasm is mustered for a line or two, none 
 of the actors seem to have much in the way of comic timing. The game often has characters repeating 
 the same tired lines again and again, as well.  

  Monster Madness comes encumbered with a gameplay design that is best described as cluttered. You 
 begin the game with just a simple melee weapon, but over time, you can buy and build a whole mess 
 of new weapons with the help of a friendly mechanic named Larry Tools, who pops up in various level 
 areas. Your weapons include everything from nail guns, shot guns, and tazers to rocket launchers, 
 CD launchers, and laser cannons. As nice as the weapon variety is, you actually need very few of 
 the weapons, save for very specific situations. You'll often find that it's more useful to upgrade 
 a few key weapons as opposed to buying everything that comes your way, especially because you'll 
 often need to switch between certain weapons quickly. If you've got a bunch of useless junk cluttering 
 up your inventory, it makes the scrolling process much more difficult. Fortunately, you can hotkey 
 a few weapons if necessary.  

  Combat might have been enjoyable if the controls were not so wonky. The control scheme on the PC 
 is manageable only because you can configure it as needed. On the Xbox 360, you have no such luck. 
 Attack buttons are mapped to the triggers, weapon scrolling is mapped to the bumpers, and to jump -- of 
 all things -- you have to click in the right stick. Considering how much time you spend with your 
 thumb on the right stick, that might sound like a good idea, but the stick button often seems unresponsive. 
 That becomes a spectacular frustration during the few bouts of platforming the game tosses at you, 
 which is made even more insane by the fact that the A and B buttons are just redundant weapon scrolling 
 options. Melee attacks are easy enough because all you have to do is hammer on the attack button 
 while enemies happen to be near you, but if you're still using melee attacks past the third or 
 fourth stage, you're doing something wrong. Weapons combat is OK, except that aiming tends to be 
 a bit of a chore. There's no target-locking feature, and moving the aiming reticle seems a bit 
 slow (and there's no mouse sensitivity adjuster in the PC version) . It's not that big of a deal 
 when you're just blasting away at big groupings of larger baddies, but any time you've got quick, 
 nimble enemies in front of you, hitting them is a severe pain.  

          Four-player co-op play sounds a lot more fun on paper than it is in execution. Blame the 
 camera.     

  Scratch that; the whole game is just a severe pain, especially if you're one of the unlucky folk 
 who happens to play the game all by your lonesome. This is one of those games that thinks being 
 really hard equates to being really fun. On the default difficulty level, the game becomes frustrating 
 only a few stages in because the number of enemies you're fending off happens to be massive and 
 because the game's checkpoint system is abysmal. You'll have to do multiple sequences all in one 
 line without getting killed, or you'll have to do them all over again. These are five-to-10-minute 
 chunks of the game too, and you'll be doing them several times each because of one crazy onslaught 
 of enemies or another. Boss fights are even more infuriating. If you set the game to the easiest 
 difficulty, it's more playable. It might be a little too easy, but you can get through it without 
 wanting to take a sledgehammer to the game.  

  What makes that aspect even more frustrating is that the game encourages you to explore the levels 
 as much as possible to find hidden parts for weapons. Larry uses these parts to build your upgraded 
 weapons, and there are tons of them scattered throughout the game. That's all well and good in 
 theory, but if you're being forced to replay big chunks of each level again and again because of 
 the stupid checkpoint system, why would you want to waste your time going back to explore the same 
 areas again only to lose all the items you just picked up? After a while, you'll stop picking up 
 any items you can't just grab easily along your normal path.     

  Of course, all of this more than likely has to do with the fact that this game feels like it was 
 designed to be played cooperatively with multiple people -- not by yourself. If you don't have a 
 group of friends you can bring to your house (the campaign isn't available to play cooperatively 
 online) , you're hosed, and you shouldn't play this game at all. If you can get some friends, you 
 might find Monster Madness a more amusing experience, albeit only slightly. The difficulty balance 
 is far better when playing with friends, though combat becomes infinitely clumsier when you've 
 got a bunch of people playing at once. If you're playing with three or four players, the camera 
 zooms back so far that you can barely tell what you're shooting at in most cases. The icons that 
 denote which player is which don't stand out enough amid the chaos, so you tend to lose sight of 
 your character as well. The sweet spot can be found by playing with two players, provided the two 
 of you can stay in the same general vicinity while fighting, but even then, the slow aiming and 
 chaotic battles still present an issue.  

          At least the monster designs are occasionally amusing.     

  The game attempts to break 
 up the long grind of combat with periodic vehicle sequences, and these are far better than any 
 of the standard fighting. You'll pilot ATVs, buggies, tanks, hovercraft, and even the occasional 
 giant mech suit. They're fun to play with, though the steering on most of the vehicles is awful. 
 In co-op mode, things get even crazier and are harder to keep track of if you and your friends 
 end up in vehicles that require you to drive separately.  

  All of this plays out over a roughly dozen-hour campaign. While longer games are generally welcome 
 in this day and age, this is one that could have used some trimming. Monster Madness has a really 
 poor sense of pacing. It forces you to sit through long bouts of seemingly endless combat, only 
 to then set you forth on an annoying fetch quest, which happens to be peppered with even more combat 
 sequences. Toward the end of the game, it's as if the developers just gave up on any concept of 
 structure and tried to stack as many boss fights or chase sequences as they possibly could without 
 the whole thing toppling over. The final boss goes through more forms than you could possibly ever 
 want to deal with, and before you even get to him, you'll have to go through a painful bout of 
 having to fight nearly every enemy type you've encountered in the game, in groups, in a row. If 
 you were to trim the fat off all the laborious sequences that go on for too long, you'd probably 
 cut a few hours off the game.  

  Apart from offline co-op play, the game does include competitive multiplayer options. You can play 
 the modes offline, via system link, or online. Online is the best bet because there are maps in 
 the online game that go up to 16 players. On Xbox Live, the multiplayer is an easy, breezy process. 
 If you jump into a ranked match or a player match, you can engage in deathmatch, king of the hill, 
 and capture the flag variants, either in free-for-all or team-based play. There's even a co-op 
 online mode, though it's just a series of monster fights that keeps going until someone dies. Some 
 of the maps are rather cramped, giving off a second-rate Power Stone vibe, but the larger maps 
 are more enjoyable, especially when you actually have a bunch of people playing. Aiming is still 
 a pain, but the camera issues are largely absent. It's not exactly the kind of multiplayer mode 
 that makes the game worth picking up all by itself, but it's a decent distraction. If you happen 
 to end up with the PC version, you're not going to have quite as much fun with it, mind you. There's 
 no server browser, so you'll have to know a host's IP address in order to play. It does have offline 
 play, but the player limit makes that less enjoyable.  

  Graphically, Monster Madness is kind of strange. You can't call the in-game visuals all that impressive 
 because the character animation and environment designs aren't much to look at, but the game does 
 toss a whole lot of enemies at you at once. Big chunks of the environment are also destructible -- or 
 at least moveable. So while you're blowing up zombie hordes, there are tables, chairs, and other 
 bric-a-brac scattered throughout the level that are also blowing all over the place. The frame 
 rate generally handles this OK when you're playing on your own, but as you add more players to 
 the mix, it tends to chug up badly. These issues plague both versions of the game, which look nearly 
 identical across the board. The saving grace is the game's art style, which mixes comic book-styled 
 cutscenes with some bizarre and occasionally amusing interpretations of all the various monster 
 bad guys. Some of them are lame, but there are a few amusing twists on some old favorites here. 

          The comic art cutscenes look nice -- too bad the characters have less personality than the 
 zombies they're killing.     

  Apart from the shoddy voice acting, the audio is hit and miss. The soundtrack mixes enough pipe 
 organs into the usual orchestral soundtracks to let you know that, yes, this game is creepy, kooky, 
 spooky, and altogether ooky. Most of the sound effects involve a lot of repeated monster moans 
 and explosion sounds, most of which at least partially drown out the bad dialogue. However, some 
 of it is mixed so ridiculously high that you couldn't drown it out if your life depended on it. 

  All told, Monster Madness: Battle for Suburbia feels like a wasted opportunity. The premise is 
 cool, and the combat seems like it has potential. However, the controls and lousy co-op camera 
 muck the whole thing up so that nearly all the fun is sucked out of it, regardless of how many 
 people play. Plus, as mildly amusing as the online multiplayer can be, it's absolutely criminal 
 that this game doesn't include some form of online campaign mode. Though considering how unwieldy 
 and awkward everything else in the game is, maybe that wouldn't have helped all that much.     
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (31 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LadyxAshley
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Thought it might be a newer version of the the old school "Zombies ate my Neighbours" game for 
 SNES, instead I got a boring, subservient lukewarm arcade style monster game with little to no 
 substance. Not only was the story super lame, the graphics, camera-angles and sound/voice acting 
 were almost unbearable. I was playing co-op and I could hardly keep my character inside the edges 
 of the screen or figure out which character was mine. The controls were also extremely clumsy. 
 Trying to jump onto of high inanimate objects proved to be not only difficult but frustrating. 
 My next thoughts were at least maybe I could get some easy achievements out of it but the game 
 couldn't even deliver on that end. Looking through the list of 50 achievements and they are all 
 attained through playing the game for way more hours than I could ever possibly consider playing 
 this horrid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KidX13
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I had always wanted this game but there where 2 problems: I had nither a 360 or PS3, and my computer 
 didn't have the system requirements. But now i have a 360, and i finaly got it! It isn't as bad 
 as they say! Granted it is suprisingly dificult without someone else, but it gets easier as you 
 go along, you get used to the controles too. The vehical levels are especialy hard without someone 
 to man the wepons, but a true gamer can do it. Granted it can get old after a while, but somehow 
 it keeps you playing. Another thing is that trying to find charecter specific wepons is tediouse, 
 but you don't really need to. The comic book cutsenes are creative and somewhat funny, but the 
 plot is thin. So this is a good game to try if you love top down shooters and or action games involving 
 zombies! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I liked it and I really wanted to love this game and give it a really high score but I just couldnt 
 I saw the cover of the game and right away I thought zombies ate my neighbors which is one of my 
 favorite games and I thought if it is anything like this classic it has to be good and its sort 
 of like that game but there are many problems with monster madness they take some of the key elements 
 from that game but ignore others and thats what annoys me there arnt enough levels and veriety 
 in this game almost all of the monsters are predictable but even so they can be so frustrating 
 to beat because of the lame view everything is turned around in this game I could hardley menuver 
 myself around in the levels and that has to be the major problem if they had fixed that the game 
 would be really fun because there is a pretty good plot and alot of humor and the characters are 
 funny and there is co-op which is nice but it just wasnt what I was expecting I really hope they 
 just come out with zombies ate my neighbors 2 or somthing like a remake of that game monster madness 
 doesnt do it justice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrosenbaumjr
Rating: 8
Date: May 1, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  This game makes for good hacker and slasher play. If you are looking for a game that requires a 
 bit of brain power, a lot of hacker and slasher experience, an appreciation for a corny story line 
 with some laughable characters, and a good amount of patience with the quirky game engine then 
 you will like Monster Madness. The characters they server up are amusing. You fight a monster hooked 
 on marijuana who tries to stun you with his smoke or daze you/kill you with his magic abilities. 
 There is a possessed shopping cart, a whacked out leprechaun, multi colored demons, zombies on 
 Harley's, and a Abraham Whistler type of character that serves up new and exciting weapons. The 
 weapons definitely stem from some good creativity. They range from a Cell Phone Tazer to a CD Launcher. 
 You have to bring odds and ends to the Whistler fella to get new weapons and items (such as an 
 explosive tennis ball launcher) . Let's be honest for a bit. Their are not a lot of good 2 player 
 co-op beat 'em up, hacker and slashers for the Xbox 360. Monster Madness is a great co-op beat 
 'em up. You get to use a wide range of weapons and operate a wide range of vehicles. This game 
 always keeps you on your toe's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alilari
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 27, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Monster madness is a normal fun game. Not made for graphics or gameplay. Just something to pass 
 time. Nice co-op game, will make you laugh when played and angry. Not so fun while playing 1 player. 
 Fast gameplay and madness throughout the game. New weapon making and grenades and even turning 
 into a mad monster yourself. It was deliberately made to make you laugh at some monsters thrown 
 at you in the game. eg. ( fat zombie) :P. Also the characters voice acting isn't so good either. 
 Will also make you laugh. Worth playing game when you don't have anything to do at home. Play with 
 your friends. 
  
  
  Now i have to write some more because the minimum words for review is 800. So this is just me stalling 
 for about 100 words. Nice game though. Not worth buying. But if you want it you will have some 
 fun collecting and forging weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleLev
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  I take critiquing video games quite seriously  in fact, when I prepare to write a review, I take 
 notes while playing the game. To you, it may sound corny to take notes while playing video games, 
 but I find it is the perfect method for me to assure that every impression and feeling I have about 
 a game gets included in my final overview. Now, with all of that said, I would like to point out 
 that I have never before written so many notes while playing a game, as I did while playing Monster 
 Madness. Perhaps, if those involved with the development and testing of the game took more notes 
 and had healthier observations, I would not be in the position I am no with so much unfavorable 
 criticism to dispense.
  
  Monster Madness is an utter disaster on so many levels for so many reasons. While forcing myself 
 to finish playing it, I found myself saying some of the irritated things I've ever said about a 
 video game. I asked myself many times if Monster Madness actually had beta runs or play-testers, 
 because I fail to comprehend how it is possible for a game to end up as Monster Madness is, if 
 those protective mechanisms were in place. Of course, instead of dishing out arbitrary, negative 
 remarks - I will go into the specifics of why I found Monster Madness to be so poor, in an effort 
 to convince you that it is quite possibly one of the biggest loads of rubbish ever released on 
 the Xbox 360.
  
  I wish there weren't so many problems with this waste of plastic, because maybe then I'd have a 
 better idea about where to start. In any event, I think it's a good idea to start off with the 
 game-play mechanics, control and what it is all about.
  
  If you haven't heard of Monster Madness, consider yourself blessed. It's an uncreative, below average, 
 action-oriented shooter (NOT first person) , which tries to mimic an array of old-school action 
 games, but fails at it miserably. Well, it isn't just a shooter since just as much of the combat 
 can be melee based. You get to take the role of one of four teenagers - all absolutely clich, 
 and as much by the book as you can possibly get. There is Zack - a rabbit-toothed nerd, Andy - 
 the cool but stupid skater-dude, Carrie - a gothic girl, and Jennifer - a ditsy blond with a huge 
 rack. For some strange, unspecified, reason a bunch of un-dead start breaking into Zack's house 
 and you must kill them. There is absolutely no justification to why you even have to do this, any 
 sort of story, or any of relation between the sequential events and locations you end up taking 
 part in throughout the story. The premise is extremely shallow, tacky, and slapped together without 
 so much as even a mere motive the un-dead might have. Instead, the game consists of a bunch of 
 purposeless and unrewarding tasks, so absolutely mundane and insignificant you begin to ask yourself 
 what you are even doing every 15 minutes. If you like, or are familiar, with games such as Gauntlet, 
 then you'll know what to expect  slaughter your way through loads of enemies and a near constant 
 rate. Unfortunately, Monster Madness decided to skim on the that part of gaming, which some of 
 us refer to as "fun".
  
  That is just the philosophy behind Monster Madness  the actual execution of the overly shallow 
 premise is also a monumental disaster. In fact, I'd probably go so far as to say that this game 
 is not only a waste of the plastic and paper it is published on, but that game developers from 
 all over the world should take heed to games such as Monster Madness, to make sure they never make 
 the same horrible mistakes. So, optimistically speaking, you could say that Monster Madness is 
 a lesson to other game developers.
  
  In Monster Madness, there are a number of melee weapons all around you, and a number of weapons 
 that can be built. The game is advertised as allowing you to "customize" weapons, which is quite 
 simply a load of crap. There is no customization  instead you make predetermined weapons using 
 predetermined parts. There is no creative aspect towards building any form of unique weapon that 
 would in anyway differ from that which your friend might have. To use the term "customize" when 
 referring to building weapons is an injustice to the definition of the root word "custom". In any 
 case, weapons are built from various parts that are found everywhere in the various levels, and 
 with a small fee of monster tokens, which you collect from defeating enemies. Regardless of whether 
 you end up sticking with melee combat or "long" raged munition based combat, one thing is certain: 
 it won't be easy.
  
  Control is a nightmare. Wait, let me rephrase that. The control schemes in Monster Madness are 
 quite possibly the worst planned, worst implemented and worst in execution - ever. Controlling 
 your character feels counter-intuitive  if you think a certain button would do a certain action, 
 you are probably wrong. Original control schemes are always a welcome change of pace, but that 
 is assuming they are efficient and properly planned and executed. None of those can be said for 
 Monster Madness. The default control scheme and camera angle creates a very linear movement effect, 
 which seems completely out of place for a platform shooter. A lot of the time, I got the impression 
 that the control scheme resembled a FPS, yet oddly, the perspective and camera function completely 
 differently, which leaves controlling your character feeling extremely awkward. What's worse is 
 just how unresponsive the controls are. Occasionally, your action is delayed, while other times, 
 your intended action is downright ignored. Movement could not be any more restrictive. If you've 
 been around video games long enough, you no doubt know about "invisible walls"; Monster Madness 
 is full of these annoyances. For no logical reason, your character is restricted from going in 
 many places, even if there is nothing physically hindering you. Instead of actually thoughtfully 
 designing the levels so that it isn't an issue, invisible walls and barriers are dispensed like 
 ten cent condoms.
  
  The camera is not your friend, and you will pick up that simple truth early on. You get the choice 
 of two different angles, and both suck. In some places you don't even have the opportunity to choose 
 between the two fixed camera locations and the more annoying of the two is forced upon you. When 
 you're not shouting at the annoying camera, you are likely to be shouting at the ridiculous reticule. 
 You know  that little aimer that sits in the middle of the screen to show you what you are targeting. 
 Both inside and outside of vehicles, it is impossible in Monster Madness to control the height 
 of your aim, so all you can do is run towards or away from a foe if you want to target it. Lame? 
 Yes. If you aren't cursing at the reticule, rest assured: you will be cursing at something.
  
  If you're a fan of getting miraculously stuck inside of other geometry, then Monster Madness 
 is definitely the game for you. You will find that it is far too easy to get stuck to the objects, 
 including both the environment and enemies. Getting stuck inside and between objects is so common 
 that you will smash down all the buttons countless times, in the hope that you may free yourself. 
 You might not be so lucky all of the time though, and will be forced to resort to the game's "restart 
 checkpoint" option. It's a damn good thing such an option exists in the pause menu because I had 
 to use it at least ten times. Getting stuck on/in objects is all the more easier when you are controlling 
 one of the game's several vehicles. You think that cruising down the highway plowing through zombies 
 is going to be fun? Forget about it! It's a chore, and nothing more. I can't recall how many times 
 I'd be making a jump in the buggy and how easy the tires always managed to get stuck on top of 
 other cars, debris or objects. A game shouldn't have to have an option to restart from your last 
 checkpoint, but in Monster Madness it is an absolute must  if you're ever going to get anywhere 
 that is.
  
  Speaking about vehicles, Monster Madness has a range of different types you get to (or, have to 
  depending on how you look at it) take control of. It pains me to say this, but somehow the developers 
 managed to find a way to make each specific vehicle an absolute dreaded chore in a completely different 
 method. It's amazing, but every single vehicle controls horribly, and each vehicle controls different 
 than the others. Now either there are some really inefficient abstract thinkers over in the studio 
 that should stick to something other than developing games, or the control schemes were purposely 
 devised as some sort of ironic and sadistic joke. If you think that the game's controls are unresponsive 
 in your character form, just wait until you try out one of the vehicles. Among the vehicles you 
 will take control of, there is a buggy, a swan boat fitted with rocket launchers, a UFO and a mech. 
 Each one controls differently than the others, but all follow the same basic principal: make the 
 player hate this game. Now I'm usually a very open minded guy that loves to leave room for interpretation 
 and difference of opinions, but if you have played Monster Madness and didn't find the controls 
 (particularly vehicle controls) objectionable and frustrating to use, I am left to believe either, 
 1) you are fooling yourself, 2) you aren't very observant, or 3) you probably haven't played very 
 many video games. In fact, I would probably go so far as to wager my credibility on the notion 
 that you will be at least occasionally frustrated with the controls. For me, "occasionally" was 
 nonsense - I was constantly trying to overcome the ridiculously, pathetic controls.
  
  Without a doubt, controlling the buggy seems to be the most problematic, and for two good reasons. 
 First of all, it's control is the least precise and most unintuitive. Your vehicle will regularly 
 be going in different directions than you intend because the game for some reason either has a 
 mind of its own, or doesn't care what you want. The other major problem that seems to be a major 
 nuisance, primarily to the buggy, is the fact that steering is done relative to the camera, not 
 relative to your position or the vehicle, but a very uncooperative camera. The problem with this 
 is that the camera is very lousy. Not only is the camera in need of a good beating, but it is constantly 
 changing, which means you need to constantly readjust how you are controlling the vehicle, since 
 it's movement is relative to the current state of the camera. Getting your tires stuck on or in 
 objects is also very common. Again, if it wasn't for the option to restart from your most previous 
 checkpoint, you'd probably give up on the game early on.
  
  While controlling the mech, there is another major problem, which oddly enough seems intentional. 
 If it was intentional, the backwards minds responsible for this quirk have no idea how frustrating 
 it is. No gamer wants to sit around playing a game that frustrates them. Besides being overly cumbersome, 
 slow and bulky, controlling the mech is a whole new level of chore. For some reason, enemies continuously 
 re-spawn from thin air and flock around you, thereby preventing your movement. A small 5 foot zombie 
 is standing in front of you, and a giant 20 foot mech can't simply stomp on it or push it aside. 
 No, instead every creature, no matter how large or small, contributes to building a barrier completely 
 limiting your movement in the mech. Sure, being in a mech means you travel slow as it is, but when 
 enemies crowd around you, acting as barrier walls, you'll only progress a foot or two every few 
 seconds.
  
  About the only vehicle that doesn't get caught on enemies or the cluttered environments is the 
 UFO. Sadly, controlling this hunk of junk isn't much better. Just like being on foot, the game 
 gives you absolutely no ability to adjust the reticule controlling your aim. This means, you can 
 only control the direction of fire; you don't actually have any say-so in determine whether to 
 fire low or high. During combat on foot, this is just incredibly stupid. During combat in a UFO, 
 in which half of your enemies are at the same level than you, and half are below you, this is a 
 pretty clear window into seeing the sloppy thinking of some of those involved in the production 
 of Monster Madness.
  
  AI in Monster Madness captures the brain-dead AI of some 20-odd years ago, and for the worse that 
 is. Don't even go off thinking enemies are in anyway thinking or tactically trying to take you 
 down. They aren't. Instead, they just run around swinging and attacking everywhere, while flocking 
 in your direction. The AI for the bosses isn't any better as there were several situations I encountered 
 in which a boss would continuously run into a wall. In other situations, bosses, and even normal 
 foes, don't know how to follow you properly and frequently get stuck or confused while pursuing 
 you. Instead of dissecting what it was about old-school games that had so many of us addicted, 
 Monster Madness seems to rely on the most superficial and negative qualities that defined retro 
 gaming. Instead of determining what the formula was that had so many people hooked on many classic 
 shooters, Monster Madness simply throws together pointless and mundane shooting, with hordes of 
 brain-dead enemies, while all along thinking that it is these features that get gamers hooked, 
 while completely disregarding the fun-factor. For shame!
  
  Visually, Monster Madness is below average. The art direction is weak, but commendable. I can see 
 where they were trying to go with the style of this game, but it wasn't done properly and comes 
 off as overly generic. There was a single level throughout the entire game which was semi-colorful, 
 which took place in a park, but most of the color tones and very drab and lifeless. Granted, this 
 is a game revolving around the un-dead and classic horror, but that doesn't justify the washed 
 out looking textures, colors and lighting. Actually, in many areas, textures don't even completely 
 match up, and bear a striking resemblance to how things used to be back in the PS1 era. Character 
 animations are really stiff and unnatural looking, which makes the graphics come off even poorer. 
 And then, when you die, which will happen regularly due to how frustratingly difficult the game 
 is, you will see some cheesy blood running down the screen, which looks like it was drawn in ten 
 minutes by some 13 year-old gothic kiddie. Mix all of this together with occasional tearing and 
 an unstable frame rate and you have quite a crummy looking game. In fact, the only real positive 
 thing that I could say about the graphics is that I thought the comic book drawings of the characters 
 looked nice, but these only appear in a few places in the menus and aren't actually an integral 
 part of game-play. The actual character models, specifically those which you see close up in the 
 corner of the screen during certain scenes, look extremely amateur, as does the majority of the 
 game.
  
  But looks aren't everything, as sound plays a significant part in how much you enjoy a game as 
 well. Apparently, trying to stick with the philosophy of, "we're going to make this the worst game 
 available on the Xbox 360", the developers didn't take music or voice acting seriously either. 
 The score is very clich, and quite repetitive to boot. You're not going to remember any of the 
 tunes because they sound great, but possibly due to the fact that the same melody is repeated constantly 
 throughout the same respective tune.
  
  The voice-over work is by far some of the worst video games have seen in many years. Not only is 
 the dialog extremely lame, but the quality of how the lines are delivered is well-below average. 
 I was laughing in pain and frustration regularly not because I thought what I was hearing was funny, 
 but because the horrible voice overs do wonders at contributing to your already elevated level 
 of frustration. The female characters make overly sexual sounding moans when they are being attacked, 
 or dodging. It's funny at first, but after hearing it a million times, you're more prone to muting 
 the game than laughing. What makes this even more annoying is that your characters move quite slowly 
 and the only way to walk around quicker is to continuously hit the dodge button while holding forward; 
 this way your character will leap forward and you can make a lot more distance in a shorter time. 
 The downside is that with each dodge/leap you have to listen to the most irritating moans over 
 and over again. Whenever you get caught on fire, while playing as Jennifer, a scream effect is 
 played which pierces your ears and prompts you to lower the volume, each and every time. Throughout 
 the game you will run into a leprechaun, for some strange reason, and I just have to say that he 
 has by far the worst Irish impression I have ever heard. I'm not one to say that I am the most 
 talented in any particular field, but I sure would hate to be the guy that has that role on his 
 resume. At one point in the game, the leprechaun speaks in a mix of slang gangsta-style English 
 with the horribly off Irish accent. At that point, I wasn't sure whether I wanted to laugh, or 
 to cry.
  
  I am sure it would be easy to criticize the sound effects, but for that they would actually need 
 to be present. Well, I guess there are a few sound effects here and there, nothing memorable mind 
 you. Generally speaking I felt that sound effects were completely lacking in certain departments. 
 For example, I had carelessly walked into the swinging blades of a helicopter several times back 
 to back, and it took me at least three or four attempts to realize what I was doing. I found it 
 quite perplexing that large blades of metal spinning around incredibly quick while cutting through 
 air don't produce the slightest bit of sound. A little aural clue here and there to know how you 
 are even encountering your demise isn't too much to ask, is it?
  
  And what is worse than a game that isn't funny? A game that goes so far out of its way to be funny, 
 but fails miserably at each and every attempt. Monster Madness oozes with obvious attempts at being 
 funny, but it never is. It's always cheesy, corny and irritating. The comic book style that is 
 used throughout the game works well enough to justify the goofy tone, but it does not justify the 
 myriad of poor implementations of humor and cannot overshadow the incredibly unfunny voice overs.
 
  
  Monster Madness does very little to rekindle the feelings retro gamers might have got from playing 
 their most beloved shooters or action games. Not only is the control completely whacked, the frustration 
 level off the charts, and graphics and sounds in horrible shape, but there are lots of bugs as 
 well. Besides the more dominant issue with getting stuck in or on objects, I encountered a few 
 odd issues that were only fixed through the use of the option to restart from the last checkpoint.
 
  
  In one such situation, I had entered a "monster fest", which is a time in which you are confined 
 to a small area and must kill X number of enemies in order to exit the enclosed area and proceed. 
 What happened was I had managed to turn around and walk back the way I came before the fences had 
 trapped me in, but the monster fight commenced. Because of this, I was on the outside and the enemies 
 were on the inside and I couldn't harm them, and thus, I could not proceed. Sadly, this happened 
 to me not only once, but on two separate occasions and two different locations. There were also 
 a few times in which the fences wouldn't disappear after the fight was over, and I had to run around 
 for up to a minute before the fence would disappear.
  
  Speaking of disappearances, your weapons seem to vanish during cut scenes, but your arms still 
 remain in the position that they are grasping the weapon; very cheesy. Actually, I noticed my weapon 
 disappear on a few occasions while I tried to pick up another object, yet failed to do so. The 
 game must have thought for a brief moment that I had taken up another object, but at the last moment 
 realized for some reason I wasn't close enough or what not. Whatever the reason, there are clear 
 signs that the coding is not structured in a very organized or well-communicated manner.
  
  One level has you in the middle of a junkyard with moving platforms setup everywhere, much like 
 what you would see in some cartoon. Well, oddly enough, I discovered another frustrating bug here, 
 which took my life on a few occasions. It seems as though, the moving platforms have either some 
 sort of gravity pump in them or, possess telekinetic attributes, because all I was doing was standing 
 on the ground next to one, and it would move me in the direction that the platform was moving, 
 regardless of the fact that my feet were clearly on the ground and that I wasn't even on the platform. 
 On another level, there was a bridge which I fell directly through, and died as a result of this. 
 For no logical, visual or apparent reason, the game's engine just decided, "I'm gonna throw the 
 player through the solid ground". Talk about frustration without any good reason for it. But without 
 a doubt, the absolute most consistent and annoying bug is the fact that you can walk over objects 
 (monster tokens, weapon parts, etc.) and the game completely fails to give the item to you. I'm 
 not sure what exactly is going on, but there are definitely major collision detection problems 
 Monster Madness.
  
  But if you put aside all the lousy graphics, frightening voice overs, numerous bugs, and dreadfully 
 boring and dull game-play, you are left with one of the worst save systems of all time. First of 
 all, you cannot save in game, which is ludicrous considering that you may get stuck at a very frustrating 
 part for ages, and you don't particularly look forward to losing a good half hour (or more) of 
 progress. The lack of in-game saves is not only a major drawback, but a really stupid move for 
 such a game, by any form of measurement. There are checkpoints throughout the levels, though you 
 will restart from the beginning of the level if you don't finish it in your current session. The 
 checkpoints are few and far between, and come at the more poorly planned out times. Whenever you 
 need a checkpoint, they are nowhere to be seen, and when you are breezing through other parts, 
 they pop up frequently.
  
  But truth be told, I highly doubt you will breeze through Monster Madness. It is not an easy game. 
 Even if you put aside a really uncooperative camera and the ridiculous control schemes, the game 
 is still too difficult on the default settings. And before you go off making any critical judgment 
 calls, questioning my gaming capabilities, let me just tell you that I have been around and I am 
 an experienced gamer. But, I am also experienced enough to know and be able to admit when a game 
 is not properly balanced for difficulty. In fact, while I did go through the game on the "thriller" 
 difficulty, I had to change it down to the easiest difficulty for the final level, because I was 
 having severe problems passing a part in which you had to control each of the vehicles in sequence. 
 As I said earlier, controlling vehicles in Monster Madness is no walk in the park. Unfortunately, 
 the easy difficulty is way too easy, but the next level is too hard, there are two harder difficulties 
 as well, but none of the difficulties feels just right.
  
  The biggest problem with Monster Madness isn't necessarily that it is composed of all these issues, 
 but simply that it isn't fun to play. I was bored at the end of the second level, and by the third 
 or fourth, I was already saying to myself, "why am I playing this, again". Level after level, the 
 game does absolutely nothing to draw you in or keep you interested. Combat holds no requirement 
 for any level of skill, completing a level is an unrewarding task, and there simply was not a single 
 time during the entire course of the game that I thought I was having even a tiny bit of fun. Sure, 
 there is a considerable emphasis on multi-player to breathe contribute to the lifespan of the game, 
 but this feels wrong to me. I found myself saying, "if I despise this game as much as I do, do 
 I really want to put a friend through this torment". I guess, another way of saying it is: friends 
 don't let friends play Monster Madness.
  
  I picked up Monster Madness in a bargain bin expecting a pretty generic old-school button-smasher. 
 Man, was that a big mistake. Bargain or not, I cannot find any justification for spending any amount 
 of money on Monster Madness. It is a one-way ticket to frustration, and nothing more. If you are 
 having any doubt whatsoever about Monster Madness, trust your instinct and walk away and never 
 look back at it. Up until I played Monster Madness, I was unaware that they still made games this 
 crappy, today. Take my advice: look elsewhere.
  
  
  
  
  Gameplay: (3) Have you ever played a game that not only was filled with loads of bugs and glitches, 
 but also completely lacking in the fun department? If you want to see what that is like, look here 
 - otherwise, steer clear.
  
  Graphics: (4) Well, they are polygons at least. Poor art direction, uncreative character models, 
 stiff animations, unstable frame rate, tearing. Must I go on?
  
  Sound: (3) Some of the most cliche and repetitive music I've heard coupled with some of the worst 
 voice acting ever to disgrace the video game industry.
  
  Lasting Appeal: (3) You'll get bored very quickly. RUN! Run for your lives! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitar_god26
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  Monster Madness is basically for those who remember the 8/16-bit era of gaming, or those who love 
 old-school arcade-style button mashing. Imagine being a kid in the 80's or early 90's and playing 
 this game. You'd die in ecstasy. I disagree with the Gamespot reviewer who said this game fails 
 in every aspect of what it's going for. It IS humorous (especially for kids) , and it is fun. I 
 do agree that it does have some faults, such as the chaos that ensues when multiple players stray 
 from each other and the camera zooms out. But it doesn't ruin the game. 
  
  Graphics: The screen shots speak for themselves. A fun, dark and colorful comic book-styled environment.
 
  
  Game play: Your character moves with an old school, arcade-like stride that is both totally unrealistic 
 (something hard to swallow for many modern gamers) and intentional. Combat is what you expect, 
 30% technique, 70% button-mashing. Many complain about the checkpoint spacing and lack of progress 
 saving. Well, this game hearkens back to a time when men were men and saving really wasn't feasible 
 in most cases. So having unlocked levels and checkpoints at all in this case is actually forgiving, 
 if you ask me. Man up, people, and quit whining. 
  
  Controls: The controls are probably the most criticized aspect of this game, being that the left 
 stick is used to move and the right is used to turn, a la first person shooters. As a top down 
 hack n' slash/shooter, this makes little sense until you're being chased by a pack of explosive 
 zombies and you're shooting them while running in the opposite direction to avoided getting blown 
 up. Then it makes perfect sense. The same goes for dashing, which is performed by simply pressing 
 the left stick. The Gamespot reviewer thought this was weird; why? You're already heading in a 
 direction using the left stick, just push it in to dash away from danger. Too easy.
  
  All in all, this game is mindless pick-up-and-play fun. Don't listen to the bashers who don't give 
 the game enough credit. Here's hoping a sequel could iron out the faults and make this game fully 
 deliver on its promises. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grizpin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  The game is a solid 7.5 with four players. The graphics and enviornmental audio are great. The 
 cheesy dialogue is perfect for a B style film. If the game had better controls and camera it could 
 be a solid 8.5+. I hope they make a second. For now I will wait patiently for the patch to clean 
 up some of the issues it shipped with. If you have several gamers in your house and want a fun 
 game to play together then you might want to check this one out. I actually found the over the 
 top action more fun then Marvel U. A.. I didn't mind paying the $60 but it would have been better 
 at $40 in its current state. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerNY1
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jul 30, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Holy cow! This game is lame, nothing like the retro games that they are touted to be like... in 
 fact this game is so bad spend your money on something else.... like Guitar Hero 2, which I also 
 just got.
  The characters are clones of the stereotypical jock, teen queen, nerd and Goth chick with bland 
 lines and bad controls.
  The look of the game is great in some areas and so bad in others, the camera follows you around 
 but sometimes it's just too far away and occasionally goes behind walls so, you can't see where 
 or what you're going after or what monsters stalking.
  It is ridiculously easy at times and un forgivingly brutal at others. There is no medium in this 
 game.
  I have given up on getting a medium difficulty rating or Thriller as the game puts it and have 
 decided to play the Child's play difficulty or easy as it were.
  This way I can at least get some achievement points that are not tied into what skill level I play. 
 I honestly wanted to like this game but, it's so flawed with repetitive voice overs and bad game 
 play that it would be better to let the price drop to under $20 then maybe get it.
  I'm going to go trade mine in for something better.... put it all down in Halo 3.
  Now that's 
 going to be a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dhizzau
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jul 29, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Zombies Ate My Neighbors has always been one of my favorite games, and speaking of a relevant formula, 
 Alien Syndrome is also a terrific game, but all inspiration behind, this game is a terrible let 
 down. It's nice after all these years a great game like Zombies... has a game created as a giant 
 homage, but it's absolutely disastrous. To begin with, it's just too goofy that it's stupid. The 
 characters are attempts at poking fun at stereotypes, but they just try too hard that's its just 
 annoiying. Every minute or so one of the characters will say a witty statement poking fun at whats 
 happening in the game, or something completely irrelevant. Thankfully, you can turn their voices 
 off, so you can attempt to have fun at this broken game. The graphics aren't anything worthy of 
 being on the 360, the gameplay is awkard and stiff: you press analog sticks to jump and dodge, 
 instead of a button, or bumper. Makes plenty of sense. Enemies come at you left and right, and 
 the majority of then are just cannon fodder, dying in just a hit or two. The concept is neat, but 
 it's really just too boring and obnoxious. It's almost exaclty like Hunter: The Reckoning, except 
 that game at least isn't annoiying; but, it's the same concept... and it gets boring. Fast.
  
  A wonderful idea, but a terrible letdown for those expecting to live another fun adventure 
 much like Zeke and Julie did back on the SNES and Genesis.
  
  Actually, if anything, it's a homage to Ghoul Patrol, the sequel to Zombies Ate My Neighbors. It's 
 a terrible game and if anything, it's similar to this dissapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skh447
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 29, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  The story to Monster Madness is that there are four kids, who end up together in one of their house's. 
 Then zombies and all sorts of monsters start to attack the city. The four kids start using weapons 
 and fighting back.
  The adventure mode is awesome. You go through around 20 levels throughout 5 differant environments. 
 You can upgrade weapons and occaisonally transform into a monster. It gets really hard and there 
 is a lot to do. The multiplayer is great too. The game modes are deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture 
 the flag (2 flags, teams) , capture the flag (1 flag, ffa) , monster hunter, monster dojo, king of 
 the hill (teams) , and king of the hill (ffa) . You probably know most of those except monster hunter 
 and monster dojo. Monster hunter is a game type where everyone starts as humans to do free for 
 all (ffa) , but the first person to die is a monster. They have to kill the humans. If a human is 
 killed, they become a monster and help kill humans. In monster dojo, the players try to survive 
 endless waves of monsters. The game is really good. It's a but if you're into those games, if not 
 a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix73nj
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  Gamespot once again proves that they have no friends and no idea what kind of fun sitting next 
 to another human being or two while gaming can provide.
  
  This game is hard. I wouldn't attempt it single player. However, if you want to have a few good 
 laughs with some buddies and enjoy some crazy action this game provides... the goods 
  
  The control scheme is challenging but any new scheme of control is going to seem challenging at 
 first. If any other modern control scheme was used the game would lose some of it's frustrating 
 and funny charm.
  
  The sense of humor and pace of this game are TON's of fun for a party.
  
  Not to be missed... 
 gather up some friends, a few beers IRL and enjoy this game the way it's meant to be enjoyed... 
 swilling beer and tossing cheetos at eachother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Citystarz209
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 22, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Apart from a frustrating time playing alone and some control issues, this is a pretty amusing and 
 fun game. Granted you can gather 4 people into one room to play this game at it's best with 4 player 
 co-op, this is a must buy for you. At it's core, the idea of the game is great, and applies every 
 cheesy zombie reference ever, it does so in a great and amusing way. The multiplayer is kinda lame, 
 the adventure is where it's at. Definitly check this game out, at least give it a rent, you won't 
 be disappointed! And now I must cut this short so I can go back and play this brilliant game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikka_Zombie
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jul 30, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  The worst xbox 360 game ever! (and ive played bullet witch!)
  
  The game has never been tested for glitches or if you can even complete the game!
  
  I have 
 played it over and over and the amount of glithes ive found is stupid it it takes these amounts 
 of goes just to try to complete a level and considering they want you to pay &pound;40 for it i 
 think thats a joke!
  
  DO NOT i reapete DO NOT buy this game! Its &pound;40 worth of plastic disk!
  
  I really wanted 
 to like this game, i played the demo and enjoyed it, i thought this would be a great game i could 
 enjoy with mates (and you'll need more than one player to complete the game) .
  
  Major major let down.
  
  -updated 30/07/07-
  
  on trying to complete this game i have found 
 that i cant! i get to the top of the hill to enter the castle and it crashes and leaves me with 
 a white screen!
  
  AWFULL game! I'm sending it straight back and getting bio shock! YAAAAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptSquirrly1091
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Well i played the demo and i thought it was great! so i went out to rent it today and its even 
 better! online play is excellent! not alot of lag, fun game types, and when people talk it comes 
 through clear as glass! The story mode (Adventure) , is awsome and funny at some points. The one 
 thing i think they could have improved however is the fact that the A button isnt jump.... and 
 B dodge, the Left thumbstick is dodge and Right thumbstick is jump... which may cramp your thumbs 
 a bit...
  
  other than that this game is great! 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josmith16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  I will have to be the first one to admit that I was extremely disappointed in this game because 
 of a lot of quirky things that aren't the norm for games. Why can't the A button be the jump instead 
 of pressing the stupid stick. Whey does the vehicles' driving have to be like character movement. 
 This is extremely difficult at first until you understand how to move vehicles, but it still isn't 
 easy. Why does the characters walk in mid air instead of on the objects that they are on. Why do 
 we need long intro movies? Why do we have to have every monster interduced with a cut scene? All 
 said and done about what I don't like about the game, and a couple weeks to get over the quirks. 
 And damn this is a good game, fast paced exciting and tons of fun.
  This game is extremely replayable. I've finished the first chapter, Suburia, and I've play thru 
 some of the level that I've already played in child mode, thriller mode and horror mode. And let 
 me tell you I can't wait to unlock the madness mode and play it too. I have seen alot of people 
 saying that this isn't even a rental game. Well, my opinion has went from this isn't a rental game 
 to this is a must buy game. But when you do buy it don't just get pissed off the first couple days 
 and never put it back in. Stick with it for a few weeks and you understand why this is a must buy 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is named perfectly. It is a awesome good time when friends come over. Gameplay is pretty 
 good but nothing like The Darkness, Gears, or Dead Rising. This game is like a down graded Dead 
 Rising. I like this game because I like horror games. Online is not very good but hey what do you 
 expect? This game is fun if you have a buddie over and feel like chopping up a bunch of creatures. 
 I personally like this game which is kinda weird because I thought it would be pretty gay but it 
 has some fun parts. Seems good for achevements as well. Buy or rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rubberducky92
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  I will be grading the game on Audio/ Visual, Gameplay, Multiplayer Content, and overall Funfactor
 
  
  Audo/Visual-8. The visuals in Monster Madness are not Amazing . Thats for sure. But, they surely 
 aren't terrible either. The artwork of some of the monsters are well done and cleverly made. There 
 is a charming comic book style in the cutscene, which I applaud Southpeak for. I give them a 7 
 for Visual content. The Audio content in Monster Madness is extremely well done and cleverly thought 
 of. In the middle of a battle, the characters will talk to themselves and say some really funny 
 things some times. I give a 9 for Audio. The scores average out to an 8.
  
  Gameplay-7. ZOMBIES HAVE EATEN MY NEIGHBORS! The story starts out with 4 teenagers, who are the 
 main characters. Theres Zack, the WoW nerd, Andy, the laid back man, Carrie, the goth girl, and 
 Jennifer, the whore. These 4 kids are attacked by an onslaught of monsters and realize that the 
 whole town is filled with monsters! The 4 kids must end this monster madness! The story takes you 
 through 18 exotic levels, including a junkyard, Huggles toy store, a highschool, and a spooky castle. 
 There are at least 100 exotic monsters that you meet along the way, whose entries are unlocked 
 in a database of monsters called the beastiary once they are slain. You may also find weapon parts 
 during your adventure that you may use to turn into weapons. So it's 100% oldschool. However, the 
 game is FILLED with glitches that have gotten many of us angry. Is every second a glitch? No. But 
 there are a good number of glitches in the end product that do get on ones nerves. Overall Score- 
 7
  
  Multiplayer Content- 8. The story Can be played with a maximum of 4 players, which makes for a 
 large number of monsters about to get their face beaten in. However, the birds eye view camera 
 makes the multiplayer lose 2 points. I would prefer for it to be split screen- over the shoulder 
 at some parts, and birds eye view for others. But the multiplayer can still be done. Xbox live 
 was well done. It needs a few more maps but the large amount of game types makes for hours of fun.
 
  
  Overall Funfactor-8. I really like this game. The characters are amazing and I love to just hear 
 them talk. Xbox live is addicting. Story is loads of fun. Good job guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded the demo to this game and it was so sad I made my decision right there this game sucked. 
 I hate the look of the cartoony goth or emo characters, the controls are sad and I just had a hard 
 time seeing what my character had or was picking up and using or shooting. I can't see anyone throwing 
 59.99 for this game, seriously! The funniest thing is ever time I walk into my local Blockbuster 
 I see the same four copies they have of this game there every time on the shelf. Looks like not 
 one person was stupid enough to rent this piece of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxfx4u
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  First off this is my first time reviewing a game. After reading all the bad reviews, I felt I had 
 to do my part to get the word out on this game.
  
  This game is fun plain and simple. You have a melee weapon, a primary weapon and a secondary weapon. 
 your objective is to kill anything and everything that moves. With over seventy different types 
 off monsters, thats lots off killing to do. you also collect parts and tokens to buy and upgrade 
 you weapons.
  
  The weapons in this game are cool. you have your standard nail-gun, nad launcher, shot gun. but 
 later in the game you will get some really cool stuff, like the radioactive flashlight, cellphone 
 tazer, and much, much more. very cool. Im not going to lie to you, the game does have some issues. 
 The checkpoint system sucks, plain and simple. after collecting all of your tokens and parts through 
 out the level, if you die without hitting a checkpoint, you loose it all. Even with some of these 
 issues, the game is still really fun. Plus the dev's promise that a patch will fix most of these.
 
  
  If your into old school games, I would highly recommend you give it a try. I took a chance, and 
 im really glad I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leonardabella
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 20, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  Great fun concept with a few control problems. Just focus on the funny things!!!. I give a 9 on 
 Fun, and 7.5 on controls. Zombies are shown as cool guys to be destroyed. Save good ammo against 
 giant monsters. Sometimes they are a pain in the @$$. Be smart and fast. Comic grahpic novel is 
 very creative and original. The history should be a little bit larger. Multiplayer is Ok, but It 
 can be a lot better and funnier. Graphics are better than expected!. We hope to see packages coming. 
 Thanks to Immersion Games. Colombia is well represented!!!
  
  TRUE GAMER Staff
  TGWarChief 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ameglino
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Holy smokes! I never seen so many hate reviews on a game that was acutally good. Even Gamespot 
 Reviewer ALEX wasn't so immpress by how hard Southpeak Interactive and the three other developers 
 had but there sweat and tears into this game. Well anyways this game let you take up of one of 
 the four main character. Which each have there own personallty and culter. Which I found it very 
 amusing. and you have to fight against an army of varies creatures from zombies to demons.
  
  Here's the pluse side on this game. Each level is HUGH!! It's like miles to complete the level 
 where there's a sense of exploring every nook and crannies to find power ups and what not. Almost 
 everything is destructable as long you find the right fire power. The artwork graphic is beutiful! 
 The in between comic book story line is awsome. Lot of different online multi playing games. There's 
 a butt load of speacil feature. Shoot ,... what else is cool about this game??.... can't think of 
 anything beside the creatures and people you meet are very interesting. Like BOb Zombie, the Gehto 
 Leperchaun and even Larry Flint, who makes your weapon and make some Kick ass waffle, they are 
 very unique.
  
  NOw the bad side is very little which I don't belive people shouldn't get into a hissy fit. LIke 
 most reviews, there's no online co-op in adventure. Yes I know people this sucks the big one but 
 don't go slitting your wrist over it. At times yes the camera function gets out of whack. But any 
 other games have that problem too. And the saving option is too limited where one hugh level is 
 not complted you have to restart over.
  
  So people stop crying like a bunch of babies and enjoy the game that you got in your hand. What 
 you got is something pure and originall. *sigh* that's pretty much I have to say. Even though I 
 am a shame of how big coporate today can spew out a crappy game and add it with a hint of glitter 
 on it. And some how people would call it an work of art. But when a unique game like Monster MAdness 
 comes around, where game like this one only happen a couple of years. People would turn there eyes 
 away and never see the deeper layer of it.
  
  So people, make the right reviews out of quality and not quanity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkshotgunner
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 18, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Thank god I rented this crap game.
  
  Gameplay - Walk up, kill a monster. Not much to it.
  
  Graphics - The best part of the game, 
 the Graphics match up to Saints Row.
  
  Sound - The best part of the sound : The zombies moaning. These characters all sound like some 
 bratty kids. Zack : Fear my Leet skills!. NO. NO. You are not leet.
  
  Value: You'll see this in the bargain bin
  
  Tilt: I dislike it alot
  
  On the other hand, 
 I loved it when after I kill a fat zombie his fat ragdoll looks like a demented clown who got inflated 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZZoMBiE13
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Monster Madness is a game that wants so badly to be Zombie Ate My Neighbors. The problem is that 
 ZAMN is a revered and loved classic that didn't rely on anything but it's charm. MM on the other 
 hand, has taken a simple concept and missed the mark. The problem isn't in the save system or the 
 list of enemies or the bad acting of the VO, it's that the game just isn't that fun. Hammering 
 on the triggers over and over while a highly questionable camera rotates without your input just 
 doesn't make for a fun game. The art style of MM is good, the fact that it's chock full of zombies 
 is a plus, even the characters themselves had some small charm, but when all it said and done this 
 game is just a pile of missed oppotunity with a side of wasted potential. The saddest thing of 
 all is that an adjustable control scheme alone would have made this one a lot better. That one 
 simple tiny thing could have added a point or two to this games score. Clicking the sticks for 
 jumping commands is a horrible idea but if they had just let the player adjust the controls as 
 they saw fit, a lot of the complaints would have ended right there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I'm really confused by this game. How can a game that has such a fresh gaming idea behind it , 
 a unique style, and at times, really fun...... fall flat on it's face. Basically, despite so many 
 things in Monster Madness' favor, it's basically broken. Too hard, too much sloppy control, a broken 
 save system, and an overall frustrating experience. Ashamed, since it has the makings of a great 
 game. But it just doesn't have the execution, just the frustration. You would hope that the ideas 
 behind this game are given another chance, but this time, they have the gameplay to go with it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VGLeo34
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Remember Zombies ate my neighbors, I downloaded that, it was awesome, well imagine that on the 
 360 and in high def. There ya go. Monster Madness is really only good in co-op where you cna team 
 up and defeat the monsters. But alone your dead, if you have afriend you can have a lot of fun. 
 But besides that it's boring. Too much stick action is hard and annoying. The small type reminds 
 me of dead rising. The aiming has gone straight to hell. nothing aims right and melee weapins suck.
 
  
  Well that's the most dissapointijng game all year, gamestops beanie cap you got when you reserved 
 it was cool, but i thought it would be better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 16, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Some of you may remember an old classic callled Zombie Ate my Neighborhood which obviously served 
 as inspiration to Monster Madness. There are even some not so subtle references to it in the game 
 as well as other pop culture icons from the 80's like the A-Team van abandoned in one of the levels. 
 The adventure mode has a lot of meat to it with 20 huge levels tied together with a humorous albeit 
 cliche storyline. Zack and his three friends are hanging out at his house dealing with typical 
 teenage stuff when suddenly zombies appear at his doorstep. You choose one of the four characters 
 whom each have their own specialized melee weapons. Once you hit the streets you find plenty of 
 different monsters attacking Zack's town and its up to you to defeat their swarms as well as over 
 the top bosses. Scattered around the town you will find weapon parts and currency to build new 
 weapons and upgrades. As decent as the adventure mode is, its the multiplayer that is totally unique, 
 totally chaotic and absolute fun. There are multiple types of game modes that are all customizable 
 such as Deathmatch, King of the Hill, Capture the Flag and Moster Hunter. Not only do have the 
 weapons at your disposal but also vehicles such as Mechs, ATVs, Tanks and even UFOs. Its like they 
 threw in everything plus the literal kitchen sink. If that were not enough chaos, there are orbs 
 found in the maps that turn you into monsters temporarily. Tearing up the maps as a two story bride 
 of Frankenstein or werewolf is just something special.
  
  The graphics and sound compliments the cartoonish and humorous style of the game. Its obvious that 
 a lot of talent and care went into the design but it won't cater to everyone's taste. However, 
 it offers all the eye candy that todays next gen gamer is expecting while running smoothly.
  
  Its biggest draw back is the camera angles especially in multiplayer, It has a psuedo-top-down 
 aspect that does not let you see very far in front of you which can make it really frustrating 
 when you are getting fired at but can't tell where its coming from. There are also some balance 
 issues in multiplayer where the vehicles and monsters are perhaps a little too overpowered.
  
  I realize that patches are not supposed to be considered in a review but I think it is important 
 to note that Artificial Studios is really listening to the community and critics. They have already 
 promised to try and address some of the issues players have come up with. While PC gamers are used 
 to developers making patches to fix problems, its still pretty new to console gamers. Personally, 
 I like to see a developer who is really engaged in the product they make and willing to go the 
 extra mile to make its fans happy. This seems to be happening less and less in the industry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codefalcon
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 16, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  I loved Zombies Ate My Neighbors. I think one would be hard-pressed to find someone who *didn't*. 
 And when news of this game came out I saw it as the resurrection of the old-school cheeky horror-themed 
 classic. In most respects though, it's not in the same vein. But it's heart is definitely in the 
 right place. The spirit of the zany combat and ridiculously cliche horror encounters are all intact, 
 many with new comical and macabre spins thrown upon them by Southpeak. It's true: the game is rather 
 difficult, especially solo. The onslaught and aggressive nature of the enemies (as opposed to the 
 more passive shooting-gallery ones in ZAMN) makes for player stew and achy fingers if they charge 
 into the fray triggers blazing. The game play instead rewards intelligent combat, strafing maneuvers 
 and utilizing enemy-splash damage and weapon combinations to deal the most harshness. With friends 
 this becomes a screaming fest of QUICK him them with the blah blah so then you can yadda yadda!! 
 In the end though you feel a greater sense of accomplishment when you complete each level knowing 
 it was a lot harder than you expected.
  
  The game is not without it's problems. There are occasional geometry collision issues and AI glitches 
 (though, heh, they _are_ zombies, right?) Some of the weapons feel slightly unbalanced and the 
 checkpoint system in some stages is more punishing than one might expect. There are a few voice 
 actors that are outright terrible (I'm sure those who played it will know who I'm talking about) 
 and many of the wise cracks fall flat on their face. But seriously folks, it's a zombie game! Through 
 away the pompous game-of-the-year-toting predispositions and just play it and have a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DooshBIGELOW
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 15, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Well like most of the reviews you will find on this site and other sites is that its a mess of 
 a potentially good idea, for example the camera like dont people test these games before they ship?? 
 ok let me rephrase that dont people not totally stoned test these games who would ship a game with 
 such horrible camera function, controls are all over the place the dodge is annoying and the biggest 
 of all screw ups.. NO ONLINE COOP!! ya theres deathmatch and all that but come on a game like this 
 was meant to be shared online.
  
  So if you like games of this genre Id rent it save your hard earned money on the boat load of block 
 buster yet to come this fall. CALL OF DUTY 4 anyone?? oh oh oh Halo 3!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Monster Madness is about four kids who must save their town from just about every monster in history. 
 This will not be a simple task, as there will be over twenty huge levels and since the story mode 
 can only be played offline, this might be a little challenging for those of us that don't have 
 brothers or sisters. Playing single player isn't really that bad, especially if your a fan of Zombies 
 ate my Neighbors. One of the best things about single player is that you can zoom in the camera 
 a little bit, you'll be able to see more detail the developers put in this game. The game might 
 not look like it from the pictures, but Monster Madness does have great rag doll on the fallen 
 enemies ! Try it some time, especially on the "Fat Zombie", just walk into his body after you kill 
 him and watch his whole body jiggle and move everywhere.
  
  The music is good, it has that Halloween fun type tone to it. The control are good, but sometimes 
 seems a little stiff. The graphics are really nice if not a little cartoony, but the one thing 
 that is impressive is that there are about seventy different type of monster you must battle and 
 they look great with good detail. If that wasn't enough, each one has a intro and after you kill 
 the first type of new monster you'll get a bio of it with a cartoon picture with tips how to best 
 kill it again if you take a long break from the game. Also at parts of the game you'll be able 
 to turn into a monster to do more damage to your enemies (Another thing that you could do in Zombies 
 ate my Neighbors but Monster Madness has more Monsters to turn into and will have a very different 
 look depending on who you chose to play as) . There is one thing I didn't like about the game, it 
 was when you must drive the buggy! The controls to the buggy where kind of bad for me. When I tried 
 to hold down the gas and move the left stick, it would run into walls and it was so hard move back. 
 I didn't have any trouble controlling the Mech or Boat, so was the Buggy so hard? 
  
  Single player is ok, but the heart of the game really is have co-op. Nothing beats having three 
 friends at your house playing Monster Madness, it seems to throw more monsters your way and is 
 just crazy fun. If someone dies, they don't have to wait until the rest of the people finish the 
 stage, there will be coffins that you can use to resurrect your friends. That was such a great 
 idea, it would of been boring for them if they had to wait, because some the stages just seem to 
 go on and on. There are check points in case everyone dies, but with friends looking out for you, 
 it's something that won't happen often. Another nice thing about Monster Madness is in stages where 
 you must collect items, it will give you a icon pointing to the location or a close enough location 
 to where the item is. That really helps a lot since there will be so much going on and so much 
 in the stage you will get turned around very easy. The LIVE co op modes are fun, just not as fun 
 as the story mode is. Maybe it's just me, but the LIVE mini games seem a little short. But there 
 is dark side to any co op game you'll play, THE CAMERA!
  
  The camera is just pulled so far back you'll forget who you are and where you are. So with no story 
 LIVE co op and the co op camera angle, is the game worth buying? I would say yes, I've always liked 
 monster themed games. So this game was just right for me, it also has some horror themed humor. 
 If you played or seen a lot of horror games/movies , you'll get most of the jokes.
  
  This game is also good for those who don't have LIVE yet, since the best co op is offline. For 
 the rest of the gamers out there, just rent it. You might just like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShellShocker42
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited for this game. But theres so much wrong with it. the damn camera... o god the 
 camera could be the blame for most of it, but its also the shotty contols, and no online coop (story 
 atleast) . The voice acting sux but i think based on most interviews, they made it that way to make 
 it seem funny... and it sorta worked. So, you do eventually get used to the controls and camera.. but 
 please, if you were expecting ALOt from this game, dont get it. If you thought it looked pretty 
 cool and you can stand a messed up game until u get the curve, go get it. Im sort of enjoying it 
 lol 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
