-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/mortalkombat/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 DC characters are a good fit with the MK gang.
 Satisfying fighting system.
 Enjoyably goofy storylines.
 Great visual presentation.
 Smooth online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some powerful moves are easy to exploit.
 Few options to aid new players.
 Toned-down gore.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 56 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 1,357 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Nov 16, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The MK and DC crowds are a surprisingly good combo, but questionable roster balancing keeps this 
 enjoyable fighter from achieving greatness. 

  In a way, it feels as if many fighting game characters have stepped right out of the pages of a 
 comic book. They wear bizarre costumes, spend a lot of time punching and kicking other people, 
 and possess inexplicable powers. Pitting fighting game characters against comic book heroes and 
 villains has been done before, and in Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe, the meshing of Raiden's crew 
 and Superman's posse makes for some pretty exciting action -- especially online. But even as the 
 game moves the series back toward the fundamental strengths of Mortal Kombat in some ways, it departs 
 from the series' essence in others. As a result, longtime fans may be left with mixed feelings, 
 and newcomers drawn to the series for the first time by the inclusion of DC characters may find 
 it hard to get a handle on things.  

           Fans of the DC characters will be pleased with how well they've made the transition to 
 a fighting game.      

  The story that explains just how these two distinct sets of outlandishly attired, superpowered 
 beings clash is such pure, unabashed comic book silliness that you'll have a hard time not being 
 won over. Simultaneous mishaps involving Darkseid in the DC universe and Shao Kahn in the MK universe 
 result in these two evil beings merging into the exponentially evil Dark Kahn. Dark Kahn's power 
 causes the two universes to begin fusing, and the heroes and villains on each side of the universal 
 divide mistakenly blame the weirdos from the other side for invading their land. This merging of 
 universes also causes severe imbalances in the powers of some characters, and serves as a convenient 
 excuse for how the Joker can go toe-to-toe with Superman and have a fighting chance. As you play 
 through the game's two story mode offerings, the flimsy excuses that cause the unlikely matchups 
 almost become something of a running joke, and help make these modes fun for the few hours that 
 they last.  

  Unless you've somehow managed to avoid playing a fighting game for your entire life, you'll immediately 
 grasp the basic concept of MK vs. DC: punch, kick, throw, and otherwise bludgeon your opponent 
 into submission before they do the same to you. While some Mortal Kombat games have offered two 
 or three fighting styles per character, MK vs. DC does away with that, creating a back-to-basics 
 feel that switches the emphasis back to the special moves that really differentiate the characters. 
 And while the action takes place in 3D and you can move left and right in the environment as well 
 as back and forth, sidestepping is slow and only occasionally useful. The majority of the action 
 takes place on a 2D plane, which also contributes to the game feeling very much like a solid return 
 to the roots of the Mortal Kombat series. The action is fast-paced, controls tightly, and is just 
 a lot of fun.  

  With a total of 22 playable characters, the roster may be a bit short compared to what fans of 
 the series have come to expect, but it makes up for that by making each character play very differently 
 from the others. The 11 Mortal Kombat warriors on hand are all top-shelf, and while one or two 
 of the DC characters may seem like odd choices the majority of them mesh surprisingly well with 
 the MK crowd. While the powers of some DC characters have been toned down a bit as a result of 
 that darn universe-merging fluctuation of energies, the characters themselves have been created 
 here with a great deal of loyalty to the source material. Their personalities are intact, and the 
 arsenals of special attacks at their disposal are impressive.  

  While the core gameplay is largely a return to the feel of the early Mortal Kombat games, there 
 are some elements here that are pretty minor when taken individually, but add up to make MK vs. 
 DC distinctly different from its predecessors. There are a few minigames that pop up when certain 
 circumstances occur, and they all blend in to the action seamlessly. For example, if you're close 
 to your opponent, you can attempt to grab him or her and initiate Klose Kombat. If you're successful, 
 the camera will pull in, and for a short time, you can perform a variety of painful-looking moves 
 by pressing one of the four face buttons. There's a great risk-versus-reward dynamic at play: your 
 button presses are displayed onscreen, and if your opponents match them, they'll counter your attack 
 with powerful blows of their own and escape from Klose Kombat in the process. It's a cool system 
 that gives the attacker a decent advantage but still offers the defender a pretty good chance of 
 turning the tables.  

  A very similar minigame is initiated any time one player knocks another to a lower level of the 
 arena. As in Klose Kombat, the attacker can pummel the defender by pushing face buttons, and the 
 defender can turn the tables by matching the attacker's inputs. In Free Fall Kombat, the attacker 
 is able, after a damage meter has been filled to a certain point with standard attacks, to execute 
 a special move that sends the opponent flying into the ground below in a particularly painful, 
 damaging way. Like Klose Kombat, there's a good risk-versus-reward principle at work here, and 
 the fact that these fisticuffs are taking place while the characters dramatically plummet through 
 the air gives the action a larger-than-life, comic book feel.  

           Falling through the air is no excuse to stop punching each other.      

  Last and 
 least among the minigames is Test Your Might, which occurs in certain areas when one combatant 
 lands a powerful attack on the other and sends the opponent flying back against a wall. The initiator 
 then charges at the defender and propels the latter through the walls of the office building or 
 dungeon. Both parties then pound on the buttons as furiously as they can. If the attacker out-pounds 
 the defender, more damage will be done, while the defender pounds buttons in the hopes of reducing 
 the amount of damage he or she suffers. The simplicity of this minigame makes it less compelling 
 than the other two, and only three of the game's 14 arenas have the horizontal arrangement for 
 it, so it occurs far less frequently.  

  One final, important addition to the action here is the rage meter, which fills up as you take 
 damage or are blocked by your opponent. Your build-up of rage can be used for one of two things. 
 If the meter is halfway full or more, you can spend one full segment of it on a combo breaker, 
 immediately putting a stop to the flurry of attacks your opponent is unleashing. If both sections 
 are full, you can opt to spend the whole thing to enter rage mode, which allows you to pummel your 
 opponent uninterrupted by his or her attacks and fight your way through his or her blocks, though 
 you'll still take damage from any blows he or she lands. Either of these can turn the tables in 
 a fight if used well, and since using rage for one purpose sacrifices your ability to use it for 
 the other, this seemingly simple feature calls for some significant and often split-second decision-making. 
     

  On the default difficulty setting, the game seems to adjust dramatically in response to your skill 
 level. Lose a match in the story or arcade modes a few times and it suddenly gets a whole lot easier, 
 which means that players of just about any skill level can fumble their way through these modes. 
 That's not necessarily a bad thing, but it makes the game feel more like a brawler in which you 
 can button-mash your way through just about anything, rather than a well-tuned fighting game that 
 rewards precise, skillful play. This impression is deceiving, though, and upping the difficulty 
 of the AI, or better yet, playing against other people, reveals the depth of a fighting system 
 that's sure to please veteran fighters. With precise timing, you can chain together combo attacks 
 that juggle your enemies in the air helplessly for a bit, but these are extremely difficult to 
 pull off. Neophytes drawn to the game by the DC characters may find themselves a bit out of their 
 league, and while there's a standard practice mode in which you can attempt attacks at your leisure, 
 the finer points can be difficult to pick up without a proper training mode.  

           There will be blood.      

  Of course, past Mortal Kombat games have been known as 
 much for their over-the-top gore as for their gameplay, and for those fans who feel this is an 
 intrinsic part of what makes Mortal Kombat what it is, MK vs. DC will be disappointing. While there 
 are still ridiculous amounts of blood that go flying each time you so much as punch your opponent, 
 you won't see any comically grisly beheadings, dismemberments, and other bombastic acts of violence 
 that have characterized the series. The victor still gets the opportunity to pull off an extremely 
 painful fatality or, in the case of the good guys on the DC side, a heroic brutality. Many of them 
 are clever and funny, but they're still far tamer than what we've seen in the past. Ultimately, 
 this change doesnt impact the gameplay itself, but that gore is part of the MK experience, so 
 the way it's been toned down here may turn some fans off.  

  A more material issue is the surprisingly limited amount of content you get in this package. There 
 are the two stories that don't take you long to complete, and after you finish them, you'll have 
 unlocked only two additional characters and seen just about everything the game has to offer. There's 
 an arcade mode which, in typical Mortal Kombat fashion, has you fight your way to the top of a 
 ladder, and in a nice touch, you can choose to have your opponents made up of exclusively Mortal 
 Kombat characters, DC characters, or a combination of the two. But the short, disappointing endings 
 you get for finishing arcade mode with any given character provide little incentive to come back 
 to it much. There's also a mode called Kombo Challenge in which you pick a character and choose 
 one of 10 combo attacks to attempt to pull off. At first glance, this looks like a useful mode 
 to help newcomers pick up the finer points of the game's combat, but the timing required to successfully 
 do even the easiest of the combos in Kombo Challenge is unforgivingly precise. With only 22 characters, 
 14 arenas, and no special costumes or anything else worth unlocking, the single-player experience 
 dries up a little too quickly.  

  So ultimately, whatever longevity the game has lies in its multiplayer offerings, and playing the 
 game with others, either locally or online, is great fun. There aren't any special modes available 
 online. It's all just no-frills, one-on-one matches, which is really all you need. Xbox 360's online 
 setup is a bit more fleshed out, with options to jump right into a ranked or unranked match, and 
 a TrueSkill matchmaking system for ranked matches. On the PlayStation 3, you need to enter a lobby 
 where you'll see a list of everyone else hanging out in the room, and you can challenge or accept 
 challenges from the other players. In both cases, once you're actually down to the business of 
 punching and kicking each other, the action plays smoothly, provided both parties have a steady 
 connection. The only caveat about online play in our experience is that a disproportionate number 
 of players are currently trying to rack up wins using the same few overpowered special attacks 
 by The Flash (and a couple of other characters) ad nauseam, and while this isn't impossible to 
 defeat, it sure is annoying. You might prefer to quit a match than bother with it when you come 
 across such a cheap competitor, but doing so counts as a loss, and in the case of ranked matches 
 on the 360, hurts your TrueSkill ranking.  

  The game looks great. The characters animate well, their attacks look powerful, and there's a consistency 
 of design that helps make the bizarre crossover seem natural. There's an especially great detail 
 to the game's presentation in the way that damage isn't just reflected in the energy bars across 
 the top of the screen. As characters suffer attacks, their skin gets bruised and bloody, their 
 costumes get torn, and by the end, if the loser put up a good fight, even the victor will look 
 much worse for wear. Of the 14 arenas, most of them look pretty cool. There are a few Mortal Kombat 
 arenas, but the majority of locales come from the DC side, or reflect a merger of the two universes. 
 There's a devastated downtown Metropolis and a high-tech Batcave, among other noteworthy locations, 
 and they're packed with details that will please fans of the characters. Dynamic elements such 
 as the elevated train you see rattling below you as you plummet from one level of Gotham City to 
 another also help bring the environments to life.  

           I've got your SHAZAM! right here!      

  The games audio isnt amazing, but it gets 
 the job done -- matches definitely sound like those in previous Mortal Kombat offerings, and the 
 voice acting for the characters is solid, but sadly you rarely hear them outside of the cutscenes 
 of the story mode. The music doesn't draw much attention to itself and isn't exciting enough to 
 match the action. If you're trying to decide between versions, it's a bit of a toss-up. They both 
 look and play pretty much identically. The Xbox 360's online system makes it more convenient for 
 just jumping into a match, but the PS3's D pad is better suited to fighting games and feels more 
 precise. The PS3 version has trophies to match the 360's achievements.  

  Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe feels a bit like a mutant of a game. On one hand, the fighting mechanics 
 are solid and fun and represent a refreshing return to the fundamental strengths that made Mortal 
 Kombat's gameplay so compelling in the first place. On the other hand, the shift in tone from completely 
 insane amounts of gore to only outrageous amounts of blood will put off some fans of the series 
 usual ultra-violence. Newcomers, on the other hand, will have little trouble button-mashing their 
 way through the game's single-player offerings, but may find it difficult coming to grips with 
 the more technical aspects of the gameplay necessary to get the most from the multiplayer. If the 
 idea of beating the hell out of Liu Kang with Lex Luthor (or vice versa) appeals to you and you 
 don't mind going online for serious competition, you'll find a satisfying fighting game in this 
 strange but enjoyable crossover.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (94 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2009 5:18 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about MK vs. DC Universe I was really excited and couldn't wait for it. But 
 when it finally came I was busy with something else and didn't get it. Only after awhile I found 
 out my friend had bought it, and of course I had to borrow it and play it. Is it good is it worth 
 buying or at least checking out? The answer is simply yes after playing it and having a lot of 
 fun it's defiantly at least a rent or borrow from a friend.
  
  As far as the story if that's what you want to call it, it's just really short too short for me. 
 That's one thing that I wish was different but it isn't something I'm going to complain about because 
 it didn't take anything away from it for me. And also you get to see the MK and DC characters interact 
 with each other in cut scenes, that is a big plus and something that I thought was really cool 
 to watch.
  
  One thing I've seen a lot of people complain about is how much gore there is, if you played MK 
 before you know there's just so much of it. And it's really cool to see that, but here in this 
 game there isn't much it's really been toned down. Unlike most people it really didn't bother me 
 much, their really ain't no reason to complain about it anyway. But it would have been great if 
 there was just a little bit more in there.
  
  Overall MK vs. DC Universe is a really great game, and one I had a lot of fun with. And to be honest 
 I might have had more fun if I played it before I did Street Fighter IV, but I can't go back in 
 time. If you like fighting games you'll defiantly like this one, don't pass it up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacksaibot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 11:24 am PT
Review:  Like I said, this game takes some getting used to. There's more depth in this fighting system than 
 there was in MKDA and MKD. Some elements from MKA return (being able to hit back at the opponent 
 when knocked down; also the punching air attack to set up your combos) .
  
  The combo attacks are very customizable in this game. It's better than any Mortal Kombat has been. 
 There are standard short dial-a-combos, but the new fighting system also makes it easy to create 
 custom combos. This takes practice and experimentation on your part, obviously.
  
  As I mentioned in my review deck, don't play it hours on end. Practice does make perfect, but if 
 you play this game hour after hour after hour, you will get bored. Like with all games, some nerdy 
 kids just play the game to death and it's boring after 3 months. I play this game 1-2 hours, 3-4 
 times a week. The rest of the time I'm having a life. This is how games are meant to be played; 
 in increments. I hear a lot of complaints on how the game has no replay value, well that's your 
 own fault if you've played it out by now. I'm still learning things in this game. It's that much 
 fun if you don't go nerd-mode.
  
  The sound effects are definitely an improvement to the MK series. It brings a good sense of action 
 into your fight, and the special effects (aside from toned down blood) are fantastic. The soundtrack 
 is decent, but it could do without the stupid comic book themed music. The graphics could have 
 been a lot better for the Unreal 3 engine, but I play the game for game play, not so I can stare 
 at a pixel and marvel at its beauty. Who the hell really pays attention to that when they're in 
 the heat of a battle? No one. NO ONE. Don't lie to yourself. You only use graphics to judge games 
 in a screen shot. Who the hell cares? I know I don't... because I'm actual sane and reasonable.
 
  
  What made me sick of this game are the Arenas. They thought of a "good" idea called free-fall kombat 
 (FFK) and brought in test your might when smashing through buildings. It's okay, but it happens 
 so damn often it's like the game developers are FORCING you to play through their new "good" idea. 
 There is no way to turn it off unless in practice mode either. That and close kombat are nothing 
 but button smashing and hoping the other player doesn't guess your next attack command. So stupid. 
 If they want to improve FFK, they need to make it so you're not guessing what their next attack 
 will be and have BOTH characters fighting simultaneously. Almost but not quite...
  
  What makes this game not MK are the lame DC characters. I understand the marketing decision behind 
 it all, but that doesn't mean I'm supposed to like this comic book garbage in MK. I will admit 
 some of the cut scenes are quite entertaining, but if I had a choice between the real MK8 and MKvsDC, 
 I would have chosen MK8 and not looked back.
  Thanks to DC's involvement, and as mentioned before, the violence has been toned down incredibly. 
 The fatalities are not very fatal, and "heroic brutalities" are child's play. It would have made 
 better sense to leave out finishers completely instead of desecrating a fatality's reputation.
 
  
  This game didn't hit me in the face with a "WOW" factor like MK2, MKDA, and MKD did... but it is 
 a big step up toward the right direction as far as the game play, special moves, and character 
 design (all not including DC, thanks) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XboxHore
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 3:20 am PT
Review:  The Mortal Kombat series has always had a special place in my heart, ever since I got MK 2. And 
 this game is a welcome addition. The add of DC characters give the game a nice twist, while still 
 managing to have a original story line. The story is that Radien thunder bolt/ superman's laser 
 eyes was used to destroy Shao Kahn or Darkseid. But the attack created a even more powerful being, 
 Dark Kahn. The MK characters include Sub Zero, Shang Tsung, Sonya, Kitana, Jax, Liu Kang, Radien, 
 Kano, Baraka, Shao Kahn anjd my favourite Scorpion. The DC characters are Batman, Superman, The 
 Flash, Catwomen, Captain Marvel, Green Lantern, The Joker, Wonder Women, Deathstroke, Darkseid 
 and Lex Luther. Dark Kahn uses rage to control the combatants and fight each other. The one thing 
 that disappointed me about this game is the gore. It has been toned down some much that it equals 
 Tekken. The over the top fatalities from the old games are gone and replaced by watered down finishers. 
 And I really wanted to rip Superman's spine out. There are some new features such as Close Kombat 
 were you pull your opponent close up and do a variety of attacks, this is pretty much a guessing 
 game. Test Your Might is my favourite your pick up your opponent and run him though a series of 
 walls, you have to tap the buttons as fast as you can, it makes you feel like a real superhero. 
 And Freefall basically it's the same as Close Kombat except you are fall down a great height and 
 you can do a super move at the end. All in all a very good game, its got the same Mortal Kombat 
 charm but with a twist. And is a good addition in any beat em up fan's collection. 8.5 from me. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monteffiori
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 26, 2009 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Hace tiempo que no vea un juego de pelea tan malo... Definitivamente los Fatalities al final de 
 una pelea son de los '90. El online es horriblemente lento y con mucho lag, el diseo de personajes 
 en contadas ocasiones est bien logrado, ni siquiera hay segundos trajes! Todo se vuelve prontamente 
 demasiado montono y la historia... Uy, dios mo, despidan a esos guionistas ahora!!! Se nota que 
 no le pusieron muchas ganas a esta entrega: los poderes son parecidos entre los personajes y los 
 otrora increbles fatalities ahora no son ms que un puado de malas ideas donde ni siquiera hay 
 sangre... Dnde qued la columna vertebral colgando de la cabeza? Sacdete en tu cripta, Sub-Zero... 
 Lo siento, pero este juego es una veldadela mielda! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2009 2:11 am PT
Review:  Pros
  
  * DC Characters fit in better than I expected.
  * Nice cutscenes that while goofy are fun to watch and explain the story in a neat way.
  * Feels 
 more like an old MK game.
  * Freefall Kombat, Klose Kombat and the Test Your Might portions of the game shake things up a 
 bit.
  * No dumb mini games.
  
  
  Cons
  
  * Toned down gore.
  * Feels more like an old MK game.
  
  
  I'm not a fighting game aficionado or anything.
 
  I play them and I can remember only the most basic of combos and special moves.
  Enough to get by in the story modes and multi player against my bro, which is all that really matters 
 in the end. So I can't go into great lengths on my experience with MK vs DC because I just don't 
 know jack about fighting game mechanics, terminology - whatever.
  
  That said despite not knowing jack about fighting games I've ALWAYS been a fan of the MK games. 
 In fact Mortal Kombat was probably the first game franchise I actually followed.
  I played the first MK on the Sega Genesis when I was seven and haven't looked back since, playing 
 them whenever they've released.
  
  Most people have spoke ill of the games transition into 3D, especially in regards to the three 
 games released on the PS2/Xbox. That said I'm probably more into the 3D games then I was the 2D 
 ones. And Mortal Kombat vs DC Universe feels more like those.
  
  I like it for the nostalgia factor, but there are times when I'm like "I wish this was more like 
 Armageddon/Deadly Alliance/Deception/Whatever".
  
  The game is fine and has put a focus on making up your own combos and juggling.
  Like using Kitana's 
 roll attack, quickly using the fan lift and then using that flying punch.
  It's easy enough to do with most characters and it all looks great.
  
  The games also got a 
 couple of I guess mini-games within the game that play out when you punch a guy off a cliff or 
 through a wall.
  
  Punch them off a cliff and you'll have a mini game where the defending player has to pretty much 
 guess the offensive players button press in order to switch place with them and be on the offence. 
 And pretty much whoevers on the defence at the time they hit the ground will take a certain percentage 
 of damage pending on how many hits the offensive got in.
  
  Another mini-game has you ramming a dude through a wall.
  Which is just button mashing, pretty 
 much.
  One player button mashing to increase the damage he deals to the dude being pushed through the 
 wall and the other trying to decrease it.
  
  Oh and theres Klose Kombat, which plays out much like the free fall combat except you're not falling. 
 It also gives you a good, up close look at the character models which are pretty good and as the 
 fight goes on they'll get visibly screwed up. Clothes will tear, there will be bruises, scratches, 
 blood, all that.
  
  These little mini games provide a decent break from the regular combat and are fun to watch as 
 well as participate in. It shakes things up a bit.
  
  The story mode has cut scenes and it's pretty neat to see the MK characters interact with the characters 
 from the DC universe. Kind of makes me wish the previous MK games had used cut scenes as opposed 
 to those static images with voice overs, which were nice and are still used in this games arcade 
 mode - but I don't know. The cut scenes are cool.
  
  I'll also state that I'm pleased with this games lack of mini games.
  You know how the previous 
 games all had some mini game like Puzzle Kombat or the Kart Racing one or Kombat Chess? I didn't 
 really mind the Kombat Chess one and the Puzzle Kombat one was fun for a while - the Kart Racing 
 was just poor to me - in any event they were pretty unnecessary and I much prefer they focus on 
 the game then a game to distract us from the game, if that makes any sense.
  
  To wrap things up it's a pretty good game and it's a lot more like say Mortal Kombat 2 then the 
 last few games in the series and if you've been yearning for MK to return to how things used to 
 be then this game is for you, that is if you don't mind the crossover or toned down blood and gore. 
 I certainly don't mind the crossover but MK just isn't MK without gallons of blood splashing out 
 from people from just one single punch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seedofallevil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Alright, well MK is back, but is it worth it? I will attempt to answer that in this review.
  
  So, basically what happens in the story is pretty pointless, and doesn't always make sense, 
 but when really has it in an MK game? There are a few new ideas added to the game, such as free-fall 
 combat (sorry, kombat) , where you punch an opponent (or he punches you) off a ledge, an well falling 
 you fight till you hit the ground. It is an interesting take on action movie mid-air fights.
  There is also close-quarters kombat, which is what it sounds like. You press one of the face buttons 
 and hope your opponent doesn't press the same.
  
  The gameplay has greatly improved from MK: A and guess what? It doesn't suck! It's probably the 
 funnest MK game I've played since Shaolin Monks (yes, I played that) and the funnest fighting iteration 
 since the series entered 3D. The DC characters seem a perfect fit, but I would still prefer the 
 spine-rip to a superman who's weak to magic anyday. 
  
  Which brings me to the controversial part, with the fans I mean.
  Is there fatalities? The short 
 answer is; yes. But don't be expecting a spine-rip, decapitation, torn hearts or the like. Like 
 I said before, their dumbed down and stupid. But there there.
  
  There are something like 18 characters, and everyones favorites are here, including my favorite 
 Scorpion, and Kitana, Sub-Zero, Baraka, and even Jax and Sonya. So is this game worth it?
  
  Well, if your a DC fan, you can chose the DC U side, and if your a MK fan you can chose the 
 MK side of the stories, but overall because of the collided worlds thing, MK fans should give it 
 a rental unless your a collector. DC fans, you should try this game too, because this IS a good 
 fighter, but not a good Mortal Kombat game, really. They should (if they get the chance... midway 
 is bankrupt now) make an MK 5 which goes back to the 2D roots, it's what fans are asking for, and 
 it's what we should get.
  
  Overall, this game get's an 8.5 out of 10. It's good, but jesus Boon, can we have a 2D MK that 
 isn't a re-released MK 2? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaphod001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 4:45 pm PT
Review:  People that complain about this game shouldn't play Mortal Kombat at all and here's why. It's Mortal 
 Kombat and you really can do so much with fighting games of this type.
  
  I have been playing MK ever since it came out almost 20 years ago and the basic premise of MK has 
 been the same.... two opponents in a ring or stage and you fight..... period thats it,.. given that 
 there has been some improvements with the game over the years such as new combos, new fighting 
 engine systems or what ever they call it and much improved graphics.... basically it is the same 
 game no matter if it is Deception or Armageddon or Deadly Alliance or the DC universe.
  
  SO WHAT if there are no bloody fatalities..... they are over rated anyway, yet there are some people 
 that cry like babies about this fact and say that the game sucks..... boo hoo!
  
  MK vs DC is just another step in the Mortal Kombat evolutionary chain. It is an added event to 
 the MK universe which broadends the history of the MK chactors.
  
  The down side to this game is that the story line is way to short and really that is the flaw that 
 I see with this game. the graphics are great.. Wonder Woman looks really hot and I am glad to see 
 that Capt. Marvel is in the game and is actually acknowledged as Capt. Marvel and not Shazam.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:12 am PT
Review:  MK vs DC, what were they thinking?
  
  DC just put out all the good stuff that MK as, gore fatality, no don't think they're somethings 
 like that in this game!!! I don't know why they choose DC, they could at least choose something 
 better, like MARVEL or even IMAGE COMICS is better thn DC.
  
  The story is just bad! Mortal Kombat was suppose to be a tournement, that was a better story line 
 than `two world fusing together! What a joke, they should have call the game: Characters of Mortal 
 Kombat vs DC universe without good f::king fatality.
  
  The only good thing about hte game, is that you enter in little cinematic mode where you must press 
 button to do damage to your opponent when your falling of a cliff or pushing your ennemy trough 
 many walls.
  
  
  I really hate the game, it's nice to see that Midway try to create something better, but it's not 
 the best idea they had for this game. Give it a try and you'll see that this game needs more stuffs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 7:06 am PT
Review:  There is not much to say about this game other than me giving you pros and cons, and then you see 
 which has more pros or cons.
  
  Pros-
  *Mortal Kombat has another game
  *The storyline isnt that great, but at least you understand whats going on
  *The special moves 
 are awesome
  *Green Lantern and Flash are suprisingly the best characters in my opinion
  *The finishers are hard to execute and they dont tell you what it is, but once you know them they 
 are probaly the best part of MK. vs. DC
  *The achievements this game gives you
  *I guess DC characters? Captain Marvel!
  *SUBZERO! pretty much every MK character
  
  Cons-
 
  *Only 16 Characters? plus the 2 bonus? really guys? your last Mortal Kombat Armageddon had over 
 60 players. I thought they could have done MUCH BETTER
  *Dark Seid is impossible sometimes
  *Kombo Challenges are literally the hardest things ive done on XBOX
  *The Bios arent that great
 
  *When you beat someones Arcade, it trails off in the story and you dont understand at all what 
 is happenening.
  *Catwoman and the Joker and Batman.
  
  Achievements-
  Easy to get over 400-500 on.
  Beat both storys and just beat everyones arcade on easy
  But 
 there are alot of Kombo Challenges and i dont have 1. : (
  plus you get 100 for doing all finishers and another 100 for doing all moves.
  
  Yea this game 
 has its up and downs, but now that Street Fighter 4 is out, you probaly wont be playing this much, 
 but its good for MK fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iiikilla420iii
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 5:52 pm PT
Review:  At first when i heard this game was coming out i was excited, but then i got it..... And it sucked. It 
 was cool for like the first five minutes but then i saw the weakest fatality ever and was immediately 
 turned off . I know dc did not want their super hero's performing fatalities but they dumbed it 
 down so much its just plain stupid. I expected more from MK too but i guess this was just a last 
 attempt to get some quick cash before ol' midway throws in the towel. I consider my self a true 
 MK and DC fan both. sadly i was let down by another DC game . DC really needs to step their game 
 up . online play is really no fun with this game . graphics are nice, game does handle well . combos 
 are major part of this game. for a fighting game its okay but i just thought a little bit more blood 
 would have when a long way ... you gotta be a hard core fan to standby them on this one i dont 
 know guys you tell me what you think of this game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaKeR4lyfe
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2009 11:44 am PT
Review:  This game right here is one of the best MK I've ever played, and I've played all but two. The combo 
 of DC comic characters and the crew of Mk suprisingly make a good one. The fighting seems pretty 
 fluint if you know what your doing and dont mash. The stage transfers offer a struggle minigame 
 that looks cool and can be challenging, the grapple holy **** thank god for the grapple im so happy 
 they incorperated that one. The characters are desent, most of DC is there, but there are a few 
 Mk characters I wish had been included that werent. The multiplayer is very well balanced, my first 
 time playing I won my second match, I'm not sure how but with most fighting games if your new or 
 arent a complete geek who worships the console your gonna get slapped around a while, but with 
 this game people who have records of 69/20 can be beat by a person whos played the game two hours. 
 But overall its worth sixty dollars, if your a fan of Mk or fighting games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7X4Lif3
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 19, 2009 4:50 pm PT
Review:  This game was kind of dissapoining i think the creators could of came up with something better 
 by choosing some other world to fight the Mortal Kombat universe. In my opinion i thought they sould 
 of choosed The Marvel Universe. Now the good things are the new fighting system. Also i miss Sub-Zero 
 tearing out some ones spinal cord and MORE blood. If you want to play this id reccommend you rent 
 it first, because if you buy it its going to be boring. The characters from the DCU are actually 
 good choices but not so good for the MKU. I dont think this game its bad or good its just alright. And 
 it was worth waiting for. For the characters of MKU was bad the only good people there were Sub-zero, Scorpion, and 
 Jax. I miss the classic people and Team Kombat with the funnny mini games. But this is just a fair 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramswo18
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I'm a long time Mortal Kombat fan and like evry 1 else i was kinda pissed that it was going rated 
 T. I didn't mind the DC characters that much, i actually liked the idea of a merger between the 
 2. So y the score of a 6.5, well because the game is for one incredibly easy and 2 after a while 
 it jus get's plain boring. I got this game before i got DOA4 i admit i did like the game and wasn't 
 very bad at first, when i jus started playing. Then i got great in a matter of 30 minutes and won 
 the arcade on the hardest difficulty without dying a single time. The gameplay is very dry and 
 is a little too slow for me. After about 5 hours of gameplay i was done with the game for good 
 and bout DOA 4, fell in love with it but then i gave MK vs DC a second chance. I couldn't play 
 it for more than 5 minutes without jus getting disappointed and bored with it. The controls are 
 very simple, it looks great, the voice acting is very very poor not including the joker. and the 
 gameplay jus doesn't do enough to keep u going. The fatalities r so toned down that they're not 
 even enjoyable anymore, the goriest fatality is liu kang running on ur face for about 3 seconds 
 and then jumping up and throwing a fireball. And there's pretty much jus splashes or little squirts 
 i should say of blood that comes out. Every body elses fatalities and brutalities are jus completely 
 dumb and stupid like i remember the flash jus spinning around me and i rose up in the air and then 
 he jus punched me. And guess wat that's it. It's a special move if anything. I also remember Catwoman's 
 fatality when she jus throws a whip around ur neck yanks it one time and that's it. But probably 
 the biggest downfall in the game is probably how overpowered certain characters are specifically 
 superman. if u go online and play someone who uses superman ur better off jus quitting and joining 
 another game. If superman pounds the ground 1 time that's it jus 1 then u will get caught in a 
 unbreakable infinite loop which is easily executed and very powerful. So my final grade is a rent 
 if even that, i recommend jus borrowing it from a friend because this game isn't worth any money 
 at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinrscott
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2009 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Over the years, DC has been hard pressed to make fun games. It seems no matter what they do, Marvel 
 has always had one up on them - until now.
  
  Marvel: Nemisis, meet your destroyer - MK vs DCU. I was really worried about this game. Being a 
 die hard DC fan, and a long time player of MK games, I was both excited and apprehensive about 
 the title.
  
  Think of all the bad DC games; Heroes, several weak batman games and 500 horrible Superman games. 
 With one Heroic Brutality, they are all wiped away!
  
  The characters were a good choice. The storyline is actually pretty good. The special moves for 
 each character are very appropriate. It is hard to say who I like the best, but Captain Marvel 
 has some really mean moves.
  
  The MK side is good too. They removed all the fluff characters, and went with the core lineup. 
 I do miss Johnny Cage, but there is always download content (or so I hear) .
  
  If you like fighting games, and you want to try something different, this is a good game to try. 
 If you play solo though, you will get bored really fast. The game was designed to play multi-player, 
 and it is its best when played that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaGhOsT187
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 6:07 am PT
Review:  Tee devos seemed to have made sure that the multiplayer is garbage.. Subzero , flash, scorpion all 
 tsunsung all have ridiculous teliport moves and ice or fire moves that shoot from the ground or 
 ice ,landing out of the sky or Well just teleporting ,cheat garbage patterns , and all the Dc player 
 are very disadvantaged against the MK characters
  
  BUt you can find some guys sooner or later that dont just pattern all day with sub, scorp, or flash 
 and you can have some fun !!!!!! 90% will be loser who play all day doing cheat patterns and little 
 kids doing patterns...... THAT ARE UNBLOCKABLE OR RIDICULOUS!!!!
  
  ALSO THE WORST PART OF THIS GAME
  
  UNLESS YOU WANT TO PLAY WITH THE D-PAD THE JOYSTICK YOU 
 HAVE TO HOLD DOWN THE lt TRIGGER BUTTON TO JUMP AND IT ALMOST NEVER RESPONDS ... SO THIS GAME IS 
 ACTAUL GARBAGE UNLESS YOU DIGG ORIGINAL NINTENDO CONTROLZ STYLE ON NEXT GEN FIGHTER......
  
  i WOULD HAVE BEEN ALL OVER THIS IF YOU MADE FOLKS LIKE THE JOKER ,leveled with scorpion and 
 subzero... YOU HAVE TO LAND A 1000 hits to compare to 1 of scorpion garbage telport fire garbage 
 PATTERNS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-nosh
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 3, 2009 8:41 pm PT
Review:  If anyone thats a real Mortal Kombat fan will know that this game brought MK from top of the charts 
 to down low next to a Power Rangers fighting games. Is NO way a fan can axcept such crap as MK. 
 There is NO blood what so ever. And a fatality is not a fatality unless it is done CORRECTLY!!!! 
 Thats right BATMAN you dont send some bats after someone and call that a fatality that should have 
 been a regular move for all i care. And last time i checked a BRUTALITY is done with a combination 
 of attacks that leads to an explosion of the body. Dont come with HERO BRUTALITY (KIDS ATTACK) 
 having all fans thinking its going to be some kind of new killer fatality thats going to make the 
 entier world shake with exitment from such great moves, just to see some stupid crap. I'm sorry 
 but in my eyes as an MK FAN FROM THE 1ST TO PRESENT!!! I AM UPSET... Joining with DC was a great 
 idea, but if i knew it was going to be soooo soft on the MK part i would not have baught the game. 
 I understand that DC can't kill, but there was no reason to make MK moves with less blood and gore.. 
 Well nice try,,, Ohhh and i hope they come out with another MK ONLY to bring up my spirit cause 
 i am down and in need of blood/gore... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xspartanx3x
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2009 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Well i am going to start off by saying that i am NOT a fighting game fan i actually only have 1 
 and it is for xbox and the only real reason i have it is because i got it for christmas but its 
 a really good game its marvel vs capcom 2 so yea off course its awsome but when i saw the trailer 
 of this game it looked interesting and when i finally got the game guess what it was amazing i 
 like that it's not extemely hard to do moves like other games were if ur new or don't play fighting 
 games its almost impossible to do moves cuz its always like x, b, x, right, l, y and stuff like that 
 and the story is great and the online is VERY adiccted it is good becuase there r even rooms for 
 nubs and pros that u can join but yea this is a definite buy. OK why do i have to write stupid 
 800 letters just to finish this review so i am just going to write letters to finish but yea this 
 game rocks blahbl ah blalbhalhbalhb la hbha bhab lha lhba blh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zack90attack
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 4:51 am PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat is a big name to hold up to but i think the makers failed us in a lot of ways but 
 tried to make improvements.
  
  The games story goes about two worlds getting combined the Mortal world And the Dc World, both 
 sides think there against each other but really there all fighting the same person latter on the 
 story the will figure that out, there is a lot of characters in the story but now lets talk about 
 the critics.
  
  The Bad Stuff:
  1-Melee weapons has been took down which was a great deal
  2-To few characters in the game
 
  3-Story mode is a short for a game that has been under the making for a long time
  4-combos and special skills are the same nothing knew only like every person gets a new move for 
 example sub zero freezes over someone's head and so one.
  
  But What i think for my personal view that mortal kombat didn't want to make a game that was the 
 same as the old series.
  They should've have made the game longer and more content in it and more gameplay and Fighting 
 skills to it
  
  The Good Stuff:
  1-The combination between Good and Evil
  2-The combination between DC And MK
  3-The Story Had a good goal to aim for and kept us in the 
 story line
  4-Rage power is awesome when you think you have to hope of killing your enemy
  5-Sonya Changed a lot and you know what i mean :D
  
  Gameplay and graphics:
  The gameplay 
 is really cool you can now do a trick over a trick if you got it right, and the combo are more 
 cooler and the tricks are more sweeter and the sound effects are way out of the box cool sounds 
 of moves and hits reflexes Example (when you hit Raiden he will actually yell like an asian man 
 Funny and weird)
  There is one problem is that superman is out of the window how can super man be compared to these 
 guys even thou they have the rage power on there side the story just doesn't fit in the right place
 
  The combinations of fighting grounds are great you can kick a guy off the cliff then follow him 
 to the ground and fight your way down or fighting through the wall and have to test you might (LOL)
 
  
  Graphics is a great leap forward the level of detail of the characters are great and the slow motion 
 when you are falling is super cool and when going through a wall too
  the maps or fighting grounds are detailed and are more realistic 
  
  Most people are asking 
 what is the rage is for well if you played the story you will know why because of the worlds getting 
 combined together 
  There's a lot of debates and conclusion between a lot of people just forget those and enjoy the 
 game 
  and it is worth the buck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HELLSPAWNN
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 25, 2009 11:43 am PT
Review:  the controles is messed up, if i try to run it is more likely that the charecter will jump, and 
 i dont feel in controle at all.
  the A. I dos nothing or beats the shi* out you, you dont stand a chance if you are new to the seris. 
 i find it to hard to get in to, and because of the jumping instead of running the game feels slow, 
 and the combos dosent do enough damage to realy be satisfying...
  
  this is just my experiance, i dont mind getting my ass kicked, it happens alot in soul calibur 
 4 but atleast its fast and i feel like i had a chance
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  sorry it`s not 800 charecters, but you are gonna complaine do it short, some people love this 
 game, and to you have fun, but to me it seems like it needs alot more work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake-lutze
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2009 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Havik may not be in it (=' [ ) and it may be less bloody, but its probably the best MK game since 
 the 3rd one. The characters (for the most part) are decently balanced (except Flash...) and all 
 characters (except Flash...) are fun to play.
  
  Game play 9/10: As close to the original MK as you will get on the next-gen consoles. The fighting 
 is smooth, and those stupid fighting styles are gone. WOO! That means you will probably be good 
 with every character on the roster (except Flash...) .
  
  Free fall Kombat is a fun little diversion from the main source of destruction. When you're in 
 free fall, it is sort of like rock paper scissors, except more painful... a lot more painful. Say... 
 you press X, and the AI presses A, you score a hit. Say you press X again, and you're enemy presses 
 X, you two switch places (AI offensive, you defensive) . Now, once you get to a certain point on 
 the attack bar (a bar showing how much damage is dealt) you can press RB and unleash the super 
 move. All characters have separate super moves and all are pretty cool (even Flash) .
  
  Klose Kombat is the same principle as Free Fall except there is no super move to use. But, all 
 characters have separate animations for their punches, which is a nice little touch.
  
  Test Your Might! is back. For better or worse. It doesn't matter how hard you smash the buttons 
 during this sequence Superman always wins. It's bullsh! t. Superman is incredibly unbalanced, but 
 that's for the next part of the review.
  
  Roster 10/10: A truly amazing and balanced roster (except Flash...) that is probably one of the 
 best Midway has come up with. I will review each side separately, as not to confuse anybody.
  
  MK: The standout fighter on the MK side is Liu Kang, with fast, one button four hit combos 
 and some lightning fast kicks, Liu Kang is the definitive starter for newbies at this game. The 
 only characters that are boring are Kano and Baraka. Also, you don't play as the entire roster 
 in the story mode, which is a little upsetting. Baraka gets no lines at all! As one of my favorite 
 characters from Deception/Armageddon, I wish he'd been treated with more respect. But, at least 
 he has more than two special moves now, and yes, you can use his blades. Subzero is probably the 
 best fighter on the MK side, once you learn his moves. Hes one of those characters you have to 
 work with, but hes worth it. The most over powered character is Shang Tsung, who does and incredible 
 amount of damage with just simple combos. Its really annoying to fight him. Another standout is 
 Jax, who is a lot more fleshed out in this entry. He has his own chapter in the story, and hes 
 surprisingly balanced. A good fighter all around.
  
  DC: The DC side is pretty imbalanced and tough. The two main culprits are Superman and The Flash. 
 Superman has at least 20 special moves and you CANT beat him in Test Your Might! Mode. Literally. 
 Ive tried my damnedst. The Problem with Flash is that hes simply too fast. Waaaaaay too fast. Its 
 not even fair. All his special moves and combo finishers are sped up, causing no fair ration in 
 between speed and power. But, Green Lantern and Batman are HUGE standouts in terms of playability. 
 Green Lantern is moderately quick, moderately strong, and his special moves are weak, but nearly 
 unavoidable. Batman is insane. Hes like the DC Liu Kang in terms of gameplay, and hes a great starter 
 character. Top that off with some great special moves and you've got yourself one awesome character. 
 He can be a little cheap when fighting him as a cpu character, as his simple combos are surprisingly 
 powerful. 
  
  Replay Value 6/10: One of the only places this game falters. There is nothing to do besides Arcade, 
 Story, and some stupid Kombo thing that I havent tried yet (sorry!) . No Unlockable characters (except 
 Kahn and Darksied) and no unlockable costumes make this one of the worst parts of the game. I think 
 Midway would benefit greatly by bringing in some character packs and a downloadable Chess Kombat 
 game (that game was sooooooo great) . Ah well, enough bickering. While the achievements are fairly 
 easy, and the story only takes two hours at most, I still play it very frequently. Multyplayer 
 keeps the fun going, and so do the large amount of characters.
  
  Graphics are pretty standard, and I don't feel like writing a review for graphics, so Im leaving 
 it out. HA!
  
  Sound 9/10: Pretty standard, yet I love it. Nice music, and I LOVE the announcer Im glad that 
 Midway hasn't changed the announcer, that's always a cool thing in the game, I don't know why, 
 it just seems to get my blood pumping
  
  Multyplayer/ fatalities 9/10: Almost perfect, but with the lack of extra modes, it really suffers 
 a hit. I think a team battle mode would be a great addition. But still, its so fun to beat down 
 your enemies and finish them off in (not as brutal) brutal ways. Fatalities are great, though less 
 violent, and every character will have smoothing either funny, or cool.
  
  Overall, its totally worth it. I think that if you can get it under 60 bucks, then you have NO 
 reason not to buy it, and if youre an MK fan, or a DC fan, or maybe just a guy who likes good fighting 
 games, this game is worth the full asking price. It may not last more than a few weeks in single 
 player, but multiplayer will definitely test your might.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2009 7:00 am PT
Review:  I am utterly stunned. I remember when I first heard about this game. The first thing that came 
 to my mind was EPIC FAIL! Then I started seeing some of the fight clipse and reading up on it. 
 I then changed my opinion and became excited about it. We all know that there were only a couple 
 of good fighting games that were released in 08. One of them being Soul Calibur 4 and Dragon Ball 
 Z burst limit was a complete let down. Then there was this. 
  
  This game caught me by suprise. It offers a nice selection of characters. I must admit the DC characters 
 are even cooler then the MK characters. Especially the Joker. His Fatalites are hillarious. The 
 game has trophies and or achievements witch is always a big plus and offers subperb gaming experience 
 with limitless game play. This to me is not only the best fighting game of 08 but one of the best 
 fighting games I have ever had the pleasure of playing. I am currently ranked in the top 100 online 
 in the world and have a awsome record of 512 wins, 6 losses, 6 router disconnections. I highly 
 recommend this game for not only MK Fans but just people looking for a fun new innovative game. 
 
  
  I dont know what to say really. The game offiers amazing, and I mean absolutely amazing visuals. 
 Each and every character has tons of moves and each character either has two fatalities or brutalites 
 depending on wether or not your a good or bad guy. The online is tons of fun as well. This game 
 delivers on all cylinders. The only thing I did not like about the game is thing called combo challenge 
 witch is extremely challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthews612
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2009 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat faces off aganist the DC Universe that I have never seen in a lifetime. The plotline 
 is when heroes and villains alike find themselves affected by a mysterious rage. The moves like 
 Joker has his bombs, Catwoman has her whip, Superman has his heat vision, ice breaththe Flash has 
 his super-speed scorpion has his fire the Mortal Kombat has some special moves. The DC has a lots 
 of special moves, the design of the game they have good environments good characters. The Gamplay 
 on Mortal Kombat vs DC Universe they have changed when the characters fall off the arena where 
 you usally watch the show now you fight while your going down the only way you can counter the 
 falling where you become the argessor, they also have something called Klose-Kombat where pull 
 each other in and fight the only way you get out of it is pushing the button the opponent pushes. 
 and finally the last part of the game is test your might where you push each other though a series 
 of war increaing the damage and the opponent is decreasing the damage. the fatalities have been 
 toneed down and they also have given the DC heroes Heroic Brutiallties some of these are quite 
 fun to watch. Overall MK vs DC is a good looking game But overall this watered-down crossed over 
 spinoff is not your game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dirk04
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 4:04 pm PT
Review:  It's Mortal Kombat without the over the top fatalities. I assume this is due to the younger audience 
 that will be playing the game. I realize this will turn a lot of people off from this installment 
 in the series, but If you look at it for what it is you should enjoy this game. It just doesnt 
 seem right to be able to rip Batmans head off anyway. Great look of DC characters, wish there were 
 more of them to play with. This is not the best Mortal Kombat game but it is not the worst either. 
 I dont recall another DC fighting game but Im glad this has come to be since Marvel makes crappy 
 fighting games all of the time. All have a cool and dark look that the MK series brings to the 
 table consistantly. You should just skip the absurd setup story of the two worlds combining and 
 just get to the play. I really hope they make a sequel, and if not a sequel at least another DC 
 fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame-Sama
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 10, 2009 7:43 am PT
Review:  Back in 2004, Mortal Kombat: Deception came out, the game was actually great, the best fighting 
 game I've ever played. Then Shaolin Monks came out, it was cool and interesting, but missing a 
 little something. Then Armageddon, which was a let down in terms of substance. And now, Mortal 
 Kombat VS DC, a game that is just a terrible namesake.
  
  All flash and no substance isn't a bad superhero joke (at least, not intentionally) , but rather, 
 a perfect summary of this game. I'll start with the 'story'. I said the second they announced this 
 game that I wouldn't pay attention to the story, but manthey tried to make it stupid. Raiden and 
 Superman knock Shao Kahn and Darkseid out of their respective universes into portals, causing both 
 the two evil villains and their universes to merge due to the rage they concealedwhat?
  
  The story mode in this game is like a more drawn out Arcade mode. Instead you play with a few MK 
 characters and a few DC characters to progress this 'story'. And your reward for beating both the 
 MK and DC story? Two characters. And that's ALL you unlock. Ever. Well, those two characters and 
 some nice pictures for Character Endings. No Krypt, not even those stupid pictures of the guy doing 
 martial arts stancesnope, no unlockables.
  
  And am I wrong or are some MK story elements changed? For example, when did Edenia merge with Outworld? 
 When did Scorpion listen to Quan Chi's orders? Since when does Quan Chi have MORE power in the 
 Netherrealm? I thought it made him weaker?
  
  Yeah, don't read into the story. The gameplay is like a watered down version of Armageddon. The 
 controls are pretty much the same, but instead of a fighting style and a weapon style, most characters 
 just have a hand to hand style. Gimmicks like Air Kombat and Klose Kombat are just weak little 
 add ins. You can kick someone off of a building, grab them in mid air, punch them, then toss them 
 faster towards the ground. Or you can grab someone's shoulders and box them for a bit. Or you can 
 kick some into a wall and then run them into several walls in a quick time button mashing face 
 off. Pulling off these attacks or dodging these attacks are both pretty hard, considering how random 
 the "QUICK HIT B" things are, and some times the button press won't even register. And rage mode, 
 which is a very weak gameplay element. Get first hit, build up the other meter half, then unleash 
 rage and own your opponent.
  
  Which brings me towow... it's bad when the hardware doesn't allow you to play a game. The Xbox 
 360 controller's D pad is beyond terrible. That, combined with new diagonal commands for combos 
 and a Kombo Challenge mode (the ONLY other mode besides Story, Arcade, and Versus) makes for one 
 pissed off gamer (IE, any one unfortunate enough to buy it, I borrowed it from a relative) . The 
 Kombos in Kombo Challenge mode are pretty much a few specials thrown together with some timing 
 commands (pause, right afterward, etc) These kombos are impossible to hit with a poor D pad, and 
 even then would be pretty damn hard to pull off.
  
  The Arcade mode is the best thing I suppose. I hate the AI in this game though. On Very Easy, I 
 can lose. One time, I almost gave a Flawless Victory away. I'm not bad at this game, at least not 
 THAT bad. Hell, I played MK: A on Max and MK: D on Hard. My cousin also agrees that the AI is inconsistent 
 and flawed. You can play Dark Kahn (original name, by the way) , get owned. Play him again, and 
 then kick his ass completely. When you do finish Arcade with a character, you get a very unoriginal 
 ending. ALL the endings sucked pretty much (SPOILERS) Examples include Subzero becoming Batman 
 and leaving the Lin Kuei, Sonya using a Lantern ring, Liu Kang becoming a Captain Marvel, etc
 
  
  That's all there is to the game. I can do a little more nit-picking, like how the voice acting 
 sucks (early in Story-MK side, you fight Captain Marvel, he sounds retarded really. "The rageRAAAAAAAGE!... 
 And later on the DC side"SHAAZZZZZZAAAAAM!" (I do like that the voice of Jigen from Lupin The 
 Third is Raiden) And how they made Scorpion into a punkass, but noI'll stop here.
  
  Play it for achievements if you can, but don't pay more thanfive-ten bucks for it, ever. This 
 game earns a four because the MK team really needs to learn how to create quality in their games. 
 Step one, STOP RELEASING A GAME EVERY YEAR. And just as a general rule, never take the blood and 
 gore out of Mortal Kombat ever again. That's like Grand Theft Auto without whores. A T for Teen 
 MK is a bad MK to begin with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkidRow18
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 5:04 am PT
Review:  I know little about mortal kombat when i was young, i have the first two mortal kombat games at 
 home and played Mortal Kombat: Deadly Alliance at my friend house before. To be honest, i never 
 really like fighting games but what caught my eye about this game is because DC is in it and it 
 is a crossover game between MK and DC, my first thought when i saw this game was like o great! 
 Speaking about DC, i got to admit i am a DC fan (a small MK fan at the same time) , thats why i 
 brought this game. Here is my review about the game.
  
  First, the roster contain 22 characters, 11 for each side, you only have to unlock two characters 
 in this game. I feel the roster should have been bigger but it's ok as long as it have a roster 
 of great characters like Scorpion, Sub zero, Batman, Superman and Raiden.
  
  This game also have great graphics and during battle they show sign of bruises and part of the 
 clothing being torn off. Each fighters have their own special, pro moves and of course their finisher. 
 About the story mode, they allow you to choose your side, meaning you can choose MK story side 
 or DC story side. The story for both side is pretty much the same (not totally the same) , the difference 
 is just about the point of view from each side and how they deal with it. The voice acting is also 
 good in story mode, it is kinda of like watching a show on T. V. 
  
  Midway introduce new gameplay like the "Free-fall kombat", "Test Your Might" and "Klose Kombat". 
 In free-fall kombat, two opponents fall off an arena and the opponent on top can attack till the 
 meter on the side is more than half, then it can peform a special move. The opponent below must 
 try to get to the top position by blocking shots. In "Klose Kombat" , a character grabs the other 
 and go into a close view of the fighters, one of them will attack while the other one will then 
 try to kounter-attack. In "Test your Might", one character will tackle their opponent by running 
 towards the walls. The attacker will tap buttons as quickly as possible to increase damage of the 
 opponent (defender) while the defender do the same to decrease the damage to itself. 
  
  Blood? yes, there are still blood visible in this game, you can see blood spitting out when you 
 hit your opponent. The MK fatalities are not so gore compare to previous title but i don't really 
 mind, gore isn't the only thing that makes a game great. Midway have bring back some old school 
 fatalities like Lui Kang's arcade drop and Scorpion's toasty. DC Villains have fatalities too while 
 DC Heroes have heroic brutalities. Heroic Brutalities doesn't kill the opponent and that's because 
 heroes don't kill. 
  
  Online is fun, it is kinda of well balanced as in you can beat someone that has like hundreds of 
 wins and lost to some one with a few wins. When you play a ranked match, it is slow when you try 
 to search for a opponent... maybe because not much people have this game. This game is also alot 
 easier (control wise) than previous titles, you can pull off combo, pro moves, fatalities, brutalities 
 alot easier which is good for newcomers. One complain, the controls for the xbox360 (the D-pad) 
 are a little too sensitive, it is hard to control your characters, like when you press the forward 
 button it sometimes end up jumping so it is kinda of hard to pull off some complex moves.
  
  Design: 7.0
  Sound: 8.0
  Graphics: 8.5
  Gameplay: 7.5
  Achievements: 7.0
  Overall: 
 7.4 (Good)
  
  Overall, i think it is still a pretty good game, not a game that can last you long but if you are 
 looking forward to play games with your friends and have fun, like fighting games, why don't give 
 this game a try? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SubtleMurderArt
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2009 3:36 pm PT
Review:  This is the first mortal kombat game which pits our favorite mortal kombat fighters, against some 
 of our favorite superheroes and villains. It's the same old fighting concept from previous next-gen 
 systems, but is still fun. The lack of blood and gore makes the game less fun for hardcore mortal 
 kombat fans. The fatalities suck. Let's just leave it at that. The story mode is pretty boring, 
 but a good addition to the game. One thing that bothered me was the loading time between fights. 
 The game played smoothly, and didn't lag or glitch at all. Graphics are great, but would have been 
 even better with more of the blood we loved from previous mortal kombat games. Each character has 
 a unique feel, but some seem overpowered and "cheap". Special moves are unique to each character, 
 and it's just plain fun being able to fight as the joker and other villains we're used to beating 
 up. Overall, it's a fun game. Brings back good memories, but falls far short of what it could have 
 been. Definitely a good rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Secret-Skull
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 5:08 pm PT
Review:  MC vs DCU was not at the top of my wish list for Santa but now that I have it I don't regret it 
 at all. This games follows the Stories of both Mortal Combat and the DC Universe.
  Although I am not a big fan of MK I am a HUGE fan of DC. I find nothing more fun than watching 
 Cat Woman clawing peoples eyes out or Joker going wild. I there for find that the violence is one 
 of the great things about this game. It is not the kind of violence that is to brutal or disturbing 
 for younger viewers but it does make you think "That has gotta hurt" when you see your fighter 
 after the battle all cut and bruised.
  
  Personally I believe this next point is a bad thing although you may not. In most fighter games 
 I like to go wild on the buttons (button mashing) and see what wild things will happen. On this 
 game that will not happen. It all has to be done in a certain way which I don't really like in 
 a fighter game but it wasn't a big problem.
  One big problem I had was the difficulty of the game. The first few levels of the game were easy 
 as they should be. But as you got nearer to the end of the game the enemies became increasingly 
 hard. To me almost impossible. For people who play fighters very well you may not find this a problem 
 but I am just a casual gamer so I did. The game does overcome this problem by every time you lose 
 the enemy will gradually get weaker. Although this is a good thing I had to lose 7 TIMES on the 
 final boss just to beat him. It does kind of make you feel like a piece of c!@p when that happens, 
 and then you feel worse because when you beat him you realise just how weak they had to make the 
 boss. (Try it, there is a big difference.)
  
  This game is a good game faults and all. I would recommend it to Fighter fans MK fans and DCU fans. 
 The thing that makes me buy it is the sheer joy of watching my favorite superheros battle it out 
 between each other. It has a sort of endless charm to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark5tar1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 10:15 am PT
Review:  First, I was skeptical about this game. Then when i got the game, i realized this was a awesome 
 game. The story takes place when on the DC side, Superman defeats Dark Side and fires a laser beam 
 in Dark Side's portal causing weird effects. Then a weird yellow eyed thing appears in their eyes. 
 The story is super short and it has unskipable cutscenes and gets harder later in the game. In 
 each chapter of both stories, you can play as a different character and fight. DC fans can love 
 the levels Midway put in like Metropolis and the Fortress of Solitude and merged levels. The online 
 is great and has rooms and chat and ranked/player matchs. The fatalites have been made less gorier 
 due to the T rating but that doesn't mean that's bad. This is one of the best fighting games on 
 the 360 and a personal favorite of mine. And the characters are the famous characters of DC and 
 Mortal Kombat such as Subzero or Batman or Raiden. You must play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyromaniac1013
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Right now, this is one of my favorite games. It has a lot of pros and some cons. If the cons were 
 fixed, this would be one of the best Mortal Kombat games.
  The combat is great. It's a lot like MK3. No weapons or secondary fighting techniques, just solid 
 fighting. All of the combos are hard to pull off, just like they are supposed to be, so once you 
 get it, you get that great sense of achievement. If you practice, you can nail all of the combos, 
 but it does take time. Graphics are amped up to next-gen which is great, but the lighting is a 
 little off. You don't notice it unless you really look at it though.
  Adding DC characters were a great choice. You'd think that it be all messed up and all around the 
 place but the DC characters feel like they're really MK characters while maintaining the DC feel. 
 The new features like Free Fall Kombat and Klose Kombat are cool as well. Some may say it's a guessing 
 game but it's not if you really pay attention. You'll be able to counter them if you keep an eye 
 out for what they are doing.
  One of the worse things is that there are too few characters, but don't let that turn you off. 
 You have about 20 characters, 10 from MK and 10 from DC, and there aren't enough unlockable characters. 
 They completely took out alternate costumes which also is kind of a bummer. The last thing that 
 this game does not have going for it is the fatalities. The gore is unnoticeable to some but stick 
 out to others. When you punch someone, you see blood, but not as much as any other Mortal Kombat. 
 I barely notice the difference in gore actually. The only difference is the blood doesn't drip 
 off your body and onto the floor, and there aren't any intestines. The fatalities are pretty violent, 
 but there is barely any gore in them. Brutalities are, well, brutal. Like I said, the fatalities 
 are violent, but are definitely toned down compared to other Mortal Kombats.
  Don't let the lack of characters turn you off towards this game. The characters that there are 
 are very well-balanced. The combat is great and the new features never get old. Combos are awesome 
 and tough to pull off which is a good thing. That's hard to explain so just get the game and you'll 
 see for yourself. If you are not convinced by this review, go and and rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Man I've waited for a true 3D Mk game forever and non the less one where you face cool opponents 
 like DC and what happens? Everything that shouldn't.
  
  I'll start with the boring stuff.... graphically the game is great. Nice rendered 3D characters 
 make the game feel real on the U3 engine. When you beat the crap out of someone damage shows on 
 them! The story they did was so fun to watch I was glad they made the move to 3D. Moves look nice 
 too.
  
  Controls are ok. Hard moves are near impossible to do while easy moves are way to easy to spam 
 and inbetween. Music and sound was pretty good although some for the voices for the DC guys sounded 
 weird. 
  
  So why don't I like this game? 
  
  For starters theres not really fatalities/gore anymore. I don't care what they want to call them 
 its not gory. And if its not gory its not MK. Some characters have them but even then its no that 
 violent simply because you might be hurting poor superman you know in a violent way. So MK is now 
 MK Lite.
  
  Some things that are suppose to be hard are so easy to do they can be spammed and you can't do 
 anything about it. Its like facing a MK Ryu. And this applies to some easy moves to.
  
  The story mode while probably the best part is cheesy to play through in how its presented. And 
 on the same note the endings for everyone are junk. No in game ending... nothing... Just a drawn 
 picture that sit there with some audio..... thats it?
  
  Overall this game is fun at first but doesn't have much to offer. And for MK fans while you may 
 like some of the new features, there are other things you wish they wouldn't have touched. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bshyne
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot of characters to choose from each with unique skills. The combat is very balanced 
 in my opinion. The story mode is pretty cool. I was worried about the E rating, but you can still 
 get your point across. Since I'm a big fan of the series, I guess my review is bias. I'm also big 
 on fighting games and this is easily one of the best. I think the people complaining are the one's 
 getting owned on-line. This game deserves more respect because they made it exactly how it should 
 be made. I hope they continue to make more MK vs DC games in the future. I really like the direction 
 this series is going in. My favorite thing about Mortal Kombat, is that they always try to do something 
 outside of the box. I think they hit this nail on the head and I'm very happy. If you like Mortal 
 Kombat and you like super heroes then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astrotoby
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  this game is really well made. the graphics and sound is right - i don't think it really loses 
 much from its teen rating (except the occassional fatality / brutality can be a bit lame) - but 
 what it desperately needs is more characters and DLC. it comes across as an entree - when it is 
 the same price as a main course.
  
  Add some more characters to the game Midway - the game desperately needs them. you promised them 
 - you reference them multiple times in the game - finish the damn job!!!
  
  and make the first lot free - for making us have to wait much longer than you originally said - 
 and because you released this game half finished.
  
  This is a fun game - and the mix of characters works much better than you would imagine. 6 - 12 
 more characters is all it really needs - and some damn unlockables - the story mode is a bit thin 
 - and the arcade version has lame, text & picture endings that dont really allude to too much except 
 the expectation that there will be more characters added 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdjVG
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  It wasn't too hard at all and you would want to use every character to see each fighting style 
 , it has the perfect balance between hard and easy, like hot and cold. The kombat is amazing, best 
 I've ever seen on a fighting game, especially with the bruises, cuts, scratches, and torn clothing 
 to make it even more interesting. The story mode surprised me alot. I didn't expect a story mode 
 that detailed and entertaining especially when Scorpion encounters the Joker. The ending is tight 
 and the kombos are even better. Gameplay is smooth and I had no freezing at all, and glitches were 
 not found. Each character is unique and none of them have the same fighting style that seems like 
 you are looking at the same thing over an over again and the special powers are amazing. The minigame 
 modes like Test Your Strength is a nice touch and I liked that add in to make it more interseting 
 then it already is. Hopefully we can see a sequel, Mortal Kombat vs DC Universe vs Marvel Universe, 
 (with Black Panther and Deadpool) . Yeah a triple threat would be nice, every world for themeselves. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tanktoptastic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  If you like Mortal Kombat and you like DC you'll love it. A collection of some of the better and 
 most memorable characters with DC character ports that surprisingly work. There are a couple of 
 set pieces that wow you the first time but button mashing to preserve your energy whilst being 
 driven backwards through brick walls a couple of times is at best a chance to regain your composure 
 as you roll your eyes.
  
  The moves are easy enough to pick up and a full list is available through the pause menu but what 
 is less easily identifyable is how to perform the finishing moves. Completing the game with all 
 characters in arcade mode unlocks achievement points and is a good way of familiarising yourself 
 with each of their moves before venturing online for some multiplayer matches. Here you will need 
 to be super good or prepare to recieve some flawless but mercifully short poundings. 
  
  I suppose the biggest question is HOW ON EARTH they managed to make Wonder Woman unattractive? 
 This was a stab to the heart to all men of a certain age. However, the rest of the game and animations 
 look very good. Loading times teeter on the precipice of aggrevating but the menus are simple and 
 get you staight into the action. A few more unlockable characters would have been better too.
 
  
  It's a good game to play through but will always be destined for the "trade" pile once you have 
 done so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kung_Fu_Ninja
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Well, I have to admit, when I first heard about the Mortal Kombat franchise's next move, I was 
 not looking forward to it. DC characters? Really? You can't be serious? However, my earliest perceptions 
 of MK vs. DC were shattered when more on the game was revealed. It actually looked like a good 
 game. Encouraged by videos from E3, and then even more gameplay peeks as the release date neared, 
 I found myself wanting to give it a shot. So I did. And MK vs. DC did not disappoint. Improved 
 fighting mechanics made it easy for anyone that has played a Mortal Kombat game to immediately 
 jump in with practically no learning curve. The addition of DC characters turned out to be a ton 
 of fun, meshing well with the game. The story, however, was pretty weak, but honestly, I just wanted 
 to beat up Scorpion with The Flash. Story aside, the all the characters have unique move sets and 
 special attacks, Test Your Might has been given a renovation, and the new freefall fighting system 
 added a new flair to the brawl. Close combat (and the freefall fighting sequences) were pretty 
 tricky to counter, nearly impossible in fact. It's more of a luck thing than skill, for sure. Overall, 
 MK vs. DC is the same thing Mortal Kombat has done in the past, except this time around they settled 
 for a T rating, added an array of comic book favorites, and flared up the age old fighting system. 
 If you're a hardcore Mortal Kombat junkie, buy this. If you're everyone else, it's a great rental 
 party game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OICWUTUDIDTHAR
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat.... Vs...... DC.... If you told someone a game like this would be coming out ten 
 years ago, they'd laugh at you and think you're insane. Aaaaand... yeah, here we have it. A combo 
 I'd never see happening, Liu Kang vs Batman. And I wasn't sure if this game was going to suck or 
 not, but it's actually alright, it's not great but, it's fun to come back to every once and a while, 
 and an interesting experiment.
  
  Good:
  
  -Mortal Kombat and DC actually come together well
  -Feel's different, and appeals to DC fans.
 
  -DC characters aren't just clones of MK characters, they're actually good, and different.
  -Decent visuals
  -Storyline doesn't take itself seriously and is just completely random and rediculous, 
 the fun transcends to the audience (Unless you're just picky as hell or depressed) .
  -Solid Gameplay
  -Good voice acting (But not great)
  -Aerial combat is a nice touch.
  -Some 
 cool envirements (Aaaand a few mediocre ones too) .
  
  
  Bad:
  
  -Storyline also may not entertain everyone, and doesn't have replayability.
  -Klose Kombat is 
 a little disorienting and sudden at times, and is partly based on luck.
  -Gameplay sometimes doesn't feel as satisfying as much as other fighters.
  -Story mode is a little 
 too easy
  -Flash feels cheap
  -Liu Kang looks too asian, but at least he has the voice actor to fit.
  -Lacks depth due to limited 
 modes, and not so big character roster.
  -No gore for the lose.
  -Combo trial is unforgiving and almost useless, and shouldn't be bothered with anyway.
  
  
 
  Fun facts:
  
  -Tomb Stone next to Liu Kang right before the first battle in the MK story line is Sanchez, the 
 man who does the voice for the legendary lines such as "Finish him!" and "Fatality".
  -There's a few references to the Mortal Kombat theme song and the movie.
  
  
  
  
  Well 
 to be honest there isn't much to say about this one, it has a few modes. Story mode for MK and 
 DC, an arcade mode, a local mutli-player, the combat trial mode, and an online mode, none of which 
 have too much to 'em. I'll admit the story mode is pretty cool to play through if you're familiar 
 with both franchises, simply because it's surreal to watch Superman and Luther, and Liu Kang and 
 Sub Zero have to work together to figure out what's going on, but after you see it once, the second 
 time won't really bring it back like the first time you play through the story mode, it's also 
 a bit too easy, but that may be for you to decide.
  
  The controls are responsive and fluent, the gameplay is still good old Mortal Kombat, just that 
 you can side step in 3-D motion. This makes it way too east to dodge projectiles, there's also 
 klose kombat where basicly you hit one of your attack buttons to hit your opponent in.. well.. 
 close up. The other player pretty much has to guess what button that is to dodge those attacks, 
 so it is based on luck and expectations, but sometimes it just slows the combat down or just gets 
 you in the middle of a strategy and screws you up every now and then but not too often. Now the 
 aerial combat, that's where it's at. Falling in certain stages and beating the crap out of your 
 opponent feels so good, too bad it's not in every stage. Then you got your rage meter, once that 
 gets full (by taking damage and such) you get into rage mode (You'll glow yellow eyes) and your 
 attacks will be harder to dodge, but it only lasts 6 seconds, use it wisely.
  
  Probably the biggest problem for me are the fatalities. No gore, they've been toned down because 
 of the T rating or whatever, which pissed super hardcore MK fans off. I was dissapointed with it 
 aswell but I already saw it coming when I saw the T rating, so there was no reason to be surprised 
 at all.
  
  Online mode (which is the same as local multi player pretty much) is great, it's completely lag 
 free, and it's easy to jump into the action, and it's nice to see that, I really enjoyed that part 
 of the game. It's as simple as it gets, one on one, random or friend.
  
  The graphics are pretty good but nothing special, the art design used help the MK gang fit in with 
 the DC gang and vice versa. The environments look pretty good but not all of em are so flashy.
 
  
  The music is also alright. Sets the mood okay but the music itself is just a bit generic for the 
 most part. The sound's of the punching and kicking and busing through walls sound impacting for 
 the most part. The voice acting is -surprisingly- good. Liu Kang, even though he looks weird in 
 this game, probably has the best voice actor for his character.
  
  How long the game will last is completely depending upon the player. If you somehow manage to get 
 addicted, you'll love it's online mode, and arcade mode. I unlocked everything in a few days and 
 I took my sweet, sweet time. (Just started to play Metroid Prime 3 at the time too) . If you're 
 a die hard fighting game fan, or an extreme die hard MK fanatic, I say buy this game, if you're 
 skeptical, and looking for some serious depth, I say either pass on this game, or borrow/rent it.
 
  
  Overall, Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe doesn't hit it's potential and leaves you wanting more content 
 and unlockables, but even so, it's still a really fun game if you're into the arcade fighting genre 
 like I am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reyace
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. Come on! Have you ever seen superman getting beaten with bruises and 
 cuts that badly? One of the best things about the game is the fatalities and the heroic brutality. The 
 best fatality so far goes to the joker. He just whips out a gun and shoots out a gun that says bang. Then 
 he whips out a real revolver and shoots them in the face. The game kindof sucks in the way because 
 they took out most of the blood but the game is still worth sixty five bucks. One of the suckiest 
 character in the game is wonder woman. First of all her attacks are just plain boring. Second, shes 
 just a plain boring, not so powerful, princess. The character i like the best is superman. He is a 
 power house. His three hit combo is way to cool. I like is brutality because he power drives them 
 into the ground. I got loads to talk about but i think this is enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hungryfrog
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, I hate to say this but, Mortal Kombat is no good anymore. I had ZERO fun out of this game. 
 : ( Honestly, the DC characters are cool, but the rest is useless. MK Armageddon is 100x better! 
 I am so disappointed I can barely type this! Don't even bother renting, I did, and I am so upset 
 I did! No gore, no game. Where the heck is Goro?! Plus, you can only unlock TWO, yes, you heard 
 me, TWO characters! WHY MIDWAY!?!?! WHY!?!?!?!?! The Story Mode is okay, since the characters actually 
 talk, but it's much too hard. Not to mention too much movie. It's turning into Metal Gear Solid, 
 more movie than gameplay. Don't bother. Please. Honestly. Buy this for a Christmas present and 
 the reciever will shove it down your throat, no joke. Also, as usual, the cheap AI makes a boring, 
 frustrating, torture-like experience. Well, this pretty much wraps up my review. Please trust me. 
 Really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D3dr0_0
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 13, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out that if your a true fan of this series you will be disappointed about the lack 
 of blood and gore, they even watered down the fatalities other than that I think they balanced 
 some of the characters well. They gave each character one fighting style unlike the other MK games 
 which is a good thing if you cant remember combos from those games. The roster consists of MK & 
 DC characters like the title says. They could of made this a great title but instead they wanted 
 to hold back on the things that made this a great series in the first place. We all bought the 
 MK series because it gave you the choice to humiliate your opponent by finishing him/her off. I 
 kind of saw this coming since it was DC superheros, I mean who could imagine Superman to kill someone 
 it felt out of place seeing this mash up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  
  Mortal Kombat vs DC Universe : A fighting game featuring characters from both the Mortal Kombat 
 fighting game and DC comic book franchises, in a combination that could only make sense to fellow 
 gamers who've seen Capcom do it before with Street Fighter and Marvel. For all intents and purposes, 
 all of the franchises involved are being riding on the coattails of The Dark Knight, as evident 
 by Batman's prominent appearance on the box art over actual DC mascot Superman.
  
  Story : will sound very familiar to anyone that has read a comic or watched a Saturday morning 
 cartoon at any point in their life. Two parallel universes are merging and a bunch of guys from 
 both universes are going to put a hurting on each other before realizing they have to unite to 
 fight the real bad guy. Spoilers be damned, I'll tell you right now that the final boss is Darkseid 
 and Shao Kahn merged together to form DARK KHAN. Along the way, they'll throw at you one hackneyed 
 excuse after another to explain certain anomalies, like how Superman developed a weakness to fists 
 or why there's this new gameplay mechanic called "Rage" or why Batman and Superman are yearning 
 to hurt each other. The whole damn story is hokey as hell but its better presented here than in 
 most fighting games.
  
  That story, by the way, has its own mode. This mode lets you choose either the Mortal Kombat or 
 DC side and presents the storyline from said point of view. In a nutshell, it's just cutscenes 
 thrown in between fights, but that's really all you can hope for out of a fighting game when you 
 think about it; the more you try to tinker with the in-game engine for the sake of a single-player 
 campaign, the more things get screwed up (think Soul Calibur) . There's also the typical arcade 
 mode where you just wail on a bunch of guys before you get an ending comprised of still shots. 
 To be fair, you can only choose to fight enemies from one franchise, so it's entirely possible 
 to play most of the game and not have to look at a Mortal Kombat character.
  
  And to also be frank, I don't think anyone out there was laying on their lawn chairs, soaking in 
 the sun, sipping a martini and thinking to themselves "I wonder what would happen if Sub-Zero fought 
 Catwoman." This does feel like too much of a page ripped out of the Capcom playbook. Not that the 
 logic behind any of the Marvel vs Capcom games made a world of sense either, but the justification 
 in those games was that Capcom had already made Marvel-based fighting games, as well as games that 
 were actually well, you know, good!
  
  The good news for DC video game fans (and if you actually are one, you must be a masochistic fellow) 
 is that your precious heroes have been done justice. This isn't Justice League Task Force all over 
 again; Superman will actually fight with laser eyes and ice breath and Captain Marvel will yell 
 out "Shazam!" a lot. For better or worse, the DC characters will fight like they're DC characters 
 and not a generic fighting game character archetype with tights on. All of the game's 23 characters 
 are certifiable fan-favorites; no Shuma-Goraths here, so unless you're an avid supporter of Kabal 
 or the Wonder Twins, no one is going to be whining and complaining about so-and-so being absent. 
 Yes, that means that all of the Mortal Kombat characters present are from the first two games, 
 and considering how lame the last couple of MK fighters have been, that's just fine in my books.
 
  
  Speaking of which, one of the game's strongest points is that it acknowledges that the last three 
 Mortal Kombat games had a lot of excess crap. All that nonsense about multiple fighting styles 
 that made no difference is gone, along with the unnecessary puzzle mini-game, chess mini-game, 
 kart-racing mini game and lame-duck story mode. All of that is gone. Each fighter has one single 
 fighting style and basic dial-a-combos now only have 3 or 4 button presses. So on the surface, 
 the game seems to be a bit more accessible.
  
  However, Mortal Kombat creator Ed Boon continues to struggle with the idea of depth in fighting 
 games. It seems that his notion of skill comes from memorizing long combos, inventing combos the 
 developers never intended the game to have, and otherwise finding ways to "break" the game and 
 make a cool Youtube video out of it. This idea is even promoted in a separate mode, "Kombo practice", 
 where the game lets you rehearse several of these ridiculous, game-breaking combinations. Depth 
 comes from trying to outthink your opponent, countering them and their fighter-of-choice's tactics 
 with your own. That's not quite the case here, as just like in every Mortal Kombat game of past, 
 every character has the same height, weight, attack speed, reach, strength and so forth. Every 
 regular attack has the same properties, give or take, so if you have some kind of delusions of 
 grandeur of playing this game at any kind of competitive level, then you're in a shock as you find 
 yourself bowing to whatever character has the longer combo or the slightly longer leg sweep distance. 
 Even special moves have to be questioned sometimes; it seems that all of The Flash's special attacks 
 involve him just running forward.
  
  No sooner did I realize this than when I started playing the game online, against other people 
 fighting with DC characters (and sometimes Scorpion.) When I was playing with fellow novice players, 
 the experience was actually pretty solid. The game rarely lags and the matches actually sometimes 
 seem like dynamic battles. But when you fight someone that knows what they're doing, then the fight 
 is over sooner than it took for you to find an opponent in the first place.
  
  Though I guess this game is meant to be a visceral experience rather than a tactical one. Get knocked 
 over a ledge and the characters will fight each other in a completely dumb mini-game to simulate 
 punching each other during the fall. There are indeed a couple of small and silly mini-games like 
 that within the fighting arenas, and they all look cool, but looking cool only goes so far when 
 you considering the hundreds of rounds that someone will play in throughout their time with a fighting 
 game, or at least a good fighting game. And just in case you haven't heard yet, since it seems 
 to be the biggest news story emanating from this game, the trademark Mortal Kombat violence is 
 slightly toned down, as there's no gore in the fatalities. You can cry foul if you like, but the 
 shock and entertainment value of the Mortal Kombat fatalities evaporated a decade ago, so I don't 
 consider this to be much of a loss.
  
  For what it's worth, this is the best Mortal Kombat fighting game devised since the series went 
 3D, and the best DC-related video game that I can think of. The mash-up isn't as unintuitive as 
 one might think. The game makes a decent weekend rental for most people, unless you thought the 
 last three Mortal Kombat fighters were great and in that case, you'll find a shower of bliss in 
 this game. Or perhaps you're the type of person that likes to "defy" the system and look for hidden, 
 game-breaking combos to exploit. You'll find something to tamper with here too. But in my mind, 
 and the minds of others, fighting games are meant to be learned, practiced on, and ultimately pit 
 against other players in what can legitimately be considered a test of skill. And in that arena, 
 Mortal Kombat vs DC's might doesn't test itself well.
  
  Pros : Hearing the trademark Mortal Kombat announcer proclaim that GREEN LANTERN has won the match.
 
  
  Cons : The rage meter business is dumb. As you get beat up on, a meter fills, and once full, you 
 gain temporary invulnerability. This whole idea breaks the flow of the fight, as the counter to 
 this is to just run away until it wears off.
  
  3 stars
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-Mustang
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  this game was a genius idea but midway failed to make it an iconic fighting game like the original 
 mortal kombat or capcom vs marvel
  the story was good but the way that both worlds collided was stupid but its story mode was fun 
 and exiting
  the gameplay was good too somethings reduced it from being very good like no gore (what the hell) 
 mortal kombat is known for its gore some of the fatalities are good and some are really bad but 
 all the heroic brutallity are very retarded because its not satisfying and its like you were making 
 a powerfull move during gameplay not like you were finishing him off, the klose kombat is good 
 but somehow depends on luck ans the free falling is very good actually
  but depends on luck too
  and the characters some of them are just so cool like batman and subzero 
 or scorpion but most of the characters are just stupid like who the hell is captain marvel or deathstroke 
 did the DC run out of characters and who is that dump that want to play as lex luther he is so 
 stpuid and nobody likes him as a villan like the joker ,midway said that superman can be deafeated 
 by magic then if i play as joker or batman againts him they dont use magic but they can defeat 
 him ,some characters are just too powerfull like flash
  and why the characters have a cartoonish look? like the joker he looks like in the cartoon series 
 of batman why didnt they give him a serious look like in the dark knight movie and captain marvel 
 outfit looks like his mom just made it for him for halloween
  the AI is smart but it somehow annoying because they try whatever it takes to survive even if they 
 repeat the same move over and over
  the characters ar almost the biggest problem of the game but the rest is good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadrisingguy
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Okay, where to start with?
  
  Well i am going to start with the story. A accident that happens to merge MK baddy Shao Kahn and 
 DC tyrant Darksied happens at the same time. Next thing you know, The two universes start merging 
 together. The story is cheesey, you cant help but smile at the game when its trying to be seroius. 
 But that is also a good thing. Lets talk about the gameplay now, The gameplay goes back to the 
 combat of Mortal Kombat 2, witch is good lol. There are these two new modes called Free-Fall Kombat 
 and Klose Kombat. Free-Fall Kombat lets you fight while you are falling between stages. Klose Kombat 
 is and up-close-and-personal fight style. The graphics are REALLY good, the run in the Unreal Enigine. 
 My biggest problem with this game is its rating, it doesnt feel like Mortal Kombat. Neverless, 
 This is a great game to rent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesovvolf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  Well I didnt know what to think when I heard of this game coming out, Wether its a stupid idea 
 or a clever idea, well ile say that it was a stupid idea but it did work, the graphics are stunning 
 you can see every fiber of there fabric and every crack in the leather that to me says the model 
 artists have paid close attention to the little detials that people seem to ignore these days when 
 creating computer games, but its not the graphics that have ultimatley sold this game to me, its 
 the story mode, it was a welcomed suprise when i saw a cutscene between every fight, and ile simply 
 say I loved the idea and i think they need to start doing the same with all fighting games, Im 
 not a avid fan of fighting games becuase they dont actually give you much of a story, just a cutscene 
 at the end and it kinda makes me not give two **** about the characters im fighting with or who 
 im fighting against becuase i dont know them, i dont know if there doing bad or good, if they stand 
 for some thing that as a meaning, with MK vs DCU they gave me something to go on, they gave the 
 characters some sort of emotion and moral propuse for me to go buy, they also told me the story 
 instead of just giving me an ending and saying "there you go thats what you was fighting for dont 
 let the door hit you on the way out", well the story, characters and voice acting isnt the Shawshank 
 redemption but at least there trying to do some thing new. Also both of the story lines were reasonabley 
 long for a fighting game and it took me a while to complete it other then just walking through 
 it like most fighting games. As far as the fighting goes well I found it well balanced with some 
 characters more combo orientated and some characters more power orientated, I found that the DC 
 characters were more power oreintated and the MK side more for combos, The difficulty curve isnt 
 brilliant, the first few firsts are way too easy and then it just rises to easy, so there's not 
 much of a challange there, and will be completed easily once you get the hang of the characters. 
 the hard part of the game is the combo challenge that I my self cannot do, the combo challenge 
 is difficult but its rewarding and gives you new ideas on how to punish your opponent.
  
  Okay the gameplay is solid the graphics are beautiful the story is bad but at least it tries, but 
 what bring this game down isnt any of those and it certainly isnt the lack of gore, the thing that 
 brings the game down is the lack of unlockables and the lack of gameplay mode, the whole fun of 
 some of the previous mortal kombat games was unlocking more costumes when you completed it with 
 certain charaters, this game dosent have that, which is a pure shame becuase I was really looking 
 forward to unlocking some alternate DC costumes, maybe a Joker that is like Heath Ledger and the 
 Movie version of the Batsuit, Bizaroo Superman ect... its not a total loss as the game is simply 
 fun but its a damb shame.
  also the lack of the mini games and other game modes pull it down abit, I really enjoyed puzzle 
 kombat from deception and i thought it would be interesting to see it on this game too, along with 
 chess Kombat.
  
  Overall:
  
  Okay Batman fighting Subzero, Scorpion Fighting joker... yeah its silly but I liked it. The game 
 isnt fantastic ile say that but it seems to have put an effort in there and is only halted by the 
 lack of gameplay modes and lack of unlockables.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jairowolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  I love this. Something has gotten started that will spark A hold of fututre game developers to 
 combine games and make it A all out vs. play with who ever you would like to choose from. I like 
 this Idea and can only hope to seen more of it in the future. Keep on techin And make that best 
 of every player out there. I Think you picked A great story line and I can't wait to play it In 
 the future. I would Like to be a developer myself. The fall off the edge excitment in Mk vs DC 
 is something exciting And I can only think that finishing moves are going to get mor gory as we 
 play. A run in with new technology And its capability to reanimate is the kind of thing that I 
 might be able to do with the people in general. I havn't much time to play recently for I am saving 
 to buy my own home. If there is something the Mortal Kombat field that I like, Its defeating everybody 
 in the way you want to deafeat them. Alities are the thing here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snarple_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Pluses = Great texturing, Great Models, Great Story Mode, Great online game.
  
  Minuses = Feels a tiny bit censored, but still keeps you wondering how it is a T and not a M rating.
 
  
  I was one of the people saying o. k. Street Fighter went against Marvel, but can Mortal Kombat really 
 go up against DC with out it feeling a bit too tamed? The answer is yes, sure when it comes down 
 to the fatalities they do feel like they held back a bit, but you still get some fun fatalities. 
 The blood is also still in there, it sprays just like the old days. Its also nice to see that the 
 texture brushing of the last gen games stayed in there, its nice to see after a 3 round brawl both 
 fighters having battle scars, and ripped clothes.
  
  For the fighting I miss the 3 fighting style's of the PS2 Mortal Kombats, seems like they simplified 
 it a little bit with only 1 style but your still able to get some good fighting in there and the 
 style's they put in there feel very appropriate to those characters. My only gripe is the combo 
 counter seems a little broken, sure it doesn't really do anything to the gameplay so no one should 
 really care, but when I was trying to get that 10 hit combo I questioned why it wasn't counting 
 all my combinations of movies.... A nice hint Flash has a instant combo that hits that combo achievement.
 
  
  Now the big concern is can DC and MK really excist together?? Well the story explains it rather 
 well and really does make it believable. It also poses the questions of how can Scorpion beat Superman, 
 and when Superman is put up against a god who will win? These question are all answered very well 
 in the very good story mode thats in the game. This story mode is really well written and really 
 does work, after every fight a small piece of story is given away with out it ever feeling like 
 your just watching too much cut scenes that are just getting in the way of the fun. Very nice job 
 with the story mode, I really wasn't expecting such a well drawn out story, but I guess when DC 
 signed on this was going to happen.
  
  Now for the Unreal engine, it really does shine in this game. I have always felt like the last 
 gen Mortal Kombats were the best looking, most real fighter of the last gen system's and it seems 
 like they really wanted to continue that. The texturing is very well done, with a lot of detail 
 that really fleshed out both the MK and DC characters... If you really look close up on the texturing 
 its really up there with a great looking games like Gears of War 2. There did seem like a tiny 
 bit of frame rate issue's during the cut scenes but its very minimal that you will barely notice 
 it unless your really trying to find flaws. The models are really well done, everything from Superman's 
 front curl, to Scorpions mask, very well detailed models.
  
  Online play seems like it takes the best of both worlds, it gives us the ranked unranked option 
 or you can just go into a chat room and challenge someone exactly like the last gen Mortal Kombat 
 games. When you finish a fight you can chose to rematch or find another fight, which is something 
 that I wish other fighting games would do online, its horrible to be thrown out to the online menu 
 after you and another fighter just had a really close fight and you two would love to fight again 
 just to see who really is the better fighter.
  
  In the end I was really surprised with this Mortal Kombat game. They really did bring a great effort. 
 If your looking for a good fighter this is definitely a good option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klaisn
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  This game has the best game-play in a fighting-game in a very long time. I love the combos and 
 the special moves you can put in the combos, amazing. The whole idea of the mortal kombat universe 
 colliding with the DC universe may sound stupid and dumb but they actually pull it off, big time! 
 
  
  The story works really well from both point of views. It's a bit silly but that's just how I like 
 it. The only problem with it is that it is a bit short and that you don't get to be all characters. 
 
  
  Arcade is fun, as always. Does not disappoint. I would have wanted som kind of tag battle or something 
 in that direction, but hey, the games gameplay is what counts in the end.
  
  Online play is as fun as ever and it works really great. There is nothing like kicking butt online. 
 I love it when people hate me ;)
  
  The characters are well balanced and you get to be almost everyone you would love to play as (i 
 miss Johnny Cage and Kabal though) . This is a 9/10 for me, would have been a 10/10 if only there 
 been som more characters and some more modes. The game-play is fantastic though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayo_93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  This game is a back to basics approach with a few extras to keep you from getting bored. The game 
 feels and moves like you are playing any of the previous MK games with the addition of some in 
 fight sequences that give you a chance to do some extra damage in a relatively creative mini-game. 
 The games occur in some grapples and special, area specific parts of the arenas i. e falling off 
 roofs or pushing through walls. The game has a nice pace to it and the joystick feels as though 
 it responds well to your inputs. One thing, and I likely needed practice at Breakers, was I felt 
 on occasion I had no chance to exit an enemy's combo. Admittedly frustrating and probably my own 
 fault. The game, however, could have used more characters as the MK predecessors alone have nearly 
 twice as many characters as this game. But given that the game is fun, relatively balanced, and 
 easy to jump into I will give them a break and say make sure to give this a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMaximus
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Having played MK since MK1, I was excited about this on and at 1st this game was fun, although 
 it was way to easy to beat the 2 story's. Online seemed promising and matches were fun, frequent 
 and fast, that suprisingly has already started to change, now almost every online match has most 
 people selecting 1 of 3 or 4 characters who use the same over powered moved over and over ad nauseum, 
 you can still beat these guys, but it is just boring as hell and gets old really fast, so fast 
 that I already sold my copy just a couple weeks after release, it just got to boring. I may pick 
 this up again sometime to see if anything has improved, but this one will be bargain bin in no 
 time. If you are a hard core MK fan you may not burn out on it so quickly, but replay value is 
 nearly 0 once you bore of blocking The Flash special moves 80 billion times. I would recommend 
 waiting on this either way, in Jan you will find it on ebay for $20 or less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamefreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  You see Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe is a great combonation, But the big problrm is that the gore 
 is eally tuned down and there is no much blood, From what i remember is that Mortal Kombat always 
 had a lot of blood in it i mean damn even the Fatalitys don't have blood i mean the fatality moves 
 always were a total blood bath, This game is great but what it really lacks is blood and gore i 
 mean when i saw the review and i didin't se the bloody hand trophy i was shocked, i was like: (What 
 the a Mortal Kombat game that does not have that trophy wow!) But really fans of the game will 
 enjoy it and they will like it, the story is great the character desings were great but all i can 
 say is that it is a really good game well worth your money and you will like it very much it very 
 much really this game is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargodjocky2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  i never wanted to stop doubting this game, but all the negative crap about the game was about to 
 change my mind. i picked up the game a few days after it came out, and i was very surprised. first 
 off, the graphics. the characters looked great and the environment had great detail. the game play 
 simply resorted back to the style of MK3. it was kinda like a 2d gamestyle, but shown in 3d. its 
 a pretty nice way of fighting, but you cant pull off those insane combos anymore. i do miss the 
 environment kills that i have come to love. the story is short-lived, but its still got a interesting 
 comic book feel. the characters actually blend very well and although its got a few weird choices 
 in people, but its fun to kill superman with Lou kang. the gore was toned down big time and some 
 fatalities like jokers zoom out when he shoots the person. and no loss of limbs. but still, its 
 not like it makes the game suck. the online play is very smooth and nice. all in all, a got a game 
 worth my money.
  
  
  
  8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deeddashocker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Give it a try. There is much far worst games than this out there. If you are a MK fan rent it... Mortal 
 Kombat freak no brainer BUY!
  
  i played through the Mortal Kombat side of the story mode and was hooked; however, when i got the 
 the DC side... not so much. i guess if i read more comics growing up i would have liked the DC characters 
 more but as far as the kombat Sub Zero is still the man and Scorpion is still the better NINJA 
 once you figure out what you are doing. 
  
  i am going to fire up the X box now to see if i can figure out how to dominate with some of the 
 DC guys and gals. if you are torn i would say rent with an option to buy. for all you Mortal Kombat 
 and DC fanboys out there did you really have to read this to decide if you were going to buy come 
 on who are you fooling. can wait to see ya'll on live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darren_ankney
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  This installment in the Mortal Kombat series is not quite up to the level of the usual MK games. 
 I think they had to make some compromises to include the DC characters. First, the violence level 
 is not quite the same as games of the past. Secondly, there are some mild balance issues between 
 the characters. Thirdly, the selection of characters is not quite large enough. Fourthly, Multiplayer 
 mode is awesome! Lastly, the story mode is pretty cheesy.
  
  The "good" DC characters do not have fatalities. The fatalities of those characters who do have 
 them ("evil" DC characters as well as all MK characters) are not up to the level of past MK games. 
 DC probably had a hand in this. I'm sure that it was also useful in garnering a teen rating. They 
 need to make a Marvel vs Mortal Kombat - I'll bet that Marvel would have no such hangups :)
  
  Some of the characters are weaker than others, which makes for a limited selection during the 
 multiplayer. Superman is not nearly as powerful as I would expect. Contrast that with Captain Marvel's 
 overwhelming power, and Liu Kang's crap kicking moves. Scorpion is all powerful and so is batman. 
 Kano is as useless as ever :) Meanwhile Sonya is way more powerful than she usually is. Batman 
 has one nearly unstoppable move. Balance has never really been one of Mortal Kombat's strong points.
 
  
  There are some missing Mortal Kombat characters that it would have been nice to see. Quan Chi is 
 in the story mode but is not in the game. That lizard ninja guy from past games was pretty awesome, 
 and he is absent. Goro would have been a nice addition.
  
  Multiplayer mode is as fun as ever! Whether playing on the internet or playing with friends in 
 the same room. It is just good fun!
  
  The story mode - ick! I suppose if you liken it to the old justice league program on Saturday mornings 
 from the 70's and 80's, it is pretty good, but as compared to today's games, yuck.
  
  A good experience that is worth it if just for the multiplayer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonps
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 28, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  The idea of mixing Mortal Kombat characters with DC comic characters seems like a great mix of 
 dark styles and brutal battles. Although the result is anything but I'm afraid. Not that I'm saying 
 the game is rubbish not at all, but it certainly can't reach the levels provided by the previous 
 MK games. However we can't judge this game based on the previous MK games that wouldn't be fair. 
 So I'm reviewing it as a stand-alone fighting game.
  
  And as a stand alone fighting game, this is very average indeed. The first and most annoying complaint 
 is the combat. Now I'm not trying to big myself up here but I'm a seasoned veteran of fighting 
 games and the timing required for combos. I love my SNK fighters and timing is critical in those 
 games. However no matter how precise I was I simply couldn't get the annoying combos to work for 
 me.
  
  Now the strange thing is I had no trouble with the combos where you simply press A, then AAB, then 
 AABY etc. it really feels like the combat wasn't finished or they simply couldn't be bothered to 
 finish it. The fighting system is completely unbalanced, where characters can pull out cheesy move 
 after cheesy move on you till you die. The "breaker" (a bit like the combo breaker from Killer 
 Instinct) move at least allows you to have some counter attack.
  
  The other big problem that I feel is totally and I mean totally unforgivable, is the art style 
 and character motives. Liu Kang is supposed to be a Bruce Lee styled martial artist with slender 
 body tone and muscle tone. Not an Arnold Schwarzenegger body double. Matter of fact all the male 
 characters look like they've been working out for England. Liu Kang doesn't even look Chinese, 
 he looks American!, but at least they use a Korean voice actor.
  
  The game looks too americanised, which destroys the illusion of great martial artists battling 
 to the death. They've even destroyed Scorpions story line so that now he's kissing Quan Chi's backside 
 sacrilege! The fact the game has no unlockables (although DLC is promised) was the motion that 
 made me take the game back and demand a refund.
  
  True MK fans beware this game destroys the great heritage of MK games gone by. Don't be fooled 
 this is a basic average fighting game at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobbyBlaZe
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  I reserved the Kollector's Edition of MK vs. DCU expecting a whole lot more than what I was given. 
 Now, I'm not complaining about the cool lithograph and decent T-Shirt it came with, but the game 
 itself lacked a surprising amount of substance.
  
  Single Player Modes: First off, both story modes took me all of 5-6 hours to complete (to be honest, 
 I sold it before I beat the final boss the second time around, but you get the idea) . To be fair, 
 it's a standard one-on-one fighting game, so I wasn't expecting a particularly engrossing and intricate 
 storyline, but I was still surprised to see nothing more than a bunch of repetitive fights tied 
 together by simple cutscenes. With that being said, your other single-player options are Arcade 
 and Kombo Challenge. Truthfully, Arcade mode is simply Story mode (or vice versa?) sans the cutscenes, 
 and Kombo Challenge is so intensely difficult that most casual gamers will quickly turn the other 
 cheek.
  
  Multiplayer: Here's something I couldn't tell you a whole lot about, as I rarely manage to pay 
 for Xbox Live (I just don't have the time or money to be playing games like that, unfortunately) , 
 but fighting against friends is just as much fun as it would be in any other game.
  
  Kombat: Perhaps after spending too much time getting used to SoulCal4's fight mechanics, it was 
 my fault for being disappointed in the actual combat. In many cases, the outcome of a fight depends 
 on who get Rage first and pretty much rip the opponent apart. And while I do appreciate the idea 
 of Klose Kombat/Freefall Kombat (Freefall, esp.) , having to guess which button your opponent will 
 press is a highly unreliable method of turning the tables. In all fairness, however, most of the 
 special moves were awesome and I can't complain all too much about the overall feel of the combat.
 
  
  Other Stuff: The stages were set up pretty well, actually, no complaints about that. The character 
 roster, however, was disappointing at best. Not so much in terms of the characters present, but 
 the actual magnitude is disappointing as you can pretty much play through and almost master the 
 entire cast in not much longer than a few days. Oh, and graphics and sound and all that jazz were 
 pretty cool.
  
  I don't blame for MK vs. DCU for disappointing me, I just blame myself for shelling out 70 bucks 
 instead of just renting it for 10 and getting the same experience out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmvanir
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I had mixed emotions. I was not sure how the DC characters would 
 mesh with the MK universe. The writers did a great job of melding the two universes into something 
 that works. Once you start to play you begin to wonder why the DC characters were never added before.
 
  
  The fighting in this game is a throw back to Mortal Kombat 2 and 3. These are my two favorites 
 of the series to date. I like that the multiple fighting styles were dropped from previous MK titles 
 and we went back to uppercuts and sweeps.
  
  The fatalities are true MK style. I catch myself smiling every time I perform one :)
  
  The 
 story mode is interesting and keeps you going. Again, the writing was great to mesh the two universes.
 
  
  Overall I was pleased with this game and it beat any expectations I had for it. I would rank it 
 up there with one of my favorites now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  now, the MK franchise has been changed forever by releasing this title. you have new sequences 
 to transition, one basic fighting style, and different stories. the thing that made me want this 
 game VERY MUCH is the free fall kombat. you fall down long distances and there are button pressing 
 sequences while falling. same goes for klose kombat except you grab them when you're standing next 
 them. now, I'll tell you this now, the story line for this game SUCKS!!!!! there's awful voice 
 acting and the story itself is pretty stupid. but these things do not weigh down the game much 
 at all. the test your might sequence is pretty fun to me. you begin pushing your enemy through 
 many wall and the faster you push the buttons, the more damage is done to the opponent. the graphics 
 during the game play is quite impressive. the graphics for the cut scenes aren't all that but I'm 
 not complaining. the game play itself is pretty good. the combos are pretty cool but they're kinda 
 short. just a few hits. but the weird D-Pad for the 360 makes the games a little less enjoyable. 
 the analog stick gave me some trouble. but I found the D-Pad a lot easier to use. you just have 
 to know how to use the D-Pad to get the full use out of it. but what pissed me off was that there 
 was no blood! I understand that they don't wanna show people get ripped to bits, but seeing SOME 
 blood would have satisfied me A LOT!!!!! but overall, the game is great. lots of new additions 
 added into the games and they make you really focus a lot more when you play; rather than just 
 pressing buttons that do a simple punch, you need to really concentrate. but yeah get this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeman87
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  This ones hard to describe because contrary to what others have said, I don't believe the MK & 
 DC characters go together at all. They realy don't. Most people playing the game will be an MK 
 fan, like myself & its more than likely will be a comic fan as well, so seeing each of these characters 
 on screen, is at first awesome. Who doesn't want to play as Batman or The Flash?
  
  Then it hits you. Compared to the tough looking MK guys, the DC guys in tights, capes, & little 
 green masks look sooooo silly its embarasing. By comparison, the seasoned fighters on the MK side 
 realy wouldnt stand a chance against the likes of Superman. There is a story tied into how this 
 is possible, but its so hard to swallow, that to is embarasing. 
  
  On the plus side it looks great, sounds great, & most of the signature moves of characters on both 
 sides are here. The combat is hard to describe. All characters have only 2-3 hit combos, plus their 
 special moves. To get the game flowing you must string the short combos with special moves together. 
 The problem is, its way to hard, & the timing is fickle at best. 
  
  Overall, its worth playing because it has its moments of fun, but its definitely not the Mortal 
 Kombat I have come to know & love. Because of the DC characters, the blood & gore have been toned 
 down to a level, that is again embarasing. Shame of you Ed Boon. The 'Heroic Brutalaties' must 
 be the worst idea ever.
  
  MK fans, like myself will lap this up, hook line & sinker & love it, until the initial joy of having 
 an MK to play wears of. I look forward to the next REAL MK game, because this, is most definitely 
 not an MK game, but rather a watered down, half baked idea that never should have left the ideas 
 room.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion1414
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  While some may find the lack of M-rated gore reason enough to not check out this game, i say give 
 it a shot. Mortal Kombat has returned to its roots with hard-hitting, brutally fast and intense 
 that the series is known for. 
  
  Surprisingly enough though, the writers for the game actually make the story work, with just the 
 right amount of cheese. And some of the voice acting is downright goofy (I'm looking at you Shang 
 Tsung) , though if you have the right sense of humor you'll enjoy it. 
  
  The online is almost great. The whole chat room idea works, and I see how Ed Boon wanted to make 
 it feel like the arcade golden age, but it can get annoying seeing "SOandSO defeated BLAHblah! 
 Winning streak of ##!" just too let you know how much of a bad a** SOandSO is. But that is only 
 a minor complaint. Lag has hardly been an issue along the time I've spent with the game.
  
  While this game is also a little dry on the features side (Kombo Challenge will keep you busy, 
 as long as your head doesn't explode) , Mortal Kombat has always been about beating someone's butt 
 hard and fast, and this game more than delivers on that front. The absence of gore is hardly noticeable, 
 and the colorful cast of characters make's this game just plain fun. A definite buy for any MK, 
 DC, or fighting game fan. 
  
  8.75
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fib112
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Out of the box, this game is awesome. The graphics are clean and amazing, the sound is big and 
 in your face, and the wow factor is high. But, what happened to the gore that made Mortal Kombat 
 so unique? They toned it down to a PG-13 cartoon type level. I mean, it is still good and I like 
 the game, but when you have fatalities and brutalities, I think it's OK to expect a bit more.
 
  
  The game is pretty hard. The Kombo Challenge is next to impossible. It's really hard to get them 
 to work and I can't imagine what would be involved in learning the 10 string combo. Overall, I 
 like the game, though. Some of the characters seem a bit too powerfull, or maybe, I just haven't 
 learned their quirks. Superman is a lot of fun to play with some crazy looking power moves. I like 
 the fact that you no longer have to hold a button down for 3 seconds to get Lui Kang to do the 
 bicycle kick. But, I don't really like how the combos are strung together. In the previous game, 
 it seemed easier to string combos for a big hit. Maybe I just haven't figured it out yet.
  
  I think most people who play this game for the first time will really like it. Old school people 
 like me are left wanting a bit more. I keep thinking what if it was MK III with the graphics of 
 today. There are 2 really cool additions to the fight, the test your might and the throw where 
 you can keep hitting. I wish it was a bit more like the older version. I can still recommend thuis 
 game to most anyone, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SixxGunner
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game a few years back, I thought it was the crappiest idea ever. 
 But as time went on, I got more and more exited. In the end, it turned out to be the coolest game 
 I played all year.
  Gameplay. The gameplay is exelent. It's easy to get used to, it's fluent, and it's unique. Each 
 character has a very unique moveset and style. The combos are easy to pull off because you make 
 them yourself rather than following a moves list. They also did a great job of incorporating special 
 moves into the combos. Another cool feature is Klose Kombat. You can enter this mode by pressing 
 RB. Your characters are pulled in close, and the aggresor proceeds to beating the living crap out 
 of the defendent. However, if the aggresor misses, the defender can counter, thereby exiting Klose 
 Kombat. Another feature is Freefall Kombat. When you knock someone to a lower level, Freefall begins. 
 While your falling, the agressor (person who knocked the opponent off the cliff) will be above 
 the defender and start beating him. however, if the defender blocks, they will switch positions, 
 and the defender (who is now the agressor) will start the beatdown. If you get in 3 good hits, 
 you can unleash a painfull looking special move. Rage is the last featur. There is a small guage 
 below your health, and the more you get hit, the more this builds up. If you get it half way full, 
 or more, you can use a breaker. Witch allows you to end an opponents pummeling in you. But if you 
 save you guage, and don't use any brakers, you can let the guage fill up and unleash rage mode. 
 When your in rage, your hitting effects are turned off, youcan hit someone even if there blocking, 
 and of course your powered up. Many people say this game's a button masher, but I'll explain their 
 stupidity later.
  Character roster. The character roster is very well balanced. It's cool that they brought back 
 the roots of the MK characters. They aso brought in some of the coolest and most well-known DC 
 heros and villians. The Joker is turning out to be alot of peoples favorite. The only real dissapiontment 
 is the few amount of unlockables. It realy depends on who you are. If you just wanna get Darkseid 
 and Shao Kahn and be done with it, then your good. But for those looking forward to unlocking a 
 whole bunch of guys, you may run into a problem.
  Arcade. Arcade mode, of course is as good as always. The only real big differance, is that you 
 can choose to fight an arcade of all DC guys, all MK guys, or mixed. To help out beginers, if you 
 lose a few times, the enemy becomes way easier. Perhaps too easy? Alot of the beginers, who don't 
 realy know what there doing, button-mash their way through arcade (after already losing so many 
 times) and then complain the game is a button masher. As long as your smart enough to know punch, 
 kick, ect. you won't be losing or button mashing. To all those who think this is a button-masher, 
 learn how to play the game!!
  Story. The story mode is very well put together. You can play it from either the MK or the DC side 
 and see how they see eachother as the invaders. The MK story starts out that Shao Kahn is attempting 
 to escape, but Raiden zaps the portal the emporer is trying to escape through, causeing him to 
 ackwardly warp away. On the DC side, Darkseid was defeated by Superman and was attempting to escape 
 via boom tube. But Superman heat visions his boom tube and Darkseid is warped strangly away. Shao 
 Kahn and Darkseid, who are both in corrupted portals at this point, end up crossing and merging, 
 making a new being .... Dark Kahn. To clear things up, Darkseid and Shao Kahn are traped within 
 Dark Kahn, not actually controlling him. Dark Kahn's existance is forcing the merging to occur. 
 His energy is also causing the combat Rage. (rage mode) The rage takes people over and makes them 
 want to fight. But the more they fight, the more the merging hastens. 
  So in the end, the game is awesome. It's gonna bring MK back from the ashes. The gameplay works 
 well, and all the modes should keep you intrested for a long time. Defenetly worth the money and 
 the wait. You should get it, wheater your a vetran at MK, or a newbie.
  
  
  Keep on rockin,
  SixxGunner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SauhlGood
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  I havn't played a Mortal Kombat game since MK2 on the SNES. So I had an open mind when it came 
 to this game. Open mind, but also high expectations. 
  
  First off. Here's the fun stuff.
  
  Game looks great. Nice graphics, Animations are quite decent 
 and for a Superhero/villan game. The pace and beat em up style seems to fit just right. The story 
 mode was done quite well and kept me quite entertained and fit both universes. Weather it's the 
 battle between realms on the MK side or the Infinate Crisis theme from DC the story made more sence 
 than I thought it was going to. The voice acting I was actually quite impressed with, Kano sounded 
 like an Ausi and Liu Kang sounded Chinese, as well as having everyones voice sound like it was 
 ment for that character. (Unlike Guile from street fighter, all American with a Jap accent =p ) 
 Just nice to see they put the effort into voice acting wich many games just dont seem to care about.
 
  
  On the bad side.
  
  I find the game a little to simplistic. I remember Fatalitys being somthing you could realy show 
 off with, people were impressed when you actually preformed that long complex series of manuvers 
 to really end the game on a vishous note. Now I sorta find them a waste of time. A 5 year old can 
 preform them. (Down Down Forward Forward B - Superman brutality) not so complex is it? And once 
 you've seen both and the only 2 fatalitys for your character a hand full of times, they get kinda 
 old. Not to mention some of them just seem kinda lame and could have been more creative. Shao Kahn, 
 and Darkseid . . . . No Fatalitys. Comon! I really wanted to Scorch someone with the full force 
 of the Omega Beams. Oh well. Perhaps a content patch. I've also noticed while playing that there 
 are a few hit box errors when it comes to fighting people who can Teleport, ie: Raiden, Shang Stung, 
 Flash, Captain Marvel, sometimes you can hit them while they are behind you and your foot went 
 in the opposite direction. Just a little Gripe there, no big deal though. Last but certainly not 
 least, Missing Characters. Reptile, Johnny Cage, Supergirl, Martion Manhunter, Doomsday, Cyrax, 
 Kung Liao, Some of peoples favorites, Just didn't make the cut. Again, really hoping for extra 
 downloadable content. 
  
  All in all, I'm still having alot of fun with the game and as I get better at the combos and Pro 
 moves and the physics of the game I only see it providing more and more hours of competitive fun. 
 
  
  And thats the way I see it, perhaps I need glasses =P
  
  ---SG
  
  PS. I miss the MK level with the Bridge and the Spikes!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandTheftC12
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty fun considering the "T" rating. When i first heard of the idea i didnt know 
 if it would be to great but it is really fun. I agree it could be somemore characters and a little 
 bit better story line. Anyways i just like kicking my friends but as the flash. You would'nt really 
 think this was a mortal kombat game it just has a different feel to it. But if they make a sequel 
 and add more characters it will be awesome. The characters in this game have great graphics. The 
 story is some what long to be a fighter game. I just feel like the story was too rushed and didnt 
 have enough clips in it, you are constantly fighting fights that really have no purpose to fight 
 to begin with. They could have made the story alot better but the good 2 player fighting makes it 
 worth a play. So i would recommend this game if you like fighting games that actually feel like 
 your fighting and not pressing the same thing over and over again. The only thing that Midway went 
 wrong with is in the commercial it said unique story lines, i really didnt see anything unique in 
 its story. But overall good fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OoogieBoogie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Right from the get go this game proves why Mortal Kombat is still a viable franchise. Without learning 
 any moves and not even knowing the button layout I started the Story Mode thinking that there would 
 be some lame training mode to teach me how to fight like there is in every other fighting game. 
 I was dead wrong. This game throws you into the action like a red neck father teaching their son 
 how to swim. Combat is easy to learn and oh so very satisfying. The computer controlled players 
 still have the same problems that most computer controlled players do, however this time around 
 they work perfectly at keeping the game challenging. Every part of the game play is great however 
 there is little to do with the game other than challenge people to fights. After the initial story 
 mode which can be finish in one sitting there's nothing else to do except fight other people which 
 makes the life span of the game shorter than most modern fighting games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fd10956
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  When i heard that there was going to be a new Mortal Kombat I got really excited. Waiting for it 
 to be released there were people saying that it would be with a comic book brand of characters 
 I was thinking that it would be great. But in my head I was thinking of Marvel, you know with spiderman 
 and wolverine, but then i heard that it would be with DC comics.
  
  But even though, I thought that was pretty good. Finally it was released and went to pick it up. 
 popped it in and played. Picked my side to play (MK side for sure) . As I played, I thought they 
 did a pretty good job on on the graphics side (thanks unreal engine) . But as I played the story 
 line started to get kind of repetitive and kind of boring (not to so it isn't good) , so I started 
 to play the Arcade mode.
  
  Looking at the line of characters I thought "Man, this just isn't going to cut it". So with this 
 game I only spent a few hours on it to work it out. Thank god I rented it.
  
  But in all, if you are a true Mortal Kombat fan, you will love this game, but it is also a renter 
 for any gamer that is a fan of fighters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Overall, Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe is a really good fighting game. It doesn't have a whole 
 lot of extras as seen in some of the previous MK games, nor does it have a very interactive story 
 mode, but arcade mode and the multiplayer vs. modes are still as fun as ever.
  
  The character models look amazing, and although there aren't a great amount of characters to play 
 as, there is still a decent variety. Sadly, almost all of the fatalities in the game are pretty 
 lame. They are nowhere near as cool as some of the fatalities in its predecessors.
  
  The story mode is just arcade mode... with a story. The only gameplay that takes place in story 
 mode is exactly that of arcade mode, the only difference is that you don't get to choose which 
 character you want to be. The characters you play as just alternate throughout the story. What 
 you do get to choose though is whether you want to play through the Mortal Kombat story or the 
 DC story, which are both just as fun.
  
  One thing that is quite annoying, if you are using the analog stick to move your character, is 
 the fact that you have change back and forth from analog to d-pad just to execute a jump. It probably 
 would have been better for the designers to designate a "jump" button instead.
  
  Hardcore DC fans will eat this game up, but MK fans may be let down by some of the gameplay aspects. 
 It's fun, it's just not the amazing experience that could have been offered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JVelvet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game I thought it would only be for total die-hard fans of the two properties. 
 Little did I know that just a few days after it's release I wouldn't be able to stop playing it.
 
  Fighting games are few and far in between as of late especially good ones. That is why at first 
 I cringed at the thought of such a total off the wall idea. It turns out i'm glad they did it. 
 There are a few minor flaws here and there in the story. Who really cares? The game is fun! That's 
 all that really matters to me and most gamers. Who cares if Sonya Blade completely Donkey Punches 
 Lex Luthor, or Superman doesn't absolutely kill everyone with heat vision in one move? The fact 
 is it's fun.
  The only thing I really have to gripe about is why the Joker dances around like a silly girl? I 
 mean come on! He is the best DC villain and arguably the best villain ever. Why can't you make 
 him a little more dark and brooding. It's like they based him off the Adam West version of Batman. 
 Anyway, that's beside the point. The game is almost solid. I'm sure a few updates and it'll be 
 up to par. It's defiantly not going to win game of the year with contenders like Fallout 3 and 
 Gears of War 2 also on that ticket. However it may just pull a rabbit out of it's magical hat for 
 biggest surprise of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldeneyegod
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  I mean c'mon game companies, what's wrong with using the analog stick on every controller since 
 the original PlayStation? It's just like an arcade joystick, only smaller. This is the most frustrating 
 aspect of console fighting games, made all the worst in that no ones ever talks about it, either 
 in the gaming community or among the reviewers. 
  
  Is this like some geeky, white elephant in the room I don't know about? Why do I have to use a 
 blister-inducing d-pad when a more functional technology is literally at our fingertips? I would 
 have loved this game had this functionality been implemented. Think of how much easier it'd be 
 to do a "half-circle-back-back" with the stick on a controller? 
  
  Wasn't this the very criticism leveled against the Resident Evil and Tomb Raider franchises, yet 
 nary a mention from Gamespot? Confounding.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CODjon84
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  What can I say.. This game is just downright amazing, Like many others I was very skeptical of 
 this game given the concept and "Teen" rating but once I bought it and played it, I quickly forgot 
 all that because the fighting, graphics and gameplay are just so satisfying! the fighting is the 
 best since the MK3 and Killer Instinct days and the fatalities are still very good despite them 
 not being gory.. The story mode is really good although the voice acting isnt that great at times 
 but the overall story is told really well. 
  
  Arcade mode is a blast if you want to play it like old school MK, I think the best part of the 
 game is the online multiplayer.. I still have not experienced any lag over Xbox live while playing 
 this game whatsoever and most of the people i have played have mics and the overall community is 
 great and A LOT of people play online which is also great!! The character models look great, arenas 
 look great and if you have a surround sound set up,, IT SOUNDS AMAZING WITH lots of deep bass when 
 you do slams or throw heavy punches!! This game is a MUST BUY, the online multiplayer will keep 
 you playing for a very very long time and is VERY ADDICTIVE and the overall game is so fun and 
 addictive, ive been playing it non stop since i purchased it.. DEFINITE BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guygirlmandude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I know what you thinking dc in a mortal kombat game thats gonna suck but it doesnt its actually 
 pretty good the dc characters are unique and their powers are utilized in their special moves and 
 the story explains why the hell they're in a mortal kombat game and no they didnt take a wrong 
 turn. To me bieng a fan of the series is kinda wierd but refreshing as far as the story and new 
 featers go. The new kombat system takes some time to get used to but if your new to the franchise 
 you should pick it up fiarly qiuckly then special moves go smoothly with the kombat system. Graphic 
 wise there is a bit to be desired but that is to be expected becuase there are using a new graphic 
 engine so they will get better. they introduced two new kombat modes, they are freefall kombat 
 and klose kombat they are all character specific so its fun to see what they do. there is like 
 no extras like the krypt theres only bios and arcade endings so that was dissapointing. But overall 
 the game is really well done and its worth playing through although the story can get a bit tideous 
 at times, but thats all apart of it so go out and get it, this should make a nice addition to your 
 ever growing collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bIacklisted
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game of course some people will say its not at all any fun cause they like that 
 3 sets of fighting styles or it has DC characters in it when they think it should of been a Focused 
 Mortal Kombat game but this game is surprisingly fantastic. I will admit I had my doubts with the 
 Teen rating and all and I still wish it could much more brutal cause isn't that what most teenagers 
 love :) . But anyways for a first try and a gamble on trying something new its fantastic they really 
 did a good job. The Klose Kombat is a nice touch really brings you "klose" (pun intended :p) . The 
 story mode is short but sweet. It ties everything in pretty well considering I don't think anyone 
 else could have done it quite like this. The free fall and wall smashing in the game is fun for 
 either side weather your giving or receiving its cool to watch. Even the toned down fatalities 
 look cool. I'm sure after this Mortal Kombat with the success it may or may not get The next will 
 will REALLY set the bar for next gen fighting cause I don't think they did that quite so much here 
 but none the less still a enjoyable fighting game for either Die Hard MK fans or the causal Fighter 
 fan.
  
  *Stay Black Listed* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EllesarSmith
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  Alright, so you've read many reviews and they've all either loved it or hated it. I'm going to 
 lay out the good and the bad for it. As you can tell, I loved it. You decide for yourself. Here 
 it is:
  
  1. Story mode for both sides is surprisingly good. 
  I played through both with a friend and honestly we weren't expecting much (like SCIV's explanation 
 of SW characters) . What we discovered was a well thought out, expansive storyline. While sometimes 
 you may wonder why MK didn't simply kill the DC characters, you'll find an extremely clever and 
 interesting take with either storyline with plenty of Oh-No-You-Didn't moments. Some of the team-ups 
 seem irrational in the long run but that's the new trend anyway so roll with it people. The voice 
 acting as a whole is natural and smooth with the occasional quirky line here and there (more of 
 a script issue than an acting one.)
  
  2. Graphics
  Now, some of them could use an upgrade (I agree that Wonder Woman is somehow just not on the same 
 caliber as the others. I think its the hair...) On the whole however, very very nice. The sun glints 
 of Jax's arms while he fights and the fighters receive visible battle damage (unscripted- meaning 
 where they get hit it shows) a considerable upgrade from SC IV's attempt. The animations are smooth 
 and crystal clear. One disappoint: while most of the cutscenes are animated, some of them are just 
 still photos with talking which is deflating particularity at the game's zenith. And for those 
 of you who simply can't get over the that the game is not Mature rated, stop reading now, turn 
 off your computer, hire a psychiatrist, and tells someone who cares. The ownage in this game and 
 the amount of blood they get away with the Teen rating is exquisite. It's not like there aren't 
 fatalities in the game!
  
  3. Innovative
  I was unsure how Klose Kombat and Freefall would flow into the rest of the combat. Personally, 
 I feel it flows seamlessly and provides many opportunities to smack talk your friends after completely 
 owning them all the way down a three hundred foot drop. Klose Kombat allows for a complete transition 
 where button smashing tactics that inexperienced players use in all fighting games fades away to 
 the necessity of careful watching and anticipating. The weapon system has been eliminated except 
 in the characters of Baraka and DeathStroke.
  
  4. Individuals
  I read a review that complained about the number of characters. While it is true that there aren't 
 40 people to choose from, what people don't realize is that means no cloned characters. Every character 
 is unique and has their own moveset and super powers. This is usually the sacrifice you make- do 
 you have 60 characters but half of them are just clones or 18 but they are all unique? Generally, 
 everyone is balanced as well (although personally the Joker is perhaps a little too good but who 
 really cares... IT'S THE JOKER!!!)
  
  5. Finally, the Learning Curve
  This one is, what I feel , the most important. The best way I can describe this game, difficulty 
 wise, is two steps higher than Super Smash Brothers. You have more than just six attacks to string 
 together but it's no where near the insanity of most fighting games. Some people like pressing 
 a thirty-two button combo sequence that requires both hands, a foot, and a llama to execute; some 
 people don't. You can pick up this game, never having played, and learn a character in 15 minutes. 
 To master them, you may need an additional 30 minutes. Decide for yourself if that appeases you. 
 I like it because it allows for everyone to actually have a chance in versus mode instead of facing 
 some freak who has memorized an unrealistic combo streak of cataclysmic death (such as often occurs 
 in Soul Caliber) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junkchaser
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  My first reaction was : "Yet another release"? Oh no, this can't be good. After MK2 it really went 
 wrong. Too complicated and to commercial productions of a very old-school marketing trick: "add 
 gore".
  
  As old-school gamer of the early 90's I have known the MK hype from the beginning. After the 3rd 
 release I was rather bored with the game. But still I have a lot of respect for the high standards 
 they achieved every release.
  The main thing where I lost my interest in this game is the fact that a lot of games saw the success 
 of this series and took the good part as a copy : "gore". So after a while the MK series became 
 mainstream. The 3d version, MK4, was really a big disappointment to the MK community as they tried 
 to catch up with current 3d games. Next to the Virtua Fighter and equal games it was nothing more 
 than mediocrity.
  
  Back in business!
  Anyhow, when I tried this release they really are back in business. No DOA4 or Soulcalibur4 that 
 can overrule the great simplicity of arcade gaming. No hundreds moves to learn to have some fun. 
 It's all about the right timing and the right moves in a certain situation. Like the old days...
 
  
  The storyline is great!
  They really came up with a great storyline. Very simple but very 
  addictive. If you play it 
 you will be surprised a few hours passed.
  You can choose the MK storyline or the DC storyline. Both are a mixture of the same story but you 
 play on your selected side only.
  
  Moves and graphics.
  A lot of people don't like the animated MK style of fighting. But this time I'm very glad they 
 changed it and came up with some more up-to-date 3d engine (UT3 engine) . Now they have the real 
 fluent nice moves and action you like from 3d fighting games.
  All the moves are so exaggerated you can't stand laughing about it. Sometimes the action is so 
 hilarious you can't keep up fighting.
  
  Buy it, you'll love it!
  This game has such a nice re-playability. You can play it for five minutes or for hours. That's 
 the magic of a real good fighting game. And it's back on a nice dvd-disc!
  
  
  For those who loved the first MK's you'll love this release for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desperado2503
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 20, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Let's see how do i start this review in a more appropriate way, let's see.. oh yeah i got it. This 
 game it's the worst vs fighting game ever due to the predictability of midway's MK games & as well... 
 DC. Even if marvel was the chosen one to battle this franchise... wouldn't make a difference. But 
 DC is weak when it comes to good or neutral characters unlike marvel but that's another topic of 
 choices so let's leave it at that. OK, the game has little features, the worst "ity" on any MK 
 game related (fatality, brutality, etc) plus the good guys from DC just make a brutality.. they 
 can't kill i mean COME ON!!! 
  
  It's hard to say if there's anything good in this game, it's hard... let's say this was a test 
 for midway to see what they could add, recycle or remove in a future MK game.
  
  & fanboys please... please, stop disagreeing with some of my reviews ok, not everything is perfect 
 & while other biased medias give some "good" rating, it ain't true. Watch this game for what it 
 is & it is the worst fighting game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halfstar
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  finally a fighter with a story!
  
  i got home and threw the disc in and like all other fighters, jumped directly into arcade - i was 
 getting my ass handed to me, so i started playin the story to learn the moves and damn, its awesome... 
 soul calibur and DOA with the same scene each time: "a thousand fighters have tried a million times 
 to conquer the [insert game-specific tag here] and failed - now it's your turn" in mkdc, the story 
 totally brings the two worlds together. special moves are hot - my faves are joker's glove punch 
 and the old standby subzeros freeze. also the game looks tight - the effects and the characters 
 look bomb. finally i wouldn't even know this game is T-rated, if it weren't for people making such 
 a big deal over nothin. i can't wait to see what characters are gonna be in DLC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherif77
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Okay so back in the PS2 games the MK games were all getting old and nobody wanted to see another 
 one come out. Enter MK Deception. Game was great. Offered 3 fighting styles that we all loved linking 
 combos in. Amazing Fatalities. Great level design with death traps. All MK fans palyed it, LOVED 
 it and enjoyed the puzzle fighter that came with it and Chess as well. They felt like extra games.
 
  
  Time goes by and Armageddon rushes the store shelves. They strayed away from the Deception formula 
 and it turned off a lot of ppl. Game was not as deep, Characters all had the same combos in the 
 air. And the mini games like Kart Kombat was really really bad.
  
  Fast forward to 360. Now we have DC to enter the mix. Ed Boon wants to take another new direction 
 (WHY?) and here we are. A game that all MK fans and DC fans will want to play. But the enjoyment 
 will not last.
  
  How can I put this??? Combos are just not MK style. You are left off repeating the 2 punch into 
 kick button over and over and over again. The super moves are even been tuned down a bit. Scorpion 
 spear does' t even have its killer edge no more. Don't get me started on Fatalities cause they 
 are a step back from Deception as well.
  
  Non the less you will like this game as a rental. Cause for all of us fighting fans we always like 
 to dream and think about cross overs. MK VS SF.
  Marvel VS SF. And now you have MK VS DC. You know you just have to play it. So rent it enjoy it, 
 and get rid of it. Its just not deep as MK Deception.
  
  I really hope the MK games would go back to the Deception style of fighting and build on it. Give 
 us more characters and levels with death traps in them. Expand with the Chess game and puzzle fighter. 
 Come up with new modes. Just make it bigger and better. 
  
  History never lies, and MKD got the Best score so far... that must mean something Ed Boon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryTipper86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat vs DC Universe is a 3-D fighting game and the best one I've played. The story can 
 be seen through the MK character's point of view or the DC's. Each side thinks the other side are 
 invaders. Everything will be clear after you know both's sides story. This is a very creative story 
 mode. While the two sides fight each other, they are unaware of the true threat. The graphics are 
 good but not beautiful. The character models are exellent but there are some parts where the graphics 
 are so great. The gameplay is exellent. There are new gameplay modes such as Klose Kombat, Free-fall 
 kombat, and Rage. Klose Kombat is when a character grabs the enemy and go into a close view of 
 the fighters. One person will attack and the other will try the press the same button to counter. 
 Free-fall kombat is when two characters fall off an arena and fight on the way down. The character 
 on top will attack and the character on the bottom will try to press the same botton as the attacker 
 to switch places. Rage is a state where you are powered up. You need your rage gauge to be full 
 to enter rage mode. Rage mode gives you no knock-back and increased damaged. There are now new 
 kinds of fatalities called Heroic Brutalities. DC heroes won't kill their enemies but they will 
 do a finishing "Heroic Brutality". My entertainment with this game was high because it has many 
 things most fighters are lacking. The VS mode was exellent. 
  
  Story- 8
  Graphics- 8
  Gameplay- 9
  Entertainment- 9
  
  Final score- 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ritual-Power
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Im gonna give it credit.... its a good idea but the game falls short of MANY things. First thing 
 that comes to mind its nothing but a button mashing game. You really need no skill to play the 
 game its just smash buttons and win. Second thing is the fact that the story is SOOO flippin short 
 there are a total of 16 chapters 8 per each game. and you have to play with no name super heros 
 for the first 7 with the exception of batman before you can play as superman. The voice acting 
 falls short on almost all the dc characters with the expection of superman. And the fact that they 
 CENSORED mortal kombat is aweful. When you pop a MK game in you expect too see decapatations and 
 mutilations. But with this one the classic fatality of subzero taking an enemys head out by the 
 spine is removed and everything is censored. Bottom line; if your a fan of either MK or DC this 
 game is worth a rental only because the crossover storyline is actully pretty cool. However once 
 the 4 hour game is done it has no replay value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StillFreeTagger
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Mortal Kombat franchise since the age of 3. For 13 years I've supported 
 Ed Boon and his team, even through hard times. Marvel and Capcom had their crossovers, yet I never 
 thought MK would get one. Let me just say, if you told me back in 2002 that Scorpion was going 
 to go a few rounds with Batman... I'd laugh.
  
  Now that doesn't mean I think Mortal Kombat vs DC Universe is a bad game. I'm a die-hard MK fan 
 and I usually prefer DC over Marvel. MK vs DC is an excellent addition to the Mortal Kombat series 
 and is possibly the best crossover of this decade!
  
  The Earthrealm warriors have defeated Shao Kahn. Outworld stopped merging with Earth and the realms 
 are safe once more. As Shao Kahn tries to escape through an interrealm portal, Thunder God Raiden 
 disrupts it just as the tyrant enters. In an alternate universe, the same happens between Superman 
 and the evil Darkseid. Both events cause the worlds to merge and the realms mightiest warriors 
 come face to face with the DC crew. FIGHT!
  
  With 22 characters (11 per side) the game has a good roster. You have the ninja duo of Scorpion 
 and Sub-Zero and the justice team of Superman and Batman. Each fighter has their own set of special 
 moves and attack sets. Scorpion has his faithful spear, Green Lantern has his ring. Each and every 
 character is true to their pedigree.
  
  The Unreal 3 engine brings a whole new attention of detail to the two worlds. The Kombatants have 
 never looked so real! Unlike previous-gen graphics, the extra details on outfits don't look pasted 
 on. Everything looks great from Liu Kang's champion belt to Scorpion's arachnid influenced clothes. 
 During battle, characters will show signs of damage such as bruises and ripped clothes! While the 
 game is rated teen, there is still blood. The only problem I had was that some of the DC characters 
 looked a bit plasticy.
  
  Ed and the team decided to go back to basics with the fighting system. It feels like I'm playing 
 MK3... and I like it. The fighting is no nonsense, being able to create your own combos and way 
 of kombat. While the realistic fighting styles of Deadly Alliance through Armageddon were good, 
 it's good to see MK as pick-up and play game again. Anyone can play this game without any trouble! 
 No more will you have to go to the Moves List to look up combos! You're your own master of kombat. 
 Another great addition to the new fighting system is the ability to cap off a combo with a special 
 move (known as Pro moves) . You can bust out the pain with Liu Kang, throwing a few punches, a kick 
 and ending it with a cartwheel kick! Outstanding!
  
  Now the sound is probably the game's lowest point. The music isn't something that'll get you pumped 
 for a fight. In fact, unless you turn it up from the sound menu, you can barely hear the music! 
 The voice-acting in story mode is ok, but Shang Tsung sounds like an awkward Dragonball Z character!
 
  
  When they say "Choose Your Side" they really mean it! Story mode allows you to choose either Mortal 
 Kombat or DC Universe and play the story from their point of view. Also in Arcade mode, you can 
 choose your opponents (MK, DC or a mixed roster) . Moral allignment is also prominant, as Kombatants 
 and DC Villains have fatalities. DC Heroes have Heroic Brutalities, not actually killing the victim.
 
  
  I bought the Kollector's Edition and as usual, there's DVD content. It comes with a second disk, 
 full of behind-the-scenes extras. Some segments include Alex Ross's work on the Kollector's Edition 
 cover and the Comic-Con '08 panel (featuring Richard Torres) .
  
  This is by far the best title I've bought this year. What started as a shocking, fan-panned announcement 
 became an excellent title!
  
  I StillFreeTagger nominate this game as top contender for Fighting Game of 2008!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Manta-
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  A fighting game that specializes on spamming special moves to win is not a fighting game. The 'pro 
 moves' are easily executed, and several combos are guaranteed to do over half life from a single 
 hit. There's hardly any strategy involved, so this would be a great title for kids and young teens 
 as the blood from the previous installments is largely reduced. 
  
  Creative moves from the DC side of characters, but nothing new from Midway. There's a reason why 
 MK was never a competitive game, and I don't mind something that's easy to access for everyone, 
 but there's hardly anything in depth in MK vs DC, and it's largely clunky and buggy system.
  
  This game will be picked up, played then shelved with all your other previous MK titles, unlike 
 Soul Calibur 4, or Street Fighter 4 which will be heavily played for many years to come.
  
  The flash (not just the one from DC) from the game can be entertaining, but once you've seen it 
 all, it makes justification of a purchase not warranted.
  
  Great for a rental, there are far better games out there for a good group of friends to beat each 
 other up in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rktPYZQShWz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This game has to the the fighter of the 00s it is simply amazing. 
  
  Mortal Kombat vs DC a strange combination indeed. No one could ever think to such an idea until 
 Midway came along with this idea. Well it pulled off and I can't wait for MK9 now. To start this 
 review off I must say the fighting styles of Free Fall Kombat and Klose-Kombat are intense. I think 
 Klose-Kombat like IGN said doesn't fit well with the fast-paced kombat but is still enjoyable. 
 However I must disagree with them saying Free Fall doesn't go with the fast paced kombat. I found 
 that fast fighting then smashing each other to a pulp while flying down a ledge or building was 
 intensely fast. I love the Test Your Might and I find Rage mode tolerable. I am neutral towards 
 it because I find it great for situations of button mashing/ repeat of super-moves if your opponent 
 is doing it. I however like most people do not like it when the opponent uses it. The storyline 
 I found actually to be QUIET interesting and good for a fighting game. The voice work was very 
 good and many of the character's voices fit there personality. The Arcade mode was fun I found 
 it to be quiet longer than other Mortal Kombats I have played. (MKA, UMK3) The biggest disappointment 
 was the lack of content in this game there was like no unlockables other than Shao Khan and Darkseid. 
 I don't understand why they couldn't have had a Krypt mode like MKA and other MKs. Like for an 
 example of what could be but in the Krypt ALREADY IN THE GAME is the artwork you get for each character's 
 arcade mode you finish. Also maybe they should have added a reward for Kombo Challenger like a 
 alternate costume for every character's Kombo Challenge beaten. Last but not least the online where 
 almost all of the replay value will last. The online I find lag-free and fun the leaderboards are 
 cool but friend leaderboards would be a great edition (even though none of my friends on Live play 
 MK vs DC) . Overall I find this to be the best fighter I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat Vs Dc Universe is a very good game. The combat is great and spectacular and very 
 good. The action is fast and furious. The game play is good overall. Its fun and action packed. 
 I'm glad I bought this game. The story is very good for a fighter. Probably the best ever story 
 for a fighter. It keeps the story mode moving along great. The story is very intersting and cool. 
 It tells how both universes collide. In the story mode you can choose what side you want to play. 
 Mortal Kombat or Dc Universe. I played first through the dc story mode and it was good. You play 
 through seven chapters. You get to use seven differnet characters. Each caracter gets their own 
 chapter. My favourite were with Batman and Superman. Superman was my favourite. He's my favourite 
 superhero, but I'm a big Batman fan as well. Superman was in the last chapter and the fight with 
 Raiden and Dark Khan was epic. I'm going to play through the Mortal Kombat story mode today. I'm 
 sure it will be as good as the DC story mode. The arcade modes are great. There are three all together. 
 Dc, mortal kombat, and a mixture of both. The arcade mode is 10 stages long. You fight Dark Khan 
 in the final stage for each arcade mode. Its a lot of fun. I haven't tried the combo challenge 
 yet but I'm sure its challenging, as I have heard. Practice mode helps you get used to the controlls. 
 It helps alot. My biggest complaints are that you can't play through the story modes as your favourite 
 charcter. This sucks. Also there is no single player verus mode like in soulcalibur. This sucks 
 as well. Its too bad that they didn't do these two modes. Its very dissapointing. Id give this 
 game a higer score if they included these two modes. Overall game is as I said very good, but just 
 not great. It falls short of being great. Too bad.
  I give 7.5 out of 10 for the game play. Very good game play. 7.5 out of 10 for the graphics. Good 
 graphics overall. 8 out of 10 for the sound. The voice acting is great, the music if good, and 
 the sound effects are excellent. 7 out of 10 for the value and replay value, as it is not so fun 
 when you play through the stroy modes and the arcade modes the second time. The replay value is 
 still good overall, but not great. I haven't played online yet, but I'm sure its a lot of fun. 
 9 out of 10 for the tilt. The controlls are suberb. Very easy to use. 8 out of 10 for the combat. 
 Great combat. 7.5 out of 10 for the story. 7.5 out of 10 for the story modes. 8 out of 10 for the 
 arcade modes. Great arcade modes. Its awesome to play through arcade modes as Superman. Overall 
 I give this very good game a 7.5 out of 10. Like I said a very good game. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuToPsY_SpEcIaL
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  MK vs. DC is an interesting twist on both sides and surprisingly it works. I rented this game the 
 first day it came out. Story wise its nothing spectacular but its enough to keep you entertained. 
 Graphics are decent but its no GOW2. The game-play is what hooked me into this game, anyone can 
 pick up the controller and play but there are advanced moves that take perfect timing to pull off 
 for players that like a challenge. The fighting really feels like the old MK games which I liked 
 a lot, each character fights somewhat similar but they all have there own unique moves. This game 
 does have a teen rating and I honestly can't believe what they got away with because there is a 
 decent amount of blood, just nothing over the top like MK fans are used too. Despite what some 
 people say the Brutality's and Fatality's aren't that bad, there are some lame ones but for a teen 
 game I can't complain (It does suck though, that this wasn't a mature rating because the DC characters 
 could have some awesome fatality's) . All the characters are fun to play but the Joker and Flash 
 are my favorite to use. The Joker is fun because he has a lot of weird funny attacks and special 
 moves. The Flash is obviously really fast and thats what makes him fun to play, but its almost 
 not fair to use him if your an advanced player because he is almost unbeatable if you have his 
 moves down. One downside to the game is there arn't a lot of unlockable's, which doesn't give the 
 game much replay value. That makes me think this game was rushed. Overall nothing ground breaking 
 but its enough to hit that solid game bench mark and its really fun to play with friends. I would 
 say its easily worth a rental and if your a true MK or DC fan quite possibly a buy. Sorry the review 
 is so smashed together, I didnt have much time and had to write it quickly. I rated this game a 
 SOLID 8/10 ! 
  (In the future im hoping for a MK vs. Tekken with MATURE rating because that game would be extremely 
 Sick in a good way.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matadore
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Scorpion vs DeathStroke Sub-Zero vs Batman yeah, seems like it might work in a very unusual way. 
 However, after playing it for about 3 hours, you'll find yourself quite bored with this shallow 
 hybrid. Let's start off with some positive stuff first its usually always a good thing to do, 
 and that paragraph will be much shorter than the negative aspects paragraph.
  
  The game has some really awesome graphics for the Kombatants. It seems like they spent more time 
 on the fabrics that the characters' outfits are made out of than they did the characters' faces, 
 but for a Mortal Kombat game, its very detailed in that respect. The gameplay is fairly straight-forward: 
 punch buttons, kick buttons, throw button, etc. There is a new "Klose-up" mode that is interesting, 
 although almost pointless since the AI almost always counters one of your 4 hits you can get on 
 your opponent. The falling Kombat is similar to Klose-up combat except, obviously, you're falling. 
 And you get a special move when you raised the meter enough. Hmm this seems to be the end of the 
 positive things about MK vs DC. Let's look at the downside, shall we?
  
  I mentioned the graphics above, but what I left out was the bland stage environments. Street Fighter 
 II has better fighting stages than MK vs DC. They aren't graphically up to par with the character 
 models, that's for sure. And speaking of the models, it seems that some characters' motion capture 
 models were mannequins most notably Wonder Woman. Her fighting stance is so stiff, you wonder 
 if this woman will be able to defend herself properly. Some characters fighting moves were not 
 very creative. (The Flash run and punch is basically all his special moves.) Unfortunately, these 
 are also the ones that are frustratingly cheap. And for all of the characters in both the DC universe 
 and MK universe, they had to add useless characters like DeathStroke, Captain Marvel (??? why is 
 all I ask) , Baraka, Jax and I'm not particularly fond of Lex Luthor either, but I understand 
 why he's in the game. Also, you only get about 18 playable characters a far cry from the amount 
 of playable characters in MK: Armageddon. There is not a Krypt for extras and no alternate outfits 
 for the characters. So once you play through the story mode for each side, you've pretty much completed 
 all you need to complete. The arcade endings are a waste just one single image while the "narrator" 
 describes the ending. And the story mode storyline is very dry. Two worlds merging the MKs think 
 DCs are the enemy and vise versa. Their fighting makes the merge progress quicker. Boring.
  
  If you're an MK fan, I hear there's a real, stand-alone MK in the works. Save your money for 
 that and just rent this. Its worth playing through once, but after that, you'll put it down for 
 something else you play on a regular basis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillz4realz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  The gore is definately alot less in MK vs DC, but I don't even care. The reason is, all the past 
 games when they do gory fatalities, it looked so fake it kinda became lame the older I got. If 
 they made a MK where the gore looked realistic, I think that would be awesome, but if its just 
 gonna keep looking so fake, I don't mind if they leave it out. 
  
  If you like MK games, you will love this one. It has great combat, it just feels better than the 
 past 3 games for sure. I haven't even had problems using the Xbox Dpad. The production values are 
 better than ever, the presentation is top notch, even the theme music is cool, it reminds me of 
 the Batman movies' score mixed with MK aspects.
  
  The only thing you may miss is the added modes from the last couple games. I thought they were 
 cool additions (even if you didn't use them) because they added alot of "side dishes" to the "main 
 course". I liked earning koins to unlock extras even if they were mostly lame lol, but it still 
 gave you something extra to do.
  
  This time they used the Unreal engine, and they had to basically start over now on the new consoles, 
 so its normal that the 1st entry will be more "bare bones" and the next one will undoubtedly have 
 more extras.
  
  So, the overall point is, YES, it is a good game, and very cool. I am very glad I bought it, and 
 I wanted to make sure I bought it new, not used, so that my money went to the people who actually 
 made it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyC
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  The game itself feels like Mortal Kombat lite, but that is only because I have gotten used to the 
 ridiculous amount of features that have come with the previous 2 games. I also struggled in selecting 
 the difficulty of the game before writing this review because it varies and not in the way one 
 would expect. The game is extremely easy one moment and then extremely difficult the next. Outside 
 of the few irritations mentioned earlier the game plays like a Mortal Kombat game and adds an entirely 
 different world of characters to the roster.... a set of characters that everyone should be familiar 
 with. The DC characters or should I say Batman, are the main reason I picked up this game. The 
 idea of MK and DC sounded awkward to me at first but I have been waiting for an enjoyable game 
 with Batman in it for quite some time and I am pleased to say that I have finally found one. This 
 game will not make your jaw drop like some of the other recent games that have been released but, 
 if you like any of the DC characters included in the game or are a MK fan then this game would 
 be a great addition to your library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rexona75
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  HI
  
  this is my first game review, this game is great, the story is fine, but not to die for... the 
 characters are fantastic, the main menu is simple, it would have been a more complex, i hope there 
 will be a second one, where they include more characters.. the locations, the backgrounds, the 
 colors are amazing. the movements of the characters are very slow for me, i am used to the street 
 fighter fast movement but you will be pleased in this case.. the story mode is really nice. is 
 like watching a movie, i heard the comics are on their way, the first thing you have to do is choose 
 a side.. mortal kombat or dc... the story stars superman defeating Darkseid and the first fighting 
 is flash vs deathstrike and the story goes on.. this is a game everybody will enjoy
  the music is ok. i would like to see a second part. an a movie too. 
  
  EXODUZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sunsetcrakcer
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  This is a good game don't get me wrong. I have enjoyed playing thus far. The only real gripe that 
 I have is that the story makes no sense what so ever. If they could have made story some what bettter 
 it would be an awesome game. The combat system is pretty good and the graphis aren't to shabby. 
 They have a pretty good list of characters. The physics engine isn't anything that is ground breaking 
 but it isn't terrible and it works so I can't really complain about that. I haven't noticed to 
 many glitches in what I have played so far. (i've platyed all the way through on the DC side) . 
 Unless you are really a huge fan on MK or anything that is DC don't buy it. It's a good game it 
 just doesn't seem that long. I would say rent it or wait till the price comes down if you really 
 have to have it. I haven't tried it online yet b/c I won't even win one match so I don't plan on 
 embarassing myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liveforever89
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game since the day it was announced approximately 7 months 
 ago. I also became skeptical because of the Teen rating, limited gameplay modes, and a smaller 
 roster than I had hoped for (I was hoping for 30 characters overall) .
  
  However, this game delivered. The gameplay is nice and they did a good job with the characters.
 
  
  The models look good and they all have a nice set of special moves. They did a good job with the 
 environments as well, however, there's only three levels with a Test Your Might aspect on it. I 
 wish there would have been more.
  
  Klose Kombat and Free-Fall Kombat were also a couple of features that had me worried at first. 
 But I think they work great in the game. Whenever you're playing against a friend or someone via-online, 
 it makes the match a little more intense. It does a good job of slowing down the pace but not ruining 
 it.
  
  My only disappointments are that I do wish they had more unlockables. There are only two characters 
 to unlock (Shao Kahn and Darkseid) . I also wish they would have done cool alternate costumes, but 
 they are supposedly releasing some via-DLC. It would be nice if they don't charge.
  
  Overall, I'm really happy with this game and it's well worth the buy if you're an MK fan. Sure, 
 it might not have the 'depth' of a Soul Calibur or a Tekken. But it is fun to play. Afterall, that's 
 what it's all about . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  If Capcom can have a vs. game with Marvel, then why can't Mortal Kombat do the same thing with 
 DC? That's probably what they were thinking when they came up with the idea of this game. While 
 this is a fanboys dream come true, I never really found myself thinking who would win Scorpion 
 or Batman. I guess know I can find out. 
  
  I have been waiting for this game to come out for a while now and I was pretty excited as I learned 
 more about it. MK v DCU does some things very well and falls short in other catagories. 
  
  First off the graphics are good for the most part. There are some issues that I wished they had 
 addressed that seem like short cuts to get the game out on time. The main characters themselves 
 look great. The Unreal Engine makes Batman look intense, Superman look super, Sub-Zero look frosty, 
 and Scorps look mean. The back grounds in the fighting arenas are clear, clean, and well detailed. 
 During the cut scenes in the story mode however it's not so nice. The main characters continue 
 to look great but stick out like soar thumbs compaired to the secondary characters and the backgounds. 
 The animation is flowing and well done and the lighting and shadowing is cool too. This game doesn't 
 look nearly as good as other fighters on the system. When comparing it to Virtual Fighter 5 or 
 Soulcaliber IV, MK v DCU just doesn't add up. The move list seems shallow in comparison, and it 
 feels like everyone fights the same way. I like that every character was different in the prior 
 3-D MKs, also in VF, Tekken, and SC. But that just isn't so here. For those who were concerned, 
 there is blood in the game. It's actually kind of interesting what Midway got away with to make 
 this a Teen title. There are some good fatalities and brutalities in the game. Let's just leave 
 it at that. 
  
  The controls have been changed from the prior system that linked 3 styles together starting in 
 Deadly Alliance. The new system is hit or miss (no pun intended) . I like the close Kombat idea, 
 but I don't like that you have to engage it with pressing a button like throwing someone. While 
 you can attempt to go buck wild on your opponant, they have the ability to kounter by pressing 
 the same button that you press. Also I do like the air controls after you opponant gets thrown 
 from one area to the next. It's pretty much like the Klose Kombat. The test your might like actions 
 by pushing you opponant through several walls is pretty cool though. The 3 styles has been replaced 
 with a more open kombo system mimicking Tekken, but it really feels more like MK4 (dare I say it) . 
 Don't worry it's not nearly as bad as MK4, but it feels awkward when you have to depress a tigger 
 button to move in 3-D with the cross pad. Jumping is much easier and special moves are much easier 
 to execute with the cross pad, but moveing 3-D is much easier with the joy stick. You will probably 
 find yourself switching back and forth between the two. This can be annoying at critical times. 
 I do give Midway props for trying to combine 2-D and 3-D fighting, but it's just awkward. 
  
  The music and sounds are vintage MK. There are some great re-mixes of classic MK and DC character 
 theme songs here. There are plenty of screams in pain, lots of unintelligable noises while special 
 moves are being used. Although a lot of the voice acting is laughable. Pretty much everyone accept 
 The Joker, and Lex Luther sound totally foolish. They sound like one person doing an impression 
 of 12 different people. 
  
  The story is pretty thin too. It's much like the Avengers/Justice League cross over Marvel and 
 DC did a couple of years ago. I'm not going to go too far into the splot, but it does have some 
 surprises but is pretty much redictable for the most part. I do like that you can pick to play 
 as either side and see it from their eyes. 
  
  There are plenty of modes here. Arcade, Story, Practice, and Kombo minigames are available in single 
 player. There is an x box live mode which is fun. There are of course unlockables. The character 
 lists boasts all of the favorite faces from the past. Many characters that aren't present are mentioned 
 by name in the story mode. So that feels cool and chances are you will get to play as your favorite 
 character from either universe. Although I do have to say that The Joker is probably the funniest 
 character and with the best voice acting too. 
  
  MK vs DCU is a solid title. I like it because not only am I a long time MK fan and a comic fan. 
 While I find that these two were never somthing I thought would mesh together, Midway does a good 
 job representing both. There are some technical issues with the game that I feel needed work before 
 sending out and I feel that it isn't up to par with many of it's fighting game cousins or prior 
 MK games (like Deception) . I recommend this game for true fans of the series or causual gamers 
 looking to start in the fighting game genre. Fighting game vets may find that they get bored with 
 this game pretty quickly due to it's lack of depth. If' that's the case, SFIV is coming. 
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matrixfreak444
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  The world of 3 dimensions started evolving gaming to a whole new world of ingenuity and realism. 
 But unfortunately the fighting realm received the shorter end of the stick. Ever since the world 
 of 3d, fans of gaming became addicted to first person shooters. I believe the reason for all this 
 is because the fighters started to change and people in general do not like the idea of change. 
 So in turn giving the game developers no reason to improve on 3d fighters. Besides why would they, 
 when people in tournaments were still playing the original 2d versions. I think if people give 
 these 3d versions a chance and look at them not by comparing them to their 2d counterparts but 
 look at them as evolved versions, then people will start appreciating these 3d versions a little 
 more. I think this game (even though bringing dc characters was an obvious marketing strategy) 
 was an all around pretty good fighter. I recommend this game to all fighters around the world. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trellville1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat went right back to it's roots. Which is straight fighting and none of that "style 
 branching" stuff in the other ones (although i am going to miss that) . This game is pick up and 
 play. You will spend only 15 minutes practicing with the character of your choice. Just as rumored 
 the Joker is really a difficult character to fight because he is so tricky. Graphics are ok although 
 it's no Soulcalibur 4 nor Virtua Fighter 5 but it does look like a Mortal Kombat game, dark, evil 
 and twisted. The bad things are that there really isn't any unlockables the series is known, but 
 it does have the best story mode in a fighting game in a long time and they fit it in just right 
 so you'll understand how Sonya Blade can beat Superman. Bottom line, I CAN"T WAIT FOR ANOTHER MORTAL 
 KOMBAT!!!!! Great game, BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tatsun22
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I remember the first day I walked into the local arcade and seeing the original Mortal Kombat. 
 Amazed by the Graphics at the time and the varied fighting styles, I was instantly hooked. 
  I have lived through all of the varied incarnations of the MK franchise from arcade cabinets to 
 the home console versions and can hostly say in my own opinion that without a doubt, the franchise 
 has finally reached the degree of a game that it was when I was first introduced to it. 
  The DC Universe characters only help to add to the remarkable character selection that has been 
 a staple of the series itself. The new Kombat system really does the franchise justice by adding 
 a level of fighting degree rarely found in the same games of the genre these days. 
  If you want a solid fighter then I would highly suggest MK Vs. DC Universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BV2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  This game is beater than any MK in the series its faster gamply no pose stances and it looks great 
 playing the game is a hole new expirence for new commers to MK and people like me who have played 
 this seris sence thay were born its an amayzing game ill be renting it again this weeek so i dont 
 have to wait to beat it for christmas so it is a heck of a game and the story line with the charicters 
 is amzing the beast person to be on DC is JOCKER his story is the bom and MK is SUB-ZERO but thats 
 just my appion so play it your self if u dont like games like MK atleast trie this one or STREET 
 FIGHTER 4. Thiz is BV2 on the PS3 and if your lookin for some one to challenge and get the hell 
 beat out of u thin thats me or some one to hang or talk to and my name has no space just this site 
 makes u do it. Im out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macrules_640
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Now I know I'm not the only one that was scared when Midway first announced Mortal Kombat vs DC 
 earlier this year. I thought the series was going to go downhill with this game, but after spending 
 a few hours playing MK vs DC I can say that I was wrong. First things first even with the T rating 
 MK vs DC feels just like a Mortal Kombat game admitted toned down fatalities and less blood it's 
 still the Mortal Kombat we all love and hate. When I first got the game I though it would suck 
 because of the DC characters, but actually the DC characters fit in pretty well with the MK universe. 
 The story in MK vs DC universe feels as though it is lifted out of a comic book story. Without 
 giving to much away the story centers around an event that sees the universes of the Mortal Kombat 
 and DC merging together thanks to a character called Dark Kahn who is in fact Darkseid and Shao 
 Kahn fused together somehow and he is the one responsible for infecting everyone of the characters 
 with what is called the Rage and thanks to the sorcery in the Mortal Kombat universe characters 
 like Superman and Captain Marvel are brought down to an equal level to the Mortal Kombat fighters 
 while the DC characters like The Joker and Catwoman see their fighting prowess shoot up to superhuman 
 levels. Now the story can get confusing in spots and the voice acting could of been done better, 
 but all in all the story mode is actually pretty good and beats out Soul Calibur 4's bad story 
 mode. Now one place Mortal Kombat vs DC gets it right is in the fighting system which is a throwback 
 to Mortal Kombat 2 and 3. It ditches the fighting styles and weapons in favorite of focusing on 
 special powers which the Mortal Kombat series has always set itself apart with it. The fighting 
 system is simple and easy to pick up and this is what the fighting system should of been instead 
 of the fighting styles seen in Deadly Alliance and Deception. It just feels great to see the old 
 fighting system back in good form. Now with all this praise there are a few things wrong with the 
 game. First the last few Mortal Kombats have had unlockables that kept you coming back, but in 
 this game there are none and the only unlockable content is Darkseid and Shao Kahn and the story 
 mode is short only clocking in at 6 hours or so and in general there are some minor clipping issues 
 in the game as well and the Test Your Might and Free Fall Kombat can get old after a while. And 
 if you own the 360 version the controls are sometimes hard thanks to the poor placement of the 
 D-pad and if you have a PS3 that is the version to go for thanks to it controlling better, but 
 that's not the fault of MK vs DC. The character models are some of the best from the Mortal Kombat 
 series. The backgrounds are great as well and feature some destruction as well, but no stage fatalities. 
 All in all this is a great fighting game that no fan of Mortal Kombat should pass up. Now one thing 
 I didn't mention was the online play, but thanks to my 360's inability to go online I can't, but 
 from what I heard the online works pretty well.
  
  Pros:
  + Fighting system is solid and it's easy to pick up and play
  + Story mode is surprising well 
 done and there are a few surprises in it as well
  + Character models and backgrounds look great
  + Despite the T rating it's still Mortal Kombat 
 at it's heart
  + Online play is a plus and works pretty well
  
  Cons:
  - Some minor clipping issues with characters
  - 360 controller makes it hard to fight sometimes
 
  - Story mode is short
  - No unlockable content in the game
  - Free Fall Kombat and Test Your Might can get annoying sometimes
  
  Weighting in on the pros 
 and cons I give MK vs DC an 8.5 for being a solid effort. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
