-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MotoGP 07
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/motogp07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Handling maintains arcade/sim balance.
 Excellent online racing enhanced with more options.
 Environments and weather effects are nice.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frame rate still hitches up at some points.
 AI can be frustrating at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 290 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Genre: Motorcycle Racing
Date: Aug 27, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Improved online play and a couple tweaks make MotoGP 07 a fun, but not groundbreaking, two-wheel 
 racer. 

  Ever since the burgeoning days of Xbox Live, there's been a MotoGP game to play. Long-time fans 
 of THQ's two-wheeled racing series will remember that a fully playable demo of the game came packaged 
 with the original Xbox Live kit. Since then, the series has built its reputation on its attractive 
 graphics, challenging handling, and some of the best online racing around. With MotoGP 07, THQ 
 and developer Climax have created another challenging and fun game. It isn't a massive leap forward 
 from last year's MotoGP 06, but it will still please long-time fans of the series.  

           Winning in MotoGP 07 takes commitment. A stone set of you-know-whats won't hurt, either. 

  As in the last few installments in the series, MotoGP 07 is divided into grand-prix and extreme-mode 
 events. Grand-prix races take place on real-world tracks, including the new-to-the-series Misano, 
 and they pit your created rider against real-life MotoGP stars such as Valentino Rossi, Nicky Hayden, 
 and Kenny Roberts Jr. In extreme mode, everything changes up: the differently styled bikes, the 
 fictional riders, and the tracks inspired by real-world locales. Extreme-mode races also tend to 
 be a bit quicker and looser than the more staid grand-prix races.  

  Bike handling tends to be a bit more permissive in extreme mode; it's easier to powerslide your 
 way around corners by double-tapping the gas, and the bikes seem a bit more stable. That said, 
 handling throughout the game will still feel familiar to MotoGP vets: braking is still split between 
 the front and rear wheels, you can lean forward or backward in the saddle to reduce or increase 
 drag, and customizable controls will let you put together the control scheme that suits your racing 
 style. One puzzling aspect of handling is noticeable when exiting out of corners; you'll often 
 see the tail end of your bike waggling left and right, which is either the developer's visual emulation 
 of traction control, or a warning system to let you know when the rear of your bike is about to 
 go out from under you. Either way, the animation sometimes looks overexaggerated. Combine that 
 with underwhelming rumble support during these tail-end waggles, and you come away with a mostly 
 unconvincing effect.  

  Airborne vehicles abound in MotoGP 07. Jetliners zoom in for landings on nearby airstrips, helicopters 
 hover low overhead, and, perhaps the oddest of all, fighter jets seem to be commonplace on both 
 grand prix and extreme-mode tracks, as if many of the game's races are taking place in political 
 hot zones. In some cases, these kinds of aerial details are accurate -- Donington Park, for example, 
 is located next to an airport in England, and those copters are ostensibly there for race coverage -- but 
 in other cases, turning laps at Laguna Seca while F-14s patrol the area is just strange and it 
 ends up feeling more like a cheap attempt at adding visual interest where none is needed. Nevertheless, 
 with active crowds on the sidelines and convincing weather effects, the game is for the most part 
 a treat visually. Likewise, the frame rate, which had its dodgy moments in MotoGP 06, is improved 
 this time around, although it's not altogether perfect.  

           If you're not the guy in first, the view never changes.      

  Offline competition 
 in the MotoGP series has always been hampered by a less-than-stellar artificial intelligence, and 
 that's still the case in MotoGP 07. That isn't to say the competition isn't fast: in legend difficulty, 
 you'll be up for some tight racing on practically every event you enter. Rider AI tends to fluctuate 
 wildly in the game, especially in extreme-mode races. In some events, you'll take the checkered 
 flag going away; in others, you'll struggle to finish on the podium against riders you smoked in 
 the previous race. Opponent riders are mostly merciless in their adhesion to their racing line, 
 doing little to avoid collisions with you or the other riders on the track. It's most noticeable 
 in the starts, when bikes bunch up in the first turns. Get stuck in that melee, and there's a good 
 chance you'll be kissing asphalt. As in previous versions of the game, avoiding contact with your 
 fellow riders is always a good idea, if for no other reason than the fact that your rider will 
 usually be on the losing end of any collision.  

  MotoGP's single-player game definitely offers worthwhile gameplay, from its flexible customization 
 options for rider and bike, to a rewards system that lets you dole out race-won credits for rider 
 attributes such as cornering, braking, acceleration, and top speed. But ultimately the single-player 
 experience is designed to get you ready for the real meat of the game: online competition. In addition 
 to standard player matches, the game also has ranked matches, pink-slip races (where the loser 
 has to give up his or her extreme-mode bike) , and a variety of online tournaments. Different tournaments 
 have their own restrictions: one will let you race bikes only from Japanese manufacturers, and 
 in another you can use only "streetfighter"-styled motorcycles. As the MotoGP series has progressed, 
 the online opponents have raised the quality of their game, and, while it's sometimes tough to 
 get a full field of racers together for the new tournaments, racing online in a standard grand-prix 
 or extreme-mode track is just as exciting as it's always been.  

  When you aren't continuing your single-player career or powersliding around corners online, MotoGP 
 07 has other modes to keep you busy, including a cursory training that is mostly recycled from 
 previous games, and a number of challenges tied to the various grand-prix tracks in the game. These 
 challenges include timed sections, top-speed challenges, and single-lap races. Completing these 
 challenges isn't just a method to learn the intricacies of some of these tracks; it's also a good 
 way to rack up some Xbox achievement points. This time around, points have been spread a bit thinner 
 across a larger number of achievements, including number of races won, number of pole positions 
 earned, and participating in pink-slip races.  

  For the most part, the sound in MotoGP 07 is excellent. There's a good variety of bike-engine sounds, 
 you can distinctly make out the crowd cheering you on as you pass by the grandstands, and even 
 those seemingly ubiquitous airplanes sound true to life as they fly overhead. Which raises the 
 question, why oh why would the producers of the game choose to cover all that authentic-sounding 
 audio with a mediocre and all-too-repetitive punk-pop soundtrack that plays by default during race 
 events? It's an arbitrary layer of mediocrity in a game that frankly doesn't need any bolstering 
 up in the sound department, and you'll likely have vapor trails coming off your fingers as you 
 desperately try to find the "music volume" option.  

           MotoGP 07's bikes are lovingly detailed, right down to the individual components.     

  With new online modes and increased options for tuning and customizing your bike, MotoGP 07 certainly 
 plays to the strengths of the series. Whether that's enough for long-time veterans to return for 
 another lap depends on how much stock they put in things like online racing, a few new tracks, 
 and an improved but not perfect frame rate. If, on the other hand, you've never played a motorcycle 
 racing game and are sucked in by MotoGP 07's cool-looking bikes and dangerous sense of speed, you'll 
 surely enjoy the ride.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RushMetallica
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because it was cheap and I had money. Overall, I guess I'd say that it was an okay 
 desicion.
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  Cool modes;
  -Career mode is kind of addicting once you get the hang of it. 
  -Online is pretty fun, alot 
 of people quit though I found. 
  -More bikes and characters than '06.
  
  THE BAD:
  
  Controls; I found this game way too dificult on the easier difficulties. I hate to whine, but I 
 found that even rookie was almost impossible to qualify in the top, as it is very hard to not fall 
 and slide out of control at least once, and once you do, you basically have no hope of getting 
 a good qualifying spot. I eventually got the hang of it, but I still can only race on rookie and 
 sometimes pro. 
  
  Basically the game is good for die-hard moto gp fan, but if your a casual gamer, I wouldn't recommend 
 it.
  Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdawg2519
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  As we know from experience this game hasn't changed much from its predecessors, despite the added 
 bike wobble physics when accelerating out of a corner; the addition of some tracks, extreme 
 mode, and spectacular blimp cam footage of the tracks before the race, and upgradable parts. 
 I played 06 on the xbox, and 07 was a first for me on the 360 console. So in this sense, 
 it was a big transition graphic wise (for me anyways) . 
  
  I gave this game a mark shy of 10 because of its repetitive nature, and the lower difficulty levels 
 are just too easy. Champion level is the real test if you're a real biker fan, and if your 
 notwell then you may want to think twice about getting this game because this is not your 
 average arcade racer like NFS or Grid. The skill required to race in this game is very challenging 
 and probably frustrating for the average youngster. Learning how to brake and make use of 
 the apex are crucial to getting a podium finish. The good news is that you'll have your 
 work cut out for you and find plenty to do here, with the addition of individual track challenges. 
 
  
  I found no real downsides to this game but would have liked to see a storyline career mode, and 
 where are the highlights from the last season? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PwnMaster94
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  Moto GP 07 is my favorite racing game. I don't normally like this genre of game but Moto GP 07 
 was really fun. The controls take some time to get used to and you can get really frustrated but 
 if you remain patient and calm, the controls come to you. Other than the controls, Moto GP 07 is 
 a great game with good graphics (not amazing) and a fun gameplay. The campaign of Moto GP 07 is 
 not amazing, but it's good. What I really like about this game is the multiplayer. The multiplayer 
 in Moto GP 07 is great for when you have friends over whose parents don't let them play "violent" 
 video games. It's really wimpy, I know, but all I do is play Moto GP 07. The game itself isn't 
 special in anyway, and you don't want to play it for hours on end. Moto GP 07 is just for a bit 
 of fun and games, that's all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RevonZZ
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  MotoGP, a venerable series has long been the underdog of simulations. It's so obscure, that it 
 should never be picked up, according to a regular gamer. They say it suffers from shakey controls, 
 poor graphics and repetitive gameplay.
  
  Lies...
  
  Truth be told, I didn't want to buy it, either. But I lost a bet with my friend and he gave me 
 a list of bad games. So I just bought this little racer. I played MotoGP 3 WAY back then, and while 
 it does not run now, I miss it, quite a bit. 07' is the forza of motorcycles. You can choose the 
 extent it follows physics (100% for me) , the difficulty to easy as pie to hard as nails and also 
 there is a way that is different from forza to customize bikes, though it is a little stiff. Many 
 people suffer from "shakey" controls. What they don't know is that motorbikes are not cars. They 
 need to lean to make the turns. They need to balance the forces of momentum. 
  
  Graphiwise, riders and bike look spectacular, but borrowing from the official review, the other 
 models DO look like Halo 1's space marines. The ugliness, however is compensated by perfect tracks. 
 While loading screens are just helicopter pictures with a map and statistics, they are beautifuly 
 modeled. Le Mans will reflect light and riders in rain. Laguna Seca has bike as well as car skid 
 marks (A reference to forza?) .
  
  There are two on bike views, one that tilts with the bike, another that stays level with the initial 
 rider helmet positon. The other are "Wheelcam" and chase views; standard stuff. But, uh, the worst 
 thing is the learning curve. I HAVE NEVER SEEN A STEEPER LEARNING CURVE! Allegiance, you could 
 master allegiance in the time it take to beat the hard setting. This is on sim mode, no less so 
 don't come to me saying "Revon, it's easy" "Revon, you just suck" this review was made by sim gamers 
 for sim gamers!
  
  In conclusion, MotoGP 07' is an misunderstood gem that stands with splashdown (another game, but 
 you race jetskis) . It's no pulse racer, its not any of those crappy games. If you see it, and have 
 a hundred or so bucks you found, spend a good 60 dollars and don't get angry if you fall.
  
  P. S. Thanks to armake21 for inspiring me to do text reviews. If you've heard of him, good for 
 you. If not, type in "games that suck" on youtube and click on a video by armake21. Funniest guy 
 ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huggy_bear64
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  With it's long loading screens, impossible controls and lack of tutorial, or any way to learn how 
 to play, motoGP 07 is literally the worst game ever. I haven't played through the career mode, 
 and haven't done any of the "extreme" mode but i don't have to.
  When I first played i went straight into training mode, which turned out to be harder than the 
 actual racing. there is no way for a beginner to learn how to race except fall off, lose, throw 
 a huge tantrum, pull the controller out of the wreckage of the TV and try again, this process is 
 actually very frustrating despite what THQ might think. This game, despite its detailed graphics, 
 has a distinct lack of any feeling of speed, and in the only tolerable view mode there is no speedometer, 
 so i can't tell how fast I'm going, everything feels like it is happening at about 10 miles per 
 hour, and so every time I go around a corner, and fly off my bike, don't brake in time, or lose 
 the back end and highside or spin out it seems to defy the laws of physics.
  As another annoyance, whenever I forget to turn my own music on I am serenaded by what sounds like 
 a deaf, mentally disabled castrati singing through a kazoo, this has the peculiar effect of making 
 my ears feel like they are being grated onto some cannibalistic plate of spaghetti. The "instruction 
 manual" reads as if it were written by the very same person who sings the songs, it was no help 
 whatsoever and mostly just reinstates what I already know, it details the menu systems, controls 
 and game modes, but with very little in the way of detail or helpful... well, anything. For example, 
 when qualifying small pictures of motorbike helmets of different colours pop up, I have no idea 
 what they mean, and there is nothing in the "instruction manual" to tell me. Another time the "manual" 
 was useless was when I wanted to see my position and lap number during a race, but obviously this 
 is considered a crime amongst THQ's game developers, I went into the options menu and the HUD visibility 
 was set to 100%, but there was no HUD, only a mini map of the track, then i looked in the manual 
 and found, again, nothing explaining how to view my lap and position during the race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEANMACHINE15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  Moto gp is another good racing game that is based on two wheels however just like all other racing 
 games so far for the 360 it still need a bit of tweeking to make it ready to compete for that big 
 cheese spot in the gaming industry (hhhmmmmmmmmm cheese) anyway in every game there has ever been 
 there is always sumthing to let it down and that is that it is a bit too easy to pass your dimwitted 
 opponents and that the online play is not as accurate as some wish it could be.
  
  Anyway enough of the bad and on too the good; Moto Gp is a good allround solid two wheel based 
 game with good graphics gameplay aswell as online gameplay, AND with more grand prix action where 
 you can play as your fave riders or as your own career person or even play as street racers willing 
 too do anything just to wina race under there belt
  
  So play and find out what you are best at nad go for PODIUM PLACE and that special CHEQUERED FLAG. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lee256
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  The quick answer is no, not really. Yes the bikes may have changed but to be honest it feels like 
 an update of the previous game but with the frame rate sorted out to reduce the V-sync tearing 
 seen in the last game. If you have played any of the Moto GP games in the past then you know how 
 it works.
  
  One of the new additions though is the attempt to recreate real life MotoGP events but unfortunately 
 this turned out to be rather poor with less than impressive animations, rendered mechanics and 
 umbrella girls milling around the track before the start of each race but thankfully you are given 
 the option to skips these introductions.
  
  Like the previous game the popular Extreme mode is still present but as I've never played any of 
 these events I can't give my views on this section of the game. Whether or not it's accessible 
 enough for the mainstream gamer is harder to answer as these types of gamers only really appeal 
 to gamers interested in bikes or bike racing. However if you liked Moto GP06 and feel you want 
 more of the same then this game will not disappoint you. Just don't expect any big changes to the 
 formula.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anteraan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I bought and played '06 all the way through, and I'm up to Seed 4 on '07, and there is honestly 
 nothing new enough to convince me to buy '07. Thank goodness for Blockbuster GamePass. Headshake, 
 nicer graphics, and one more track doesn't quite do it for me. I also wish there was a way to turn 
 off the powerslide option, and the option to disable the double-trigger powerslide control option 
 would be great as well. That said, I still gave it a good score because it's a successful formula. 
 I just wish there was more evolution of the series. Bottom line: The game is still good, but I 
 expected more. Perhaps other racing companies will learn from Forza 2 and begin to offer customization 
 options that are similarly good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revolt26
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Much improved over 06. The bike modeling and track detail is definetly better. The updated bike 
 sponsors and roster for 07 moto gp is right on the money. The Ai riders are definetly related to 
 gumby and pokey. The overall bike control is still a bit outta wack. I still think the steering 
 is not sensative enough at low speeds and the braking is far sensative at any speed and a steep 
 learning curve since the controller layout separates front and rear tire braking separated on right 
 and left triggers and front and rear brake combined on another button . The accelerator button 
 is just a button ..... should be a trigger since big stability on high difficulties gets very frustrating. 
 My overall thoughts its a great game.... still short of tourist trophy :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chunner
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS A GAME OF SKILL AND GREAT REFLEXES. IF YOU DON'T PAY ATTENTION TO THE CONTROLLER VIBRATION 
 YOU'LL END UP ON THE FLOOR IN NO TIME. ALSO USE VALENTINO SEEMS TO RIDE A LITTLE BETTER THAN THE 
 REST OF THE RIDERS. GOOD LUCK YOU'RE GOING TO NEED IT IF YOU'RE A ROOKIE. BEST MOTOGP GAMES ARE 
 MOTOGP 2,3, 06, &amp;07! KEEP THEM COMING AND KEEP US ON OUR TOE'S AND WHAT HAPPENED TO THE VIDEO 
 HIGHLIGHTS OF THE RACES? YOU HAVE TO HAVE THEM ON ALL OF THE GP GAMES TO COME! WHATS UP WITH THIS 
 ONE HUNDRED WORD MINIMUM TAKE THAT OUT IT JUST KILLS IT LAST TIME I WRITE A REVIEW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theh8er
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  If you ride a rice burner or a scooter for that matter this game is for you. After playing other 
 companies attempts (Test Drive Unlimited) at including motorcycles in their racing games I would 
 like to ask them to stop and leave it to the professionals a. k. a. THQ and the makers of MOTOGP. 
 To the gamespot reviewer please leave your office now and get on your vespa put on your ping pong 
 helmet and go home early and rethink your review. This game gives you as usual the feel of going 
 185mph as things whiz past and your tucked in a turn running with the best looking motorcycle models 
 in any game. As far as the frame rate I really didnt notice any issues, I was going too fast. Like 
 in real life going 185mph is an insane adrenaline rush and in the milliseconds it takes to go through 
 a few frames you wont notice either. Im gonna keep this short. In closing if you ride this game 
 is for you. The only reason I gave a 9.5 not a 10 is I still hate how limited your customiztion 
 choices are. If they could incorporate Forza 2's painting ability this would be a solid 10. The 
 customization is my only gripe. I have to pass on the same shark and atom graphics that have been 
 in every game yet. Other than that I know what I'll be playing in January here in NYC when I cant 
 go out and ride. I'll be that yellow and black flash blowing by you on your TV. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: actionnerd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  They've Totally Nailed What It's Like To Ride and Race! If you've never actually ridden bikes with 
 any proficiency, here's your chance to get some practice on a simulation before turning yourself 
 into a great big Street Pizza. Of course, I'm talking only about the GP part, because the Extreme 
 Mode is definitely Arcade-y.
  
  Which is still fun in and of itself. As for the GP portion of the title:
  
  Handling's spot 
 on. If you ever dare to ride in the 2nd of the two 1st-person views, you will get as close a virtual 
 experience of the physics of single-track high-powered two-wheel conveyances as a couch-potato 
 ought to be allowed.
  
  Mark, that tail waggle is not tail waggle at all. It's called Headshake, and every motorcycle on 
 the planet will experience that phenomenon when ridden hard enough. It happens when the planes 
 of rotation of both wheels break alignment (ie sliding when exiting turns) , and applying strong 
 deceleration or acceleration to the machine.
  
  As a matter of fact, racing-accessory companies make some pretty good money on devices known as 
 steering-dampeners . Google it. You'll see what I mean.
  
  What's amazing to me is that Climax seems to have modeled this, and everything else I can think 
 of about race-bikes, to a very accurate degree!
  
  I have all 5 MotoGP games, and thought that each was an improvement on the last. Except that the 
 first will always be a favorite, 'cuz you could unlock the Umbrella Girls and take them for a spin...
 
  
  This title would have earned a 10 from me except for the following:
  - Soundtrack. Thank God the 360 works with my IPod. - Custom Paint - Tacked on from, oh, I dunno, 
 MotoGP 2? 8 layers only? And for about 85 cents, I can get 3 times as many colors of crayons as 
 this has? Come On! Climax! Have you seen Forza 2 lately? Please.
  - It's about time someone makes the crash view from the perspective of the rider
  - I've been 
 racing actual motorcycles since 1978 (current: '06 Triumph Thruxton 900 [Thruxton Challenge Class] , 
 and '07 Honda CRF450 [Vet Motocross] ) . Yes, I am old and crotchety. There's a lot of translation 
 between MotoGP and real life riding, so it was easy for me to understand how to play. This game, 
 however, should probably have a much more robust tutorial available to make it palatable to the 
 uninitiated.
  
  All said, MotoGP 07 is the best-handling, sweetest-looking digital racer I've ever played. Now 
 can we get an Umbrella-Girl Expansion Download off Live, please? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skills_0210
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  the driving aspect of the game has a bit of a learning curve, but once you get used to it, its 
 very satisfying. hitting a corner perfectly is very fun, and you get a real sense of speed. the 
 soundtrack gets old quickly, and its kind of hard to paint your bikes and make them look good. 
 this is my first motogp game and i love it. the extreme mode is a nice challenge as well. You can 
 tune tour bikes, and buy parts for them in the extreme mode, and this gives you a good sense of 
 building one bad arse bike. definetly a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonossi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  when you get better the game gets better, you can shave milla seconds off your lap times or have 
 great races online, (BUT YOU DO GET THE **** WHO CANT PLAY IT SO WRECK EVERYONE ELES GAME) BUT APART 
 FROM THAT, IF YOU GET TO RACE AGAINST THE BEST ITS MUCH MORE fun. powerslides are great fun along 
 with soft ,medium, hard tyres, hard, soft medium suspension, short to long wheel base, gear ratios, 
 even playing time trials is addictive, in all if you dont like it ,its because you havent took 
 your time to master it, master every track and you will be on it all the time shaving .002 off 
 your lap, or trying to changec setup to get 2mph more, DONT LISTEN TO RHOLDING2000, HE DONT HAVE 
 A CLUE OR HE IS **** AT IT LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2009 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This is from a massive fan of the game and i have to write this review as my anticipation for the 
 game was totally not needed.
  
  So. First comes MotoGp then 2 .. xboxlive with 2 was awsome and i spent every waking hour on the 
 game. I loved it. 3 came out and had so many problems with the scoreboards, chat that i got rid. 
 06 came out and i thought we were getting there bar the freezing, scoreoard crashing, communication 
 errors, i stand my my initial thoughts that is was 3 ported but the racing was flawless as i joined 
 many Real lap tournaments across the net and had a wicked time with the game . .even tho it had 
 its say backend programming problems.
  
  So here we have 07. What a load of utter trash.
  
  Lets do first things first. The control. I know we all like a bit of realism in our games but 
 when you cant program it properly its best to cut losses. the other games had no problems with 
 the bikes action but this one has.
  
  Im a first person rider, that is i look throught the visor (static cam) . i cant stop my bike wheelieing 
 every time i start (doesnt matter what it do with the set up) so i have to do a missvley poor start. 
 So im riding in first person and i see my dash. im some bikes its good i can see the speed and 
 the laps and my best time .. great. In 06 FPR (first person riders) didnt have any indication of 
 their speeds so this is an improvement BUT. Where the hell is the information such as time, laps, 
 distance from and to bikes. You could say turn the telemetry on but im still not sure how accurate 
 this is . . ill get to that later. Ill tell you where all this info is, its in the reverse cam 
 view. You know bikes . . .great for quick looking, not only do you have to position bikes properly 
 on the track to compensate for lean time if u want to see any extra info you have to hit B and 
 see it in the reverse cam. Well done lads. Im a programmer and applied for a job at climax but 
 never heard from them. I congratulate you on the guys you hired. they have done a bang up job, 
 your test team is A*
  
  So, back to control. I know we like realism like i said but when all is said and done it is a game 
 and players have to feel incontrol. Well i dont feel incontrol of this bike. On heavy braking and 
 turning the bike sort of bobs, auto corrects . .well who knows what its doing its all over the 
 place. What is with the un smooth correcting of the bike when coming out of a fast corner, its 
 unlike anything ive ever seen in this type of game movement is analog-ues in nature and not step 
 bobby if you get me.
  
  So first person riders cant see any stats (great for all you 3rd person riders tho u can see what 
 ud expect to see) Why didnt you have the option of having this info on or off for FPR? But have 
 it on the reverse cam?
  
  Lets get onto this telemetry. So it shows sections of the tracks you are doing the best in. What 
 is this timed off, my best lap ever? the sessions lap? Well ive got like ultra slow into some corners 
 and its gone green which means person best for the section . . So i have 1 section on jerez thats 
 yellow (first corner and its probably only down by a tiny tiny bit) and the rest green . . if this 
 is my best section time ever across like 98% of the track . . .why is the time a second slower? 
 Im not gettting it. In other racing games . . lets take forza for eg . . im green on every check 
 point by whatever margin . . i know what i have to do to keep it . .and i cross the like .500 up. 
 In this game i do a full green circuit and im a second down??? WTH. If it was half yellow (good 
 clean section) and half green id understand.
  
  Hmmm not sure whats going on here.
  
  Anyway. Some of u could be reading this and saying . .switch views, he doesnt know what hes talking 
 about. beleive me, i do, this game is awful but ill continue to play it cos like all games the 
 last release gets shelved returned . . bargain bin . . . whatever. I love this series and this 
 game makes me want to cry. well done climax. Ive never played the extreme mode in the game or in 
 any of the others im a serious racer that refuses to powerslide. If i go on extreme and find its 
 just perfect im not going to be happy. You have called the game Motogp . . you could have called 
 it motogp extreme edition and i would have stayed the hell away. Its a case of the noobs shout 
 loudest, the waambulance has come to their aid and what you have given the hardcore racers . .the 
 ones still plying 06 online with full lobbys of 16 dedicated racers a totally watered down product 
 and experience. No ones going to read this, no one cares, i just hope the 20 friends i have on 
 my list agree with me when i see them on it . . .they probably wont as they rider 3rd person . 
 . most of them. God team. Seriously i would test your stuff 20 hrs a day and made sure its what 
 the people want . .hell id do it for the extreme.
  
  oh well. this game is a total disappointment. End of . . really sorry for any bad grammar and spelling, 
 im furious and there is so much more i want to say about how furious i am that ive waited all this 
 time and mach rider is a better alternative to this . .although mach rider was cool edit
  
  oh you see all the hud if you crash. Brilliant
  
  further edit - / 2 / 8 / 07
  
  I initially 
 rated this game a 3, well its gone up to 5. After repeatedly playing and playing and playing and 
 playing, ive gotton used to it. I still cant get over the fact i have no hud only in reverse can 
 or when i crash but i can kinda live with it. The bike unnaturally wobbles, my starts are poor, 
 im setting top 100 times in the world, i still havent played the extreme yet. Games ok, worth buying 
 andf ill always be around to race should the community die . . .but it wont, cos we love motogp 
 the hardcore few that play the other one . . even still 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harm0n1ca
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  ... And here I am writing a review for this game.
  
  Generally, when a game comes out that I've been waiting sometime for, I'll lock myself up for a 
 weekend and mash it out. This wasn't my plan for this game. The summer has been miserable, and 
 what with the indiscriminate onslaught of delays over the last 6 months, there's been a pitiful 
 selection of games available to help pass the even more pitiful days.
  
  So here's Motogp 07, released on the one good weekend so far this summer... Curses and damnation! 
 Choices, choices... It wasn't very hard really. Once you've sorted out you're preferable control 
 layout, the game immediately sucks you in, and there's no chance that you'll even want to leave. 
 I'll go out tomorrow, says I...
  
  So why is this game so good that it's kept me in on such a beautiful and long weekend? Well, for 
 starters there's the menu screens. They're clearly laid out with very little clutter, and there's 
 no 'waiting' for new menu screens to open up, unlike certain other sport oriented games. They also 
 give a good indication of the very pretty in game graphics yet to be seen.
  
  The game's highlight is the career mode. You jump in, 'paint' your chosen bike (you have 2 to choose 
 from at first) , then assign skill points to one of four attributes: cornering, braking, top speed 
 and acceleration. You can also fiddle with things like tyre type (soft/hard) , gear ratio and suspension 
 stiffness, then save the settings you like the most. Easy. Once you're finished with the bike, 
 you then pick the colours and style for you're rider's leathers and helmet. Very easy.
  
  The paint scheme is pretty simple, you have some simple shapes (text, square, triangle, circle 
 etc) that you can make other shapes from. Highly preferable for someone like me who doesn't consider 
 themself an artist, and just wants to drape his bike in the Jamaican flag because that's my prerogative 
 damnit!
  
  So that's the boring stuff out of the way, what about the beautiful graphics, the well balanced 
 handling, the bloody framerate drops again, the challenging AI.. Wait a minute, WHAT? Not framerate 
 issues AGAIN! Well, only at slow speeds in certain situations, but really I've only noticed it 
 while I was doing the training exercises thinking I might be rewarded for completing them all (I 
 wasn't!) Serves me right for not checking.
  
  The rest of the game, both online and off, is great. The online rooms are really well thought out 
 as expected, and you can even do your career online against real people instead of the AI if you 
 wish (not sure if this is new, but it's fantastic!) There're career mini games that have you completing 
 sections of the tracks within time limits, getting up to set speeds out of corners and racing one 
 on one against AI players, all of which earn skill points for your bike.
  
  There isn't really much more to be said. Once you've finished a season of motoGP, you'll unlock 
 Extreme mode, and can start a new career there. Purists may complain, but to me it's like having 
 2 games in 1, and I'm not complaining about that!
  
  The only gripes are that races can be a little bit too easy, but I'm putting that down to the fact 
 I picked 'pro' instead of 'championship'...
  
  If you played the demo, liked it but still aren't sure, just buy the damn game and immerse yourself 
 in its slick, well executed world of simulation motoGP! It's easy to pick up, but you'll spend 
 hours mastering the race lines for each track. (I finally understand now why Motorbike racing has 
 so much more overtaking action than car racing!)
  
  On a side note (I know I'm going on, well done for coming this far!) THQ has a real chance to create 
 a more complete experience here. The physics, handling and graphics are really a joy to experience. 
 My only real gripe, is that I want to ride real world bikes. I want to experience the TT... I'd 
 love to have a garage much like those in games like PGR, Forza and Test Drive, where I can have 
 literally a history of bikes instead of cars in my garage that I can take out and play with whenever 
 I want.
  
  Having said that, this game delivers where it counts... Get it, an excellent MotoGP experience 
 awaits! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tig1979
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Will try and keep breif for now as im on a tight schedule Pros:- Graphics are a good step up from 
 06
  
  Trackside becomes more alive with much more detail
  
  Championship mode a nice addition
  
  Handling about the same with mroe wobbling going which 
 is nice
  
  Teams riders etc from 07 are here
  
  Framerate issue seems to have been sorted
  
  Load times are not as long Cons:-
  
  Layers 
 for design are still only 8, even though have allowed more mvoement of the design you still only 
 get 8 layers which is nowhere near enough
  
  Extreme mode is still here and still the same, not so good imo
  
  Championship mode allows 
 you to race a championship as one of the official riders, but you still cant ride for a team with 
 your own rider like namco's series allowed which sucks
  
  Still no 125 250 classes in there
  
  Bike sounds are no different, if you have played moto 
 gp 2 on pc and got the 06 mod that is how sounds should be done, so why a big company cannot manage 
 it i do not know
  
  Clipart again same images form before, no sponsor logos in there to make your own bike look a little 
 more realistic
  
  Overall a step up but not the massive update i was expecting still a lot of stuff to add remove, 
 hope they carry on with this and listen to the fans!
  
  Please remember this is on early play time as ive only played for a few hours today 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
