-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MotoGP 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/motogp08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Three different series of bikes provide some nice variety.
 Excellent handling physics.
 Great track list.
 Fine sense of speed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Game physics are sometimes haphazard.
 Career mode only lasts five seasons.
 Limited online options.
 Very little bike/rider customization.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.0, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 75 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Developer: Milestone
Genre: Motorcycle Racing
Date: Oct 28, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
MotoGP 08 is meat-and-potatoes racing with enough challenge to keep two-wheeled gearheads busy for 
 a long time. 

  After snagging the official MotoGP license from THQ in 2007, Capcom released MotoGP 07 on the PlayStation 
 2; a promising, if far too difficult, rebirth of a game license that had previously thrived in 
 the hands of developer Climax and publisher THQ. MotoGP 08 is Capcom's series debut on the Xbox 
 360 and PlayStation 3 and while the game likely won't create a new generation of virtual racing 
 fans, those who have some two-wheeled gaming experience will find a demanding driving model and 
 plenty of stiff competition to keep them busy.  

           Hard-charging AI, three different handling settings, and multiple weather options are 
 combined for a true test of skill in MotoGP 08.       

  There aren't any surprises in MotoGP 08's list of game modes -- you've got the standard list of single-player 
 modes you'd expect from a racing game: Single Race, Time Trial, Championship, Challenge mode, and 
 so on. The highlight on the single-player menu is the Career mode, which gives you a chance to 
 create a rider from scratch and work your way up through three bike racing series (125cc, 250cc, 
 and, the pinnacle, MotoGP) . As you enter races, any points you score by placing high enough in 
 the final results will earn you attribute upgrade points you can apply to one of four aspects of 
 your particular bike: top speed, acceleration, braking, and traction. You can then take your souped-up 
 bike online and enter the competition in online racing events against up to 11 other online riders. 

  While Career mode is certainly the best single-player mode in the game, it has its quirks. First 
 of all, your career ends after five years regardless of how many series championships you've won. 
 Second, once you've selected from the game's various AI and handling difficulty levels, you can't 
 change them for the entirety of your career. This is especially frustrating once you've maxed out 
 your bike and can smoke the easy or medium-level AI opponents. It would have been more user-friendly 
 to give players the chance to tweak options in between seasons to keep up the challenge.  

  This lack of career option flexibility is a shame because MotoGP 08 is all about the challenge. 
 While the learning curve is a bit gentler this time around, even an experienced MotoGP vet will 
 find some challenge at the default difficulty level. If you bump that up to hard or champion level, 
 you'll face cunning, hard-charging AI opponents that won't give you an inch; you'll be fighting 
 for every position and having a fine time of it (except when you're cursing out loud at your own 
 lack of skill) .  

  Fans of motorcycle racing games will relish the game's bike physics, which are excellent. There 
 are three handling settings to choose from: easy, advanced, and simulation. With a little track 
 time, MotoGP vets will likely be able to settle in at the advanced handling level with little trouble, 
 but throughout every race, the emphasis on the racing line and careful acceleration out of corners 
 is a hallmark of the game. The advanced handling setting is touchy enough; when riding in the simulation 
 setting, even the slightest error on the throttle while deep in a turn will result in a spill. 
 When running against the upper-tier AI opponents, any mistake you make is magnified by their unyielding 
 aggression, and you'll find yourself in yo-yo battles for position at nearly every corner on the 
 track.  

  While the feel of the bikes in MotoGP 08 is just right, the riding model is not without its problems. 
 The developers have chosen to downplay the consequences of contact between riders. While it is 
 possible to be knocked off your bike by an opponent (and only slightly more difficult to dismount 
 him with some dirty driving) , more often than not, you can run into a rider ahead of you with little 
 consequence. In fact, once you've gotten used it, you can actually use this to your advantage by 
 using a rider ahead of you as some extra braking when approaching a corner too fast. The tracks, 
 too, have their quirks. For example, in some corners, the game will penalize you for cutting corners 
 by instantly slowing your bike down to a crawl. It's a fine idea in theory, but its implementation 
 is inconsistent; with enough experience, you'll know exactly which corners you can take advantage 
 of and which you'll need to play straight.  

  Up to 12 players can hop online to race in both the 360 and PS3 versions of MotoGP 08. While online 
 performance in both games is good, the lack of features will leave you wanting. You can only run 
 races one at a time -- there's no option for a virtual championships where players can run multiple 
 races for points -- and can only bring your Career mode bike into a race if the host allows it. Even 
 when using custom bikes, however, there's not much in the way of customization; you're stuck with 
 the actual team leathers and bike paint schemes, as well as a series of unique helmets from which 
 you can choose. In an era of customization in such games as Forza 2 and Midnight Club: Los Angeles, 
 next year's MotoGP game simply must have more options for making your rider appear unique.  

           Best helmet ever.      

  MotoGP 08's graphics are solid, with the high point being 
 a thrilling sense of speed (especially on such long, straights tracks as Shanghai and Mugello) . 
 That fine pace is offset a bit by some occasionally spotty frame rate issue on the PlayStation 
 3 version of the game, as well as certain tracks that are simply a bore -- it's not much to look 
 at the plain backgrounds and sometimes grainy asphalt textures. That said, new details, such as 
 the night race at Losail, and the brand new Indianapolis GP track set at the historic Indianapolis 
 Motor Speedway are great additions to the game. The hardcore fans will also find a lot to like 
 with the game's audio presentation; not only is there a big difference among the 125cc, 250cc, 
 and MotoGP bike engines, but individual constructor bikes have an engine sound all their own.  
 

  A slightly more approachable learning curve coupled with a great deal of challenge means that MotoGP 
 08 provides enough to keep you busy for months to come while not being as punishing on new players 
 as the previous game in the series. Now that the series has moved to the Xbox 360 and PS3, the 
 real work begins. Next year's game must primarily make sure that it has the same suite of offline 
 and online features that players have come to expect from modern racing games. There's a lot to 
 like in MotoGP 08's meat-and-potatoes approach to two-wheeled racing; here's hoping that next year's 
 game offers a more extended menu.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Brain_Fillets
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 4:59 am PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of motorcycle racing games, especially the MotoGP series. The graphics are 
 better, which is something that should be expected with a new game in any series. The controls 
 and handling of the bikes is pretty realistic except for the 'flickability' of the GP class bikes, 
 which I would like to see happen a little bit faster. 
  
  For people like me and my friends who enjoy racing each other while hanging out, you might be disappointed 
 with the lack of a local multiplayer option. There is still online multiplayer though, which is 
 still a blast. There's nothing like coming out of that last corner with your friend right on your 
 tail, cranking down on the throttle and seeing your back end twitching as the back wheel tries 
 to bite and get traction.
  
  If you like racing games and are looking for something besides four wheel racing, pick this game 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyboarder20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I really like this game. 
  
  Graphics - Ignore people who moan to much. The graphics are good and clean and the frame rate is 
 very good. Some people say the graphics are quite boring. They are not. Race tracks are race tracks. 
 What are you expecting to see on a race track? So, as far as representing race tracks go the graphics 
 are very good and clear.
  
  Physics - are great whatever camera you choose to race with and the sense of speed is just right.
 
  
  Challenges and career modes are also very good. This is a motorbike racing game. So don`t expect 
 NFS on two wheels. This game is more of a simulation than an arcade type racer and i really like 
 that.
  
  AI is ok and multiplayer is good with nice options and variety to make everyone happy.
  
  Engine 
 and race sounds are excellent.
  
  In conclusion, this is a motorbike racing game with emphasis on simulation. If you accept this 
 game for what it is intended to be, then Moto GP 08 is a great game. Don`t put it down just because 
 you wanted it to be NFS or Midnight Club on two wheels. I loved all THQ (Climax) Moto GP series 
 but i think that Capcom did great job as well with MotoGP 08. If anything i wished they had added 
 Extreme Mode too. OH well maybe next time. Anyway, Capcom you did a great job with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryder32
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  This is but no dout my favorite game for xbox 360, followed by fifa 09 and gta 4. I havent had 
 the xbox 360 long and im sure there will be new favorite games for me, but this game moto gp 08 
 for xbox 360 is way better then the ps2 moto gp 07. If you are a fan of moto gp or just anything 
 that has to do with bikes you should get this game.
  
  
  Good Things: You get to race as yourself and race with your favorite teams, riders and get to pick 
 your helmet, # and tune up your bike and much it better. Controls are great. Difficulty isn't hard 
 till you start getting to hard and champion. The graphics are nice. And there is so much more to 
 say about this game but i don't have that much time.
  
  
  Bad Things: It says there two player on the back but there isn't two player in less theres two 
 player on live. And a couple more little things but there not a big deal for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joanhm
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is just what I needed, after watching Ross taking the title once again. the hype was 
 not at all like other game we all could mention, you know, ground moving, oh! I've just eat a nut, 
 and it seems to have caused aFracture" get it. the real of it all, is that if your looking for 
 realism or arcade racing, well! here it is.
  
  and its worth every penny. plus the bikes do feel an handel / sound variously.
  the only bad thing 
 about it is. the AI can be unforgiving at times and there should be more you can do with your ride 
 plus podium scenes are a miss.
  
  and the sound of wind that makes a vacum effect, when the bike hits over 100 mph, would give any 
 one the feeling of being there at the actual race. these are some of the small thing that make 
 a simulation feel like a simulation.
  
  things to think about for the next installment, don't you think. 
  but to just get your bike 
 around a track with out dropping it,
  Is a effort in itself. which I think gives it the longevity a game like this needs.
  which to 
 my self, makes it a out standing buy.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmontalc
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  From the latest NAMCO release of MotoGP series, to the CAPCOM MotoGP07 (PS2) , and MotoGP08; There's 
 no significant differences. What CAPCOM did on MotoGP08 was to brake a leg and make a quick buck. 
 I do not think they are or have a serious goal of making a pleasant and enjoyable game to keep 
 the fans occupied until the next MotoGP season.
  
  When I read some reviews about the excellent job that MotoGP08 I feel like my brain goes in total 
 confusion; People is this the one MotoGP08 that we're talking about?. If so, are these people blind, 
 or just anxious to play anything it comes along for just the sake of it?, or are these people getting 
 a very well pay-check for just a favourable comment and or reviews.
  
  I need to know, are those programmers acquainted with MotoGP Racing?, Do they watch MotoGP Championship 
 on Sundays?, Do they video taped the races and watch it over and over again, until they get the 
 real passion for the sport?. ( and I do not want to hear that you or they have one million hours 
 experience bike riding and all that nonsense )
  
  With the Super Next Generation consoles of now days, the programmers should not have any excuses 
 on making a detail game such as MotoGP, and I'm not referring only about graphics wise, I'm talking 
 about the basics of the handling, the specs of each bike, the style riding of every rider.. for 
 example, Casey Stoner have a diff riding style as Tony Elias, and Valentino Rossi riding style 
 doesn't looks like Colin Edwards; I'm talking also about when you crank the accelerator trigger 
 you'll feel the power, also feel the feedback of the brakes and gears, the feel of the tarmac, 
 also having the difference of feel and sight of speed when you riding at 100mph or 200mph.
  
  For the reasons explained above, the MotoGP series of THQ/CLIMAX was and still is popular. 
 someone said, "... well, the programmers do not want to copy...", and I say ... well, if the wheel 
 is round, why make it square?
  
  MotoGP08, of course CGI video game replays of the game looks spectacular, but for sure I did not 
 want to buy a video game just for watching video game "replays".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaredmc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Just searched the city (Halifax NS) to find this (360) - and got one of 4 copies of it at Future 
 Shop after the guy looked for it for like 10 mins? BLockbuster not carrying it... EB Games did 
 not get any? Never got to Best Buy - as I bought the first one I found. Screw the price comparisons!
 
  
  Anyway - so far I like it. I find the directions a little . .well... sketchy. I had to go online 
 to figure out that the ADVANCED setting is actually the middle one - and Simulation is the "hard" 
 setting. I may be tired too.
  
  One thing I really like is that you can hear your bike in the crowd - in the THQ 07 version if 
 you were racing manual gears you could not hear the engine to shift. REALLY helps in a crowd of 
 35 bikes - ha ha in 125cc Class!!
  
  Anyway - I like the perspective better on the track, and I think the AI is a LOT better - they 
 seem to be interested in taking a line around you instead of right through you. 
  
  One thing I do NOT like is that you cannot set the fade level of the various HUD items - nice when 
 you have a Plasma HD display. You can turn them off or on thankfully. I race with them off to NOT 
 have burn in. 
  You can get burn in from games - especially racing games - if you do not know (as I DID NOT) that 
 you HD Plasma comes pre-set to TORCH mode. I almost fubarred the TV on Moto GP 07, took a week 
 of beak-in to get rid of it. Even with the PIXEL shift at MAX it still will happen.
  
  Anyway - so far so good - and I may log in to change and more likely add to this post as I play 
 through. I will NOT MISS that idiot EXTREME Mode. What a POS idea in a Moto GP game. Nice to play 
 a new game like this just as the R1 is going to sleep for a couple months!! Time to dig out the 
 skies!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakerusin007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  A good first outing for the PC and 360 versions from Capcom. The dropping of the 'extreme' mode, 
 whereby you can modify and race fictional 'street' bikes, from THQ's effort is no great loss, made 
 up for by the addition of 125 and 250cc classes. This sets up the career mode for alot more progression, 
 and is very involving. It would have been nice to have a few fictional tracks to play around on 
 using the new and far more realistic physics angine. 
  As a Ducati Superbike rider, I can vouch for what is the best and most realistic handling package 
 yet, on par with SBK08, which has been a welcome change from the arcade only modes. (even though 
 they have been previously claimed to be 'simulation' modes) *A* rating for handling and general 
 physics :)
  The tracks are faithfully reproduced, and have alot more activity than SBK08's sterile tracksides. 
 The only exeption is ofcourse the pitlane which seems to be devoid of any activty for some reason. 
 As for my comment re: additional tacks, I presume as part of the license agreement from Dorna, 
 the likenesses of the vehicles etc may have only been limited to real world locations. A possibility 
 that may overcome the limited number of tracks may have been a similar idea to EA's (pains me to 
 commend EA) F1 challenge 99-02, whereby 3 seasons of cars and tracks were included. Maybe when 
 Capcom are onto their third or later MotoGP license this might be a possible option to explore. 
 *B* rating for tracks, not quite on par with Forza 2, but the best the MotoGP series has seen to 
 date.
  Overall Capcom has taken MotoGP in a great direction, appealing to seasoned players and newcomers 
 alike. The graphics, sound and layout of menus are all slick. If there was a suggestion, its that 
 when switching modes from arcade to full simulation the setup options go from simple options to 
 a more indepth tuning. Also a good idea is a 'engineer' whereby you are asked a few questions and 
 the changes are made. In real life a good rider will make suggestions concerning rebound / compression 
 etc, but only in consultation with the engineer. This is an option I feel would satisfy th masses.. and 
 myself :) In conclusion a *B* rating for an enjoyable and realistic representation of what it is 
 to race around the world on 2 wheeled prototype race machines! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
