-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MotoGP'06
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/motogpurt/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plenty of variety between the fast, fun extreme tracks and the more technical grand prix tracks.
 Excellent online play with plenty of customization options.
 Great lighting and weather effects.
 Motorcycles handle well and are just plain fun to race.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Unstable frame rate.
 Not much new content compared to the previous game in the series.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 16, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.0, 60 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,340 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Climax Group
Genre: Motorcycle Racing
Date: Jun 12, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
MotoGP 06 isn't quite a leap forward for the series, but it succeeds in bringing the familiar top-notch 
 racing mechanics to the Xbox 360. 

  Climax knows a thing or two about speed, but the team has outdone itself this time by delivering 
 a new game on a new console less than a year after the release of MotoGP 3. The short development 
 cycle is definitely apparent in that MotoGP 06 is less a significant step forward for the series 
 than an incremental upgrade to the previous game. However, given that the previous game is one 
 of the best racing titles on the Xbox, that's certainly not a bad deal for racing fans. When it 
 comes down to it, MotoGP 06 is not without its flaws, and the increased price is tough to swallow. 
 But where the rubber meets the road, this is still a great game that will keep racing fans coming 
 back for a very long time.  

          Whether you prefer a sim racer or a more arcade-style experience, MotoGP 06 has you covered. 
     

  MotoGP 06 has two distinct race circuits, the Grand Prix circuit and the Extreme circuit. If you're 
 looking for a sim racing experience, you can race on one of 17 real-world GP tracks against riders 
 from the 2005 or the 2006 MotoGP season. You can race these tracks in quick race, time trial, or 
 career mode. If you're playing single-player, there are four different difficulty modes to choose 
 from, although if you're a series veteran, you'll need to skip the easiest two settings and go 
 straight to "champion" if you want any sort of a challenge. Even then, the challenge in racing 
 the Grand Prix tracks comes from the tight layouts that demand a lot of technical skill when choosing 
 your lines to maintain as much speed as possible throughout the many difficult hairpins and chicanes 
 you'll encounter.  

  If the Grand Prix circuit is a bit too technical for your taste, you can try out any of the three 
 divisions of the Extreme circuit. There are 17 fictional extreme courses in the game, and you can 
 race them on 600cc, 1000cc, or 1200cc bikes. As the bike size increases, the tracks become more 
 difficult because the larger bikes are much faster, heavier, and more difficult to control. In 
 comparison to the GP tracks, the extreme tracks require much less technical skill and instead reward 
 a heavy hand on the accelerator. These tracks are so fast that you rarely have to use the brakes 
 at all, and it can be a blast to open up the throttle in the long straights and wide, sweeping 
 turns.  

  Between the two circuits and 34 tracks (plus reverse versions of each track) , there's plenty of 
 variety to be found in MotoGP 06. It's refreshing to be able to go from a tense, white-knuckled 
 GP race that will have you on the edge of your seat trying to whittle down your lap times one-tenth 
 of a second at a time, to a blazing fast, arcade-style race around an extreme track that will have 
 you grinning from ear to ear with the sheer speed of it all.  

  The bikes in the game all handle just as well as they have in previous Moto GP games, which is 
 to say that they all feel properly weighted and powerful, and they're all a lot of fun to ride. 
 The default control scheme works very well, with rear and front brakes assigned to the left and 
 right triggers, respectively. The independent braking system is an important component of the control 
 because proper use of the rear brake will let you powerslide around corners to keep your speed 
 up, while controlled use of the front brake is critical in the tighter turns that require a bit 
 more precision.  

  The artificial intelligence in MotoGP 06 is certainly functional. While the computer-controlled 
 riders mosey along at a leisurely pace on the easier difficulty settings, they provide plenty of 
 stiff challenge at the higher difficulty settings. Of course, the AI riders very rarely crash, 
 and they tend to keep the same line throughout each race, but you don't get the rubber-band effect 
 that causes opponents to unrealistically bunch up in some other racing games. You'll still want 
 to play it clean, though, as the other riders will almost always win when push comes to shove. 
 Even though the AI is a very rigid substitute for real, live players, it's certainly a functional 
 alternative if you don't want to play online.  

  Each of the pro racers in the game has his own bike, with all of the appropriate logos and stats. 
 There are 19 riders and bikes for the Grand Prix circuit, although many of the bikes are actually 
 the same model but with different skins. The Grand Prix bikes are all based on their real-world 
 counterparts from manufacturers like Yamaha, Kawasaki, and Ducati. The extreme motorcycles, on 
 the other hand, are highly customized street bikes that are equally fun to ride. The extreme bikes 
 are lighter and more nimble than the Grand Prix bikes, and they also feature much more radical 
 styling. All bikes can be customized by adjusting parameters like gear ratios, tire compound, and 
 suspension hardness. The extreme bikes can be upgraded with new parts, so you can tune your engine, 
 reduce the weight, purchase better brakes, and even install nitrous oxide.  

          Your seed will drop as you win races, but it takes a long, long time to reach the coveted 
 first seed.     

  The crux of the single-player game in MotoGP 06 is the career mode. You can choose a circuit and 
 difficulty and then progress through a series of 17 races, accumulating points depending on where 
 you finish in each race. At the end of the season, the rider with the most points accumulated is 
 the champion. Before each round, you're given a variety of options. You can practice racing the 
 track as much as you want, memorizing the best line to take for each and every turn to ensure your 
 victory on race day. Once you're prepared, you can move on to qualification, where you have 10 
 minutes to post your best lap time. Depending on how your time compares to the other riders, you'll 
 be assigned a position on the starting grid for the actual race. After qualifying, you're ready 
 to race against 15 riders if you're on the extreme circuit, or 19 on the Grand Prix circuit.   
   

   

  Returning to the series year are challenges, which are short events that require you to meet a 
 specific goal in order to earn extra stat points that can be applied to your career rider to improve 
 his top speed, cornering, braking, and acceleration. There are three types of challenges, and they 
 range in difficulty from incredibly easy to maddeningly difficult. Some challenges require you 
 to negotiate a particularly wicked section of the track within a set amount of time, and others 
 require you to take a set of turns and then cross a finish line at or above a certain speed. There 
 are also "follow the leader" challenges in which you have to cross the finish line within one second 
 of the professional rider on the track. Overall, the challenges are a welcome addition to the game 
 because they give you even more incentive to master the most challenging sections of each track. 
 However, some of the challenges are so difficult that you'll likely have to try at least a couple 
 dozen times to pass them, and after a while, riding the same short stretch of track over and over 
 can get old.  

          Some of the tracks look fantastic thanks to some amazing weather and lighting effects. 
     

  As you finish races in career mode, you'll not only earn points and money, but you'll also adjust 
 your seed, which is a score between one and 100 that indicates your level of skill and experience. 
 Your seed starts at 100, but slowly gets lower and lower with each race you complete. Your seed 
 is affected both by single-player career races as well as online races. When racing online, your 
 seed can only improve if you beat riders of the same or lower seed, but if you get beat by a rider 
 with a higher seed yours will actually go up.  

  The seed is only one example of how well the online game in MotoGP 06 is integrated with the single-player 
 game. For example, in career mode, before a race you can choose to look for a similar race event 
 online and participate in that, to earn the same seed and championship points that you would with 
 the offline race. The game supports up to 16 players online for both the Grand Prix and the extreme 
 races, which is an improvement over last year's game, when the extreme tracks were limited to 10 
 players online. When setting up a match online there are a ton of options to choose from. You can 
 turn collisions on or off, choose to fill vacant slots with artificial intelligence opponents, 
 and set the lap count, number of players, and skill limits.  

  There are also different types of races to choose from. You can run a standard race; a stunt race 
 where you get points for doing wheelies and skids; a tag race where you try to "tag" as many corners 
 as possible on a track by getting the best time around them; or you can set up championship tournaments. 
 The online play is arguably the best part of MotoGP 06, and when you get 16 well-matched human 
 opponents in a race it can make for a very hectic and very exciting race. In our experience there's 
 plenty of competition online ranging from beginners to experts, so it's easy to find a good race 
 anytime. There is some slight lag present in some of the online races, but depending on your Internet 
 connection, most of the races run smoothly.  

  The visuals in MotoGP 06 are hit or miss. Some tracks look absolutely amazing, like the rain-drenched 
 Shanghai track. In fact, the weather and lighting effects look so good that you might find yourself 
 distracted from the race. However, some tracks don't look much better than they did in the previous 
 game. You'll occasionally see some low-res textures in the backgrounds, and there's a distinct 
 line on the horizon when textures come into focus. It can look a bit strange when the yellow center 
 line suddenly appears in a road just a few feet in front of your bike. There are also some very 
 apparent dips in the frame rate, and sometimes when coming around a corner you'll notice the game 
 slows down quite a bit. In addition to the frame rate issue, there are also a lot of very visible 
 lines that frequently appear onscreen where the frames don't quite match up. It's worse on some 
 tracks than others, but when it gets bad it can look pretty ugly. The other very noticeable problem 
 is the lengthy load times before and after each race. Some tracks seem to take longer to load than 
 others, but they all seem to take a bit  too  long. Despite these technical hitches, MotoGP looks 
 good, and the flaws that it does have usually don't detract too much from the racing experience. 
 The bikes and riders look great, with excellent detail on each part of the motorcycle and each 
 decal on the rider's gear. The riders do animate stiffly once in a while, but for the most part 
 they look good.  

          With so many options for playing online, you never have to run the same race twice.    

  MotoGP 06 sounds great, with appropriate and distinct engine noise from motorcycles, and familiar 
 but decent music. Most of the music is recycled from last year's game, so don't expect to hear 
 much in the way of new tunes. The motorcycle sounds are great, though, and the sound alone when 
 you have a pack of three or four bikes opening it up down the final straightaway is enough to watch 
 a replay for.  

  If you have any interest in racing, you'll want to get this game. The online play alone makes the 
 game worth the investment. The upgrades to this year's game aren't dramatic, but the improved online 
 play, challenges, and handful of new tracks make this a worthy upgrade. That said, MotoGP 06 does 
 have its share of technical issues, and unless you're very familiar with the previous game you 
 won't see much of a difference in this one. Regardless, MotoGP 06 is a great game with plenty to 
 offer race fans.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (79 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: darren_ankney
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game is now available in the $20 range ... pick it up!!
  
  You have to suffer through a season of Grand Prix to unlock the extremely fun EXTREME modes ... 
 It is worth it tho! Fortunately, you do not have to actually win the Grand Prix season - just go 
 through it.
  
  Grand Prix season is difficult - VERY! I think they were shooting for loads of physics realism 
 here. No doubt they got it right. However, riding a motorcycle at 200 MPH is very difficult, and 
 not very enjoyable in a game. 
  
  Extreme mode seems to be about arcade FUN! Once you have unlocked this, you'll really start to 
 enjoy motorcycle street racing. Urban environments and so on add to the visuals that whip by really 
 fast on this ridiculously fast and controllable motorcycles.
  
  Great game that has one flaw: you have to unlock Extreme mode by suffering through a Grand Prix 
 season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShakouTH
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first game I've ever got for my 360. It was worth that. But there are a few things 
 I must mention about the flaws.
  
  FLAWS:
  When I first played the game, I couldn't make a single turn without dropping below 20 mph. A week 
 later, I'm owning everybody, and have first place in the championship of the first part of the 
 career. So, It turns from unbearably hard, to Just right.
  I still vote it hard, because of the training. I do the training, and It makes me want to stab 
 my controller multiple times. It helped me drive at the beginning, but when it says I fail now, 
 I still kick the opponents butt. 
  LIFTING FLAWS:
  The game overall is hard, and annoying, but soon it get fun to play, addictive, and somewhat easy, 
 and it's no longer annoying.
  
  Mostly everything else is good. The colors look kind of cartoony, but when you put it in HD, it 
 fires up. The graphics go up 2 points in HD format. The road looks more visible, the opponents 
 look more like your own motorcycle, and you can see the tires spin better. 
  The gameplay is great, riding the motorcycles is just addicting, even if your slow, just because 
 It has a great -not awesome though- sense of speed. It gets easy afterwards, and I went from 15th 
 to 1st place in the champs.
  I love the tricks they do when they win the game, it adds more physics to the game. 
  There is 
 also a little bit of humor. When they stand on theire bike and turn, the skid their bike 20 feet 
 across the track, and land on their butts. XD
  This game was worth the money. I bought this for 20 bucks new, and it was freaking worth it.
 
  
  Overall Score: 8.5
  Exact score: 8.7
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulieb331
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  A little tricky when first getting started but then very easy to pick up there after. The Corners 
 are the thing you need to get the most experience with if you give the bike to much gas you are 
 going to crash every single time. Make sure you do the practice and qualify on the tracks before 
 you race because if you dont the race is going to be a dred. This game you should deffinately rent 
 before you buy the game due to the fact that you may not like it. If you want to get it a lot cheaper 
 just go to game stop or buy it in the used section at blockbuster they give you a 30 day guarantee. 
 and i beleive some gamespots will give you a 60 day guarantee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alnelson509
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  Moto GP 06 is great for a street bike game, but compared to a lot of other racing games like Gran 
 Tourismo 4 it falls way short. The worst part of the game is the limited number of tracks. There 
 are only about 30 tracks total with no variations unlike in other games where the tracks will just 
 be changed to keep you interested. This wouldnt be so bad, but if you want to complete everything 
 you have to play through the game 16 times. The game will get pretty boring after awhile. Now with 
 the good stuff about Moto GP 06. The game play is very well done except for the frame rate in the 
 slower corners. Except for in the slow corners the frame rate is done very well making the game 
 play run smoothly. The games physics are pretty realistic, but the game is still easy to just pick 
 up and play. The models of the bike are very detailed and each type of bike looks different. Another 
 great feature is the bike design, which allows you to change the color, put shapes, and text on 
 the bike. You can also customize your riders leathers to fit your bike. Also you have to work 
 to get money to buy new bikes, and buy upgrades for your bikes. The graphics are one of the best 
 parts of Moto GP 06 with detailed environments around the track. Also the tracks look pretty good 
 and are well designed. Moto GP 06 is one of the best street bike games, but a few quirks and not 
 enough racing modes keep it from being great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  The first thing that will grab you about Moto GP is it's sense of speed. Wow, that's fast! Graphics 
 are a mixed bag, with the best element being the weather system. Dark storm clouds appear over 
 the sky as you drive the tracks, or even a rain storm. The bikes nice, but I feel they could have 
 been more detailed. If fact, the whole problem with Moto GP is a lack of variety with it's tracks, 
 bikes, and modes. What is there is done well, and the driving is great. Music is atrocious, but 
 the sound is great. My big gripe with the game is it's career mode. When racing through the tracks, 
 it is always the same one or two drivers who win the race. So, the only way to keep up in the championship 
 standings is to win a lot of races. That's tough to do, when wrecking your bike is so easy... maybe 
 too easy.
  In total, Moto GP is a very good game, and it is very fun. I just hope 07 has more of everything, 
 slightly better graphics, and a more balanced season mode. If so, if could join the big boys of 
 sports games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imigrant71
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 10, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  This is a great example of great controls and gameplay coupled with superb graphics and sounds. 
 Simply put, this is the best one yet. If you are GP fan, if you own a rocket or just racing games, 
 well, this game is for you.
  
  The tracks are designed well and modelled after the real ones nicely. Seca feels like the real 
 thing (aside from crashing of course) . I personally don't care much about the customization but 
 it does add to the game. Playing this game online is what makes it even more fun... aside from the 
 usual lag issues the game plays well; I'm still playing online.
  
  Can't wait for the next instalment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 25, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good when you first pick it up and play it, but dont let the visuals and the 
 interesting technical style you have to learn fool you, once you get past it, you will realize 
 that there is not much more to do in this game, other then repeat, on the same boring tracks, over 
 and over again. It has a very hard learning curve, perhaps the hardest of any racing game out there. 
 Once you learn this technical style, and get it down packed, you will realize that you have wasted 
 your time because yopu are not going to want to go around on these boring tracks with boring races 
 that just dont contain that interesting vibe that other racing games have like Need For Speed Underground 
 and such. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adriankeith
Rating: 2.6
Date: May 19, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  What is it with Climax? This is the third time that they've had a chance to change the pace of 
 this game. This latest iteration is nothing but flashy graphics and glittery bikes at the start 
 line. Why can't they add more to the game like tourist trophy did. There aren't NEARLY as many 
 bikes here as there are in TT. Sure you'll all argue that the game can't be compared to TT but 
 its the only game X360 has. It's more unfortunate that they've had rights to the name of the game 
 MotoGP as they don't do it any justice at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donpellegrino
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a great racer. Experience pays off subtly so that the player is constantly improving over 
 a long time. Races are quick on the default 3 lap mode, making it a great game for a few minutes 
 of play, or hours of moving through the Championships. Online is fantastic. Disabling collisions 
 is a must to prevent lag induced frustration, but once done, 16 player races are a blast. Once 
 basic skills are achieved hitting the forums for bike setups adds a whole new element to climbing 
 the charts and setting faster speeds. Don't let the initial learning curve deter you, this is a 
 great game that you can keep coming back to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reeve92
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 2, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  grate game people say controls not responsive?? i dont get it ??? its a motorcycle simulator its 
 meant to be realistic and fast steering just dont happen on a two wheeled veihcal and there is 
 not as much area on the ground !!!!! graphics are a big shock at first comeing from moto gp 2 to 
 the moto gp 06 i surpose its better in a way that they have gone like wierd like they seem quite 
 realistic to be but big shame is on cockpit view the dials dont work so ya dont no how fast your 
 going but on moto gp2 the dials do work lmao o well urrrm they have took the stats quite sriously 
 in this game they actually make a difference you can customize ya bike pretty cool urrrrm shame 
 that it seems your only going 80mph but your going 160mph lol sound it brilliant read that the 
 guys who recorded bike sounds for this game almost died of the fumes from reving up the bikes lol 
 not tried on live yet but hey i only got the game earlyer on today lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lolster12345
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 2, 2007 2:39 am PT
Review:  I first played motgp on the PS2 and found it to be ok, playing 06 on an xbox 360 I was amazed a 
 the sound and how real the bikes sound. Apart from being able to customize everything from your 
 helmet to your leathers i found the GP side pretty much the same as the ps2 version. But for me 
 the best part is the extreme mode, this is where I have had the most fun, it is much more focused 
 on speed and in my opinion makes this more enjoyable. The only disappointment is the loading times 
 before and after each race which gets annoying.
  Motogp 07 promises to be a whole new ball gaeme so bring it on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da1truehomie
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 1, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  THE GRAPHICS ARE AMAZING THE BIKES ARE WORLD CLASS, THE GAME LENGTH IS PERFECT, BUT THE TOTALY 
 THING THAT KEEPS YOU GOING IN THIS GAME IS
  
  THE BIKE IS SO GOD DAMN HARD TO PERFECT, TO BE ABLE TO CONTROL IT TO RACE 
  
  IVE SPENT HRS 
 UPON HRS ON THIS GAME. IVE DONE ALMOST EVERY RACE EVEN ON LEGEND. AND IM SEEDED IN THE TOP 10 F 
 YOU'VE PLAYED IN YOU'LL KNOW WHAT THAT MEANS. PS IF YOU WANT THIS GAME. LOG ONTO EBAY AND BUY ONE 
 OF THOSE SYLICONE THINGS THAT GO OVER THE PAD TO PROTECT IT THEN IT'S THROWN. LOL YOU'LL NEED IT. 
 HAHAHA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockfletch3000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  This game is great, it's got everything going for it...
  
  The graphics are top notch, alhough it is true that on occasion there are some frame rate glitches, 
 but not a big deal because it's really not that often, and the polished look of the game more thn 
 makes up for it.
  
  Sound is great too and is everything you'd expect from a bike game. The background tunes are just 
 your standard menu beats, but nothing to irritate either...
  
  Game play is awsome! Controls are simple, so don't listen to anyone trying to make out it's dificult 
 because they clearly just aren't any good at it! There's loads of tracks and bikes, and the range 
 in the difficulty levels is just righ. t too. The online part of the game is also superb, i found 
 the races smooth and easy to get into.
  
  This is a brilliant game, well worth the money. I can't comment on weather it's much different 
 from it's predecessor on the xbox, but for an outright game on it's own (having never played the 
 seiers) i find it top doller! The single player and online features are excellent and will keep 
 you interested for ages, or, until Moto GP 2007 comes along! Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getsetgo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. The single player is great and the multiplayer is in my opinion, the best of any 
 racer so far. Game Spot said this game has some frame rate issues. To be honest, i have never noticed 
 any problems. My only complaint about this game is that he is to addictive. I can not stop playing. 
 Since i got Moto Gp 06 i hardly play any other game. I am either racing on-line or doing my timetrials, 
 trying to beat my records. I never had a game that made me go so much like this:``just once more, 
 just another lap, just another race``, and before i realise 3 or 4 hours have gone by. Like i said 
 before this game is addictive beyond belief. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AL13NK1LL3R
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  when u been playin this game for at least a week then u get tired and bored with the game.. its 
 better rentin then buyin.. its very hard game and it will take awhile to get used to controls and 
 how control the bike. Plenty of variety between the fast, fun extreme tracks and the more technical 
 grand prix tracks; excellent online play with plenty of customization options; great lighting and 
 weather effects; motorcycles handle well and are just plain fun to race. ----agree
  
  
  when u been playin this game for at least a week then u get tired and bored with the game.. its 
 better rentin then buyin.. its very hard game and it will take awhile to get used to controls and 
 how control the bike. Plenty of variety between the fast, fun extreme tracks and the more technical 
 grand prix tracks; excellent online play with plenty of customization options; great lighting and 
 weather effects; motorcycles handle well and are just plain fun to race. ----agree 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonSumrall
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  Ok so Moto GP came with my new Xbox 360 and turned out to be one of the better games that I own. 
 I have always been a bit skecptical of motorcycle racing games. I have done the motocross games, 
 but street racing was another story. This game has changed my perception. The graphics are great, 
 even though the load screens are extremely long. Customizing the looks of your bike with paint 
 and graphics is pretty cool, although it would be nice to be able to simply mirror the graphics 
 from side to side, rather than have to try and visually get the decals in the exact same spot of 
 each side. The racing is a nice challenge, as far as the tracks go, the AI leaves a bit to be desired. 
 Most anyonce could lap the field if given 5-6 laps. Even with 3 laps its very easy to catch the 
 end of the field. Only problem with this game is the lack of new tracks. There are 4 bike classifications 
 to work through and the tracks are the same in each classification. Gets a bit boring running the 
 same track day after day. All in all, still a nice game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsSatansMC
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  MotoGP 06 is a great introduction to racing on the Xbox 360. The game play is fast and intense 
 but after some clip-on time, you can get the hang of it relatively quick. The Racing Career mode 
 is a blast and allows you to create a full race look with your own logo on your bike and leathers. 
 Its one of those gaming experiences where you start playing and then notice that its 6 hours 
 later. The Extreme classes are a lot of fun for when you and your buddies want to just kick back 
 and race arcade style. My only issue would be there was an occasional scan line that wobbled the 
 image from time to time, maybe 5 times a race. Other than that its a great motorcycle racing game 
 and I cant wait to see what comes next in the series. Maybe a Streetfighter based game??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misfit_780
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 2, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  Well where to start with MotoGP 06 well its a fun game once you get use to it and that were the 
 first problem comes in. getting use to the controls and steering the dam bikes takes ages! and 
 i mean like 3 hours of playing time maybe even more. however if you have played other MotoGP games 
 then the controls are pretty much the same. You get two differnt brakes, front and rear, both controlled 
 by either the left or right trigger buttons. this adds a more realalistic feel to the game and 
 makes you think a little more before taking a corner at break neck speeds. the graphics in the 
 game are outstanding and really show them selves off, in some shots you can even see the welds 
 on the bike frame. The background graphics are also pretty good but not perfect and you wont really 
 notice when youre braking from 200mph to 60 in about 5 seconds! unfortunatly as i rite this the 
 2006 season of MotoGp has ended and next seasons bikes are due for a respray so if your a fan of 
 motogp and are buying the game to be just like Valantino Rossi or Nicky Hayden your going to be 
 let down. However THQ did promise some xboxlive updates for the bikes riders and circuits. however 
 wether or not that will ever happen is anyones guess.
  
  MotoGP 06 is a good fun racer and breaks norm with 2 wheels instead of four. and it is easily the 
 best motobike game for any console but if your looking for a pick up and play racing game this 
 simple isnt it.
  
  Matt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zonzamas
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  well... a correct moto&acute; s game... THis is better than psp&acute; s game, but is st enough??
 
  again a correct game
  If you are thinking because you love MOTO life, fine. This game is more or less you wish...
  
 if you are thinkingg buy because you have to try play this game... ufff buy other game
  
  i try to explain that this game is a basic game, it doesn&acute; t have powerful of XBOX360...
 
  Others versions (psp and other) are smaller than this version...
  
  i don&acute; t know, but i&acute; m going to send 2&ordm; hand...
  it&acute; s funny, graphics are 
 correct, gameplay is ok...
  But you are going to spend 60-80$ or 60???
  you must think it before you do it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonX_portugal
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 12, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  This game is as fun as the previous versions, the challenges are tough, tons of unlockables, and 
 some great fun.
  
  Highly recommend this game.
  
  The learning curve is steep, but once you get it down, you will be hooked.
  
  This game gets 
 you interested in really seeing what it is like to ride over 200 MPH on a superbike, and gives 
 you respect for the people who do it for real.
  
  The list of unlockables is unreal, bikes, riders, tracks, revred tracks, videos etc.
  
  SOund 
 is way better than it used to be, each bike has it's own sound, so you knwo what is coming up on 
 you.
  
  you should buy it. btw, it has bothe years: year 2005 and year 2006
  ;) i recommend it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron_anvil
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 11, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  This game is very well made, its actually the most realistic bike game iv ever played, probably 
 as close as your gonna get without the help of g force!
  
  The graphics look top banana on my 32 HD tv, the colours are bright and images sharp! the replays 
 are pretty much photo quality, my old man thought i was watching it on tv when he walked in, mind 
 you hes no brain surgeon!
  
  I enjoyed playing this game alot but so far only have 40 gamerscore because i suck at it haha, 
 plus it takes a long time to complete a season when you dont know the tracks at all!
  
  Many of my friends didnt like the game purely for that fact that its very hard to control until 
 you get used to it, for this reason i suggest renting the game out first just ti make sure you 
 will get a long with it ok.
  
  Peace Out! haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drangel_jam
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  It took me a while to master the game; even though I still got a long way to go (I'm at the Champion 
 level, the next and last is Legend) .
  
  I haven't bought any of last generation's motorcycle games because I was too caught in the car 
 racing revolution that PGR and Forza contributed to my racing time online. Therefore I have a more 
 of a fresher feel about this game than per say, those who played the previous iteration.
  
  In a nutshell, if you love bikes, you owe yourself this game. If you love racing, keep in mind 
 that there's no competition in the motorcycle category. Moto GP is the absolute king.
  
  For those who are casual racing fans like me, well... this game is HARD. If you like arcade, you 
 will have plenty. The arcade mode could be a stand alone game itself. If you like both, like me, 
 prepare yourself to respect the laws of physics. These bikes won't hesitate to throw you out at 
 high speeds if you make bad jerks of acceleration.
  
  If you're patient and give this game a try, by the time you'll be able to compete on the professional 
 level (normal) , you will be hooked into it.
  
  Gameplay: almost ten. It's so great you won't believe it. The best thing it's when you start tuning 
 the bike's engine on the Arcade mode, you will easily notice how important are gear ratios, tires, 
 suspensions and etc. (If you don't want to crash/fall stay away from the other bikers, brake/slow 
 down if you have to, or make open turns.)
  
  Graphics: very nice. Almost but not quite.
  
  Sound: the BMG is not that good, only two great tracks. However, the FX are top notch, as good 
 as Forza, well... it's elite level.
  
  Value: If you want to get to Rank 1, (it's very possible, unlike PGR3.) You won't be bored. Trust 
 me. The game rewards as much for playing either online or offline, your stats are always dynamic. 
 The achievements are a little slow, but at least they keep you focused, that is playing.
  
  Hype: I sincerely gave it an 8.5 overall up until I wrote the review because the game lacks that 
 New-Gen breakthrough. However, this game is so rewarding, I had to go give it a 9/10. There were 
 moments I felt like giving up on it, I'm glad I didn't. A little patience will be golden.
  
  Casual racing gamer: buy it for the arcade mode mostly, and then step your game up to the more 
 severe Grand Prix.
  
  Hardcore racing gamer: I assume you know what you're missing. Yes, go ahead and buy it. It's well 
 worth it.
  
  Thanks THQ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FastrBlastr
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 5, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who loved the previous MotoGP games in the series will feel instantly at home with this 
 years installment. It has the same tried and tested gameplay as previous games, and although it 
 can seem a little daunting to newcomers, perseverance really does pay off.
  The X360 really does shine in the graphics department with MotoGP'06, with some of the best bike 
 models ever seen in a video game to date. Circuits are extremely well detailed, and although most 
 tracks have been seen in previous games, most notably MotoGP 3 on the XBOX, never have they had 
 so much attention lavished on them, with a plethora of trackside objects adding to the realism.
 
  All this graphical finnesse does come at a price though. The game suffers from some pretty awful 
 frame rate issues at times, most notaceable when taking corners. One feels that had Climax taken 
 more time to smooth out the frame rate, or indeed locked it at 30fps instead of 60fps, then this 
 could have been an outstanding game. The game also suffers from some minor tearing of the graphics, 
 which could have been easily fixed with the addition of Vsync.
  Mention should also be made of the long load times, which at times can seem to take up to a minute 
 to load. Considering the quality of the graphics and the level of detail involved though, one can 
 forgive this minor gripe.
  One other outstanding area of the game is in the sound, with realistic bike sounds and ambient 
 effects only adding to the already immersive experience.
  Overall, MotoGP'06 isn't going to convert anyone who hated previous installments in this franchise, 
 but for the rest of us, if you can ignore the occasional frame rate problems and long load times, 
 then you'll love this latest installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snwbrdr13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 19, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  This game was very good in my eyes and far superior to tourist trophy. The game controls are a 
 little easier to figure out and a little more forgiving in the controls. Now don't get me wrong 
 I'm not saying it's easy in any sense because it's not, if you think so just go ahead and jump 
 online and see what you place in your first few races.
  
  Controls aren't the toughest to figure out. You acceleration and three different brakes you are 
 able to use all of which come into play on hairpin turns, U-turns and any other sharp turn. You 
 have a front brake which is your strongest, the regular brake with isn't much but helps then the 
 back brake that locks your back tire up and when used with the other two brakes before a sharp 
 corner slows you down considerably.
  
  Career mode is good with three different levels of skill to choose from and four differentl levels 
 of bikes to race once unlocked. Before each race you have challenges you can complete in order 
 to get more rider points towards your custome rider. To me career mode is just s tepping stone 
 in order to get a good bike to go online with.
  
  Online mode is one of the best features of this game in my eyes. If you are not an online mode 
 fan don't be worried I just like racing against actuall players whereas A. I. can become a little 
 boring to me. You have ranked matches where you can race against people of the same caliber (supposedly) . 
 But my favorite is just the free-race or whatever you call it where races get to the sizes of 16 
 people. Online, Online, Online. That's all I thnk when I get home ready to play this game.
  
  Customization- I'm going to touch real quick on the customization of these bikes. Pretty much 
 you can do whatever you want to them, they have a color wheel with endless colors and you can pretty 
 much do as you please with the design. Don't expect to go online and see a bike that looks like 
 yours unless you picked a plain color or something real simple.
  
  Overall this game was originally from gamefly but I knew from day one I would be keeping this one. 
 Buy, rent, whatever you have to do just make sure you play this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomansWallet
Rating: 2.9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  This game is just a lazy ported update of previous moto gp's.
  
  There is really nothing about it I can recommend. In fact I got it on rental, and it went back 
 the very next day.
  
  Its games like this that have forced me to go down the online rental route to try before I buy. 
 Too many games nowady's are just slightly tweaked, slightly updated versions of older games.
  
  And for this to be THQ's entry into the 360 market, they should be ashamed of themselves.
 
  
  Graphics - Mediocre at best. Nothing you would want to show off to your friends.
  
  Sound - Bland. Directly ported from previous versions
  
  Playability - Not bad. Could have 
 more online modes and tracks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MotoGP74
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 9, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I never liked the xbox motogp game, but this one is quite a surprise; at least for me.
  
  Graphics: looks cleaner but it isn't exactly well-rounded.. I can still see jagged edges. Gone 
 are the wind blur at high speed
  
  Sound: perhaps the best part for the game.. You can distinctively differentiate the Ducatis from 
 the Hondas. This is just in.. I switched to a Honda RC211V and the Honda in real life sounds lighter 
 than those in the game.
  
  Handling: more refined from previous games. However still a bit of tweaching of the butt is observed 
 when I try to refine my lines. Furthermore, it is quite hard to leave my knees extended through 
 the corners, therefore easthetics of the game is compromised.
  
  Braking: Still able to brake very late, which is an easy method for the player to catch up on opponents.
 
  
  Tracks: every race track still very wide and very easy to overtake opponents... even for narrow 
 real world race tracks, THQ widens the track to allow players to go unpunished for rider mistakes.
 
  
  Bikes: Since I only do motogp, I am not able to get a factory ride or start my career in a low 
 performing bike and fight my way to earn a Repsol ride. I have to create my own ugly bike for my 
 career, which is a waste of my time. Furthermore, I don't enjoy assigning skill points for braking, 
 cornering, as such.
  
  Licensing: Apart from the bike's decals and tracks' signs. The leathers and helmets aren't branded 
 like Alpinestars or AGV.
  
  Falling off: The rider to rider crashes more realistic from previous series and hard braking while 
 cornering/turning in the sand will cause you to fall. Still, I can ride my bike at a physically 
 impossible angle and still remain upright.. tsk, tsk. This just in... after starting a champion 
 level game, getting pole in Jerez, I keep getting wiped out by AI riders.. even if I got the fastest 
 lap of the game, I came in last.. is there a way to tone down the mayhem? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 26, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  The best motorcycle racer on current consoles has just exploded onto the Xbox 360. Climax, the 
 developer who turned MotoGP into a Live institution, has done a tremendous job converting last 
 year's fantastic MotoGP 3. They've refined the video and audio tremendously and added a few new 
 tracks and bikes to lure returning players. The result is a stunningly fast and deep simulation 
 that, if not without a few speed bumps, has no peer on the 360.
  
  For those not in the know, the MotoGP circuit is NASCAR on two wheels, with a lot more danger and 
 infinitely more thrills. In action, the real thing is full of near misses, technically perfect 
 machines, and unbelievable turns that defy gravity. MotoGP 06 replicates the sport well enough 
 that it's all in here, too, and with a realism that will have you sweating.
  
  The game is primarily organized around a Grand Prix career mode. Sadly, unlike EA's recent NASCAR 
 games, there's nothing to represent the interaction within or rivalries between teams, but the 
 actual racing action is second to none. From the moment your bike hits the track, MotoGP delivers 
 tight control, fantastic speed, and a demanding skill level that requires real thought and practice 
 to master.
  
  The one new menu option is a training mode, though it's pretty thin. The tests, which introduce 
 riders to cornering and the need to maintain a turn through a long curve, don't teach so much as 
 demand that you perform a single task over and over until you reach a passable skill level. Given 
 the overall difficulty of the game, we'd like to see Climax make more strides to actually teach 
 players how to perform in the future.
  
  Since the training mode is relatively thin, you'll want to make liberal use of the game's practice 
 option, which allows you to take some much-needed laps on a track before even trying to qualify, 
 much less race and win. Alternately, the Quick Race option allows you to take any bike on any track 
 in the game, regardless of progress in the Gran Prix career. It's an excellent way to get an overview 
 of the game and be teased by what's to come. The only constraint is that results of these races 
 don't appear on any scoreboard. So save the good stuff for the real thing, please.
  
  Ironically, the most approachable races in the game are buried; the Extreme tracks are city street 
 races with faster, yet more arcade-feeling bikes. Getting to these races requires beating the Gran 
 Prix championship, however; a task that's not so easy if you just want to jump in and rock a few 
 races. Once they're unlocked, the Extreme races are loads of fun, especially since by that point 
 your skills should be highly developed. Doing 200mph on a track is one thing; hitting the same 
 speed between Jersey barriers on a Tokyo street is absolutely thrilling.
  
  As in the Xbox MotoGP 3 release, almost every aspect of bike and rider can be customized. Winning 
 awards skill points which can be distributed to aspects like cornering, braking and acceleration. 
 Bikes can be tuned to an incredible degree: play with the material composition of your tires or 
 just the color. The bikes have all been remodeled, and the difference between what you'll see here 
 and on the original Xbox is massive.
  
  Anyone who played last year's excellent Xbox release might be justifiably wary about upgrading. 
 For one, while the Live racing works just as well, it's not much advanced. Most of the offline 
 content is indeed the same, with only a few tracks and bikes added, and others revamped. But the 
 visual and audio performance is so much better that die-hards would do well to trade up.
  
  The visual upgrade is by far the most obvious. Harsh sunlight casts stark shadows as you race in 
 the daylight, and the tracks glitter with heat as they speed by. Bike and rider alike show off 
 far more detail than in previous generations; finally, all the touches put into leathers and logos 
 really pays off. Let's not ignore the audio, either -- with the 360's surround sound, the distinctive 
 hum of an approaching Honda is more recognizable than ever before.
  
  Don't expect a damage model to finally appear, though. As in previous installments, taking a spill 
 has no visual effect on your bike, nor will it affect performance. While the former is regrettable 
 but acceptable, we'd really like to have the added depth that performance downgrades could provide.
 
  
  There's also a price for performance. More than one, in fact. The first is load times. MotoGP features 
 perhaps the worst load times we've seen on the 360, certainly for a game released outside of the 
 launch window. The training runs, for instance, will take you longer to load than to play. Ouch.
 
  
  Also dragging down performance is a less than stable framerate. When physics have to be calculated 
 for several bikes at once, you'll notice the rate dip well below the standard (and very nice looking) 
 60 per second. Most of the time, this happens while cornering as part of a pack. It's not something 
 that will affect gameplay much, but as the presentation is otherwise so impressive, it's worth 
 noting.
  
  Even with those downsides, MotoGP is as demanding and impressive a racer as you're likely to get 
 for the 360 this year. It's more lively and entertaining than the PS2's Tourist Trophy, while being 
 just as technically impressive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Little_Tommy_M
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 21, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  A while ago i wrote a review of motogp 3 and moaned about the blatent re packaging of the 1st game 
 in the series over and over again. So now on the next generation THQ bring us Motogp 06. Lets face 
 it, when we brought this we knew it was gonna be the pretty much the same game as last time with 
 better graphics ( if you like it fine but dont kid yourself ) . However months after getting it 
 im still playing so there must be something new to the appeal. ( other than the fact that i didnt 
 pay for it myself ) I wont bore myself by going over the games faults in detail, simply that the 
 things in the game look like bikes but thats about it. Being a rider myself i can testify that 
 any review that claims realism of this game needs to look into a padded cell. Motorbikes DO NOT 
 work like this. So why the hell am i still playing and enjoying it? Possibly by now ive accepted 
 that this game was never meant to be anything other than an arcade racer but there are other improvements 
 ( albeit not where id really like them ) . 1stly the graphics, these really r a major upgrade particular 
 considering the wierd dirty look of sum of motogp 3's colours. Reflections, colours, textures, 
 models all very nice and a real joy to watch in replay mode. Some things are noticably missing, 
 there is still no damage model watsoeva ( remember the one-off scuffing from motogp 2? ) tho this 
 doesnt really impact too much. Anouther small point is the dials in the cockpit view, ugly-non 
 functioning and blurred when even motogp 1 had working speedos. But lets at least celebrate the 
 elimination of the pointless and brain siezing motion blur effects. ( seriously yay ) 2nd big improvement 
 is the look and polish of extream mode, tho yes the upgrade system remains pointless and they still 
 look like copies of real bikes, they r at least now attractive and well designed copies. Id go 
 so far as to say that i really wouldnt mind seeing sum of them them in the real world. Last and 
 possibly least ( but every little helps ) is the inclusion of 2005 and 2006 riders in gp mode, 
 not really any point to it considering the basic ride mechanics but still a nice touch showing 
 abit more attention to detail. So then, finally i can recommend this game but really only as a 
 good looking and fun arcade experiance. Designing ur bike logos and paint schemes is fun ( tho 
 no where near as effective as Forza ) and at last the game has a graphics engine to do them justice. 
 Similarly extream mode is still a shallow stuck on mod but now at least it looks pretty and has 
 ( sum ) cool looking bikes. Just for the love of god dont try and tell me its realistic.. in any 
 way.... no 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cagnaccio74
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 18, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  Let's start with the good news: Moto GP is a good racing game that manages to recreate the feel 
 of being on a motobike... while in most competitors you feel like riding a two-wheeled car, if you 
 get what I mean.
  Differential brakes, powerslides, Good.
  
  More good news come from the graphics department: excellent riders and motorbikes, wonderful asphalt, 
 top-notch sky and weather effects.
  
  Also, there are a lot of tracks (and most of them have a pixel-perfect detail) and many championship, 
 game modes and customization options... So, where is the catch?
  
  Here it is. First, the fine-detailing of the texture gets lost in an SDTV... I've played it on 
 a 23 SDTV in my kitchen and.... well... it looks like a PS2 game. Instead, play it on a HDTV (like 
 the 42 in my living-room) and the graphics look so crisp and detailed that will make Project Gotham 
 Racing 3 look old .
  You MUST play this game on an HDTV to really appreciate its details (like the grass and daisies.... which 
 you will have the chance to see from very short distance while falling from the bike) ....
  
  Then, minor glitches: missing team crew in the paddocks, riders that fall through the bikes, 
 mismatched textures. And the most annoying thing: inconsistent quality. I mean, some tracks look 
 absolutely fabulous and scream next-gen is here! ... some other look very current-gen like if they 
 were directly ported from PS2 or Xbox.
  
  Another bad thing is the inconsistent frame rate... Some times it is exceptionally smooth. Some 
 others is definitely choppy.
  
  In the end... MotoGP 06 is a good racer that looks fabulous on an HDTV and offers a lot of races 
 and options. Frame rate inconsistency and SDTV are its worst enemies.
  
  If you like motorbikes and are a fan of the MotoGP championship, this is a MUST BUY. All the others... try 
 before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garydbzfan
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 16, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  i got this game like a month ago and i cant stop playing it i love it so much and i aint even into 
 moto gp lol the graphics are brilliant the gameplay is just perfect all around the music aint bad 
 and the racing carear mode is also brilliant u can also play xbox live with this game and it doesnt 
 lag its just so good online as it is offline if u like racing games u will love this i highely 
 reccomend this game to any 1 who likes racing and bikes theres so much to unlock bikes players.. 
 and u can customise your bike player clothes helmets u name it u dan do it lol and this is the 
 1st game i have ever played of the moto gp series and the best 1 at that so in my book this game 
 gets a whopping 10/10 cos the games so perfect in every way so if your thinking about getting this 
 game try the demo out and see what u think its well worth the money im telling u now lol..
  
  the learning time is about 1-2 hours its quite simple really ...
  
  thanks for reading 
 my review on moto gp  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TerminalEcho
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 12, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so lets face it; The Moto GP series had gotten pretty stale. Hell, make that really stale. 
 The controls, the cameras, the riders, the graphics... It was all getting pretty old to be honest, 
 but let's give THQ credit; They saw the errors, and they advanced upon most of them with their 
 lastest release, Moto-GP 06 on the X-Box 360.
  As with any game that has been released for the 360, the first thing everyone notices is the graphics, 
 and this one is no different. Extreme detail on the tracks, and gorgeous backgrounds make for some 
 very nice eye candy, although they're a little hard to concentrate on while you're buzzing around 
 the track at 170mph. Not only the tracks were re-done, but also take a closer look at the riders. 
 They visually look about as realistic as anything you'll see, and THQ even put the time into small 
 things, like the rider twisting the throttle, or hammering on the clutch, or even clicking up to 
 that next gear. With all this stuff put together, Moto-GP definately makes for a real visual treat.
 
  The second thing you might notice about this game is the learning curve, which will vary by gamer. 
 I am an avid video-game racer, on both bikes and cars, and it took me a couple of hours to get 
 these controls down. It's not even so much the controls that will give you a hard time, but the 
 handling of the bikes, and the lean of the camera angle, make for a deceiving ride around the track, 
 especially when you're doing it for the first time. While this was frustrating for me and most 
 other gamers I've spoken to that have sat down with this one, the handling is far superior once 
 you get past the first few races. The sounds of the passing objects and the other bikes roar, and 
 the view, almost makes you feel the rush of actually being on the track.
  I guess the largest complaint of the previous titles was the lack of options. While THQ has yet 
 to eliminate those problems, they took a major step forward with this offering. Not only can you 
 race with the Moto-GP bikes, but there are "extreme" classes to race in as well. Those classes 
 range from the 600cc bikes, all the way to the 1200cc bikes. Adding these additional classes makes 
 for a much better replay value, and gives you the opportunity to race in a "street" scene, instead 
 of just the track. On top of the new classes, there is also a newly added "challenge" mode that 
 adds more depth to the game by creating some timed runs through small sections of the track. Some 
 of these chalenges can be very difficult, while others are a little easier. Eithery way, it's great 
 and needed addition to the game. Through the magic of X-Box Live, you now have the ability to line 
 up, up to 16 racers on the track at once and have a go-round, except this time, there is some added 
 incentive. If you are using an "extreme" bike, you can put your own custom decals and text on your 
 bike, to show off to everyone on-line. While this is a small addition, you'll be surprised how 
 long you will spend working on the look of your ride.
  While this game is a major improvement over the previous titles, it does have some minor glitches 
 and flaws that might hold some of the less serious racers back. The ambient sounds are great, but 
 the sounds of the bikes do need some work, as they sound a little off from the real thing. Kind 
 of taking a page out of the Gran Turismo series, the AI is basically designed to ignore you, so 
 don't expect them to move around a lot while you're racing in close quarters. They will sometimes 
 back down to really close encounters, but for the most part, you're on your own. The new additions 
 are fantastic, but THQ does need to add a few more modes, or maybe some recognizable extreme bikes 
 to put this series over the top. Overall I would consider this game to be the best on two wheels 
 that I've seen yet. Some of the amateur racers might get bored by the lack of options, but the 
 hardcore fans of the series will be delighted by the improvements made to this title. It kept me 
 busy for well over 25 hours, and that's just the single player racing, not to mention the great 
 on-line play. Bottom line is, if you're a fan of 2 wheel racing at all, you'll probalbly get some 
 good use out of this one. I look forward to the next title in the series, and I would recommend 
 this to anyone who is a fan of bikes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crowned1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 20, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  I just bought this game and I thought it was pretty revolutionary compared to the previous moto 
 games. Of course, I haven't bought my first real bike yet, so I'm a moto noob, I still think this 
 games desreves a little more kudos than what people are giving it credit for. Hopefully, I will 
 be able to by a 2003 Yamaha R1 in Sept. It'll be my first bike. You won't be wasting the sum 60 
 bucks to play this game. Even though I'm not a true biker, no regrets are present in shooting the 
 cash to get this. If you're still leery, then rent it like any other game with an expectation that 
 you'll like it. To my knowledge, this is the newest and best bike game around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 12, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  As I said the series returns to prove that they are indeed the king of motorcycle racing. Till 
 this day, no one has managed to make a better cycle racing game. This one doesn't offer to much 
 of a difference from the past titles, but the thing that is true is that they didn't change the 
 thing that made this game known to begin with, which is the awesome racing mechanics. True, I don't 
 like this game nearly as much as say, PGR 3, but thats ok because I honestly think this game could 
 stand on its own without being compared to another racing game, especially one that involves cars 
 rather than cycles. This game pulls off all the right tricks as far as realistic racing mechanics 
 with awesome online play as well as beautiful graphics to match. But thats another thing, the graphics 
 on the Xbox were so damn impressive that I didn't think they can get much better, but they did. 
 Though I expected a little bit more of an improvement they are still gorgeous to relish in. And 
 you mainly notice the improvement in the graphics when you watch the replays because then they 
 show you every angle of the bike and the rider. And though its not a very easy racing game, you 
 will eventually get the hang of it and begin to win races. Don't steer away from it the first time 
 playing because this game brings alot to the table and gives you an experience with bikes that 
 only the MotoGP series offers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob101
Rating: 3.1
Date: Aug 7, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  Moto GP looked like an XBOX game nothing about this game stood out from the rest, what appeared 
 to be an exciting look into the world of street bike racing was nothing more than an 19.99 sale 
 item at Walmart later this year.
  
  The graphic for this game were below average, and the game play was not fun at all, it was either 
 way to easy or so hard you wanted to toss it across the room, the controls were sloopy and made 
 the experiance even worse, overal this was a poor show on the XBOX 360 not even worth a rent, and 
 somebody please tell me what the hell was with the street races on motorcycles, it did not fit 
 in at all and made the game even worse by being there it was about as stupid as when they added 
 it to the NASCAR serise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdbthexboxgamr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Oh memories, back in 2001 when a Moto GP racing game first showed itself on the Xbox I was hooked!. 
 This game featured slick graphics, a buttery smooth frame rate and tough to master controls. Two 
 more games have since come out from our friends at Climax on the Xbox and they were small improvements 
 on the original game but I kept coming back for more, lets face it, I am a Moto GP addict!
  A few months after the launch of the Xbox 360 in November THQ and Climax have bought their baby 
 to the next gen console!, and you may have seen a bunch of mediocre reviews for this game, I must 
 say I disagree with those reviews, read on.
  THQ and Climax present Moto GP 06 for the Xbox 360 console!, this game features a revamped graphics 
 engine from the previous games in the series, gone is the infamous motion blur at high speeds, instead 
 we get gorgeous lighting effects and a rediculously high level of detail in the drivers and bikes, run 
 this gem in high def in 720p (what I use) or 1080i and you will be blown away by the visuals in 
 this game, the clarity, sharpness and lighting are second to none, it is truly a next gen Moto GP 
 experience!
  Control is just about identical to the previous versions which to me is a good thing, you may hear 
 some gamers say "This game is too hard", etc, well if you think this game is too hard and are unable 
 to master the controls go back to the Need for Speed games because this game controls just like 
 a GP game should, just give it time and patience and you will be at the ehad of the pack every time!
 
  Climax has made changes to the extreme mode tracks and bikes in this game, they have made a major 
 facelift on them since GP3 on the Xbox. The sounds of the bikes has also been improved, crank up 
 this game in 5.1 and you will see what I mean.
  I do have a few gripes unfortunately and this is what keeps this game from getting a perfect score. 
 My first complaint is the frame rate, it is not that bad it is just inconsistent, most of the time 
 it stays at 60fps but dips in some parts of the track, mostly the turns and this might cause "screen 
 tear" mostly on HD sets. My other gripe is the music, it pretty much blows, except for a few good 
 songs but this is what the Xbox 360's custom soundtrack feature is for. 
  To finish this review up, this is a gorgeous racing game that needs to be seen and played to appreciate. 
 Just lock up the frame rate in the next version Climax and you will have an absolute winner on 
 your hands! Keep up the good work and keep this series Xbox 360 exclusive!. Thank you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMac76913
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 31, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, and if you just happen to be a MotoGP fan then this is deffinatly something 
 you will want to check out. It has all of the favorites in real life in the game, Rossi, Hayden, 
 Melandri, Hopkins, Edwards, Roberts, Pedrosa, Capirossi, Vermeulen and many more. It does take 
 a little bit of time to get used to the controls but once you get the hang of things it becomes 
 even more fun. Also, once you play though Grand Prix, you unlock a more arcade type of racing where 
 you can buy and upgrade your bikes to your own specifications. I would reccomend this one for sure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: txbagz4fun
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 29, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  motoGp 06 doesn't really bring anything really new to the exp. but climax focused more on the flaws 
 of the previouse titles to make this motoGp the best title yet... they might of came a little sort 
 but at the end motoGp '06 is worth the money and a good time around the zig-zag style tracks.... w/ 
 fantastic gameplay that brings veterans from previouse title but all so rookies from dif. sort 
 of racing genres to give it a try.... good graphics with above average character models with bleek 
 enviroments that has clouds and rain effects that blow your mind.... xbl is fun at the least and 
 probly having you play it the most like most xbox titles.... at the end motogp is a well worth the 
 massive price of $60 dollars and then some 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrh04
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 22, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  This is my first bike racing game I've bought....... and Im glad I did. The gameplay is pretty awesome...... the 
 tracks are real and you race them like you are actually competing in a real season. Now that Ive 
 played it for a while, I found that the 600cc.... and probably the 1000 and 1200 are easier than 
 the GP you start out in. 
  
  Even though some people thought the graphics didn't live up to 360 specs, I think they are pretty 
 good - the tracks are detailed and the bikes look pretty darn real too. Get in the right view and 
 u can clearly see the tread on the tires. You can also create your own custom bike design, which 
 is cool, and if your design sucks, well luckily you can just switch back to the original design. 
 I also like how the sound changes based on the bike and if you play this connected to a surround 
 setup, you can hear the 15-20 10000+rpm engines all around you. 
  
  I couple things I saw that could use work....... the spectators..... they are FLAT!! like cardboard 
 cut-outs watching the race. I've also had my bike ride thru me when I fall off....... yeah. And 
 not to get picky, but when you apply brakes, the rider never grabs the brakes..... he still has 
 his hand on the gas.
  
  But overall, this game is the one for someone looking to race something besides cars...... and to 
 get a good feel for controlling a bike around the track 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 21, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -------
  Crisp bike and driver graphics, great ragdoll physics.
  
  Cons:
  -------
  Rubbish backgrounds, astoundingly hard and boring achievements, barely any extras, not 
 much of a game, why lock half the game away?
  
  MotoGP 06: Ultimate Racing Technology (to call it by it's full name) is a pretty lackluster game, 
 because, let's be honest, there's very little in there. The other MotoGP games were basically the 
 same as this, but this one should have more. Not because of a better console, because the others 
 were rubbish, and quite frankly, so is this.
  The only upside is the graphics, and not all the graphics, just the bike and driver graphics, and 
 even then, they are not great.
  MotoGP 06 is not that great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveld
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 20, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I have a new love for racing once again. This is fresh, new, and exciting. What they have done 
 with this title is just amazing. I am looking forward to MotoGP 07 when they really start to use 
 the power of the 360. It will blow you away even further than this title. Since we are still only 
 in the beginnings of the 360. Give the developers a bit more time and there will be no limit to 
 the amount of possibilities out there. If you don't have a 360 yet now is the time and there will 
 be no better time than the present. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  MotoGP 06' does a good job of keeping you interested in the game for not only hours on end... but 
 makes me want to keep the game longer instead of trading it in. 
  
  Ok, I noticed that some people have been Knocking the graphics and others are praising Climax for 
 making them so good... I would consider them slightly higher than average for the 360. The only 
 real glitch I could find was when you fall off of your bike and it runs over you.... well its supposed 
 to right? Apparently not, Climax seems to think the Big motorcycles just drive right through you.... well 
 they don't...
  
  Ok, now that my only gripe (besides starting out on the GrandPrix season) is outta the way... The 
 Game Play is awesome... enough variants and real race features to keep me attracted to the game 
 for a good long time. I think that the game should start off in the 600cc class instead of the 
 Grand Prix.... but whatever...
  
  The sound is pretty darn good too! You can hear the differences between the different engine brands 
 and displacements as well as all the brake, chain and gear chatter when braking....
  
  The handling and steering seems to be quite realistic as well.
  
  Overall, I really liked this 
 game and it only took a few races to get the hang of the steering... so I say BUY IT if you like 
 racing games at all.... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supa_natural888
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 14, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  If you ask me I say this game was more than worthy of the best of E3 award for best racing game. 
 It does everything right. Even if your not a fan of motorcycle racing this game will turn you into 
 a fan of the genre. Although the graphics could be a bit better they are very good and well done. 
 The AI in this game is not good. They don't carsh into each other they only crash into you. They 
 make you fall off your bike and sometimes cost you a race. the sound in this game is well done 
 and the bikes sound great. If you like realistic racing games and your up for a challange you should 
 give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raymin4
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 13, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  MotoGP 06' does a good job of keeping you interested in the game for not only hours on end... but 
 makes me want to keep the game longer instead of trading it in. 
  
  Ok, I noticed that some people have been Knocking the graphics and others are praising Climax for 
 making them so good... I would consider them slightly higher than average for the 360. The only 
 real glitch I could find was when you fall off of your bike and it runs over you.... well its supposed 
 to right? Apparently not, Climax seems to think the Big motorcycles just drive right through you.... well 
 they don't...
  
  Ok, now that my only gripe (besides starting out on the GrandPrix season) is outta the way... The 
 Game Play is awesome... enough variants and real race features to keep me attracted to the game 
 for a good long time. I think that the game should start off in the 600cc class instead of the 
 Grand Prix.... but whatever...
  
  The sound is pretty darn good too! You can hear the differences between the different engine brands 
 and displacements as well as all the brake, chain and gear chatter when braking....
  
  The handling and steering seems to be quite realistic as well.
  
  Overall, I really liked this 
 game and it only took a few races to get the hang of the steering... so I say BUY IT if you like 
 racing games at all.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gixxerman1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 13, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  The graphics are top notch and the game play is great! The game really shines online the most and 
 is really the main reason to keep playing after completing the career modes offline. The only draw 
 back from this game is the computer controlled riders are not forgiving at all. They will wreck 
 you real quick if you get off your line in a curve even when they are the one coming from behind, 
 which isn't very real world. Also there are some glitches with seeing riders pop around online 
 sometimes. 
  The create your own graphics is to time consuming and really not that great! I'd like to see a 
 choice of adding your favorite bike racer paint job and graphics to your bike and some other custom 
 pre-made skins like the NFS francise offers for there car models as well and expand the painting 
 system to do 2 or 3 colors on a bike at once like in real life. Other then those little complaints 
 the game is solid and very fun to play. Must buy for any fan of motorcycles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartmanstein
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  It might be unfair to compare Moto GP and Tourist Trophy cause they are on different systems, but 
 where the latter comes off as clinical, Moto GP gets my vote for adrenaline rushing blood pumping 
 action. It might just be the graphics, but I think the thrills are just basically better. The incredible 
 sense of speed. The violent crashes. But then again, its not fair to call Moto GP an arcade racer, 
 cause that would give short shrift to the skills needed to play this game as you simultaneously 
 manage your bike. I also have to give a shout out to the people who made this game for adding hard 
 challenges before each race that increases all of your skittles. (skills) It reminds me of a RPG. 
 Well overall this is a very good game that is worth a purchase. Its also rent-worthy but when you 
 have to return it you will be very sad and cry yourself to sleep for a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakedoy666
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  This is the first one of the series that i have played and i must say that is probably the best 
 racing game i have played in a long, long time. It doesnt get old. The control of the bikes does 
 take a little getting used to and to learn the right lines for the courses is fairly difficult 
 but when u get it down this is a great game that you can play over and over, mainly because of 
 the different difficulty settings and how many different bikes there are to choose from along with 
 being able to customize the look of the rider the bike and also the performance of the bike in 
 the extreme championships. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jer_OC
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 7, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  It follows its predecessors and once again a terrific MotoGP game is racing its way to the top 
 of the racing charts... now granted there are no challengers! Nonetheless, a nice bike racing 
 game. The game is really nice graphically, it has its flaws (like empty horizons & mediocre midsections) 
 but for racing fans of the MotoGP series, an excellent addition to your collection. The in-game 
 features are non-existent... You have practice, qualify, race... And thats the game in a nutshell. 
 I was surprised how shallow the game was though, on the cover it eludes to many different & exciting 
 modes, So I was disappointed when I got into the game to find out the challenges and stunt modes 
 are few and misrepresented. You get a couple of challenges per track , which arent even really 
 challenges with the exception of the odd beat the clock, your basically stuck redoing small parts 
 of the track you are going to race on not very exciting. Now the game has one big bonus physics. 
 The physics are excellent but to have an entire game hinged on wikked physics is just downright 
 not fair to people who shelled out 70bux for what they thought would be a robust racing game. If 
 youre not a huge MotoGP Hardcore Fan... I highly suggest just Rent It! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  I have been playing the Moto GP series since it first appeared on the original Xbox. Up until now, 
 there has always been a new feature added with each edition. Moto GP 2 offered built in Xbox live 
 play and Moto GP 3 offered Extreme tracks which were basically fantasy tracks. Moto GP 06 has both 
 of these elements included but beyond that there is not much offered that is new except...... near 
 photo realistic graphics making it arguably the best looking racer yet on the 360. 
  
  If you never have played Moto GP you are in for a treat but also in for a challenge. I have never 
 been able to master the series yet but I sure have fun being a novice. Its a true testament to 
 a game when it can be frustrating but so addictive you find it hard to put down the controller. 
 The difficulty is in learning to brake and power slide. This is simple on games like Ridge Racer 
 and Project Gotham Racing but a whole new experience on a bike. The gameplay walks a tight rope 
 between arcade and simulation to effectively satisfy both camps. There are many different theories 
 on which controller configuration is best but most agree the default controls do not work the best 
 so check out a GameFAQs or experiment to see what works for you.
  
  The player models, pavement and most of the scenery is awesome especially on a high-def TV but 
 its still noticable on standard ones as well. There are some tracks and scenery that did not seem 
 to get the full next-gen treatment but those are few and you should be focusing on your racing 
 lines rather than the landscape. One flaw that is noticable to some is an intermittent dose of 
 screen tearing which can be distracting at times but is not as noticable as it was in Blazing Angels. 
 Climax said this was a sacrafice they had to make to keep things at 60fps. Not everyone sees it 
 and it never has caused me to crash but it is jarring. Some also complain that their are frame 
 rate issues both off and online. I have never seen it when playing on 720p and 1080i so again its 
 not everyone. Sound is, as always, extremely well done in this game. The bikes sounds as powerful 
 as you imagine. The music tracks is also a good selection.
  
  Singleplayer is a nice and lengthy offering career, training, challenges and quick races. Customizing 
 your own racer gives you a lot of options in how your racer looks and even more so for your bike. 
 As you complete races, challenges, etc. you earn points to improve your bikers abilities in cornering, 
 braking, top speed and acceleration. Multiplayer is the ultimate ride where you can take your custom 
 rider or take a rider from the 2005 pro racers and compete against up to 16 racers. Take note that 
 most of the online community is pretty aggressive about their skillz so you may want to make sure 
 you get some time in single player before taking them on.
  
  The tracks are pretty much the same as in Moto GP 3 with a couple of additions and thankfully the 
 extreme tracks have been widened to avoid pile ups. However, as fans of the Winning Eleven series 
 can testify, if it's not broken don't fix it. It would have been nice if Climax did offer a little 
 more in this edition or offered it at a reduced cost. Also, Moto GP needs an infusion of personality. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelljon
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  MotoGP 06 is much better that it's prequel. The first time you try it, you get a wonderful sense 
 of speed......... makes you feel like you are on the GP tour. The presentation is done well, the 
 menus are easy to get in to and use......... but the load times are a bit too long. Control is 
 top notch, making it easy to navigate the many courses (that is, after you have practiced. For 
 all you newbies out there!) . And you would like travelling those courses because the graphics are 
 great! Crashes never looked so spectacular! And the various views of the action makes it even more 
 lifelike. You can hear the roaring of the engines when you are close....... and as you leave the 
 competition behind, you hear them slowly disappear. Even as pass other riders on a parrell part 
 of the track, the engine sounds realistically move with the bikes....... good stuff! The game is 
 realy fun to play........ even better when you're battling with friends....... and I did not notice 
 any considerable lag...... well done THQ and Climax! Overall this IS a great game. I would, however, 
 have liked to be able to customise my bike's logo and colors and stuff. And have different designs 
 on each bike....... instead of having to resize, move, adjust, etc. every time I change bikes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apoc112
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  MotoGP '06 is one of those games for people who love racing. It's pure and simple... no "kudos", 
 no "elastic" AI... just racing. The brilliance of the game is that it adds a new dynamic to the 
 game for lovers of car racing simulators. Now you've got to think about position on the bike and 
 3 braking options - all of which have their purpose and fit in the game. That being said, on with 
 the break-down:
  
  Graphics: On-par with the best of today... of course, it's a racing game, so everything's flying 
 by at lightspeed, but the character models and suits are perfect, right down to the last wrinkle. 
 Bike models are clean and crisp and the skinning tool, while not perfect, allows you to make everything 
 your own.
  
  Gameplay: I've found controls to be pretty intuitive after only a half hour or so of playing. Problem 
 is, it's very different from other racing game setups, so there's a transition period when i pick 
 up PGR3 or Forza again... gotta keep telling myself that you can't lean a Porsche forward in a 
 long straight.
  
  AI: Depends on difficulty setting, but they can present quite the challenge. I started out on Champion 
 and for the first 4 or 5 races, i had difficulty breaking into the top-10. The AI is unrelenting 
 around the corners and it took me a long time to correct my weakness. *TIP* If you're getting bullied 
 in the corners, make sure your weight is back, giving added stability to your rear wheel. The AI 
 will get you loose in the back end and force you to spin out or lay the bike down.
  
  Overall, i think this is a fantastic game with strong multiplayer content and a single player career 
 that forces you to improve your skills. The techniques learned herein will easily transfer to other 
 racing sims and it's nice because it's much harder to hold lines on a bike, so when you perfect 
 in this game and get back to car racing, you'll breeze through what may have been frustrating challenges 
 (i. e. staying out of the sand at Laguna Seca)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iromek
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  What a great racer this is... not only in the single player but also in the multi-player modes... 
 Truly amazing. Of course the graphics will simply amazing you, but the real gem is in the depth 
 of the game itself. The gameplay is absolutely first rate, as you have just enough adjustments 
 available to make it as different as you want without making it impossible.
  The only drawback is the continued lack of tyre management,. I wish someone would figure out a 
 system which makes the tyres start slick (new tyres have to warm up) get nice and sticky... and 
 start getting slick again towards the end of the race. This would force you to tyre manage... a 
 key in MotoGP.
  I have noticed a couple places the frame rate slips, but overall very good. An excellent game!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jagsfan72
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  MOTOGP 06
  
  
  GAMEPLAY - 9.7
  
  GRAPHICS - 8.1
  
  REPLAY VALUE - 8.7
  
  TOTAL = 8.8 OUT OF 10
  
  
  
  MotoGp 06 for the XBOX 360 is the first next-gen motorcycle 
 racing game to hit the streets, and it's burnin rubber in HIGH DEF from start to finish. The gameplay 
 in motogp is intense, just like it's previous installments. This game has a learning curve of at 
 least an hour (even on rookie) before you can start ripping through corners with confidence. The 
 best approach to cornering is to brake first, then accelerate through the turns. That way you're 
 already accelerating into your next straightaway. There's plenty of tracks and bikes in MotoGP, 
 so don't be fooled by the Gran Prix mode that you have to complete when you first start playing 
 it. After finishing your first season in Gran Prix, you may never go back to it because now you've 
 unlocked the Extreme 600, 1000, and 1200 series! This is where the gameplay gets really good with 
 tons of new motorcycles, and plenty of customization available.
  
  
  The graphics in MotoGP are almost perfect. The tracks and the bikes look great, and the lighting 
 and shadows are incredible! The only reason why I gave the graphics an 8.1 is because the screen 
 randomly flips/splits, almost as if the frame rate just can't keep up. I'm playing my 360 on an 
 HP vp6310 DLP projector in 720p HD, and it's the only game that does this, so I'm assuming that 
 it's a problem with MotoGP's frame rate.
  
  
  MotoGP 06 has great replay value due to the fact that you have to complete an entire season in 
 any extreme series just to pony up enough cash to buy a new bike. Upgrading your ride isn't cheap 
 either. It usually takes 1st place in 2 races in order to earn the money to purchase a single upgrade. 
 Another added replay value is to switch your view to 1st person at the start of any race, placing 
 you right in the driver's seat of your favorite 200mph bike! It's tough to see around those corners 
 when you're laying on your side... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 1, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Admittedly, I'm not the world's biggest racing game fan. I love the Burnout series, but most every 
 other racer I've played loses my attention in a very short amount of time. MotoGP has a few framerate 
 issues and some frustratingly touchy controls, but overall I'd say that it's fun enough and fast 
 enough to deliver a racing experience that you'll come back for time and time again.
  
  Even with some minor framerate issues during races, the graphical presentation is as good as any 
 other 360 racer I've played but still seems like it could've been polished just a bit more. There 
 is a very nice replay mode after each race that gives some great angles of the action. Players 
 can skip the replay if they choose to, but I'd suggest checking out a race replay if you have HDTV. 
 
  
  The controls on MotoGP will definitely challenge you. True human physics, weight shifting, braking 
 and timed acceleration are all must-learn skills if you hope to compete. The game has quite a few 
 built in aids like direction arrows and an overhead view of the track to help you anticipate corners 
 better. Again, the player can choose to ride without help , and it's always nice to have that option 
 as a gamer, I suppose. Invest some effort into learning the controls and this game can become an 
 addiction, despite some very minor shortcomings mentioned earlier. 
  
  With lots of bikes to purchase, parts for each, tracks to unlock, riders to unlock, and a quality 
 online experience, MotoGP is deep enough to warrant a purchase, even if you can hold off long enough 
 for the sticker tag to drop a bit. It will. Solid weekend rental at the very least. Check this 
 one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoPros
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 1, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. I have played every MotoGp except for MotoGp3. I raced this one and built my 
 bike up to 100 on everything but braking, but driving manual u don't really need to much brake. 
 Well the other day I was racing online and I got disconnected and when I tried to log back in all 
 my career data was erased. I was seed 4. I still have my lap times, rank and achievements. But no 
 BIKE!!! I read online it has happened to other people, and all Climax says is its a glitch and 
 a patch is coming to fix it. Other than that MotoGp is probably the best game on 360 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 29, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  Having played all of the other MGP games from Climax and THQ I am pleased to say that they are 
 doing a good job, BUT they are rehashing the same things now over and over again with twice as 
 many bugs per release. This I will cover later but first let me explain just how this game feels 
 and plays.
  
  Its quite obviously a racing game. They have incorporated all the Moto GP 06 tracks into this game 
 and all the new team driver line ups and liveries. This accompanied by a good graphic tweak than 
 that of the Xbox makes this a really good collectors game for a fan of the actual series. To add 
 to this they have included (like in the other games before it) a custom option to do up your own 
 bike colours and leathers so you can really have a unique looking bike. This is done through in 
 game clip art images and shapes that you can resize and move around the bikes bodywork. Its a 
 nice touch however you feel that 8 layers isn't enough when games like Forza have a 100 layers 
 per each side of the vehicle.
  
  Thats the aesthetics out of the way, how does this game play?
  
  The answer to this is quite 
 well but hold up. I strongly believe the best version of this game was the 2nd one. The one they 
 debuted with Xbox live. This has to be the most complete racing game ive ever played to date. MotoGp06 
 has a few problems that for some reason have been picked up and unresolved post the 2nd game. Ill 
 explain more about this later lets get back to the game.
  
  Unlike ant racing game you may have ever played, this one is done on a bike. You may be laughing 
 at that last line and for those who may never have played a back racing game before track position 
 is everything on a game like this. You simply cannot log in and finish the race in 1st on your 
 first attempt. All the friends who ive seen play this game and claimed to be good racers perform 
 poorly as they simply havent ever tried to race properly. With bikes you have to compensate for 
 lean time and if you are in the wrong position on the track you simply cant tack a corner of 90 
 degrees like you would in a car racing game. Braking leaning and actual speed into every corner 
 is of critical importance if you are to play this game well. If you are a very arcady gamer then 
 this game may not be for you. This game also features am arcady race type called the extreme series 
 where you drive on tracks that are mainly straighter and less aggressive with some of the corners. 
 On top tof that the bikes in the extreme series handle a little sharper and you can execute drift 
 slides which make the control of the bike much easier. If you manage to become really good at the 
 extreme racing your skills doesnt necessarily transfer directly into good skill when you attempt 
 to race on the real tracks. Sliding for example becomes much more difficult and often hazardous.
 
  
  This game also features an online scoring system which I think is really good. Every time you race 
 a race your time gets recorded and saved onto your Xbox. Im not sure if these times get put into 
 the xboxlive database if the Xbox is not online or you have to race with a signed in connection 
 to get your time put in the database. This feature is great as you can see just how well in the 
 world your time stands.
  
  The other scoring thing on this game is the seed ranking. This is a rank that starts at 100 and 
 goes down to 1 if you win races. This seed is a good way to see how many people may be new to the 
 game and will give you an indication of how they will perform in your created games (all this if 
 you are online of course) . This ranking will go down (or up) in the offline mode. You must however 
 race the higher difficulty settings if you want to get a ranking of 1.
  
  All that said, this game does a really good job of portraying how a bike would feel if you were 
 really riding one.
  
  Now for the problems. Its a shame that a good game like this has any but there are a few that 
 absolutely do my head in.
  
  1. Communicating online. Im not sure what it is but on some of the online games ive been in I havent 
 been able to hear someone or they havent been able to hear me. Most of the time I can hear the 
 host but they cant hear me and I cant hear anyone else talking even though their names are glowing 
 yellow to symbolise speech. Not sure what that is but it existed in MotoGp3 as well
  
  2. There was a problem accessing the scoreboards  this fault has plagued me a few times and what 
 it does is repeatedly put this error box in your screen and it will not go away. You must log out 
 of the room and log back in which is forever a pain as I sit whole championships with my friends 
 and you have to lost all your score. If you continue to play all the same with this error any time 
 you set will never be placed onto the scoreboards and god have I set some cracking times with this 
 error on my screen.
  
  3. Brakes On but how? What I mean by this is, if you change your controls mid game pressing accelerate 
 also puts on a brake. Ive done it a few times changed my A button to do front brake instead of 
 rear brake. When I get back to the game the bike revs but doesnt go anywhere, its really annoying.
 
  
  4. Overall Ranking. At the moment im at 14000. Why? My times on the official tracks are in the 
 top 2000 so shouldnt I be between 1004 (my best) and 8456 (my worst) . Apparently not. To get an 
 accurate ranking you must complete time on ALL of the tracks GP and Extreme. Now I hate the arcade 
 extreme mode and never played it unless my mates have said lets have a go. So unless you want a 
 real accurate ranking of you performance do all the races (this isn't really a problem but they 
 could have done a GP table and a Extreme table rather than having the two combined)
  
  5. The computer controlled AI is possibly the worst ive ever seen. Even on legendary the computer 
 has no sense to hold or try to take position. They simply stick on the racing line and do the speed. 
 That is if you make a mistake on a corner, anyone behind you will travel the same line and at racing 
 speed and 100% of the time knock you off. Surely there could have been a small chuck of code added 
 to say if next opponent = P1 && speed   
  Overall the game is great fun but there is a large learning curve to play it well. Its not as simulation 
 as the 2nd one but all the tracks are there and its an acceptable racer that will still appeal 
 to you NO ARCADE GAMES players.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordoverallbaby
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jun 25, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  To sum up this game: its moto gp and yep as bad as the last in the series. Controls are horrible, 
 graphics are below what you expect in a 360 game and its a bore to play. The sound is always the 
 same. Like someone used an old casio to record their grandpas bike. The tilt to this game is......... 
 none, sorry but there isnt even much in the way of replay value. its a glitzy showy game without 
 being pretty or showy. reading through the reviews i find it hard to believe others liked it as 
 much as they say. if you have played most wanted or burnout for 5 seconds you'll never come back 
 to this, it just lacks the fun factor of those great games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markt50
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 23, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of the MotoGP games having bought the first 3 for my Xbox. This version is 
 the worst out of all of them. I'm quite upset at the problems in this game because I wanted it 
 to be an excellent example of what the 360 can achieve. Instead the problems that are so apparant 
 in this game are only highlighting some of the 360's failings.
  
  The problem with this game that firstly the graphics are not as nice as they looked on the publicity 
 pics released prior to the game. To be honest it isn't that much better than than MotoGP 3 on the 
 Xbox. Sure it looks nice when running at 720p but overall the level of graphical detail at most 
 of the tracks is a bit dissapointing. There are also problems with erratic framerates and Vsync 
 issues which cause screen tearing.
  
  These problems are starting to get a bit unforgivable now. I could forgive some of the early 360 
 releases, but the console has been out over 6 months now, surely games devs should be getting better 
 at coding for the 360 by now. I think the development team should have put the release back by 
 3 - 6 months and worked on optimising the framerate and looked at enabling Vsync to remove the 
 screen tearing.
  
  The game itself is fun to play although not that different from MotoGP3. It's just a shame that 
 the technical issues let the game down so much. The handling is nice, there are plenty of unlockables, 
 online seems fun although this also has its fair share of technical issues.
  
  If you have never played any of the MotoGP games then it is worth a rental and maybe even a purchase. 
 For those dedicated fans who already have MotoGP3 I would leave this one on the shelf and wait 
 for next years release. Hopefully they release one with more content and which runs much better 
 on the 360 hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerx4002
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 22, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I just started playing the series and let me tell u right now that this is a game to get it has 
 some preety kool graphics and its a lot of fun its kinda frustrating at first to control a bike 
 because its very different from driving a car but once u get a hang of thangz u gonna like it very 
 much so go hit da stores and cop ya'll a copy cuz dis iz da bomb son and if yall not sure yall 
 can allways rent it first its kinda like GT4 but without all da frustrations to pass all da driving 
 tests and u can go really fast with it so go get it its in stores go try it out i promise yall 
 wont regert it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemerler
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 22, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  so i went to the store to buy motogp 06 and could not wait to get home to start playing it. turned 
 on my 360 popped in the disk and i was off to bike land. this game all in all is a very good game, but 
 not as good as i was hoping it to be. graphics are great , game play is great , sound is insane 
 in 5.1 dd, but the only thing that they did not get right is why o why did they not put working 
 gauges in the cockpit . im one for racing in this view and i just don't get it that they would 
 not take the extra care and put them in. i dont know how fast im going unless i change to third 
 person view which i hate. one thing i don't get is the earlier games for xbox, motogp, motogp2 
 and 3 had them ,and that was on a less powerful system. its just not that real to me doing moc 
 3 and still reading 0 mph. playing on live is amazing there is the odd lag now and then but still 
 tons of fun. this game is worth the 80 bucks if u can look past its small problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfitness1
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of the xbox versions of moto gp, spent many many hours full trottle. When the 360 
 came out with moto gp 06 i couldn't wait and just had to have it. 
  
  I downloaded the demo from xbox-live-marketplace. At first you'll be impressed with the visuals 
 but when you start riding around corners and the frame rates drop on you in certain areas as well 
 as some very slight screen tearing you won't be happy. (this seemes to be a problem with a lot 
 of the game that have come out for the 360) Granted these problems are minor however, they will 
 bug you if you have a good eye for smooth graphics and frame rates like I do. I am a big fan of 
 high smooth frame rates, that is why I love COD2, besides the game play...;-)
  
  With that said, It is a fun game, not sure if it is worth the purchase but, definitely worth a 
 rental.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewoutdekker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 21, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  The best raing game on the 360. I also have MotoGP3 on the xbox, but bought this one for the graphics. 
 Sometimes unstable framerate, but the only bad thing is that the Assen circuit is 2005! But hey, 
 who cares?!?!?
  
  The grapihcs are great, as is the Lacuna Seca circuit. A lot of stuff to check out and the non-GP 
 circuits are fun as well. If you played MotoGP3 before on the xbox, the rookie level is to easy 
 for you but the other levels are challenging. Start doing some timed laps before a GP weekend to 
 get to know the circuits, and you do well!
  
  If you have a 360, this is the racing game that you should have.
  
  Gr,
  Ewout 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgfanr
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  You don't need to be a hardcore race fan to pick this title up. This game gives you many looks, 
 which makes it a all around fun / realistic motorcycle sim and arcade game. Like I mentioned I 
 never like thie series before, but this one caught my interest.
  But the game has some low points too! And this maybe nit-picky... It shows limitations, like when 
 you bounce off other motorcycles on the track. The customizing could have a little more depth. 
 I haven't spent much time on-line, but what time I did spend was choppy and glitchy (and I have 
 a cable connection) also offline too! 
  
  Oh I almost forgot the music is HORRIBLE!!!!!!
  
  Never the less... this game has more ups sides than down. I feel it would be a great buy @ 
 say $39.99. So if you like motorcycle racing or just racing in general, you can't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 19, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  PLEASE NOTE: The beginning of this review expresses some of the author's thoughts about the current 
 state of next-generation gaming. The comments contained herein are solely the views of the author 
 and are not necessarily the views of anyone else, and in no way, shape, or form, reflect the views 
 of Gamespot or any other individual or organization. TO SKIP STRAIGHT TO THE GAME REVIEW, SCROLL 
 DOWN UNTIL YOU SEE "REVIEW SECTION".
  
  It's been many, many months since I first picked up my Xbox 360. At first, playing games like Condemned 
 and Call of Duty 2 had me thinking that the new wave of gaming had finally arrived. I could not 
 have been more mistaken. As those of you who are tracking my contributions probably know, I have 
 not posted a review in a long time. And there's a reason for that. Right now, there's not a single 
 game on Xbox 360 I haven't played. And that is simply sad. Microsoft has decided to save up all 
 their good titles until Christmas to compete with the PS3 and Wii launch. Sure, the winter line 
 up looks great. But what about right now? Right now, the situation sucks, and that's being nice. 
 I've been staring at the same wall of launch titles for months now and I'm sick of Microsoft trying 
 to literally BORE me into trying them all. The 360 is an amazing machine. And I know I'll catch 
 heck for saying this, but it's how I feel: I'm underwhelmed with the software available right now. 
 Oblivion was great... when it played and didn't jack up the hard drive. Ghost Recon will go down 
 in my book as one of the most overhyped games of all-time. Rumble Roses XX was the joke nobody 
 laughed at. And now, Moto GP becomes just another game selling itself out for those who love graphics. 
 Can we PLEASE get something that isn't sports-related that doesn't suck and isn't a FPS? Before 
 the 360 even had a name, I made a prediction. And that prediction was that the new generation of 
 gaming would see some powerful hardware that would suffer from lack of good software. And if this 
 is any indication so far, I'd have to say I'm on the money with that. So if J. Allard or Peter 
 Moore happen to come across this, can we get some games on the system that we can pick up, play, 
 and enjoy without tearing our hair out or having to fragment our hard drives? PLEASE? Anyway, enough 
 from me.... it's game review time.
  
  GAME REVIEW SECTION
  
  Just to be clear, I have never played a Moto GP game before this one. I saw it on the shelf and 
 thought, "I like bikes. This could be fun." So, I bought it home and plugged it in. Seeing as to 
 how I don't normally play motorcycle racing games, I expected it would take some getting used to. 
 But hey, I'm always up for a challenge. However, I also like to have fun. And, of everything else, 
 fun was the one thing this game had the very least of.
  
  Graphics: I don't know how many times I've said this before on a game I didn't like on 360. I hate 
 to do it yet again, but here it is. The graphics are great. Everthing looks crisp... until things 
 get going and then pop-up rears it's ugly head, along with framerate drops. But the environments 
 are nice and weather effects aren't shabby at all. 
  
  Sound: Inspiration for buying stock in companies that make ear plugs. Seriously, I've never heard 
 music this bad. And the bikes sound incredulously generic. 
  
  Control: I had planned on having to learn to weight shift, etc. I hadn't planned on having to learn 
 the complex controls this game demands. If you don't hit the corners perfect, you're going down 
 and that's it. I have no idea who thought up the powerslide move, but it sucks. Especially if you're 
 racing on a wet course. Also, who assigns acceleration to the A button and not the triggers??? 
 WTF! Fortunately, you can change the controls however you like, and I give them big props for that. 
 
  
  Entertainment: Consider this. You're flying into a corner, picking your line. You accidentally 
 wobble and bite the turf. As you're sliding, your bike smacks up against other racers. Huge, awesome 
 accident right? Well... it should be. But not in this game. Your bike just glides across the ground, 
 leaving everyone else in the race totally unaffected. In fact, I'm yet to see a single computer 
 player take a dive. Which raises the question: Realistic.... how?? This one kept my interest for 
 all of about twenty minutes. I forced myself to play the game longer in order to give an opinion 
 that would be honest. The bike customizing options are too complex as well, as I gave up customizing 
 my bike after five infuriating minutes of trying to place "vinyls".
  
  All in all, if you like bikes, you WILL get some entertainment out of this one. If you like sim 
 games, you might get a few more miles out of it. But for a pick up and play, it's a definite no. 
 Unless you know what you're getting into, you will probably put this one down in frustration pretty 
 quick. No purchase recommendation here, but you might want to rent it. After all, there's not exactly 
 alot to choose from...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imortus_San
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  I liked this game a lot, why, it's fast and it makes you fell like wining the race, the motor bikes 
 noise is well done and for those who like the music it simply sets the pace, making you fell the 
 "rush".
  
  Even though I liked this game, there are a couple of things that could have been avoided:
  1- 
 The lack of Vsinc is a no go, it makes the image drag when you are to fast or curving to fast, 
 not very anoing but it's spoted really easy.
  2- The "whell" vision is simple terrifying, the grafics are not up to the rest of the game.
  
 3- The Anisotropic Filtering is to low, it only shows sharp grafics a bit beyond the bike, the 
 rest of the set suffers from "blur", in a couple of tracks, just when you start the panels at your 
 left have some notes and they are perctably legible, but only for a short distance because them 
 they are all blurry. This creats some ugly popUp's in the distance.
  
  The game is fun and adictive, but it could be a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkslade
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 18, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  the game is fast and HARD at first. but this is done with a nice touch.
  a few first laps i would lose 40 seconds or more from the timeand get a little frustrated, but 
 after getting use to the steering and cornering ans=d the braking i found this game to be LOTS 
 OF FUN.
  i do like a challenging game that can be a bit sensitive not like an arcade game (ridge racer, etc..) 
 to me the excitement is definately there with this title and the graphics are sweet. plus there 
 are plenty of tracks, challenges and competition for you to keep you entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 17, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  The game that I had no clue was coming out is MotoGP 06. I put this game on my wishlist when I 
 first saw it. I haven't looked at it since. When I took a trip to EB Games I saw this game on the 
 shelf. I bought it without checked the rating on this site first. When I first played it I thought 
 to myself what a waste of money. I got to playing it some more and tried the training mode. I went 
 from not completing 1 lap to getting 1st place in my 3rd race. The graphics are sharp and clean 
 and its one very impressive game. Its unlike any other racing game in its unique racing style. 
 This is a must for anybody that likes speed (not the drug) , motorcycles, and fast addictive racing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmaleh
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  You're going to have to be patient. Otherwise you might struggle with the game proper. And that 
 would be a real shame. So slow down. Pace a bit. Stroll around the drive-way. WAIT! What's that 
 noise? AAARHH GRAVEL RUN.
  
  This here MotoGP's handling model comes across as a further refinement of the excellent mechanics 
 that made up the three Xbox games. You can brake at the front and back of the bike independently, 
 make your choice of analogue or digital acceleration, and move around in the saddle to make that 
 critical difference to top-speed, deceleration and cornering. GP '06 also retains the slightly 
 odd power-slide move, accessed by nudging the back brake or double-tapping accelerate, allowing 
 you to say pooh to the tightening of a corner by trying to zoom out of it instead of braking.
 
  
  And, as I say, bike virgins will take a while to adjust to all of this. Approaching a corner requires 
 more planning than that wise decision you made to tarmac over the scary stones outside. Not only 
 do you need to brake heavily and then power out of the turns, but you've nowhere near as much time 
 to find the right line as you would in a car, and if you mess it up then you're either going to 
 collide violently with the barrier and fly off, losing several seconds, or you're going to snake 
 around like an oil tanker. Full of gravel.
  
  It's worth putting the time in though. Because, as the MotoGP fans yawning their way through the 
 basics will happily tell you once they're done throwing weird, scary, unnatural congregations of 
 domestic stone at my face, there's really very little else that comes this close to simulating 
 a motorbike.
  
  The Graphics for this game are pretty good, but gameplay trailers were MUCH better.
  
  I like 
 the noise that the Bike makes The engine sounds really cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 17, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  When i first downloaded the demo, i thought that it was a really great game. Now i rented it and 
 have the full expierience. Well starting off the GP season isnt all that fun at all, but if you 
 can work through that and manage to unlock the extreme series seasons, then the game will completly 
 turn around. As for the GP season, the handling just feels a lot harder then the extreme, you have 
 to slow down ALOT to make a clean hairpin turn, and the customization... kidna sucks for GP. The 
 achievements in this game offer you a good challenge and are not impossible to get like in some 
 games. Starting off the extreme season, you get to choose from a bunch of awsome looking bikes 
 that are already customized, and the handling just feels so much better. You feel like you get 
 a greater sense of speed racing through towns rather then an open track. The graffics for gp are 
 great, the cockpit view did need alot more work though and looks like crap, overall motogp 06 is 
 a great game for everybody even if your not a racing fan like me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckexp
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 17, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay  9
  Moto GP 06 is an amazing display of realistic motorcycle racing. The bikes handle almost perfectly 
 it seems and that makes them extremely fun to ride. The only issue with the gameplay is a slightly 
 unstable frame rate on corners. 
  
  Graphics  8
  The details on the bikes, the riders, and the track itself are all incredible. Decals on both the 
 bike and the rider are clearly visible and detailed. On certain areas there is rain on the track 
 which stands out really well with real time reflections and glare. 
  
  Sound  8
  Every sound in this game is amazingly lifelike. From the sounds of engines, to screeches of tires 
 on the track, each different noise amazes you and pulls you in farther.
  
  Value  9
  The Moto GP series has always had a great value to their games and this new installment doesnt 
 let down. There are plenty of tracks that vary between technical grand prix to the fast paced extreme 
 tracks. Whether you like arcade or simulation racers, Moto GP 06 has you covered. The grand prix 
 races feel really difficult to master while the extreme mode feels very much like an arcade game. 
 All of these features along with tons of customization options to both the bike and the rider make 
 for a very complete racing game. The only hit against the game in this area is that it does not 
 have as much new content as the previous games in the series.
  
  Tilt  8
  My overall experience with this game was that it is insanely hard to get in the rhythm of realistic 
 bike mechanics. Although this may sound like a bad thing it is the best thing about the game. Playing 
 this game takes skill and anyone who can participate at a competitive level is not just playing 
 around. Personally I am still getting the hang of the controls so the learning curve is steep but 
 the fact that it pays off in the end is totally worth every minute of frustration.
  
  Final Score  8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonage007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Moto GP 06' throws you straight into the high speed racing and knee scraping tracks of the GP as 
 you work your way up the seedings to become #1. Online racing has been experienced by me and is 
 very well done and holds up to its value. Even though take off can be frustrating with the fight 
 to be first, just going along for the ride is good enough. This game features many different types 
 of game modes including a nail biting stunt mode were all your skills and tricks get put to the 
 test. Graphics wise the bikes are stunnig and so are the surrounding areas and tracks. The framerate 
 doesnt keep up as much but this is hard to notice. The sound of the bikes is really great and gameplay 
 is something to remember. If you are a fan to the series or just a newcomer but bike lover this 
 game is a definite buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerogouki
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Excellent visuals, white knuckle speed and aggressive AI make this an awesome racer. It's easy 
 to pick up and play from the start but difficult to master turns and close corner passing for position. 
 Great career mode with challenges like Gran Turismo. I wish it had more tracks and longer career 
 mode. Frame rate drops a bit at times but the game still looks fantastic overall. Customization 
 menu for your bike, uniform, and helmet can be confusing until you get used to the layout. Once 
 you do, there is a large variety to making your rider and bike unique. A must have for the moto 
 gp fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aromon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 14, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS AWESOME!!!
  If you look through my collection, you will see that I own only the finest games. Now this is not 
 to brag because I am not that type of person. This is just to show you that I love games and I 
 don't waste my money on mediocre entertainment. Since January when Climax released the very first 
 screens, I had been waiting for this game. I don't love sports games but I definitely could not 
 resist a next-gen GP installent from the same makers of the other quality GP's. This game delivers 
 strong graphics (especially in 1080i HD) , gameplay, and fun. It is a racing experience worth savoring 
 because it is the best yet in it's genre. This game is not perfect though.
  
  It has slow loading times, repetitive music, and glitchy graphics after extended use. The spectators 
 also look like cardboard pictures standing up and the frame rate gets jumpy on high speed parts 
 of a race. But in this case, the good out weighs the bad completely.
  
  First, there is a training program that helps you get the basic flow of the gameplay. The bike 
 and rider look real at almost all times. The surrounding environements have immense detail and 
 clarity for a racing game and all tracks are unlocked for multiplayer action at the first of the 
 game.
  
  Now here are the specifics:
  Graphics - Stunningly beautiful and realistic with many life-like characteristics. Also, the light 
 reflection looks 100% real without question. This probably is the best looking 360 game yet or 
 really close.
  Gameplay - Hard to get used to and even harder to master, but very structered, consistent, and 
 effective for this type of racing. 
  Sound - Bikes sound great, you can hear the crowd, but music is repetitive and the sound is sometimes 
 delayed after the action.
  Value - Racing fan or not, this game is one of the best racers I have played in a very long time. 
 It is refreshing and highly addictive, but the gameplay is not for you casual gamers unless you 
 pick up really fast. It will take time and effort to get it down and even more effort to win. If 
 you are apprehensive about it being a racing game, at least rent it and you will be able to feel 
 how great this game really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate23_08
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 13, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I really love this game. It has great graphics and I would like to mention I have seen very little 
 studder and it is only noticable if you are looking for it, to me at least. I guess some people 
 have more sensitive eyes for dropping framerates. The bikes sound top notch they handle and react 
 very realisticly. It has a relatively hard learning curve, but once you have mastered it, it definitely 
 pays off. I don't have live so am only playing offline, yet the offline is very fun and if you 
 have live I'm sure it will be an even more exciting experience. This game will have your palms 
 sweating try to break lap times. Very fun and addicting. Supposedly there are a few minor bugs 
 that cause freezing online with the leaderboard and stuff, but I did not consider this to be a 
 problem since a patch will surely be released to work it out. The only gripe I really have about 
 the game is the on bike view, which for me is really hard to use anyways, but the gauges and stuff 
 are horrible. Not a biggie to me though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racefan48
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  This game has some of the most stunning graphics that I have seen for the Xbox 360. You get a very 
 good sense of speed and with that comes excitment. The custimization mode for the bikes and the 
 leathers is very good. There are also great bikes and tracks and the achivevements are very good. 
 Now for the xbox live which also very good it is fun and exciting. The best part is that you can 
 take your created bike online and race it. And still you just cannot get enough of watching your 
 driver falling off his bike in HD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legusto
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 12, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Finally, MotoGP gets it right!
  
  After 3 somewhat sucessful at best attempts at cpaturing motorcycle racing, the 4th time is the 
 charm.
  
  This game is way better than MotoGP3 and Tourist Tophy, and i'm not even thinking about the graphics 
 as I say this.
  
  Gameplay- Awesome, plenty of bikes, lengthy career mode, online is awesome, and the control as 
 super tight.
  
  Graphics- Immsersive and nice, even without an HDTV they are great, some of the best player models 
 on the 360 so far
  
  Sound- Amazing, every bike sounds different when u switch gears, almost as if you're riding one 
 of these babies
  
  Value- being $60 might drive some people away, but you've got alot here to play with
  
  Titl- 
 Bike racing ain't my thing, but I'm hooked now.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skull_kid_01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  The game is 1 of the best motorbike games a have eva played but the music they put into the game 
 is terrible so put ur own cd on or sumfin. The sound of the bikes is amazin and the online is gd 
 if u have a challenge. The career is good whn ur rider starts gtin better wif the stats and whn 
 u get used to the game. I think that doing the extreme seasons better than doin the grand prix 
 season cause of in the extreme u can customize ur bike and buy new parts for it but in the grand 
 prix u can only tune it and change the paint and decals 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squaddie
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 11, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  If you've never played a MotoGP game before you'll probably be more impressed with the game than 
 long-running fans of the series as other than a few new tracks, hi-def graphics, improved sound 
 and updated season stats this is pretty much the same as MotoGP 3 on the Xbox but with some little 
 features missing like animated dashboards, different weather for all the GP tracks and a working 
 Friends scoreboard (accessing it causes the game to freeze) . The core gameplay remains exactly 
 the same and it's as addictive as ever to play but if you played the last game, which was released 
 less than a year ago then it may not keeped you hooked for as long.
  
  The improved graphics are not really that noticeable unless you watch the replays and most of the 
 work has clearly gone on the bikes and riders. The backgrounds are as sparse as expected but the 
 textures are not particularly stunning and marred by 2D grass (that rotates with the camera angles 
 in the replays) and cardboard cutout crowds. What really lets the game down technically in my opinion 
 is the unacceptable amount of v-sync tearing on the corners and the framerate drops in certain 
 parts of some of the tracks, which affects the controls. Both of these issues are odd when you 
 consider how slick and polished MotoGP 3 was. Perhaps MotoGP '06 is the victim of a rushed development?
 
  
  Considering that this game costs more than the Xbox game, it's a bit disappointing that it doesn't 
 offer more in the way of new features like all-new Extreme mode tracks and damage modelling, etc., 
 and the fact it's technically worst than the Xbox game is a big blow for the supposedly powerful 
 Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rich102
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 10, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  Anyone who loved the previous MotoGP games in the series will feel instantly at home with this 
 years installment. It has the same tried and tested gameplay as previous games, and although it 
 can seem a little daunting to newcomers, perseverance really does pay off.
  The X360 really does shine in the graphics department with MotoGP'06, with some of the best bike 
 models ever seen in a video game to date. Circuits are extremely well detailed, and although most 
 tracks have been seen in previous games, most notably MotoGP 3 on the XBOX, never have they had 
 so much attention lavished on them, with a plethora of trackside objects adding to the realism.
 
  All this graphical finnesse does come at a price though. The game suffers from some pretty awful 
 frame rate issues at times, most notaceable when taking corners. One feels that had Climax taken 
 more time to smooth out the frame rate, or indeed locked it at 30fps instead of 60fps, then this 
 could have been an outstanding game. The game also suffers from some minor tearing of the graphics, 
 which could have been easily fixed with the addition of Vsync.
  Mention should also be made of the long load times, which at times can seem to take up to a minute 
 to load. Considering the quality of the graphics and the level of detail involved though, one can 
 forgive this minor gripe.
  One other outstanding area of the game is in the sound, with realistic bike sounds and ambient 
 effects only adding to the already immersive experience.
  Overall, MotoGP'06 isn't going to convert anyone who hated previous installments in this franchise, 
 but for the rest of us, if you can ignore the occasional frame rate problems and long load times, 
 then you'll love this latest installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slartybardfarst
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 9, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  Yes well we all know how this was in the Demo, it was fine indeed and the Demo translates over 
 to the full version with added tracks of course, simply put, if you loved the Demo on market place 
 your going to be happy you bought this evenwih the odd tearing of the screen (hardly noticed unless 
 your looking for it) and the low rez shadows, the tracks are w ider than other versions within the 
 Extreme modes, although the GFX don't stand up to the hype put out by the producers other than 
 the stunning replays you wont feel like you have just been ripped off.
  Sound is great giving you every opportunity to take heed of the sound of the bike creeping up behind 
 you letting you know exactly what kind of bike it is by just the sound of the engine (if you know 
 your bikes)
  Tilt
  Great but not superb, GFX and sloppy draw distance of textures can get offensive at times. 2D crowds 
 and the lack of getting straight into extreme modes were my only gripes along with the odd texture 
 rip and some slowdown in frame rate, still nothing that cant be fixed with a patch.
  SHOULD YOU BUY THIS?
  Yes, if you loved the Demo your not going to be disappointed.
  
  GFX 
 8.0
  SOUND 8.7
  Gameplay 8.0
  Gameplay (Live) 9.6 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
