-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MX vs. ATV Untamed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/mxvsatvuntamed/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fun variety of vehicles.
 Outdoor courses are by and large very fun.
 Lots to keep you busy in the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not a great-looking game, especially on the PS3.
 Landing jumps can be unforgiving.
 Several events are more plodding than fun.
 Freestyle events don't feel like they fit.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 18, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.1, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 481 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Rainbow Studios
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date: Dec 17, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Yes, MX vs. ATV Untamed is more of the same. But at least it's a  lot  more. 

  With high-profile games such as MotorStorm and Dirt already released on the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 
 360, the bar has been raised for recent off-road racing games. Rainbow Studios' MX vs. ATV Untamed 
 feels a lot like previous entries in the MX vs. ATV series and, as a result, doesn't meet that 
 same standard of quality. Nevertheless, despite its problems, Untamed manages to be a worthwhile 
 and jam-packed off-road racing experience.  

           With a huge assortment of vehicles, you're bound to find a ride you like in Untamed.  
     

  As with previous versions of the MX vs. ATV series, Untamed tosses in a mess of rip-snorting off-road 
 vehicles your way: everything from your standard MX bikes and ATV quad racers, to dune buggies, 
 monster trucks, and even pocket bikes. The different vehicles have their handling quirks -- for example, 
 MX bikes are more nimble but less stable than ATVs --but all of the vehicles are governed by Untamed's 
 fast-and-loose take on physics. The result are vehicles that are able to make epic jumps, turn 
 and twist in midair, and, if you're careful, land with four wheels on the ground and minimal damage 
 to vehicle or rider.  

  However, landing those jumps can be a dicey prospect. When tackling the largest jumps in the game, 
 you never really know for sure when or if your rider is going to be eating a mouthful of dirt after 
 a nasty-looking crash. Of course, part of this is a result of the game's rhythm-racing concept, 
 in which the player is required to preload jumps by pulling back on the left analog stick and pushing 
 forward at the lip of the jump to add extra height and distance to the jump. Learning when and 
 where you need to preload is one of the skills required for making your way through the game. Unfortunately, 
 Untamed is inconsistent in its approach here. Often what seems to be a perfect approach for a landing 
 will result in a painful-looking and time-wasting spill.  

  As a result, gameplay in Untamed is an odd mix; the game encourages players to pull off massive 
 jumps and chain together continuous trick combos but, because of the touchy physics, it often seems 
 as if the game is fighting itself, preventing the player from landing those tricks. This is most 
 pointedly felt in the freestyle events in the game's huge X-Cross Tournament single-player mode. 
 The X-Cross Tournament will have you driving every type of vehicle in the game and playing in practically 
 every single mode available as you make your way through a linear tournament.  

  Unlike the race modes that make up the majority of the X-Cross Tournament, the freestyle events 
 are solely trick-based. Here, racking up trick points is the goal and, unlike the rest of the mode, 
 the game's arcade physics seem bent on preventing you from succeeding at, or indeed enjoying, these 
 freestyle events at all. One peculiar quirk of the X-Cross Tournament is that you can't restart 
 an event once you've begun it, so if you fall behind quickly, you'll still need to finish the event 
 completely before going back and trying again.  

  If frustration sets in during the X-Cross Tournament, the good news is that you can always move 
 on to something else. Untamed is packed with things to do. In addition to the aforementioned X-Cross, 
 the game has a number of event series (nationals, supercross, supermoto, and so on) to take part 
 in, as well the ability to customize single events of your choosing. Then there are the multiplayer 
 options, including split-screen, LAN play and online play for up to 12 players on the Xbox 360 
 and eight on the PlayStation 3 version. Though the online racing is straightforward enough, you 
 can also check out some online minigames, such as Snake (think of a dirt-themed version of Tron's 
 light-cycle game) or Tag, which challenges you to grab and keep a ball for a full minute. Each 
 time you're "tagged" by an opponent, the ball changes possession.  

  Perhaps the starkest difference between the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions of Untamed -- apart 
 from the lack of rumble in the Sixaxis controller (which is especially noticeable in an off-road 
 racing game full of bumps and jumps) -- are the graphics. The Xbox 360 version looks superior in 
 practically every way, with a superior frame rate, less aliasing, slightly sharper textures, and 
 less graphical pop-in. Playing Untamed on the PS3 will result in some noticeable frame-rate chop 
 in the corners, especially when multiple vehicles are making their way through the turns. Regardless, 
 neither version of Untamed is a graphical showcase, with frequently indistinct textures that are 
 especially noticeable in the lineups before a race begins.  

           Although some events are plodding, it's Untamed's outdoor courses that really shine.  
     

  The vehicle roster in Untamed is defined by its variety, and the same can be said for the game's 
 racing environments. The open-door events are the best in the game; they're typically faster and 
 more wide-open, with just enough narrow passages and tricky sections to keep you on your toes. 
 On the other hand, the indoor events, namely the supercross events, are more technical by nature. 
 As a result, supercross events are far more demanding (read: frustrating) because even the smallest 
 mistake can put you off your rhythm or, worse yet, off your bike completely. A couple of new modes 
 can be found in Untamed. One is endurocross, which you can think of it as an indoor supercross 
 course with rocks, ponds, and logs as your obstacles, but it's a bit too plodding to be fun. Nevertheless, 
 Untamed's best, most imaginative tracks are full of drastic elevation changes and challenging, 
 high-speed series of jumps, and these are sure to give race fans the thrill they're looking for. 
 In keeping with the game's "kitchen sink" approach, Untamed has a huge variety of difficulty settings. 
 For example, in the early X-Cross Tournament events, there are  nine  artificial-intelligence difficulty 
 levels to choose from, though that number shrinks as you progress through the tournament.  

  With Untamed, the formula for the MX vs. ATV series hasn't changed much, and the game is at its 
 best when focused on freewheeling, pedal-to-the-metal speed. There are moments of abject frustration -- think 
 of the most tedious of the supercross events and practically any freestyle contest -- but that frustration 
 is mitigated somewhat by the fact that there's always something else to do in the game. Sure, it's 
 more of the same with MX vs. ATV Untamed, but at least it's a  lot  more.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (32 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MXghost428
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 11:34 am PT
Review:  Here Ive owned all of the MX vs ATV games and thought that when I stuck in the x-box, someone that 
 made the game had actually got on an atv or dirtbike. The graphics are a solid B+ and the music 
 score is pretty good but the sound of the bikes. Does anyone know that there are only 5 gears on 
 motorcycles and atv's. The sound of the machines is just horrible. I mean come on, the people that 
 made the first gran turismo got it right on a crapy console. So all in all the game is good for 
 those that have never riden on a bike. The racing section of the game can get pretty difficult. 
 From easy to hard tracks. Free for all is ok, half of the areas a retard can ride, but in the game, 
 you just cant get up there. Most of the bikes and atv's are generic. They get the rights to use 
 most of the major gear names but still have not gotten the rights to use real machines. Most of 
 the time the best ones are the Rainbow Studios machines. I hope for the next series that they acually 
 figure out a real sound score for the machines. This would get more of the real MX riders into 
 the game by adding a little realism to it. Those of us that long for a real riding game will have 
 to wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Games that try to contain elements of both simulation and arcade usually don't succeed at either. 
 MX vs ATV is no exception. It doesn't help that the two are combined in ways that they never should 
 have been. Taking off from a jump has a very arcade feel because you can get ridiculous air. Landing 
 has a very simulation feel because you will crash horribly after falling from the aforementioned 
 ridiculous air.
  
  If you have played any of the earlier games in the series (including the very first one from about 
 ten years ago) , you can stop reading now because you know exactly what to expect. Absolutely nothing 
 about most of the game has been improved. The same things you liked about the rest of the series 
 is unchanged. The races are extreme and action packed. The same things that were frustrating and 
 needed to be fixed still remain. The computer racers have a tendency to crash and actually appear 
 a good 50 feet in front of you.
  
  This brings up my biggest problem with the game and made me hate playing it. Crashing has no lasting 
 detrimental effect on the race. Most of the time, you can crash and barely lose any time because 
 the game respawns your vehicle so fast and many times further up the track. This can be good because 
 the action never really slows down. The problem arises because the same applies to the computer 
 racers and they crash all the time. Countless times during a race, I was neck and neck with a computer 
 racer and he would crash. I would get excited because I thought I was going to gain a position. 
 Then my hopes would be shot when I saw the opponent that crashed appear way in front of me and 
 I ended up a couple of seconds behind him. This led to many frustrating races.
  
  In an effort to remain family friendly, the game will automatically respawn your vehicle if it 
 thinks you are going to drive into the crowd. Sometimes the crowd is so close to the track in some 
 of the outdoor races that you can get respawned even though you only drifted off the track by a 
 foot or two. This is a dumb problem to run into because it could have been fixed by simply not 
 putting the crowd so close. This just added to the thrown together feel of the game.
  
  The difficulty and computer's skill is also horribly scaled. You have the option to choose the 
 difficulty before each race. Most of the races I can win by insane margins on the first two difficulties 
 (so much so that I entertained myself by driving across the finish line in reverse) , but I still 
 regularly get dead last on any super cross stadium event on the easiest setting. The computer opponents 
 don't maintain the same skill during a whole race either. During some segments, they will race 
 so well that you will have no chance at catching up with them. Then suddenly, they will decide 
 that they must slam on their brakes to make a wide turn that you don't even have to let off the 
 gas for. There were also times when they would slow down on straight sections for no reason. This 
 made my close wins feel more like luck than skill.
  
  This game does add some new events that allows you to race as monster trucks, stadium trucks, or 
 dune buggies. I personally very much enjoyed these events, I think because they remove the ability 
 to crash since you can't fall off of these vehicles like the bikes or ATVs. Actually, the monster 
 truck events are more fun than Monster Jam, which is sad since that game is devoted entirely to 
 monster truck racing. Unfortunately there aren't very many of these events since they are more 
 of a bonus gimmick than a main gameplay feature. Oh, and here's a random fact. Apparently monster 
 trucks have better acceleration than any other vehicle in the game. Talk about realism.
  
  The physics are way too random to be relied upon. Most of the time, if you hit a box on the side 
 of the track, the box will go flying but your vehicle will stay on it's path. Every once in a while, 
 those same boxes will stay stationary and throw your vehicle into the air which would cause you 
 to crash. There was one race I recall where I took a turn way too wide and ended up riding the 
 guard rail around the corner. When I hit the same rail in the same spot at about the same speed 
 on the next lap, it was completely destroyed and I went flying off the cliff on the other side. 
 During the start of a race with a bunch of other racers, you will bounce around between them with 
 almost no control and it looks terribly unrealistic. It seems like they are using the same physics 
 engine that the series has been using for a while. This was fine a few years ago, but doesn't stand 
 up today.
  
  While MotorStorm on PS3 seemed determined to show us what the future of off road racing games could 
 look like, MX vs ATV seems content to remind us what they used to look like. Aside from some better 
 up close textures, nothing is improved from the last game. The flyover of the track before the 
 event looks terrible. The ground is blotchy and unrealistic. The trees stand out and don't look 
 like they belong in the environment. The vehicles look good, but don't begin to compare to other 
 games. Tire tracks in the mud are either real looking or simply solid lines on the ground, seemingly 
 at random. When you hit any kind of large bump, your tire will go toward the wheel well and become 
 part of the fender for a moment until it falls back into place. When crashing, your body will almost 
 always go right through your bike or ATV. These types of clipping problems really don't have a 
 place in next gen games.
  
  The game can be fun at times, but it is the same exact fun as the last game in nearly every way. 
 If you love the series and haven't played the last couple of games, this could be worth checking 
 out to see what has been added. Otherwise, there are too many problems that have remained in the 
 series for far too long for me to recommend this game. If you need some off road action, MX vs 
 ATV Unleashed (the last game in the series) or Motorstorm can be picked up for a much better price 
 by now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PBTracker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Best off road game I've played to date. The buggy's handle like real ones. Driving them, makes 
 you feel like your fling around the course. Lots of Fun. I'll be playing this game for a long time, 
 I even plan to get my grand kids in on the action. I will definitely tell my friends about this 
 game. If your into off road Buggy's this has got to be your #1 pick for games. The learning curve 
 for this game is very easy, took me about 15 minutes to pick it up, 20 minutes later, I had my 
 first trophy. There is a lot of variate in the courses and the Buggy's and bikes. This game will 
 keep you going for a good long time. I have play Power slide, and a few other off road games but 
 this one is the enjoyable one that I have played in quiet a while. I'm sure my Grand kids and friends 
 will thoroughly enjoy this game, It looks to be great for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peweshooter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I think the game is pretty fun and the new levels are nice too but new vehichles are needed. They 
 should also tackle on the snowmobile craze like they did on the psp. It would make a new edge on 
 high def grapfics.
  
  They stepped up the graphics vastly (like from a 2-8!!) and it gives you the relization that you 
 are actually there in the new first person veiw. Doing backflips are pretty tricky now because of 
 the over flip realization was added. It ma be a real kind of thing but it ruins the backflip for 
 the game.
  
  Customization was added (like color, graphics, shocks etc ) to the vehichles but it doesn't do anything 
 it only changees the looks. It would be alot better if you could change performance parts that did 
 somthing.
  
  Its a pretty good game if your into ditr bikes and over all power sports. So go out an buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneofthefall
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  As a fan of MX (The Dream cast version) , I Thought id pick this up for old time sakes and to see 
 what improved gameplay features were added & obviously for the price i got it for i think it was 
 a bargain, If you had the Dreamcast version back in the day like i did and spent hours and hours 
 of enjoyment on it then you will still get those good old times back, the only downfall is it is 
 too much the same as the back in the day version, ok they have improved the Graphics vastly and 
 added a few upgrades like choose your own colors and pre-made logos and added a nice 1st person 
 view, but and heres where i think the BIG but comes into play
  No Damage or a on /off Option for Damage would have been a nice feature,
  Full Race Replays are 
 only half length (unless you only go for 2 laps)
  Upgrades dont upgrade performance only the look of your bike & Rider, 
  and you will be able 
 to buy everything in the game after only a few races or half a custom Season, 
  
  So all in all a good game but very much the same!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan_-_117
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoued the prequel and i thought this game might be as good. In all truth.... it wasnt. 
 the game has a lot of cool features like endurocross and minimoto. But what happened to things 
 like creating you own track and tircks like the heel clicker, superman and even the double grab. 
 whips are harder to do without practice and tricks like backflips and 360's are more difficult 
 to do. What is better you ask, well the graphics are updated if only minorly. Another thing that 
 bugged me was the vanishing of graphic kits like dvs and monster. And also some kits are bike exclusive 
 which sucks beacause your like oh that would look sweet on my Swift, but you cant use it errrr. 
 ANother thing that bugs me is that the game doesnt use real bike names. Instead of KTM its called 
 atom. also the fact that certain gear is unavailable, ie the thor jersay and stuff, in reality 
 you can get all that in black but instead they give you retarded colours.
  
  all i can say is rent before you buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AxeShredder221
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game at first, but THQ really just screwed up wht should have been a great game. 
 MX vs. ATV Untamed is a great game the first time around, but than it gets a little crappy after 
 that; After playing it for a couple of days or so, you start to realize the falws; like crappy 
 graphics, wonky physics, and repetitive compitition. 
  
  In Career mode its fun to race against the computer, but after the first event in the series the 
 difficulty goes up automaticly, I think that should be custimizable but no! Another flaw is WONKY 
 PHYSICS!!!!
  Whats wrong with this is that it got me so freaking ticked off because I fell off my bike or atv 
 when I did a 10ft drop. THQ really screwed up in here. I'd recomend MX vs. ATV Unleashed, MUCH 
 BETTER THAN THIS ONE!!! But if you want a better game, I'd recomend PURE which is coming out soon. 
 Repetitive compitition is the worst/ most annoying flaw, the races you do just keep coming again, 
 again, again, again, again, again, agina, anig, and so many times it makes me spell "again" wrong!
 
  
  Overall, This game "isn't the best" if you know what I mean. So I would Rent before buying. Actually 
 if a friend has it. Do that instead of wasting your money on a stupid game like this. THQ, MAKE 
 A BETTER GAME!!!!! After this, I'm not looking forward to Baja: Edge of Control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_75
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 18, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I have no idea what went wrong with this game. I am not a fan of racing games but I loved the first 
 two games in this series, and when I heard about the newest title in the series coming to the 360 
 I just knew I had to have it. . .I was sadly mistaken.
  
  Basically, what they did with this game was take everything that made the other two games great, 
 added some more stuff to it, some broken gameplay, horrible graphics (especially for a 360 game) , 
 and a really crappy songlist, to completely strip any potential this game had, it never even stood 
 a chance. The great feel and tight controls are now gone, you can manage turning but landing jumps 
 is another story. I have no idea what happened to the freestyle mode, which in my opinion was the 
 most fun part of the other titles. For some reason you can't stop a flip, as I mentioned before 
 you practically can't land a jump for anything, the AI I found to be surprisingly hard, and as 
 I also mentioned, a crappy playlist of songs. I'm surprised you can even call this a game. Also, 
 character custimization is fun. . .sometimes. The selection of gear and stuff for your bike is 
 very lacking. Not only that but most of the stuff to choose from looks like crap so that narrows 
 it down even more. I just can't see how someone could ruin a game this bad. It'll take ALOT to 
 recover from this one if these guy's want to keep the Mx Unleashed series' alive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRook2020
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 28, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  Landing sucks you will get frustrated with it you have to get it just right no room for error. 
 When you're fed up with eating mud, rocks, sand, and some times Pavement. Take a break and play 
 as an off road buggy or in trophy truck mode. Those modes are like Rally Cross on the first Play 
 Station but much easier and less interesting. 
  Still really want an ATV off road racing game, but you don't have the tolerance for the poor landing 
 ability or you want a game with better graphics. Wait for the release of Pure hopefully it will 
 have what we all wanted from MX vs ATV Untamed. All and all we don't have a whole lot of choices 
 for dirt bike and AVT games right now, so this will have to do. 
  With that being said this is a game you can play with buddies. That will make it much more interesting. 
 Watching a buddy eat it on a jump it took you 50 tries to get just right. You can really tick them 
 off when you finish 1st and they finish 12th every time. Besides landing issues you can have a 
 lot of fun if you give it the chance to grow on you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgoucher12
Rating: 6
Date: May 13, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  I have been playing MX games since Supercross Cricuit on Playstation ONE. I have alll the consoles 
 and have played ALL of the past MX games. This Game finally came out and I could not wait to get 
 it. After MANY hours of playing the game I have decided to write a review for everyone to refer 
 to.
  
  This game is great, lots of fun and personally I think the Graphics are very nice, very sharp detail 
 and most dirt on tracks looks very real. The bikes look sweet and the rag doll physics are very 
 nice. The Game really does have alot to offer, However, I must say the flaws in the game are VERY 
 VERY annoying and these are mistakes that rookie companys would make, which is why i am very surprised 
 Rainbow/THQ let them through. The following are the bad points of this game;
  
  :MAGNETIC BIKES -- I would love for the makers of this game to explain to me how on EVERY single 
 gate drop drop, you can Guarantee that you will get "twisted and facing backwards". This is hard 
 to explain in typing, but trust me 1-2 races and you will know EXACTLY waht I am talking about. 
 Have these guys who made this game ever actually been on a dirtbike? ever seen a race? who on earth 
 has never heard of handlebar dragging or rubbing? to get twisted to "wrong way" is super annoying 
 and enough to make someone not play this game.. i could go on forever on how bad this aspect is 
 but I wont, 
  
  : STIFF LEGS THROUGH WOOPS: This is by far the worst "racing" aspect of the game, Woops, which 
 many many people love in racing games are the funnest parts of the track, I promise you, you will 
 HATE them in this game, your rider literally stands straight up, and BOBBLES the WHOLE TIME, NEVER 
 EVER, EVER, will you ride "through" or "on top of" the woops... I mean COME ON, even playstation 
 one got this right, and EVERY game since then, except this one.. it is god awful and a horrid sight. 
 you will bobble through the entire woop section..
  
  :CRASHING: I wont go on for long on this, but it is pretty bad, not awful like others are saying, 
 I mean you need some realness to the game, but yes you do crash a little too much for my liking. 
 
  
  : TRACKS: SX especially, I am sure the "woops bobble" has alot to do with this, from losing momentem 
 but the tracks seem ULTRA SMALL and COMPACT, I know that SX tracks are small and compact, but this 
 is a game, you must take the size of the bike to the size of the tracks aspect a little more into 
 consideration.
  
  :FACTORY BIKES; I can Guarantee you that 99 out of 100 people you ask, would rather have factory 
 BIKES in this game instead of pro riders, WHO CARES if I can be Chad Reed if I have to ride a "Rampage250F"? 
 I mean come on, this is the BASICS of a MX game. WE WANT REAL NAMES.
  
  And Finnally,,, ENOUGH WITH THE "Ride anything that has wheels and a motor aspect". Make it a 100% 
 DIRTBIKE game, it will sell JUST as many copies.. I can see adding the ATV's and keeping the name 
 right, thats fine. But come on already. there are TONS of other options out there for people that 
 want to play buggy, cart, car etc games. We only get one, So please spend that extra time, money, 
 memory and make a better MX vs ATV game and stop wasting space on those useless other rides..
 
  
  Thank you all.,, Good bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbomx42
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  I seems that the creators of the "MX" series is getting lazy. This game has sharp graphics, good 
 gear selection, and an improved pro rider roster, but everything else in the game is highly lacking. 
 The tracks get old very quickly and there are vey few of them. The riding physics are awful and 
 very frustrating. However the biggest problem I had with the game is the inability to battle other 
 riders. As soon as you get close enough to bump an opponent you or him will be sent flying to the 
 ground in some dramatic way. The online play is also quite bad, you can easily spend 20 - 30 minutes 
 finding a game that will work and trying to get everyone to hit "ready". For these reasons I give 
 MX untamed a low rating.
  
  As I listed at the top, there are some good things about the game, but if you have the choice the 
 older games in the series are allot more fun and will keep you playing for months. I hope that 
 the ceators will but the same effort into the next MX game as they did in the older versions of 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ktm1255
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  Yes, the game doesn't have the best graphics and is not 100% realistic, but it is a hell alot of 
 fun. Everyone that love dirtbikes will love this game, great tracks, great terrain, great music 
 and great stunts. 
  
  Its get a bit fustrating sometimes because there is so many difficulty levels and there isn't one 
 that is just right. Either the computer is to good and if you make one mistake you will have no 
 chance of winning, or they are to slow.
  
  Im just waiting on a motocross game with no other extras like buggies and stuff, that has tracks 
 of the actual ama motocross series eg. RedBud. and with tracks that get rutted with every moto. 
 Also the sound of the bikes dont change if you swap from a 450f to a mini, or even if you put a 
 new exhaust system on, its pretty damn piss weak from the game makers.
  
  The first person view is the best thing, is make you fell like your riding, its pretty damn sic. 
 Anyways I could go on for longers but i cant be bothered.
  
  BWAAAAAAAP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steigerwalt724
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Okay so I was waiting for this game to come out for the 360 for about a year and a half. I bought 
 it and played, it was fun but not anything over the top. 
  
  MAIN POINTS 
  
  1. The supercross is still fun and really is the best mode to play
  
  2. Online is cool but it 
 feels undeveloped and primitive
  
  3. the new mode is nice except for the fact that i found myself just wanting to skip branches because 
 of how boring it was to race in some of the machine vehicle races
  
  4. GRAPHICS are not terrible but... they're pretty bad... and they don't have real endorsed bikes 
 anymore (not a big deal but is still something)
  
  5. LOADING - maybe the other best part of game... the ability to ride around on the indoor track 
 when waiting w/o sacrificing load time (or so it seems is pretty cool 
  
  6. animation- this is what made me extremely aggravated, the whips... look nasty and dumb... going 
 over whoops look dumb and unrealistic... past version had these animations down...
  
  7. tricks- same old tricks except for the no handed sidesaddle and no footed landings. and backflips 
 are a lil too hard to stop flipping and land same with the 360
  
  8. IMPACT OFF A JUMP- WAY TO HARD TO LAND even if you adjust your suspension ... its just not fun 
 when you are punished for going off a big jump.
  
  9. difficulty- i think that there wasn't much reason to put as many difficulties in as they did 
 kind of a waste of space. A. I. is fine but jumping and FREESTYLE is way too hard
  
  overall i am DISSAPOINTED in this game... the developers did not put the effort needed to make 
 THIS MX Vs. ATV Unleashed doesn't live up to it's best selling MX and ATV name 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blakeb21
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  Mx vs. Atv Untamed is no doubt underrated. This is by far the best in the series has far as gameplay. 
 The sense of speed is much better than the past versions. The graphics are not bad the sounds are 
 not either. There is a nice array of stunts to pull if you can actually land them. Landing can 
 be tough at first until you know how to position your vehichle for landings. Multiplayer on it 
 is very fun. You are able to customize your vehicle and driver very deeply with parts and colors. 
 There is more events to choose from aswell than previous versions. There is a nice selection for 
 vehicles to choose from a few more added since the last version. This is a must have for anyone 
 who is a fan of the series or likes racing games and a must try for anyone even interested in this 
 game. You will be surprise at how fun this game actually is. Previous versions were not the most 
 fun fast paced kind of game like this one offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesallenyz431
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Untamed is a game that almost has as many good things as they do bad, but the bad things are pretty 
 minor and can easily be fixed. 
  
  The Graphics on Untamed are a little be sub-par as far as "Next-Gen" is concerned.
  
  The game 
 play is one of the biggest things in any racing game and i think they did a pretty good job with 
 the standard bikes, but if you try any of the other vehicles in the game our prolly gonna be disappointed. 
 Lack of power sliding makes the trucks and quads fairly boring. i doubt this will be fixed in a 
 patch but im hoping some of the other bads ill be listing will be.
  
  Tracks, what would a racing game be without tracks? Untamed has some really good tracks, but there 
 are very few tracks to chose from. this is a perfect thing to fix in a free download. They added 
 Endurocross but only gave two tracks to race on... Im sure that deserves a big WTF.
  
  Racing online is something ive wanted to do for years now and this is the first game on a console 
 that ive been able to do so, and im not disappointed tho i wish that a few things were different. 
 First is the damned tuff blocks are always in the track even if no one is hitting the things they 
 seem to just roll out there or go flying from other lanes of the track. Ranking system should be 
 based on wins and loses not best lap time. More tracks would also be nice!! Glitches seem to be 
 a big issue in online play, ive had over a handful of races where one or more other racers are 
 on a different track, sometimes the voice chat quits working or someone starts just skipping the 
 same fraction of a word. Lag is another thing that i dont know that can be fixed or not, but im 
 sure they can work on something to make sure its not as big of an issue. 
  
  For anyone who is a fan of the Rainbow studios series should pick this game up. If for nothing 
 else the MX and SX is a step up from the rest, and i think all SX fans will get a kick outta Endurocross 
 and mini-moto even tho there is only 2 tracks each. 
  
  If you spent the time to read this please rate it, or drop me a comment so that i know if Im doing 
 a good job. thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonahjohnson504
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 7, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  if you're a fan of motocross like i am
  then you DO NOT WANT TO BUY THIS GAME
  it lacks in every area concerning motocross/supercross.
  its almost pathetic how much they slacked 
 off while doing the
  
  
  whoop physics (you go flying off the track if you make the slightest move
  and even if you still 
 enter the whoops perfect you start sliding across the whoops off the track) , 
  
  battle physics (you cant bump bars or even get close to anyother player without flying off your 
 bike) , 
  
  jump physics (you land a jump perfectly and somehow go flying in the air off your bike) ,
  
  
 turn physics (have the creators of this game ever heard of DRAGGING BARS??) .
  
  125 two stroke (im more disapointed in how they made the 125s than any other part of the game. if 
 you're a hardcore fan again, do not get this game unless you want to hate it and play it just because 
 theres no other motorcycle games for the new systems) .
  
  and the A. I. is terrible!
  in most of the lower settings everyone SUCKS except ONE guy who should be four or five speed classes 
 ahead!
  
  MX unleashed, and MX Vs ATV unleashed, are 5 times better in the actual riding aspect of the game.
 
  
  
  if you like to use all the other vehicles then this game is right for you.
  but if you actually enjoy motocross/supercross
  your going to be completely disapointed in this 
 game!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikerPunk
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  MX vs. ATV - potentially a 360 Motorstorm plus some.... potentially. Although the game has some 
 great graphics, and is generally fun as one would expect, with the other titles out there, it just 
 hasnt reached the bar that has been set by other titles. The advancement through the carrer i found 
 enjoyable, as yuo are able to earn your way to Monster Trucks, and you cant go through the whole 
 carrer on easy or junior. The upgrading of the vehicles is lame as you get to change a name or 
 two, and the colors. You can make some adjustments regarding accel/topspeed and hard/soft susp. 
 But minor changes. This is a great weekend Rental. The variety of maps is nicer then something 
 like Forza 2, or Sega Revo, but just doesnt keep the attention like other racers. 
  
  Great effort, just fell a little short. I would expect to see this on the last gen consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 29, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  For any racing game series to last years is quite the accomplishment, and one worth mentioning. 
 To last the test of time is where the question of quality comes into focus, and with MX vs. ATV 
 Untamed a closer look will show nothing is really new. The same foundation that has built this 
 lovable series may be exactly what takes it to the grave. Being a long time fan, I enjoyed what 
 new perks were available to the 360 version and online playability. But to compare this racing 
 title to the few other elites, its a tough buy for anyone who isn't a hardcore dirt fanatic.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  If you are familiar with the controls that have been the same for the last 7 or 
 so years with this series, you know what to expect. Rev up your vehicle of choice, take corners 
 cautiously, be wary of ruthless Ai opponents, and pull off a few tricks. Having a wide selection 
 of dirt bikes and ATV's is very nice, but things get real interesting when you throw trophy trucks, 
 monster trucks, and buggies into the mix. Unable to perform tricks with the four-wheeled rides 
 makes sense, but you can easily make up for that by having size and dominant race tactics. That 
 doesn't imply any fair play will take place, simply because you'll recieve very little from Ai 
 and human players alike, so to each his own. Racing through the various modes is always refreshing, 
 because there is tons of places to traffic. Outdoor and indoor events, mixed vehicle races, tourney's, 
 trick bouts, and freeride mode. What makes freeride so welcoming is you simply zip around whatever 
 place you delight with no pressure. As for Untamed's official tourney that utilizes every vehicle 
 and requires certain qualifications to progress, the learning curve becomes extremely steep. If 
 you never played this racing series, prepare for some serious frustration because the physics system 
 can either be your best friend or your worst enemy. Controlling the larger vehicles is bearable, 
 but something about landing jumps with the MX's and ATV's is more difficult than previous versions 
 have ever been, rookie or veteran.
  
  VISUALS
  What tears me up most about this area of the game is the tug of war match the graphics and physics 
 engine have. From a player who has seen this series evolve, its hard to say the new game introduces 
 anything worth bragging about in this department. Sunsets and particle effects are decent, but 
 you hardly ever have a moment to appreciate them while ripping through courses. If you can take 
 a moment to admire the numerous locals, you will quickly notice the level design is not in favor 
 of anything non-race related. Sounds petty, but the course designs do their job. Everything else 
 like buildings and environment details come off very dated looking. What the old games lacked were 
 solid physics, but the visuals were top notch for its time. Now with Untamed, you have highly detailed 
 physics that almost come off as unfair compared to dated graphics.
  
  AUDIO
  I hope you have a MP3 player or a boom box in the room, because the menu and race music to Untamed 
 is atrocious! Besides my silly warning of tasteless music, the game is left in time when speaking 
 on the behalf of sound effects. Vehicles solely geared up for shredding through mounds of dirt 
 are loud no doubt, and sometimes overly monotonous. If you've never heard it in person, expect 
 to hate the sounds after playing a few hours of Untamed. Crashing dudes into objects and hearing 
 them crunch is decent, but nothing ever jolts you with a serious punch. The shifting of gears and 
 sense of speed are hardly present in audio, so if you choose to mute this one for a few races, 
 I wouldn't blame you one bit.
  
  EXTRAS
  Before I nag about how tedious it is to race endless hours for 10 point achievements, let it be 
 known, Untamed is not for the casual race fan. I picked this game up as a FAN and quickly found 
 the desire to look elsewhere for my speed fix. Advancing through the game with no way to improve 
 vehicle performance compared to the large selection of useless vehicle cosmetics, especially with 
 the ever increasing Ai, I'm appalled! With hardly anyone online racing on a regular basis, just 
 participating with others will come off as a chore. Once in game, there is no major rules or point 
 system to judge who is racing well or fair for that matter. So if you continue to see the same 
 name taunting you with crushing blows from his monster truck, get acquainted or get offline. A 
 majority of the unlockables in this game are meant for the hardcore, so enjoy the main tourney 
 and the 300 or so points it has to offer. Past that, everything else requires perfect racing that 
 scores gold medals, freeride collectibles scattered about, and a few online rank wins.
  
  OVERALL
  MX vs. ATV Untamed was a tough choice for me as a fan, especially with so many other 
 interesting race titles available. I imagine the same difficult discussion came up when the original 
 developer, Rainbow Studios, debated if they should change the formula or try something different. 
 After playing numerous hours of said game, its obvious they had no intention of doing anything 
 different with this series. In a way, being a fan who wanted to this game to shine so badly in 
 a area of the videogame racing world so neglected, I appreciate the effort. As a gamer who spent 
 money on something that should have been more new rather than old, I'm sorely disappointed. Online 
 gameplay could have been much more, but that would have required a different game all together. 
 Since Untamed decided to stay familiar with fans of the past in a genre constantly evolving, its 
 cheerished memories of good times will remain in that exact place, the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JFannn
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 29, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  The title of MX vs. ATV Untamed hints at the possibility of two merging gameplay styles, yet being 
 quite inexperienced with the whole off road racing genre, I played the game with little expectation 
 of this. I figured Untamed would find common ground between the two, and yet instead the game proves 
 just how different the two vehicles are. I bet players will distinguish between motocross bikes 
 and ATVs the same way they would differentiate certain genres that they like or dislike. And sure 
 enough, about half of Untamed I enjoyed and half I wasn't too crazy about.
  
  
  The difference is in both handling and course design. Motocross bikes are taken through arena tracks, 
 where the space is skimpy and the turns are tight. Bike controls feel tailored more to this kind 
 of gameplay, as the bikes themselves seem to accelerate quicker and offer sharper turning so as 
 to keep up with the pace of the winding arena paths. ATVs, on the other hand, offer more standard 
 control mechanics and are utilized in big, open, outdoor tracks.
  
  
  What's interesting about the motocross tracks is that they're so tightly packed into their respective 
 arenas that you'd be hard-pressed to find a square foot that isn't utilized. The bikes themselves 
 turn sharper than one might initially expect. This is both a good thing and a bad thing. On one 
 hand, it means that a player is able to tackle any twist or turn in the almost snakelike courses 
 without worry. But on the other hand, well, it feels weird. I always felt as if the controls were 
 too sensitive, and it's something I was never able to get used to. Perhaps I'm still too much of 
 a newbie to the MX genre, but I never felt entirely comfortable playing Untamed's motocross segments, 
 and if I want to enjoy a game I've got to at least feel comfortable playing it.
  
  
  I vastly preferred the more user-friendly ATV mechanics, which offer perhaps a more accessible 
 experience. The ATVs play like any other racing vehicle, so there's little to no learning curve 
 in that regard. Where the series sets itself apart from other racers is in the usage of its vehicles. 
 ATVs compete across wide, hilly outdoor areas that allow players to take advantage of high speeds 
 and big jumps. Whereas I found that the motocross tracks were so tight and narrow that I spent 
 too much time braking and turning to actually pick up the pace and have fun, the ATV courses really 
 take the weight off and give me more time to appreciate some of the simpler pleasures of off road 
 racing.
  
  
  I note that racing in an ATV feels kind of like an interactive rollercoaster, with all the hills 
 and dips and bumps and sharp turns one would expect from such a thing. A good ATV race would kind 
 of wear me out, as the shaky camera coupled with near-constant use of rumble gave me a sensation 
 that is probably as close to that of a real off road racer as can be experienced in an Xbox 360. 
 The "high octane thrills" (if you'll excuse such a clich) one can derive from Untamed almost makes 
 the overly peppy, angsty soundtrack seem appropriate.
  
  
  Developer Rainbow Studios also figured that as long as they're doing off road racing, they might 
 as well cover all the bases, and thus monster trucks and ORV Sport vehicles have been added to 
 the mix in a few event-specific situations. The latter works fine, but monster trucks are so big 
 and clunky, and take up so much of the screen, that I'd often run right off the track and not realize 
 it right away because I couldn't see the markers.
  
  
  Finding a play style you enjoy is the first step. Untamed has several pretty rudimentary modes 
 of play in which you can take your favorite vehicles out for a spin. Quick events, custom events, 
 and X-cross tournaments all work roughly the way you'd expect them to; it's the series events that 
 are worth discussing in detail, partly because they exhibit a particularly fascinating flaw. Each 
 series focuses on a different play style and takes the player through six or so courses respectively. 
 Players are ranked along with their AI-controlled opponents, medals are handed out, and so on and 
 so forth.
  
  
  But after each race, you're then forced to participate in a "second moto," i. e. you've got to compete 
 in the exact same race again, a second time. If I may ask, WHY? Imagine playing through an action 
 game and being told, upon beating a level, that you've then got to go back and beat it again. Courses 
 don't change at all in the second run; Rainbow is basically just doubling the number of laps one 
 must complete. Untamed isn't so bad that this flaw makes the game painful to play, but if I win, 
 I want to move on, dammit!
  
  
  The reason this irritates me is because, as I've discovered, Untamed's simplistic and somewhat 
 repetitive gameplay doesn't stack up to lengthy play sessions. This seems like the kind of game 
 you're likely to pull out when you're bored, play for a few races, and then put away. When I wanted 
 to really enjoy myself with Untamed, I simply chose "quick event" on the main menu. That way my 
 experience with the game would be brief and entertaining.
  
  
  Untamed doesn't look bad, but then again this is the kind of racer where you're not really going 
 to spend much time studying environments. Animation is smooth and I'm happy to report that the 
 framerate never suffers, which admittedly could really destroy a racer like this. Detail is somewhat 
 lacking, though, and upon closer inspection many of Untamed's environments look more like something 
 you could have found on the original Xbox. The graphics aren't anything special, but they get the 
 job done, more or less.
  
  
  And you know what? That's a good descriptor for the game as a whole. I think fans of the series 
 will find just what they're looking for here, with a few shortcomings  but then again I don't 
 think Untamed's offerings will draw in any new followers. The game failed to garner any strong 
 feelings from me, so it's not really good, but hey, it's good enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Mx Vs Atv Untamed is finally out! A new installment in the MX/ ATV series. I could not have been 
 more satisfied. I do not like racing games so usually i just play free ride. This time they added 
 free style. It is perfect for me. It is not racing but is still fun. I think it fits well into 
 the game. There is also so so so ,much to do! I mainly focus on 2 things in this series. Free ride, 
 and multi player. Both turned out great. The level are giant and tons of fun. The multiplayer is 
 the same old good fun. But falling. GAH! You always fall on MXs. You eventually get used to it. 
 But it is always fall faLL FALL fall fall fall over and over and over. You learn not to fall and 
 fall and fall though. Another great thing, proabably my favorite, you can drive around in a pre 
 level while you wait for an event to load. Overall if you like the series you will be more than 
 satisfied wirth this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohjtbehaaave
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  Bottom line this game could have been great! But for some reason this series has gotten into that 
 grey area of trying to be arcade and sim at the same time. For instance... you catch massive air 
 off a jump and it's a great rush..... yet 7 out of 10 times you can't land it. It TOTALLY KILLS 
 the game and makes it aggravating... not fun. If 'Untamed' had more forgiving gameplay like say 
 Motorstorm does where you can land awesome jumps and keep going... it would be a winner imo. Lean 
 towards ARCADE style gameplay next time! It's got so many things going for it with the modes and 
 stuff... but it doesn't matter when the gameplay is frustrating. Fix the physics so you can land 
 jumps!!! I've been a fan of this series since it started... and the arcade style is why it was 
 so appealing. No need to add the sim stuff. And if you must.... make 2 seperate gameplay modes 
 to choose from. One Arcade and one Sim for those who are ok with having to be PERFECT on a landing. 
 I also thi k the next game should try for a little more imagination with the courses/tracks... 
 and really go over the top on some of them. Make a track that climbs a mountain... where you can 
 launch your vehicle off and to the track below ala Beetle Racing! :) This isn't a bad game at all... 
 it's a just miss game that should have rocked hard. Forget the sim stuff already and go with what 
 works and what got ya here! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmjohn22
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand why a company cannot spend a little more time on a game. I am an XBOX 360 guy 
 all the way but ATV offroad fury 4 blows this out of the water on the PS2. Not much difference 
 in graphics from the 2 games. mx vs atv is extremely hard to learn, especially the back flips. 
 ( how do you stop from back flipping? anyone know?) once you start you cant stop. The best part 
 of this game is the extra mini games. 
  If they would of just through some career racing with some freestyle and spent the rest of there 
 time on physics and graphics this game would had been great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echos7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  This is a game that will keep you entertained for a really long time to come.
  
  This is the best mx vs atv game yet.
  
  I can't say enough good things about this game it is 
 like the mass effect of the racing world of games.
  
  I have played this to the point where I have beat the x cross part of this game and it was the 
 best type of section I thing other then the hockey mini game!
  
  I love the online play for this game even though I have only pplayed it once so I don't know much 
 about it so I won't talk about much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bexew
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This game reminded me why I wait for reviews before purchasing games. Ive been bored with my 360 
 so I figured why not just get a new game. How bad could it possibly be?", I asked myself.... well 
 i would soon find out. 
  
  So lets just start from the ground up: The game menu... horribly laid out and very confusing. When 
 you first start the game your not really sure what to do first. There's no real tutorial, so you 
 have to learn as you go. 
  
  The events are simple enough: basically win races or competitions, to win money, to build up your 
 bike or truck and unlock more events. This is a formula that has worked so well in most racing 
 games, but not in this one for one reason.... its boring. The races are repetitive and tedious. 
 The environments are bland and really aren't using all the potential of next-gen graphics technology. 
 Sometimes the animations are real stiff and some times the riders look like they are having a stroke 
 during their tricks. And I hate that you can't create your own driver. They let you customize your 
 bike down to every nut and bolt, but the drivers are pre-made professionals. Talk about sucking 
 the fun out of one of the greatest features in any game. 
  
  The bikes and 4-wheelers are the only thing worth driving. The others just feel out of place in 
 this game. Especially the monster truck.... you actually feel stupid when you look behind you and 
 see those eye sores. Since when are monster trucks rally cars, and what driver worth his salt would 
 choose that slow piece of crap in a race. The regular baja trucks and dune buggy's you can make 
 a case for, i guess, but the tracks they give you don't really seem right for anything other than 
 dirt bikes and quads. 
  
  Ok I'll be fair enough to highlight the few bright spots in such a black hole of a game. The controls 
 are easy enough for anyone to just pick up and play. The soundtrack is the best Ive heard in a 
 while. 
  
  The coolest feature in the game is that it lets you practice while its loading the track your going 
 to play. This is a feature i think most games should copy because gamers hate load times. The funny 
 thing is the load times aren't even that long, but I actually found myself practicing jumps and 
 tricks for like 5 minutes before remembering to start the race.
  
  So how bad could this game be? Well, if its most redeeming quality is its load screens, I wouldn't 
 suggest even borrowing this game from someone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enneyehc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  MX vs. ATV UNLEASHED is a pretty good game. It has really good graphics. One bad thing is that 
 the MX, MX LITE, MINI MX, AND ATVS wreck way too easily. If you go off a big hill you will just about 
 always wreck. Which could put you behind in a race. In my opinion the SAND RAIL in the game is 
 the fastest machine. The MONSTER TRUCKS in the game don't really crush smaller machines. The custimazation 
 in this game is really cool. You can buy new machines and change the color of the machines. There 
 isn't too many outdoor maps to race on. There are some really fun indoor maps to race on. Indoor 
 tracks are only for the smaller machines. This game could be challenging if you want it too. This 
 game really can grow on you. Some people might think this game is best in series. But, other people 
 might think this game is boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mxwonderboy121
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  i have been a huge fan of the MX vs. ATV series. im still playing MX unleashed on my PS2. anyways 
 this game i expected to be very good. i got it the day it came out and i was definetly not dissapointed! 
 Untamed has so much to do in the game. No matter who you are you are going to like at least one 
 form of racing in this game. and if your not the racing type you can mess around as much as you 
 want on free ride. each of the outdoor maps are huge! i find it very fun to just screw around for 
 long periods of time and explore the open. for me, the thing that makes this game the ultimate 
 game is the new 1st person view. i am a motocross racer myself and the 1st person veiw shows other 
 people what its really like battling for the holeshot and then working their way up to the front. 
 To me this game has very good graphics. I dont know what people find so bad about these graphics, 
 i think they look great! and the physics are excelent. they did a great job on this game and it 
 is definetly worth the $60 . if your a guy who likes any racing games this is a game that should 
 not be missed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-C-
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  I've raced motocross now for 7 years, worked and built motocross tracks at an indoor motocross 
 facility, and have put way too many hours into motocross games so I know what Rainbow had to build 
 from and what a lot of the content in this game was going to be. So I had expectations.
  This is a good game, it has most of the good stuff from previous MX games and some new as well. 
 I play this strictly for the Motocross/Supercross racing, and whatever else is in the game I'm 
 not that interested in, not that it isn't fun or high quality, its just not what I'm playing this 
 for. I don't even like FMX, just racing. So this review is based solely on the MX/SX portions of 
 the game.
  I like the options for difficulty in this game, it gives a really good challenge to me atleast, 
 and it may take some time before I can do any good at the highest difficulty, whereas in the the 
 last MX vs ATV games, I could get first place fairly consistently on the hardest setting.
  The Bike models are a about as good as can be, and the player models are good too, although I would 
 have liked to see a little more player movement on the bike (more realistic) . The tracks are great, 
 especially the nationals, and in the previous MX vs. ATV games I wasn't that impressed, but in 
 Untamed, the National tracks rock, they are fun, beautiful, fast, and large. A+ for nationals.
 
  Supercross tracks are great too, the arenas are a huge improvement from previous versions. I felt 
 like the the tracks weren't as technical in this game, but I think that mainly has to do with the 
 new physics. Not a negative, but different feel than previous MX games. 
  I do enjoy Endurocross, I think Rainbow nailed it pretty well, I was expecting it to be too easy 
 but they managed to make it hard so props to them. And I haven't played much on the minis, but 
 they have been tuned down since the last MX vs ATV game which is a plus, besides that I can't say 
 much about minis because the lack of time spent on them.
  Oh, and the new scrub feature is a big improvement, now I want to see a real brake tap feature 
 that kicks the front end down faster, that would improve on the realism aspect.
  The sound, its not bad, but not great either. The actual sounds are great, but don't go well in 
 all game situations, and just feel "off" at times.
  I give gameplay a 9/10, with my biggest gripe (a small one) is please let whips extend upside down 
 without crashing, look at Laninovich. 
  I would also like to see more tracks, hard tracks. I hope that we will be able to get some new 
 DLC for this game.
  There is a lot of variety here, but I still wish that there would be an MX only game, so the developers 
 can really focus on perfecting motocross racing.
  Overall I think this game is great, still not perfect, but a step forward nonetheless. 
  I didn't 
 go over everything in the review, so if there are any Questions feel free to PM me. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cod4beta629
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 23, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  In short this game feels like a rushed project. The game has a good amount of races and tracks 
 but the graphics look very outdated. The game also sports some awful colisen dection you will often 
 find yourself falling of the bikes for no apperant reason. Back on the graphics, they damage the 
 whole package and does not live up to the next gen standerds (look at dirt for instance) . But the 
 game has a steady farmerate that rarely goes below 30. But don't get me wrong I don't dislike this 
 game, it just feels like it was rushed out for the holiday season. But the biggest dent is it is 
 full priced , at $40 any racing fan would be tempted to pick it up. There are so many better opitions 
 right now and that makes this game hard to reccomend even to the hardcore racing fans and those 
 that are interisted should try before they buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radioactivebox
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  This game is great what you need is a frequent update of all the new uniforms and pro teams the 
 next gen. gaming is a great thing and i really think that this games diserves it well the graphics 
 of the game are great and the best thing is the way the riders float in the air they really dont 
 just fly in the air at a aproxament speed they float or glide and being a racer my self just helps 
 it all the techniques are great and the difficulty makes the game stick around longer than just 
 beat it and go so great job on the game rainbow studios i really enjoy it and i have waited a long 
 time for this i hope you all enjoy it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hag365
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  When MX vs. ATV Unleashed came out I was thrilled. I love the game the graphics were good (at the 
 time) and I thought it was easy to pick up. When I picked up "Untamed" I expected better... which 
 it was.... to an extent.
  
  DESIGN:
  
  The design of the game is fairly mixed. Some times the graphics look very good especially on some 
 of the outdoor environments. Mud and water look very good, however on inside courses some scenery 
 items tend to look bland which isn't too bad since you're racing and you tend not to pay attention 
 to the surroundings. But you have to determine if you are more worried about the gaming experience 
 or how beautiful the tracks look. The soundtrack is decent and most songs are fairly popular. However, 
 there is the ability to add custom soundtracks. If you look on the case it shows the downloadable 
 content label which is good. Hopefully we will see some downloadable tracks, gear, etc. I'm kind 
 of disappointed in the the lack of content when it comes to customizing you and your bike. There 
 are brand names such as Fox, Thor, AXO, etc. However, there is only 1 item for each of them, however 
 in different colors. What really upsets me is all of the MX bikes are made up (unless I can't seem 
 to find actual bikes) . In "Unleashed" you could pick up a Yamaha 250cc or a KTM, etc. These are 
 all made up names such as rampage...
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The AI is a bit of a mixed bag. If you set the difficulty on the "easy" setting, they truly are 
 extremely easy. However, bump it up just a few notches and they start to get quite hard. Other 
 than that I think the AI is pretty well rounded. I do like how, unlike "Unleashed", in "Untamed" 
 the AI opponents don't bunch together, they tend to string out which is more realistic. I must 
 say the game tend to be extremely frustrating many times, especially in freestyle. It is very hard 
 to land correctly, even when it would be easily done in real life. Make sure you complete the trick 
 at least 1 second before landing. Even if the trick is done and you are back on the bike right 
 as you land your guy will fall off which is extremely unrealistic. I don't like how hard the backflip 
 is. In "Unleashed" you could control when you stop flipping. In "Untamed" you keep flipping until 
 you hit the ground. I understand they did this because it was very easy to pull of flips in Unleashed, 
 but don't make it so damn hard. There are plenty of modes to mess around with and the X-Cross Tournament 
 is quite fun as it gets you into more than just Supercross or Nationals. If you do pick up the 
 game try the Endurocross mode, it is really fun and interesting. As for multiplayer, I haven't 
 gotten into it much but it works just fine. The ability to race against up to 11 other players 
 in single and multiplayer makes it much more realistic as apposed to 5 in the old game. The same 
 vehicles from the last game are still there with the exception of the removal of the helicopter 
 and airplane (thank god) and the addition of the ORV sport. Overall the gameplay is pretty well 
 rounded with the exception of some bad spots.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
  Unless you are into the outdoor racing this game may be a rent, however if you are into MX and 
 ATVs, and everything that comes with it I encourage you to pick it up. Whether or not you like 
 this game is a matter of personal opinion and is a total love hate relationship. I think you should 
 give it a try if you are interested in racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bchenry
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  It has been too long for a new MX game. I have played all of them since motocross madness and there 
 is no replacing developers that are riders.
  I would have liked more locations but only because I have been waiting for a long time to play 
 it and want more. I love the multi-player and fun factor. The speed is now fast and the opponents 
 are in your face! The love for 2-strokes and 4-strokes is very nice. I just love the new feel and 
 the handlebar view (missing from the demo) is GREAT! The tracks are really challenging and the 
 supercross is just plain hard and that is good. Good music great sound you got to love doing a 
 trick and having the crowd react with a cheer! Multi-player is soo much better than the last XBOX 
 game. Tag is a blast but hockey I don't think so. I love the game and can't wait until the next 
 one. 
  Rock on Rainbow! 
  Update;
  
  Gamespot reviewers need to learn how to race! 6.5 you are LOST! 
  You said,
  The Bad
  Not 
 a great-looking game, especially on the PS3 (Am I on the correct page because I could have sworn 
 I was on the XBOX360 review. Oh look at that I am) 
  Landing jumps can be unforgiving (practice makes perfect) 
  Several events are more plodding 
 than fun (To you perhaps but to others they might love those events) 
  Freestyle events don't feel like they fit. (Neither did my new MX helmet but I got used to it and 
 now it is great OK bad analogy how about something more up your alley. It is like buying a new 
 pair of pink pumps)
  
  In the future Gamespot try and get a reviewer with a clue to review!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwanewil
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 25, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I have waited for over 4 years for this game to come out. Mx vs. ATV Unleashed was, for the most 
 part, an enjoyable game. I am frustated that it did not port over. I have played, "Untamed" for 
 4 days now, and I will admit I enjoy the sx and mx very much. However, when I play the, "supermoto" 
 series, I find myself wanting to throw the controller at the HD, WTF?! What happened to the physics????!!! 
 If I bump another rider, I lose all control!!!!! The AI opponent ALWAYS takes me off my path....... the 
 only way I can, "drop" the AI is to t-bone him.... as a result we both go down. What the heck! If 
 I have the inside line and we are at equal points, WHY IS IT THAT I LOSE CONTROL? This did not 
 happen in the previous game..... the current AI is like playing against the bots when Quake 4 came 
 out. Yikes!!!! I really hope a patch will come out to correct the AI advantage. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
