-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Naruto: The Broken Bond
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/narutothebrokenbond/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeous graphics.
 Fight modes offer lots of characters.
 English and Japanese voice tracks available.
 Compelling online ranking system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story lacks momentum.
 An endless series of dull quests.
 Same simple environmental obstacles repeat constantly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.0, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 546 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Adventure
Date: Nov 18, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The fighting modes deliver some excitement, but the adventure loses its way with too many boring 
 fetch quests and repetitive environmental puzzles. 

  Last year's Naruto: Rise of a Ninja was a promising start to Ubisoft's planned series of games 
 telling the story of Naruto, the brash young ninja whose anime series has millions of devoted followers 
 all over the globe. Rise of a Ninja also felt somewhat underdeveloped, though, leaving plenty of 
 room for improvement in its promised sequels. Sadly, that potential for improvement has not been 
 realized in its follow-up, The Broken Bond, and the flaws are not so easy to forgive this time 
 around.  

           Naruto and friends are back in The Broken Bond.      

  The Broken Bond's Story mode picks up where Rise of a Ninja left off and covers events that span 
 episodes 81 to 135 of the anime. Unlike Rise of a Ninja, which incorporated clips from the anime 
 to move the plot along, resulting in some jarring transitions between 2D and 3D, The Broken Bond 
 uses its own beautiful graphics for all of the cutscenes, creating a much more cohesive experience. 
 The story here starts out strong, with a dramatic battle that ends in tragedy. And it builds up 
 to a solid conclusion, too, when Naruto and his fellow ninja are faced with a situation that tests 
 just how much they're willing to risk for one of their friends. But between these two high points 
 are a staggering number of underdeveloped storylines accompanied by boring fetch quests, which 
 rob both the story and the gameplay of any sense of momentum.  

  The Broken Bond tries to do a lot of things and ends up doing very few of them well. This is a 
 third-person action game in which you usually play as Naruto, and most of your time is spent venturing 
 out of the safety of Hidden Leaf Village to complete various missions. You're typically accompanied 
 by a friend or two, and you can switch between the members of your party at any time. This proves 
 necessary, because more often than not, each party member possesses a jutsu, or ninja power, that 
 must be used to overcome some environmental obstacles you encounter. Naruto, for instance, can 
 perform his shadow clone jutsu to cross any broken bridge, and as luck would have it, nearly every 
 bridge is broken. Using the powers of Naruto and his friends to overcome environmental obstacles 
 like this is a neat idea, but it's not incorporated in an interesting way. There's never any thought 
 required. Each time you see a broken bridge, you know you need to perform the shadow clone jutsu. 
 Each time you see three red marks over the character you're controlling, you know you need to perform 
 a jutsu that reveals hidden dangers. And so on. These obstacles crop up all the time, and they're 
 always the same. Before long, they start to feel like a chore that slows you down as you make your 
 way from point A to point B. And the fact that you'll be passing through the same few sections 
 of forest repeatedly only compounds the tedium.  

  You'll also frequently need to find certain people or items in Hidden Leaf Village, and these fetch 
 quests range from bearable to maddening. When you're fortunate enough to be playing as a character 
 who possesses a jutsu that helps him detect hidden things, performing that jutsu will bring up 
 an indicator that tells you the general direction you need to go in and gives you a vague idea 
 of your distance from your goal. Hidden Leaf Village is a great environment, so hopping along rooftops 
 and sprinting down alleys in pursuit of something can be enjoyable, provided you have at least 
 a general idea of where you're going. But when you must track things down and aren't blessed with 
 such a jutsu, these missions are a completely different experience. In these instances, all you 
 get is an indicator that tells you when you're getting very close to the item you need to find, 
 and it doesn't offer any sense of direction. The town isn't massive, but it is large enough that 
 you can spend several minutes running around until you stumble upon the next item you need, and 
 since these fetch quests usually involve gathering several items, finding one means you get to 
 start running all over looking for the next one. Hidden Leaf Village is gorgeous, but by the time 
 you find the last set of construction supplies or the last bag of potato chips, you'll be sick 
 of it.  

           You can chain together attacks to perform some devastating combos.      

  The one 
 thing The Broken Bond does pretty well is combat. The fighting system is simple but very fast-paced 
 and enjoyable. The X and Y buttons perform horizontal and vertical attacks, respectively, and can 
 be chained together to perform a variety of combos. The importance of jutsu during fights makes 
 them more than just button-mashing affairs. A key strategy is to pull off a powerful combo that 
 temporarily incapacitates your enemy and gives you the time to perform a jutsu, and you'll be on 
 both the performing and receiving end of a great variety of jutsu throughout the game. Regardless 
 of which end you're on, the jutsu are usually involving. Most of them call up minigames that give 
 both parties a chance to minimize or maximize the amount of damage. Some of these are quick-time 
 events that require well-timed button presses, while others require you to pound on one button 
 as much as possible. The best of the bunch are the targeting minigames, in which the attacker must 
 try to get the defender squarely in the sights of a crosshair, while the defender scurries all 
 over the place, desperately trying to avoid the incoming attack.  

  As much fun as the fights can be, the Story mode manages to make them repetitive and frustrating 
 as well. Far too many of your battles will be random encounters against generic ninja opponents, 
 and these opponents are such pushovers that the battles end up being just another thing that slows 
 you down as you travel from one place to another. And near the end, when you must fight against 
 a succession of powerful ninja in the service of the evil Orochimaru, there's a sudden, dramatic 
 leap in difficulty. These opponents are elusive and capable of unleashing devastating combos followed 
 by jutsu that instantly wipe out huge amounts of your health, and your earlier fights, and even 
 your visits to the training dojo where you can practice your moves, may have left you ill-prepared 
 to fight opponents such as these. Adding insult to injury, each time you fail one of these battles, 
 you must watch the preceding cutscene again.  

  In contrast to the game's disappointing Story mode, the pure fighting modes are quite good, because 
 they're made up entirely of the one thing the game does well. You can play single-character or 
 tag-team matches locally against the AI or with friends, as well as face off against online opponents. 
 With 30 playable characters, most of whom have differing fighting styles and jutsu, there's enough 
 variety to keep these modes interesting for quite a while, though you'll need to progress through 
 the Story mode to unlock many of those characters. There's a compelling ranked match system to 
 online battles that has you earn experience points as you fight other live opponents. At certain 
 thresholds, you'll fight a battle for the right to advance to the next rank, with the goal being 
 to advance all the way to the most honorable rank of Hokage. Seeing your rank advance as you win 
 more fights fosters a sense of investment in the ranked matches that can be hard to resist.  

 
           Hidden Leaf Village is a stunning environment.      

  Visually, the game is beautiful. The richly detailed cel-shaded graphics bring the world of Naruto 
 to life, and the streets and buildings of Hidden Leaf Village are the stars of the show. The first 
 time you're set free in the village, you may feel compelled to just walk around and take it all 
 in -- the natural way that buildings catch the light, the way banners drift gently in the breeze, 
 and all the little imperfections that make the town feel organic. Unfortunately, the forest areas 
 you pass through repeatedly look and feel confined and manufactured by comparison, but Naruto and 
 the other characters are animated with all the grace and smoothness befitting of cartoon ninja. 
 The sound is also strong, with music that runs the gamut from catchy, exciting rock instrumentals 
 to haunting compositions using traditional Japanese instruments. You're also given a choice between 
 Japanese and English voice tracks, both of which are very well done by actors that are believable 
 in dramatic and comedic moments alike.  

  Completing the Story mode will take most players about 10 hours, and the majority of that time 
 is spent on boring fetch quests that have you visiting the same areas and avoiding the same simple 
 obstacles over and over again. Fans will wonder where the excitement of Naruto's adventures went, 
 and newcomers will be left wondering if the anime really spends so much time having Naruto gather 
 fireworks and flowers for shampoo rather than doing things that seem to matter. The saving grace 
 of this package is the fighting modes, which, while a bit too shallow to stand on their own, have 
 enough characters and enough modes to keep fans occupied for quite a while.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jaden_Arbiter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Here we are with Naruto: The Broken Bond, number 2 in the 360 installments we have seen from Ubisoft 
 Montreal so far. In this sequel you begin as Sarutobi, The Third, as he fights to the death against 
 his former student Orochimaru and end with the departure of Sasuke following his Cursed Seal bout 
 against Naruto: mandatory events that were not taken to the next level but were treated secondary 
 in their importance.
  
  Foremost, Ubisoft Montreal felt that the best way to maximize player time expenditure without stretching 
 the boundaries of their budget should involve inserting random, easily interchangeable puzzles 
 in the adventure mode of Broken Bond -- even when their existence doesn't have any reason to it 
 at all. Each contraption practically stands outside the bounds of general logic; for example there 
 are sets of tree sections bounded together by spikes that either consistently sprout from the ground 
 and return back underground in ratios of one to two seconds or those that simply impede your pathway, 
 but neither of them aren't protecting anything more than a mere golden coin so many kilometers 
 away that no one would honestly care about. 
  
  We can therefore see that Ubisoft didn't even want to waste their time conceiving reasons behind 
 why character A and B or A, B, and C experience such problems, and why the person who had instructed 
 them with their objective didn't inform them of any reason involving those problems either. Aside 
 from filler inserts between co-similar story missions that could have easily been improved, we 
 at least see the story missions real-time instead of as cutscenes stolen from the anime -- like 
 the original. While inspiring and sometimes equipped with appealing line-writing we don't see much 
 else offered to us, unfortunately, when evaluating the positives of Ubisoft's new style.
  
  Aside from the the adventure mode's ridiculous puzzles there is also an element of strategy involved 
 that at some periods of time serves to be an enjoyable learning opportunity; for example, a bridge 
 is broken that can only be crossed initially by Naruto's bunshins acting as its replacement, but 
 Neji or Kiba's ability to sense for hidden explosive notes is also needed simultaneously. Ubisoft 
 at least deserve one general applaud for this strategy/teamwork element that is so characteristic 
 of the anime itself.
  
  But we haven't yet spoken of the second gameplay system, that being the intermediate fights within 
 the adventure mode. Every character has two left-right stick initiative jutsus, one usually serving 
 the purpose of a power-up, the second a special either involving a successive pressing of the A 
 button or two scopes that need to be inter-lined on the screen. These characters have up to four 
 or five general combos, which each end with a 'killer combo' -- a final strike that exclaims a 
 kanji character and slightly more damage than a usual strike. A Rage mode -- momentarily having increased 
 damage combined with a depleting second bar of energy -- back B initiative substitutions, and double-left 
 or right control stick tapping for side-steps are the secondary characteristics of the battle system.
 
  
  For any general fan of Naruto or a player who wants to experience two simultaneous genres should 
 choose this title for purchase instead of rent, as it is a 13-hour game which has a few achievements 
 that cannot be earned as easily as the others. A good game overall that could really use a few 
 practical improvements to stand on the same grounds with the anime and its writing quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mf29
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: The Broken Bond, acts as a sequel to Rise of a Ninja, and covers the rest of the original 
 Naruto anime, from episodes 81-135, that basically tells the story of the Sasuke Retrival arc. 
 The game was developed by Ubisoft Montreal, and was published by Ubisoft as an XBOX 360 exclusive. 
 As all of the more Naruto Video Games are released, they start to become imitations of one another, 
 regardless of year or console. It expands upon the online multiplayer system, fighting system, 
 characters, and stages.
  
  Just be begin briefly, no such Naruto game deserves over a solid 8 in score, due to a definite 
 balance of pros and cons. No Naruto game is worth purchasing either, only if it can be found for 
 under $15. The game revolves around a decently structured action adventure/fighting aspect that 
 seems to take gameplay elements from many other games that share the genre. As Naruto, you began 
 the game with no special skills. Throughout the story, new skills are learned whether you want 
 them to be learned or not, and characters are unlocked. Upon each mission completion alongside 
 a certain Leaf Village ally, you gain friend points. The friends points are important, because 
 they can be used to increase your attributes.
  
  You can increase your health, and chakra capacity, along with the rather proverbial strength, and 
 justu damage radius. The game acts as a slightly over the top camera viewed, free-roaming God of 
 War-esc setting where you can jump around freely. Fighting takes place in an individual sequence. 
 Something similar to DBZ: Sagas or Kingdom Hearts, instead of fighting enemies in real time, you 
 fight them in a one on one versus match. You can have at a max of two different allies alongside 
 with you in gameplay. If a match is started, your allies will be able to be tagged, in and out 
 of or during versus matches respectively, and they all have distinguishable life bars and abilities.
 
  
  Your allies and Naruto can be switched back and forth to whoever the first player is controlling. 
 Mostly this is only convenient because there are some conspicuous obstacles present that require 
 a certain justu to overcome or abolish. These obstacles are encountered numerous times during countless 
 different missions, and the jutsu execution and cutscene that is delivered with it becomes repetitive. 
 You wish the game would automatically perform said justu without your consent or effort, knowing 
 that you have to perform a certain justu untold amounts of times to navigate around the area.
 
  
  You can helpfully haul around Health, Strength, and Chakra pills, although your Chakra can be healed 
 over time. Health is automatically replenished upon sleeping to rejuvenate yourself in your room 
 or Inns. As each enemy or mission is completed, you will gain money and gold coins afterwards. 
 These gold coins and cash are combined to purchase items, new jutsus or combos. In each town there 
 is a local Dojo available, that presents itself as a basic training mode, preparing you for those 
 hardships in battle. Holding the right trigger will allow you to sprint which can be compared to 
 that of a Spiderman game, where Naruto or whatever character is being used, can freely jump around 
 Konoha village, double jump, climb up and down walls, walk on water, and jump from building to 
 building using the accelerated sprint and jump combination. The animates are fluid, and capture 
 the animation style of the Anime sharply.
  
  It's smooth and is filled with natural emphasis. Around towns people are bustling around and conversing, 
 although their messages to you are rather dull and generic, as they comment on whatever event is 
 prevalent in town or in the position where the game is currently. Some people may even repeat the 
 same lines with different voices or different wording to spice it up a bit, but no avail mostly. 
 You can run into people and they'll yell at you, barrels can be broken for gold coins and other 
 free trinkets, and popular anime characters can be dueled against at any time, or can join your 
 group whether you are on a mission or not.
  
  The missions and general adventure like gameplay is where Naruto: The Broken Bond takes the discrepancy 
 lane. Even though the most important plot points are enacted upon, some "Ubisoft" employee non-canon 
 missions were created to expand the hours in the storymode. These absurd and undesirable missions 
 range from hunting for flowers and pearls for a lady, fetching random meaningless items for some 
 stranger in a forest, or seeking and defeating the dangerous, "Potato Chip" ninjas for Choji. And 
 throughout these missions, random battles are met, where a pointless battle will even further delay 
 you from pursuing your real objective. The maps are filled with seemingly impeccable obstacles, 
 where some engineer is working to clear up the road sooner or later, but it seems to never happen.
 
  
  With a navigation system like Grand Theft Auto, you will have to often times vaguely follow the 
 arrow, and as stupid traps are cleverly laid around the map, you will have to utilize dumb techniques 
 with Neji or Sasuke, that of which can expose the otherwise invisible traps that you will run into. 
 Neji's Bakugan will be used over and over, to disclose hidden traps, or, to hunt down certain criminal 
 Ninjas. These missions are god forsaken and uncalled for. Between each dramatic plot point, gratuitous 
 stock missions will have to be tolerated. You complete a one, two, three step mission, of haphazardly 
 trying to properly evade certain traps, some of which are too fast to time properly, like spikes 
 jutting from under the ground repetitively in a quick and random motion, similar to the underdeveloped 
 traps in Crash Bandicoot games or Mario 64, which are scattered across all maps.
  
  They can be deactivated, as a person steps on the button to deactivate them, you will have to split 
 the team up, so you can traverse past the nullified traps to continue with the mission. The other 
 large percentile of missions includes retrieving lost items like fireworks, or lumber, from Ninjas. 
 You will fight Ninjas constantly, and they all look alike, and are labeled with laughably generic 
 names like, "Boss Chip Ninja", or "Thief Ninja". And to top it off they all have the same justus.
 
  
  The fighting system is more advanced compared to "Rise of a Ninja" presumably, which I cannot directly 
 confirm hence me having not played it. It renders itself as decently sufficient and interactive, 
 as tag team attacks can be done, ultimate justus, and manually generated combos. Everyone's animations 
 and mannerisms are distinctive, and, their justus are eye-popping upon the first three times. After 
 a short while they become nasty, and often times, you wish that the justu was automatically done 
 instead of you having to fulfill random button prompts. And with button prompt God of War cutscenes, 
 you will have to watch the screen extra close because you might miss a button prompt, and if this 
 failure is derived then you will have to start the entire cutscene over again, until you an rightfully 
 input the correct buttons as they appear, this includes directional buttons as well.
  
  Furthermore, the downside of the combat pertaining to the storymode, is the abrupt leap in difficulty 
 in combat as soon as the game's storyline starts to become at bay. The missions later in the game 
 can become so tedious and frustrating. During these missions, you will most likely be scolded to 
 get your destination, fair enough. But during this seemingly simple process, ninjas are scattered 
 all across the map, and they will all fight you, there is no method whatsoever of avoiding a fight. 
 The same dastardly ninjas that all seem to be connected by bloodline by their similar faces and 
 clothing, will wail on you without cease. Their combos are endless, their cheap attacks will prevent 
 you from healing yourself or activating any type of justu. And to make it worse, the mandatory 
 fighting scenes that involve major characters, will need to be fought about two or three times 
 at the most. You fight a character, a cutscene arrives, and then you right that character again, 
 and the difficulty escalates after every victory. When you lose you have to sit through the same 
 poorly put together cutscene, only to get defeated again. 
  
  The dungeon crawling includes turning switches, using certain techniques over and over to achieve 
 rather shallow goals, and back tracking over the same ugly map structures where missions occur. 
 As you travel from different towns there is a keenly chosen tree jumping sequence where in first 
 person, you and your allies will jump from tree to tree, but then again after first two trials 
 it becomes more than a chore. Most of all mini games are despicable button prompt memorization 
 sequences. There is an abundance of hide and seek horse dung through in and through out, and only 
 if you are able to tolerate it, should you foolhardily behoove yourself to do so.
  
  Characters are unlocked and can be used in Fight Mode or Practice mode from the main menu, also 
 capable of being played with online. The new ranking system prospers above aforementioned installments. 
 The fashion in which the game presents itself is lavishly colorful and beautiful, the lighting 
 is top notch and some individual effects are taken straight from the Anime's bag of goodies. While 
 the character models are adequate, they are comprised of rather expressionless facial features, 
 and choppy clothing at close inspection. The audio and sound effects are decent but not special, 
 as the game takes music straight from the Anime for better or for worse. Out of preference, the 
 Japanese voice overs are once again superior to the English actors, and the in-game dialogue is 
 well performed, oozing with personality and emotion.
  
  So in the end all of the game is is moderate fan service with and endless supply of bland hide 
 and seek mission objectives. The fighting is a plus, along character development, but certain cons 
 of the game leave much to be desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blind9d
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 8:24 pm PT
Review:  
  Ubisoft decided to make a really great game. Thats very true. my birthday had just passed and i 
 got two hundred dollars so i said why not. i called my friend say yeah and oh and stuff "i am about 
 to buy naruto the broken bond!" and im glad i bought it. the graphices are good. gameplay is fun. 
 but multiplayer '_' sike it is awsome!!!!! the characters are fun. nut one thing i did not like 
 was that the sound 5 ninjas did not have curse mark that you can play with only stage 1. it has 
 narutos demon and sasukes curse mark stage 2 but you cannot clash. WHY!!!! '________' o. O '____________' 
 o. O another great thing is tournament mode if you have three conttrollers then put in the second 
 and the third one to fight and you have all the characters but it only works in tournament mode. 
 if you have at least fity dollars then you should get this game.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NARUTO_CRAZY
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 6:11 pm PT
Review:  People including Xbox 360 fanboys expected too much of Naruto the Broken Bonds said it will be 
 better than Naruto Ultimate Ninja Storm. Both games have their strength and weakness and I'm to 
 tell you about broken bond. The enviroment of this game is good but a little bit blended whenever 
 the sunset appears. It is time-based. The character designs are bad on the faces especially Gaara. 
 The story mode in this game has too much fillers whenever you want to get to the main part but 
 you have to do something first before that ever happens. The fighting of this game is slow and 
 dosen't feel like Naruto when you think about it. I'm not a ps3 fanboy cause I have the wii, ps3, 
 and the xbox 360. When you look at the character mouths during the story, it looks weird the most 
 to me. So make sure you rent this game first before buying especially Naruto fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaara-sama98
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 8:48 am PT
Review:  I played the game..... Yes I played this game and the PS3 game which out of both I dont know if 
 I could pick a best although UNS was pretty good. A lot of the features of the game are cool like 
 the tree jumping but the fighting the main part could use some work. I was expecting it too be 
 better than the UNS but I guess I was wrong. The fighting was a bit choppy or slow or something 
 and seemed that the fighting flow was not to evident in a lot of the characters. The tag thing..... yea 
 they really need to work on that. Maybe they should get some tips from the Dead or Alive crew. 
 I dont know what they were thinking but yea. I am still in the process of playing it so I havent 
 gotten everything done but being almost finished I knew before hand what my verdict would be. The 
 game really need a bit..... or a lot more work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxieWaxie
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2009 5:50 pm PT
Review:  The game may seem just like the first one, but from the look of it, this sequel offers more options 
 and style.
  Already you can see the fact of which you could control different characters and not just Naruto 
 in the Story Mode. I am not sure if the Fight Mode still exist, but most likely it does. I am not 
 fully up to date on the game, but I am planning to buy it tomorrow. Don't listen to people who 
 have posted their comments with "this sucks" or "Ninja Storm is much better". It maybe is, but 
 you can't compare PS3 games to X360 games, they both have their strength and weaknesses , and both 
 has different level of graphics. I own them, so i know. 
  Naruto Rise of the Ninja offered some heart-warming gameplay which i was surprised that i played 
 it for more than one week, since most game are not good enough for me to play beyond that point 
 of time. So I am most certain this sequel will not disappoint. I mean, new jutsus, fight moves, 
 playable characters, story lines, and features, who (that owned a X360) wouldn't buy this game.
 
  Of course if you dislike anime, Naruto, or anything base off of an TV shows, don't bother considering 
 to buy this game because this is all that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretnoob
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft's take on the Naruto franchise. Ubisoft has had a problem with repetitive missions in many 
 of their recent titles such as Assassin's Creed and Prince of Persia, and this problem shows itself 
 again in this Naruto title, among other flaws.
  
  Though much of it is made up by Tsunade's VOLUPTUOUS gifts to man.
  
  Overall this is an average 
 adventure game combined with an average fighting game. The adventure aspects are decent with plenty 
 of puzzles to solve with your friends various jutsu's (or powers) . The fighting shines a bit more 
 with intricate combos that are satisfying when executed properly, though fighting the computer 
 can be a bit annoying with its innate ability to dodge perfectly. 
  
  As for the flaws, there are quite a few. First of all, the parkour tree jumping game is far too 
 boring. And you have to do it over and over again, which Ubisoft doesn't seem to find annoying, 
 so I imagine the designers there also enjoy things like Elderly Home Bingo Night. Also, who is 
 leaving all that money on trees and rocks? Someone with far to much money on their hands by my 
 standards.
  
  Also the puzzle element seems rushed because old switches you use for previous puzzles still react 
 when you turn them on and off, which makes you feel like you're missing something or doing it wrong, 
 which you're not. Blame the Ubi. 
  
  Finally, just as a Naruto fan, I have to say, if you're going to tackle a franchise as popular 
 as Naruto, at the very least get the character designs right. You don't need a story team because 
 the anime/manga lay the story out for you, so put some time into the other qualities of the game 
 and make them quality. Many characters' mouths look as if they got the same treatment the Joker 
 did, looking as if they could fit an entire frisbee in their gobs. Also Gaara looks stupid. Why 
 Ubi? Why? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KDLC7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 11:14 am PT
Review:  Naruto: The Broken Bond is much similar to Rise Of A Ninja although there is much more to do and 
 the storyline is longer than the first one but it is still too short as managed to finish the story 
 this in about and a half hours in Chunin Mode (Normal Difficulty) . It's also harder than the first 
 but still too easy. The Graphics have improved much from the first which makes the cutscenes look 
 fantastic. There are also alot more characters and arenas to chose from in fight mode and the new 
 online ranking system makes online gameplay much better. This is a great game for long time naruto 
 fans but may be a let down to anyone else. But the the extra quests in story mode are frustrating 
 and boring but It's probably the best naruto game out in stores at the moment but Ubisoft Montreal 
 Could have improved this alot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_A_Link
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:32 am PT
Review:  Naruto Broken Bond is the sequel to Naruto Rise of a Ninja
  
  Broken bond starts of where rise ends so if you haven't played rise or haven't watched the anime 
 your not going no wat's happening
  
  Broken bond is an amazing game for fans of the anime it tells the story perfectly. Display's keen 
 moments of the anime well.
  though the story is full of annoying fetch quests this will not bother a true fan to the anime.
 
  
  on the other hand people not familiar to the anime will not a good time with this game. they will 
 get bored quickly with all the fetch quests and at really keen moments of the story they will not 
 feel any excitement because they are not familiar with the anime.
  
  overall is game is a must for fans! but newcomers not so much
  
  Fan rating : 9/10 Not familiar 
 to Naruto rating : 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  First of all, if you haven't watched Naruto don't expect to enjoy the broken bond, you won't have 
 a clue about the characters or half of the plot.
  For those who have watched Naruto the broken bond starts when the village is being attacked by 
 Orochimaru, in the tutorial you fight him as the third hokage, it then ends when Naruto and Sasuke 
 split paths, thus the broken bond.
  
  Combat in the broken bond is sloppy, most characters have very similar moves, if not the same.
 
  You can perform a kick (y) a punch (x) maybe an odd jump (a) and a grab (rt) there is also lots 
 of unique jutsu specific to the character your playing as, jutsu is probably the best thing about 
 combat.
  Bassicaly it includes charging your overdrive gauge through taking damage and giving damage normally, 
 then when it's fully charged you hold down left trigger and enter a combination, each character 
 has two or three jutsu each.
  
  Graphics are a great attribute to the game, they're not neccaserily good but they stand out.
 
  I reccomend looking at the images and even video section but if your fussy about graphics there's 
 no need to worry at all, the broken bond has solid, colourful and in a unique anime style.
  
  As for story mode.. it has its pros and cons, 60% of the story is full of fetch quests which 
 include going outside the village, fighting a few theives and rouge ninjas, collecting an item 
 and then returning.
  the other 40% is great though, this includes high quality cut scenes with japanese and english 
 dialouge avaliable, there's also a great oppertunity to free roam around your faviroute locations 
 in Naruto such as Konoha, Tanazaki and the hot springs town.
  As you progress you unlock characters to play as in fight mode, for example when you beat Kabuto 
 with Naruto you unlock him in fight mode.
  The story dosen't stick exactly to the series, most fetch quests given are not connected to the 
 main story, but if they didn't include these you'll find the main story would only be a few hours 
 long.
  Along the story mode you can use also use kunai in fights which you buy from shops, you also buy 
 health pills, chakra pills and attatchments which boost your stats, these cost 
  I managed to beat the story in 12 hours in Chunin mode (there are 3 difficulties, genin, chunin 
 and jounin)
  
  Most music is imported from the series which is good, typical flutes/ninja styled music which goes 
 along well with the game to say the least.
  As I mentioned you can choose between Japanese and English voices which is a thumbs up to ubisoft.
 
  
  I think the next Naruto game will be the one to definetely nail it but if your a naruto fan the 
 broken bond will definetely please you if you can cope with going through countless amounts of 
 fetch quests.
  
  If I had to just mention a few things that they should improve in the next game it would be..
 
  Much less fetch quests, more actual story from the series and
  a faster and more intense combat engine.
  
  I hope this review helped!
  ~gormo~
  
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanus_mcAnus
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  im not a huge nartuo fan but this game is great. great fighting, cool special moves and great platforming. 
 7 is a really low score for this i dont know how anyone couldnt like this game its just seriously 
 fun. buy it. seriously. When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews 
 must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you 
 may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated 
 with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save 
 it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below sorry for the filler im 
 too lazy to come up with 100 words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawk754
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Naruto the broken bond is a fantastic game. Yea the graphics have been downgraded but this puts 
 clash of ninja revolution and nuns out of water.
  
  Fighting: The fighting is better, and more tactical soo u have to think smart of when to launch ur 
 finisher.
  
  Adventure: The map it's like sooooooooooo huge u can actually end up lost lol.
  
  Character's: Mostly 
 all the character's are in this game except hinata and shino. (Should of left out taijutsu naruto 
 and anbu itachi and replace wit the hokages.) But yea all the character's have there advantages 
 and disadvantanges.
  
  Online: Never tried out the online but will soon still looking for lovelorn villagers.
  
  Story: The 
 story is just like the real anime and manga. There's no more for me to explain of how amazing the 
 story is.
  
  Soo if u r a naruto fan and have a Xbox 360 this is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagax03
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 23, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  Naruto bronken bonds is a new naruto game which is okayat first but gets really boring lets see 
 why.
  
  Stroy-a new stroy but with some plotholes but sasuke training with orochimaru is reavealed also 
 diffrent missions are also involved in this game.
  B-"Sackboy gives you a thumbs up".8.5/10.
  
  Gameplay-Lets start of , the fact that they tried 
 to make a naruto puzzle/action game cannot escape it with annoying not needed puzzles and repetitive 
 gameplay it sucks. the fighting system is pretty bad because first its back to 2d and even WORSE 
 with combos that are hard to use and LOOSE controls. overall BAD.
  D-"You go to a store but are force to get a horrible v-game. NO! OH WELL.4/10.
  
  Desugn/graphics 
 pretty good but can get really weird and can sometimes make you tink that you are not playing a 
 naruto game.
  C-"You got the game im reviweing right know"! 6/10
  
  Voices-smae ol good voices.
  S-"master chief and solid snake team up"! 10/10
  
  Overall-if 
 u got a ps3 then get naruto ultimate ninja storm instead of this IT CAN GET REALLY BORING.
  C-fair.6/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxpHeOniXFiYaXx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I actually like this game but it disappointed me in a couple of areas. I would have rated this 
 game a 9 out of 10 but ubisoft really got lazy in some parts.
  First off the story was short and some parts of it were badly made, ( even though most of the story 
 was well told in the game.) For example in the kiba-sakon fight, kiba does not have his new move 
 which he uses in the anime, (wolf fang over fang.) And kankuro's face is not even shown when he 
 comes in to help kiba, he is not even a playable character. 
  Which brings me to another point. In this game there are few characters.
  There are supposedly 
 30 characters but some of them are just the same characters in different clothes, for example naruto 
 in rock lee's clothes, ANBU itachi, black suit sasuke. And they DONT EVEN HAVE DIFFERENT 
  MOVES. Why they did this instead of putting different characters like
  Azuma, Kurenai, shino, 
 hinata, or ten ten is just LAZY and it pissed me OFF.
  MAIN CHARACTERS NOT INCLUDED ARE- Ten ten, shino, hinata, azuma,
  kurenai, ino, the first and 
 second hokage's, and kankuro. o yea BTW when rock lee uses the eight inner gates in this game he 
 does not transform like he does in the anime, HE STAYS EXACTLY THE SAME but goes a bit faster and 
 does more damage, he also CANT use primary or hidden lotus.
  THINGS I LIKE- The fighting is great, The detail of the forest and villages are awesome in story 
 mode, nice jutsus, ONLINE ranks like student, graduate, genin, chunin, jonin, and hokage, original 
 japanese voices, and some nice dam combos to boot. VERDICT- 7.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLACK_ROSE_WAR
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Compared to the first one... THIS IS 100 TIMES BETTER! (this is not an overstatement) This game 
 is a total beef up on the old one, more fighters, better mechanics, just better... Though there 
 is alot of complaints made about Ubisoft, I think they deserve credit where credit is due! The 
 story mode has new Cutscenes done like the ending of RON ( All CG) and they are done overall pretty 
 good! Another thing is that those darn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugohf
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Lo que esta entrega en comparacion con la otra se le agregan muchas mejoras en el modo de juego 
 haciendolo mas dinamico y divertido
  La varidad de personajes en el modo lucha es verdaderamente suficientes, no como en MK vs DC universe,
 
  Los ecenarios que presenta van muy acorde con la cultura que trata de transmirtir el anime, aprte 
 de que son mucho mejores que en la version anterior
  Las mejoras en el sitema de combate lo hacen muy superior las versiones de Play Station 2 de igual 
 manera con las graficas
  La principal carencia de este juego es que depues de vario tiempo se puede volver repetitivo, pero 
 a medida que avanzas las habilidades de la IA se incrementan de tal manera que debes desarrollarte 
 para poder seguir avanzando
  En conclusion puedo dercir que es un juego que verdaderamente vale la pena jugarlo y que para 
 mi es uno de los mejores que he jugado 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Blademaster
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Hmm... where do i start? I know! Lets start with the game's good points. 
  
  1. The environment looks great. Really. This is probably one of the first games I've played where 
 I stopped playing the game just to admire a rock... or the grass... or.... you get the point.
  
  2. The music was very awsome. Yes! I love anime style games that take the music directly from 
 the anime and stick it in the game. It was epic to start fighting a guy and here Raging Fighting 
 Spirit by Toshiro Masuda playing in the background. 
  
  3. THE JAPANESE VOICES!! I've always said that if a Japanese anime game is coming over to the states, 
 we need an option to here the original Japanese voices. Especially if you cannot stand the English 
 dubs. Luckily, it seems that lately Game Devs are beginning to think so too. Good Job!
  
  Now for the BAD points...
  
  1. Battles. In my personal opinion, the main factor in any Naruto 
 game should be the fights themselves. As fun as it is to watch the protagonists go through the 
 same things we watched them do in the anime, nothing quite says Ninja like pummeling your opponent 
 into the next dimension with B/A Ninja Techniques and Combos. Naruto Broken Bond has almost exactly 
 the same fighting engine as the last game, Rise of Ninja. Honestly, I did not like the fighting 
 system then, and I like it even less now. Its harder to use the substitution jutsu, so you constantly 
 get smashed by unblockable attacks, and this makes all combo's almost impossible to get out of. 
 I don't like it. I dunno about you guys, but after I beat a game I rarely (if ever) feel like beating 
 it again. Unless there's some BIG unlockables like, Techniques, Team-up attacks, more characters 
 etc. So, the next thing I wanna do after Singleplayer is always Multiplayer, where the true replay-ability 
 lies!! O wait a sec, I already don't like the fighting system!.... crap, there goes the 2-player 
 fun factor.
  
  2. Graphics. I wonder if Naruto ever complained to Kakashi, "Hey! Kakashi-sensei! Why does this 
 piece of grass (rock, tree, cloud, etc) look way cooler and stand out way more than me, the main 
 character?" Because I'm sure I would have wanted to know why I look like a poorly drawn BLOB next 
 to the beautiful dirt under my toes, especially when they zoom in on my face. Heck I'd have been 
 pretty self-conscious if I had a squiggle like that for a mouth. 
  
  3. Missions. Not much to say here... how about repetive? Because they are. Very. 
  
  4. Characters. 
 Well, there were more than they had last time around, although there's no way in heck I'm gonna 
 include the alternate outfit characters. Which really seems kind of lazy to me. "Hey guys! Instead 
 of spending the time to make a new character like, I dunno, one of the other Hokage's, or even 
 include other Jounin like Gai, Azuma or Kurenai, lets fill up a character select slot with a different 
 costume." Brilliant! Naruto wearing a Guy outfit! Yeah! Does that mean we can do "Dynamic Entry"? 
 (Oh wait, thats not even included, and neither is Gai) . Well what about Rock Lee's "Konoha Senpuu?" 
 "Nah, that would be too cool. We thought you would enjoy using all of your normal moves just in 
 a different outfit." Ahhh, you shouldn't have... really. Don't get me wrong. I love the idea of 
 different outfits. I thought the inclusion of ANBU Itachi was awsome! Untill I found out his moves 
 were the same as the OTHER Itachi. C'mon now, how hard is it to have us select Itachi/Naruto and 
 press Left Bumper to get the other costume? Lame! 
  
  5. Jutsus/Ougis. Weeeellllll....... some of them were nice. If you could actually pull them off, 
 and most of the Ougi mini-games were annoying as heck. I mean cmon, its hard enough to stick two 
 crosshairs ontop of a moving ninja without feeling like you're throwing bowling balls down a molasses 
 filled alley!! And then you have the Wack-A-Mole style Ougi. "Ohh nice! I get to poke his chakara 
 dots out?" Sure! But whats this? The molasses is back?!?!? So much for enjoying the feeling of 
 destroying your enemy with B/A moves. "WHAT!? I went through all the trouble of super-comboing 
 his butt onto the other side of the screen, just to pull off a jutsu that takes forever to charge, 
 and then I lose the mini-game NOOOOO!!!" Unfortunatly, yes.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  So all in all, I gave this game a 5.0/10.0. A little harsh says you? Perhaps says I. But I happen 
 to be a huge fan of the anime, and this game came nowhere close to living up to my expectations 
 of the 2nd next-gen XBOX 360 Naruto game. Maybe, Ubisoft thought that there was no need to add 
 way cooler things to this game then to Rise of Ninja. Maybe, they thought people would just buy 
 and play it because Naruto is a popular franchise in the states now. Maybe, I just happen to have 
 a roommate with a PS3 who let me play Cyber Connect's new game, Naruto Ultimate Ninja Storm, which 
 was only about 1,000,000 times more fun and entertaining. In any case, I did not like this game, 
 and as someone reviewing this game, let me just finish by saying there ARE better Naruto Games 
 out there... ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fanboy4Hire
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  The good: The combat, the roster, the boss battles and cutscenes, graphics
  
  The bad: The pacing, ho-hum minigames, the overuse of the  
 gameplay element, Same infinite bandit enemies from the previous installment
  
  The ugly: TOO MANY fetch missions, confusing map design
  
  Verdict: Overall, this game is worth 
 a weekend rental, only because of the combat and roster. The combo system and jutsus keep it interesting. 
 Also, you get the chance to play as multiple characters. The storyline is broken up to the point 
 where no momentum happens. Unfortunately, actual storyline play last about 2 hours. The rest of 
 the time is spent in the woods fighting "Bandit Boss" and "Jonin Ninja". In future installments, 
 I would like to see some effort put into enemy variations. This game had potential to be great, 
 but the mission layout kills any efforts made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonelogan87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  Narato Broken Bond is an action-adventure-platformer. The action and fighting is solid and using 
 jitsu is fun. Pulling off special attack's are rewarded with badass beatdowns that never really 
 get old. This is NOT a DBZ game, YES!!! I say this because the fights in DBZ games are always cheap. 
 NBB's fighting is fast paced and always enjoyable the special techniques are astownending and never 
 leave either players feeling helpless. The graphics and enviroment look beatiful. Sometimes, however, 
 the chacter models do not. The platforming is fun and intergrates almost every single chacters 
 jitso techniques into the gameplay. Though hand techniques can be annoying and difficult. Also 
 the hand techniques you HAVE to learn can be straight-up annoying and the platforming is (sometimes) 
 glitchy and ridiculous. All-in-all NBB is a fun action packed addition to the anime lovers of the 
 series you need to pick up :] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saiyankakaroto
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  Ok i got both naruto ninja storm and broken bond, i already finish ninja storm, im only half way 
 trough broken bond, and it already beat nuns in my opinion
  
  Story 10
  i love the cutscense with the game engine they are beautiful and the game has TONS of cool cutscense, the 
 story is told perfectly, even though ive already seen the anime, it really gives you the feeling 
 that you are playing the anime
  
  Gameplay 10
  I love the game mecanics, you got a lot of cool combos, the jutsus are great, i really like the way 
 you use your jutsus, the missions are really fun, sometimes you have team members and their jutsus 
 are necesary to get trough the game its really cool, you can switch between team members, both the 
 adeventure and fighting ARE AMAZING
  
  Graphics 9
  the graphics are awesome, they are not perfect, nuns graphics are exactly like the anime actually 
 even better, but bb graphics are incredible, the only bad thing about the graphics, is that the character 
 faces look a little weird, but its not a big deal
  
  music/sound 10
  the music is great cause is the original naruto anime music wich i love.
  the voices are great 
 i cant speak for the english voices, the game has both dubbs, im playing with the japanese voices 
 with subs, and the acting is perfect love it
  
  online/multiplayer 10
  im still halfway trough the story but you have coperative play online, and there are a lot of cool 
 online modes
  
  BB VS NUNS
  as i said i got both, for me nuns is ok, but the only good thing about the game are the graphics, the 
 story mode is BORING, nuns is like watching the anime well just the fights without the story, it 
 looks pretty and plays simple, all flash no substance
  
  BB on the other hand doesnt look as good graphically, it still looks amazing and it is not like 
 watching the anime it is like PLAYING THE ANIME, LIVING THE ANIME, the story is great, the adventure 
 is incredible, the fighting is deep and entertaining, the game has a lot of interactivity
  
  Overall
  i just finished nuns cause i had already pay for it, it was boring, fights were sometimes 
 fun... thats it
  
  i just bought broken bond, i cant stop playing, i dont know how long it is but i think im in the 
 middle of the story, without collecting anything, i think nuns and bb might take the same time to 
 finish, but bb is for story and content nuns is for loading times, also bb has online so it has A 
 LOT OF REPLAY VALUE, and the story is so fun you will want to play it again sometime, i know i would 
 lol
  BROKEN BOND IS THE BEST NARUTO GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED
  
  IF YOU LIKE NARUTO BUY THE GAME NOW, IF YOU DONT LIKE NARUTO AND LIKE ADVENTURE GAMES BUY IT, IF 
 YOU HATE NARUTO Y ARE YOU READING THIS? 
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
