-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Naruto: Rise of a Ninja
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/naruto/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 City of Konoha is awesomely fun to explore.
 Nice contrast between cartoony characters and more-realistic environments.
 Jutsu abilities make standard fighting-game action more interesting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Jarring transitions between 2D cutscenes and 3D gameplay.
 Story feels short and doesn't quite convey the scope of the events.
 Lots of interesting gameplay ideas, few of which are fleshed out enough.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 30, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 2,223 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 30, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite certain underdeveloped elements, this is the most ambitious and accessible Naruto game yet. 
 

  For the number of games based on the wildly popular Naruto anime and manga series over the past 
 few years, none have made much of a concerted effort to appeal to players outside of the admittedly 
 large and well-established fan base, particularly to potential fans in the US. Given that most 
 Naruto games rely on somewhat threadbare genre staples such as one-on-one fighters and beat-'em-ups, 
 there has been for the most part little appeal outside of the license. Ubisoft's Naruto: Rise of 
 a Ninja for the Xbox 360 distinguishes itself from its predecessors in a number of ways. It's the 
 first Naruto game developed outside of Japan, and it attempts to approach the source material in 
 a way that would make it digestible for Naruto neophytes. Rise of a Ninja also aims for a much 
 larger scope, with a detailed realization of Naruto's hometown of Konoha and a number of distinct 
 gameplay elements. As much fun as it is to use Naruto's developing ninja abilities to explore the 
 city, the game spreads itself a little thin in parts.  

           Actual scenes from the anime are often used to move the story along.      

  If this 
 really is your first exposure to Naruto, don't worry. Rise of a Ninja wisely starts at the very 
 beginning, jumping right into a crazy world of magical ninjas to establish young Naruto's fate 
 as the vessel for a nine-tailed fox demon. The story in Rise of a Ninja is based on the US version 
 of the Naruto anime series, and it covers the events that take place over the course of the first 
 80 episodes, from Naruto's initial graduation from the ninja academy through the end of the Chunin 
 exams. Granted, it's a highly abridged version, but for most of the story it does a smart job of 
 providing enough exposition that you needn't have watched all 80 episodes to follow what's going 
 on. However, at a certain point during the Chunin exams, it kind of falls apart; characters appear 
 without much explanation and disappear just as quickly.  

  To tell the story, the game relies almost entirely on actual clips from the show, which look sharp 
 and lend the game a certain air of authenticity. Nevertheless, the transitions between the 3D game 
 engine and the 2D animated cutscenes can be jarring, and the emotive and dynamic qualities of the 
 2D animation really put into stark relief how stiff the in-engine dialog sequences look. The biggest 
 knock against the narrative is its relative brevity. For a story that took nearly 30 hours of TV 
 time to tell, you can burn through the main story elements in Rise of a Ninja in less than 6 hours. 
 It ultimately doesn't feel as epic as it ought to, despite all the changes that Naruto goes through. 

  At the start of the game, Naruto handles like a pretty standard third-person platforming hero, 
 though he gains a number of unique abilities, including the ability to double jump and sprint at 
 high speeds. Two major concepts in Naruto are chakra, a kind of  
 and jutsu, which are special abilities that ninjas can activate by tapping into their chakra with 
 a series of intricate hand gestures. There are three significant types of jutsu that Naruto learns 
 over the course of the game -- shadow clone jutsu, sexy jutsu, and chakra concentration -- which you'll 
 activate by holding the left trigger and inputting a series of commands with both analog sticks. 
 It's a system that doesn't get too complicated, but it does a fantastic job of evoking the jutsu 
 hand gestures. Shadow clone jutsu is good for busting down barriers that block your path, whereas 
 sexy jutsu can debilitate certain pervy characters you encounter. Chakra concentration is probably 
 the most useful jutsu because it can be used to run straight up walls (giving you access to otherwise 
 unreachable areas) , and later on, letting you walk on water.  

           Exploring Konoha is some of the most fun you'll have in Rise of a Ninja.      

  You'll 
 spend the majority of your time in Naruto: Rise of a Ninja within the city of Konoha, which serves 
 both as a hub for taking on missions, as well as a bit of a playground for Naruto. Konoha is, without 
 question, the single most impressive aspect of the game. The city is large and has a very organic 
 feel to it, with lots of narrow alleyways, serpentine paths, and multiple levels of rooftops to 
 traverse. Although all of the characters in Rise of a Ninja are cel-shaded, the environments aim 
 for a greater level of realism and more muted colors, which creates a contrast that ably recalls 
 the feel of the source material. Save for the dialogue sequences, which are plagued by a lack of 
 fine-character details such as mouths that animate along with the dialogue, this is generally a 
 really sharp and stylish-looking game.     

  The game encourages exploration of Konoha through a number of different ways. You'll find coins 
 hidden throughout that can be used to purchase various character upgrades for shops in town. There 
 are also a number of missions you can take on outside of the main story that you'll pick up from 
 different characters scattered throughout Konoha. You'll deliver hot ramen to hungry customers, 
 play hide-and-seek with young Konohamaru, and take on a series of checkpoint races. Though these 
 side missions certainly become more challenging as the game progresses, there aren't really that 
 many different types of activities, and the activities themselves don't really change.  

           Once you get out of town, the world stops feeling quite as natural.      

  As organic 
 as Konoha feels, that feeling quickly dissipates whenever you venture outside the city walls. You'll 
 head to bandit hideouts, ancient temples, boggy swamps, and a fogged-in, half-finished bridge, 
 all of which feature narrow paths and obstructions that make them feel more like obstacle courses 
 than actual places. Furthermore, the mission structures are such that you'll end up running through 
 these same stretches over and over again. There are a few locations that require you to travel 
 there by leaping across a series of tree branches while trying to avoid projectiles and obstacles. 
 There's kind of a rhythmic element to this, given that you have to tap the A button as you approach 
 each branch to charge up your next jump; a series of clean jumps will send you flying up to a higher 
 level of tree branches, where the timing is more challenging but you reach your destination more 
 quickly. It's a cool concept that doesn't take long to master, but once you've got the rhythms 
 down and learn how to anticipate your next jump, it loses much of its charm.  

  Most of the game plays from a standard third-person perspective, but whenever the situation calls 
 for you to fight an opponent, Rise of a Ninja cuts away to a straight-up fighting game. The action 
 here tends to favor familiarity and simplicity, though the way your jutsu abilities can be used 
 during a fight creates a unique dynamic. It takes time to charge up your jutsu, and your enemy 
 can cancel out the process with an attack, which makes it all but necessary for you to knock your 
 opponent to the ground to buy the time you need to trigger your jutsu. Although you can use all 
 three types of jutsu in combat, the shadow clone jutsu is the only one that's directly offensive, 
 a fact that makes it a fixture of virtually every fight. Once activated, the shadow clone jutsu 
 turns into a kind of minigame where you hit a series of face buttons at the start of the attack, 
 and then repeat that sequence at specific points during its execution. It's a pretty awesome process 
 to watch, with multiple power levels that produce lengthier, more damaging attacks, though you'll 
 do it so often that you'll end up seeing the same animation sequences repeatedly.  

           Fighting proves more fun outside of the single-player game.      

  You'll do plenty 
 of fighting in Rise of a Ninja, occasionally against significant characters from the show. However, 
 more often than not you'll be fighting the same handful of nameless bandits and ninjas that occupy 
 the areas outside Konoha, which isn't nearly as much fun. This fighting-game core is the basis 
 for the multiplayer modes in Rise of a Ninja, and the combat is more engaging in this context. 
 You can play as 10 other major characters, each with unique fighting styles and jutsu abilities, 
 which in turn come with their own unique minigame processes. You can play against the game or another 
 live opponent locally, and there's also Xbox Live support. In addition to a standard quick match, 
 the online mode features an interesting ranked-match tournament called the Forest of Death Exam. 
 Here, you have to fight your way through a series of live opponents, and you complete the exam 
 when you're able to win six fights in a row.  

  Just about everything you do in Rise of a Ninja is pretty cool for a while, and the game's rendition 
 of Konoha is downright impressive, but many of the secondary gameplay elements could've stood to 
 be more fleshed-out. Still, Rise of a Ninja is a no-brainer for fans, and its relatively unique 
 blend of open-world exploration, platforming, and fighting-game mechanics will lend it a certain 
 appeal to Naruto first-timers as well.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (159 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Hayabusa-Chaff
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 3:37 am PT
Review:  Ive played a few naruto games in the past, and while im a fan of the manga and anime, and this 
 game is, as previously stated, suprisingly good.
  
  The main adventure will see you romp through Naruto's graet adventures from episode 1-80 ( i think) . 
 The main quest will see your explore leaf city on foot as naruto while also incorporating a fighting 
 mode that will occur whenever you come into contact with an enemy.
  
  This is how all martial-arts Shonen type anime games should be designed. an open world that you 
 can explore and run through, and then a fighting mode that brings the action youve come to love 
 into the one package. The only down sides to the main adventure in rise of a ninja is that you 
 can only play as naruto, and some set peices that try to follow the anime cant be strung out efficiently 
 because you cant play as the other characters. Also Naruto will be given pesky side quests by annoying 
 villages such as 'save my husband' or 'collect some coins for me'.
  
  The fighting is extremley accessable and really fun even if it is simple. One of the greater parts 
 is the ability to perform jutsus, easy to learn combos that active a mini game or quick time sequence 
 in which you have to win in order to give damage to your opponents. unlike another anime fighter 
 on the 360 *cough DBZ burst limit cough* it has the feature of downloadable characters and japanese 
 voice acting as DLC on Xbox live. 
  Naruto fights a lot of people through this mode in the main quest, none more so that bandits, that 
 show up everywhere and outrank other characters in terms of popularity by about 80%.
  
  The sound is good, and while i am a fan of English voice acting in animes, Narutos cast isnt the 
 best ive heard but its still not bad. background music works well enough.
  
  The graphics are good, and while they dont represent 2D animations, theyre still attrative and 
 easy on the eyes
  
  Naruto rise of a ninja, great game, worthy of any naruto and anime fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcrafiused
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 4:57 pm PT
Review:  For my Video Review, go to, http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=d4SHcqz8D44
  
  Ah, Naruto, the story of a young boy who can't shut the hell up, good stuff..., Ubisoft claims 
 Naruto ROAN is the first great Naruto game, and in my honest opinion, its good, not great, but 
 its getting there.
  
  The story of Naruto ROAN is that of one that follows the orange ninja around, through the first 
 80 or so episodes of the american version of the anime series, its nothing fans haven't seen before, 
 and more likely than not, people will already know the story going into it, and as thus, its not 
 the highlight of the game.
  
  The gameplay of Naruto ROAN is interesting, for it contains two elements, a platformer, and a fighting 
 game, which is cool and everything, but the execution on both is a hit and miss situation. 
  The platforming works well, sometimes, at times the controls felt loose, or Naruto wouldn't move 
 the way you wanted him too, which could be frustrating, especially during the ninja races. The 
 fighting game mechanic is very simple, and very unbalanced, you won't notice the balance issues 
 TO much during the single player, but it becomes apparent during online play, in which everyone 
 is exploiting every cheap tactic in the game, and with no way to justify, or remedy this, fights 
 are often non enjoyable, at least in the online component. The combat as I said is very simple, 
 you have two attack buttons, you can throw, guard, use ninjutsu, or throw kunai, its all very simple 
 and easy to execute. On a whole gameplay isn't bad, it just needs some tweaking.
  
  The graphics of Naruto ROAN look nice, mostly, I found backgrounds to look pretty good, they could 
 certainly look better, but they were okay, and you really got a feel of what the leaf village would 
 look like in 3D. Character models looked pretty good, with the exception of they're often horrifying 
 faces.
  
  Sound design was lack luster, all the music tracks were taken straight from the show, and the voice 
 acting was over the top and pretty bad, like the show, luckily there is an option for japanese 
 voice over.
  
  Overall, while I didn't feel Naruto ROAN was a great Naruto game, I did find it to be a fairly 
 fun Naruto game, and its my favorite thus far, so that's saying something I guess, so I'm going 
 to give Naruto: Rise of a Ninja a 7.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  an ok game with its good moments but I dont know how well it fallows the naruto storyline it just 
 seems like the game is missing a big chunck The ending was pretty impressive if they had used that 
 kind of creativity on the whole game and maybe lengthed it a bit they would have a real solid naruto 
 title the art direction in the game is great and fun to look at but I cant help but notice the 
 game is flawed to some degree first of all there are to many load screens and not enough area in 
 a game like this all of the consecutive areas should be tagged together and there should be more 
 veriety in the terrain fitting a ninja game one thing I thought the game did well was integrating 
 the fight mode with the adventure mode but it got annoying sometimes they need a smoother quicker 
 transitions of the two modes and more depth in the fight system overall more combo's and jutsu 
 that would make things more interesting I think the sequel will be better as long as they improve 
 on some key features in the game and make it alot longer with more missons 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acid_Spitz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  When I first popped in this game, I was hoping I wouldn't confront a series of repetitive tasks 
 that drags the entire game... As soon as the game started I was having a really fun time running 
 around and jumping off buildings. The graphic style of animation is clean and has beautiful artwork 
 on the 360. Easy on the eyes considering it's animation basically. When you first start out, everyone 
 in the village is against you. There's a unique system of doing quests to make individual members 
 of the community gain a higher respect of you. This definitely made me wanna complete all the quests 
 that there were to offer. Though the side quests are very repetitive (i. e. ninja races, hide and 
 seek, etc.) They do offer a slight amusement to switch things up from the normal storyline. The 
 controls are fantastic and utilize the analog stick that only a few other games have done. For 
 the super attacks (aka Jutsus) you have to flick the analog sticks in a series of directions to 
 initiate your super attack; which then cuts to a sequence and then it's a guessing game of buttons 
 which pit both users against each other in a Resident evil boss style fashion. The storyline follows 
 directly from the show so if you've seen the anime be prepared to know what's going to happen next... 
 The game does have a few drawbacks, considering you can beat it in about 13 hours while doing every 
 single side quest. The side quests become hated in the last hours as your working hard to complete 
 that last ramen delivery to get the delivery boy achievement. In online play, you can play versus 
 matches against another Live member or play the Forest Of Death exam. In this mode you have to 
 defeat 7 players on Live in a tournament without losing to gain your rank as chunin, etc. The online 
 play is pretty competitive so expect to play it a good bit. The online tracking system of points 
 is rather a disappointment though. I wish it displayed a plain win/loss style that enables you 
 to track your progress instead of the points earned each match. This game has a lot to offer and 
 shows true promise for future titles in the series. If you're a fan of fighters or the anime you 
 must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keritio
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  The game is great! I like how you can adventure around the leaf village and head straight for battle. 
 There is somethings i hate... There's not enough characters and most characters have the same moves, 
 not to mention the annoyance of people using the same moves to win. The game is missing some things 
 and feel a little broken, depending on your exploring skills you will have hours of trying to find 
 out where to go and constantly getting suprise attacked. The beginning is boring so on first impression 
 you will probably get bored of it, just keep playing and you will enjoy the game.
  
  Overall a game to rent.
  Overall a game to rent.
  Overall a game to rent.
  Overall a game 
 to rent.
  Overall a game to rent.
  Overall a game to rent.
  Overall a game to rent.
  Overall a game to rent.
  Overall a game to rent.
  Overall a game to rent.
  Overall a game 
 to rent.
  Overall a game to rent.
  Overall a game to rent.
  Overall a game to rent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megaman1218
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Okay to start off, the good.
  
  First of all, I think that Ubisoft really nailed the jutsu hand signs as best as they could. It 
 covers most of the story. The game honestly caught me after sprint mode. At first when I got the 
 game I just thought that Naruto didn't run fast enough. I'm glad that they had the sprint feature 
 after the mist level. And that's about it for the good.
  
  Now, the bad..
  
  Okay.. well, lets think. The glitches really got to me, and the limited time to walk on water? 
 Bleh.. The storyline was relatively short, and the cut scenes could have been a lot better. The 
 voice acting was horrible. And I mean HORRIBLE! That really effected how I played the game. Another 
 thing, the enemies you fought. It was bandit after bandit after bandit after bandit! They were 
 all the same and it really didn't stick to the storyline!
  
  I really thought it could have been better, but due to the laziness in this game, I really didn't 
 like it as much as I expected. It's still a good game, and I would recommend trying it.
  
  Peace out,
  Mega 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EstebanPiecrust
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  I have to say, I bought this game for two reasons. Intrigue and it was under 10. You may have 
 guessed that I'm not a Naruto fan, but I won't go into why that is as this is about the game, of 
 which I was pleasantly suprised with.
  
  Let me start by saying that you don't need to know Naruto to play this game (which is lucky for 
 me) , as the game plays through the Naruto story covering the first 80 episodes. I have read various 
 reviews saying that this game is not likeable unless you like Naruto, but personally the problem 
 I always had with both Dragonball Z and Naruto was that you could sum up the plot of every episode 
 in one sentence (Goku charges up to 1 million points, Naruto summons a giant frog) , I mean let's 
 face it, each episode has a couple of cool action sequences followed by other characters needlessly 
 summarising the sitiuation and that's where this game improves on that. There's no explaining, 
 just doing and the story doesn't suffer for it. Sure we're probably missing out on some things, 
 but you can get the gist of it from playing the game.
  
  Now the gameplay is a mish mash of different gaming elements, you have a well executed Jak-style 
 sandbox city where you can partake in various mini games, you develop your character as if it were 
 an RPG and the combat much like RPGs involve random encounters but are in the form of a fighting 
 game. This kind of sounds like they're trying to satisfy everyone and that it would easily confuse 
 itself and become unplayable, but strangely enough, it works! So let's look at each one seperately 
 and see why.
  
  Let's start with exploring Konoha village. It's your main base in the game and probably the place 
 where you'll spend most of your time. It's an open city which you're free to explore and undertake 
 various mini-games such as street races, hide and seek and Ramen delivery. Every mini game has 
 a simple to play control system, have varying degrees of difficulty and are all very addictive, 
 each one helping to improve your character and make money to spend in the various shops around 
 Konoha, it is very easy to waste hours exploring every nook and cranny of this well rendered environment. 
 As I mentioned before these mini-games help to improve your character, whether it's skill points 
 to develop combos and abilities, money for scrolls to enhance Naruto in combat or building your 
 health and chakra metres, it's all pretty basic stuff by gaming standards today. The beat'em up 
 style battle system can be a bit overwhelming at first and the combo system feels a little unresponsive 
 at times and can even feel a little cheap, but the hand sign addition for Jutsu attacks is very 
 well implemented and very imaginative and perks up what is in essence a rather stale combat system.
 
  
  The graphics in the game capture the series well and the environments look amazing, it makes it 
 hard to batter this game down for being a rather mediocre TV series and despite the rather testing 
 battle system, it's hard not to find something to like about this game, the one draw back is that 
 this game wreaks of setting up the same game as a sequel, so expect to see little improvement game 
 wise when the sequel comes out -- which is today in the UK -- that said, does it really need to 
 be changed that much? I mean the purpose is to tell the story, so if they've got a system that 
 they feel works, why not? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: froderick2298
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I recently bought this game because I am a big fan of the Naruto world and I wanted to get this 
 before I bought Naruto: The Broken Bond. From the get go I liked the game, I enjoyed the "cutscenes" 
 that were clips from the anime and the fact that the city of Konoha had an open feel with a minimap 
 that was slightly reminiscent of the Grand Theft Auto series. There were some minor/major aspects 
 of the game that caught my attention as poor quality. First and most obvious is that the characters 
 mouths don't move... That's a creepy thing to watch. The other had to be the repetition of some 
 fights. Whenever you fight a bandit, you get one of three opponents: Bandit, Bandit Lieutenant, 
 and Bandit Boss. Their appearance gets old kinda fast but it's not really that bad. On the upside 
 I have to say the combat is challenging yet incredibly fun and the gameplay is terrific. It's comical, 
 without the total cheesiness you see in a lot of anime-style games. Overall this is a great game 
 and I highly recommend picking it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffinboy846
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  There have been many Naruto games, in all shapes and sizes (RPG's, Fighting, Action Adventure,) 
 and all of them have been OK ('cept for Ultimate Ninja 2 and 3, Clash of Ninja Revolution 1 and 
 2,) , but, does this one break the curse of bad Naruto games?
  The story, is nothing new. It follows the beginning when the Fourth Hokage seals the Nine-Tailed 
 Fox sprit inside baby Naruto. 12 years later, Naruto wants to become Hokage. (Sorry for the bad 
 story summary.) If you watched the show, you know what happens. It goes up to the Tsunade arc, 
 and does not go into the Sasuke Retrieveal arc. The story is the same, typically found in other 
 Naruto games.
  There is some new gameplay, along with some old gameplay. You can roam around the Hidden Leaf Village, 
 find quests, make people happy, play through the main story, stuff like that. You can find gold 
 coins scattered around the villages, used for various purposes. If you fight, you'll see a different 
 system then the Ultimate Ninja and Clash of Ninja games. You'll use the X and Y buttons to fight, 
 and can use justu. Using justu causes damage, but you have to be quick, as the minigames are really 
 quick. Another gameplay element is running and jumping. You can now jump up buildings, run on them, 
 jump on crates, that stuff.
  Now, the problem. I do not know if it was the disc, or the actual game itself, but, some of the 
 village was floating, and there were pits of darkness around it. A small portion of the buildings 
 also disappeared. I was forced to restart my game. That was just odd.
  The graphics are good. Lighting is good, animation and models look good, that stuff. One things 
 annyoing is that some Naruto characters don't have the voice actors that play them on TV. I think 
 Iruka, Mizuki, Jiryia (however you spell his name) , and the Third Hokage have different actors.
 
  Overall, the game is good. Sorry for the spelling errors, yet again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSasuke
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  The game is amazing game , grafics are good. Shadows on charecters are jus amazing. Game play is 
 awesome three climbing and other abilities are jus like in anime :) .
  Fighting is allright in the game. I like that you must do hand seals befor preforming jutsu and 
 the minigames in jutsu are great.
  So the game is rated a little to small for this game i would give eight becous i would give nine 
 to broken bonds :) . the isint easy and isint difficult its just all right. So if anyone is thinkng 
 buy this game or not. I would say buy it to them all!!!! a adasd s das dsa sa dasd asd asd asd asd 
 asd asd asd asdasdasdasdas dsa dsad as dsad sa das dsa dasd ad as das das das dsad asd asd as das 
 dasd as da sdas dsa dsadasdas as dasd as das das das dasd asd asd asdasdsad ASD ASDAS DAS D AS 
 AS DASD AS as sad ad asd as as dsad asd as sorry for these i just didint know what to whrite more 
 :P! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killered3
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 17, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Naruto strikes the Xbox 360 with Rise of a Ninja, which tells the riveting tale of Naruto's journey 
 to becoming the number one ninja in his village. Graphically this game is good to look at. The 
 story mode is decent and then it sort of goes downhill from there. For one thing, the cast of voice 
 actors from the show didn't all make the cut, some like Iruka Sensei were replaced by mediocre 
 actors that sounded like they were just chosen off the streets.
  
  The gameplay is just a stupified version of an RPG game, causing the interaction level to be very 
 limited. Some elements of gameplay did show some promise, while others like the battle system just 
 seemed like a rip-off from the Gamecube's Clash of Ninja's. The cutscenes that were taken from 
 the show are a good idea though. So overall, I guess that I give this a 7 out of 10. COULD have 
 been better, but it showed alot of promise for a better sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Numb094
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  As a long time anime fan including a life-time enthusiast of Dragon Ball, YuYu Hakusho, Gundam 
 & Cowboy Bebop, occasionally it is nice to see other anime getting game treatment besides Dragon 
 Ball Z, especially when done in such a careful and pure fashion.
  
  I would personally put Rise of a Ninja's dedication team on par with the likes of [Dimps] who developed 
 Dragon Ball Z: Budokai 3, which was of the best in the latter Dragon Ball Z fighting series (if 
 we're referring to Japan's '90s games) , and what Rise of the Ninja does for anime-based games is 
 what Dragon Ball did for Japanimation. An intellectual property such as Dragon Ball was animated 
 and it was adored, and it influenced a popular story which was adapted to the platformer scene 
 so purely it never sways far from the original material that it just can't go wrong. 
  
  Naruto has a very evolving story which focuses in on its characters extremely diligently and what 
 you will notice about Rise of A Ninja is that UbiSoft does for Naruto what Atari or Dimps never 
 did for Dragon Ball Z. Which is, it delivered the material from story to character to environment 
 so purely it couldn't go wrong, and it wasn't -just- a fighter, it was a platformer as well.
  
  As much as I like Dragon Ball, its current series is getting duller by the title, while Naruto's 
 are getting far more positive treatment.
  
  
  MY RATING:
  
  Graphic: Captured the anime feel very well.
  
  Controls: I don't recall having any complaints.
 
  
  Gameplay/Story: Just as the series, its first 25 episodes are just awesome, and so are the characters. 
 The mini-games in this game can be extremely fun or intensely frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  First of all.. i liked this game, its fun, but the Mistakes are very easy to spot:
  
  first: Character models suck, they dont even open there mouths, thats very bad
  
  second: its 
 unbalanced in fighting, it doesnt have much depth too, but fun tho
  
  Third: its short
  
  Fourth: Lacks vaireity plus gets a lil repetitive with missions .
  
  5th: Needs more characters
 
  
  6th: Ppl at Online Spam with rock lee and Hokage ALOT! its a spam fest
  
  7th: Not much do really after you beat it (But XBL saves it)
  
  Let me state good parts:
  
 
  its VERY close to the anime in arcs and such
  
  exploring is fun really
  
  other than that, ROAN is actually cool, fighting is fun, but its VERY unbalanced, and ppl at online 
 spam. if your naruto fan your gonna LOVE IT! its good, but new comers might not enjoy it, but will 
 follow well with the Anime/story 
  
  all in all, its good, but has MAJOR flaws, but enjoyable nonetheless . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieSubject20
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  As im sure most of you know of the series Naruto but this game at the same time held a lot of aspects 
 of the game it just wasnt up to everyones standers. The game was fun and everything but had very 
 limited play (ex. you could only learn certian justus at a time, only go where they want you to, 
 and only play as naruto.) and if you going to go with just narto he is a free do what he wants 
 person all through the show and i dont think that the game really put his personallity in there 
 that much..... but all in all i game this game a 6.5 (ok) because it was ok for the most part but 
 for wanting maybe build a series and everything else off og this game is was a bad first stone 
 or building block. so thats what i really thought of the game but you could always go and check 
 out the game for yourself..... Later! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhh34c
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  I have watched this anime since it came out in japan and I do not like the american version due 
 to crappy voice actors and many scenes getting cut. I personally think the best part of the anime 
 is episodes 1 - 90 or so. 
  
  So going off of that you can imagine that I was very excited for this game. A good naruto game 
 that would go over the best part of the anime and they even got the original japanese voice actors 
 as well (although that is a separate download) . However for some reason they decided not to stick 
 directly to the story and cut many sections out. I am not sure why they did this but it definitely 
 effects the overall flow of the game. 
  
  Also the biggest mistake they made was separating the exploration from the fighting. This means 
 that when you are not in the 'fight mode' you cannot do any kind of attacks. This leads to a very 
 boring exploration that seems forced and contrived half the time. Also you never get surprised 
 or really feel like a kick ass ninja cause all you can do is run around.
  
  They did do several things very well though. The village of Kohona looks great and so do the graphics. 
 The music is perfect as well. The fighting mechanics and controls are okay and work for the most 
 part.
  
  Overall I am disappointed with this game. They were pretty close to making a great game but unfortunately 
 they made some poor game design decisions. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: itaichi-666
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  For the number of games based on the wildly popular Naruto anime and manga series over the past 
 few years, none have made much of a concerted effort to appeal to players outside of the admittedly 
 large and well-established fan base, particularly to potential fans in the US. Given that most 
 Naruto games rely on somewhat threadbare genre staples such as one-on-one fighters and beat-'em-ups, 
 there has been for the most part little appeal outside of the license. Ubisoft's Naruto: Rise of 
 a Ninja for the Xbox 360 distinguishes itself from its predecessors in a number of ways. It's the 
 first Naruto game developed outside of Japan, and it attempts to approach the source material in 
 a way that would make it digestible for Naruto neophytes. Rise of a Ninja also aims for a much 
 larger scope, with a detailed realization of Naruto's hometown of Konoha and a number of distinct 
 gameplay elements. As much fun as it is to use Naruto's developing ninja abilities to explore the 
 city, the game spreads itself a little thin in parts. 
  
  its so much more than that. this game goes far beyound words its just to good not to buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teammoney
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  If you are thinking about purchasing this game, this is not the game to buy, but rather rent. Rise 
 of a Ninja was a decent, OK game. I really like the graphics and animation style of the game. Also, 
 the gameplay was really interesting and fun because you can go around checking the village out. 
 In my case, the fighting part was ok and I like the moves they had, but you really have to get 
 the timing right to execute good, powerful moves like substitution jutsu or combos.
  
  Overall, the game was a lot of fun doing missions and going around completing tasks, but there 
 was a couple of things I was not really satisfied with. It was a lot a fun at the beginning, but 
 later, it got really boring and repetitive after fighting the same ninjas/bandits. If you did not 
 download the exclusive content, you would have problems with the game freezing up on you, where 
 I had that happen to me multiple times with or without the contents. In several forums that I saw 
 had these problems, too. 
  
  In the future, I'll think about purchasing/renting Naruto sequel, Broken Bond, once the reviews 
 and previews comes out and hopefully, it's gotten better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firehorse80
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I thought the game was good for what it is was worth. I didn't go in expecting a Dragon Ball Z 
 : Bukai experience, but did enjoy the game, which I'm still playing. The only problem I had over 
 all was the freakin camera. Why is it so hard to create a game with a camera that understands where 
 you are trying to go. I was constantly looking through trees/bushes while trying to run around. 
 This really hinders you from being able to complete some of the side quest like the races. I thought 
 the graphics were just right. Made me feel like I was watching the show in real time. I do hope 
 that the next game sets up the story line a little better. If you are not a Naruto fan, then you 
 might be a little lost on what's actually going on (fully) in this game. I also think it would be 
 a great addition is if you can play as different characters in and throughout the game. I can't 
 wait to see what the next game will be like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tatewaru
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok first things first, when i first saw this game at Blockbuster I did not have much hope after 
 the last few disasters of naruto games, but this one i will admit surprised me.
  
  it starts off rather slow... in a figurative sense since the first actual game play bit is a high 
 speed flight from the scene of a theft. after that it all slowly picks up the pace, the fights 
 are enjoyable and the characters all stay true to their nature. one thing though is that the japanese 
 voices should have been there right away but thats just my opinion. at some point the games fighting 
 will get repetitive and frustrating such as when you get put on a handicap but that can be passed 
 with some endurance on the players part.
  
  main story wise it stays true with a few added bits in to make it not go by too fast.
  
  gameplay 
 is usually fast paced especially during online and multiplayer matches.
  
  the world is highly detailed and konoha is designed rather well.
  
  all together a very fun 
 game and a must try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmonkey7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with the fighting: The fighting in this game is great. They made it really unique compared 
 to other naruto games. Its challenging and it utilizes the xbox 360 controller very well. The adventure 
 mode is also very good. The leaf village is filled with detail. Just roaming the leaf village feels 
 pretty fulfilling. If you are not interested in that there is still plenty of things to do. There 
 are some really fun missions... even though it starts to get kind of repetitive. If you are not 
 on a mission, you can race, play hide and seek, or deliver ramen, so this game keeps you busy. 
 Outside the leaf village, it does not have that same detail that makes the adventure mode so special, 
 but its not the worst they could have done. There is not much I can say to improve this game, but 
 they should add some more characters, give more detail outside of the leaf village, and make the 
 game a little longer. Overall its a great game and worth the money for a fan or a newcomer to the 
 naruto series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tavares17
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Thank god, they actually made a pretty decent Naruto Game. It wasn't all that differn't from the 
 other ones but you couldFree Roam" In the leaf village which was awesome! The fighting is still 
 the same but with cooler moves. Again the story was short but I didn't mind that this time because 
 It had good fighting. Again the story connected to the t. v Series very well and made people who 
 don't watch the show learn about it by just playing the game. I Spent a lot more time playing this 
 game then I've ever did playing any other Naruto game because this was fun! If Your a Naruto fan 
 and you do have an Xbox 360 Get this game you'll like it.. I'm sure of it unless your a picky guy. 
 But it had a good story although it was short, had great fighting, plenty of characters to choose 
 from, and connects well with the t. v series which is all good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ani_manga200
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This was a realy good game, and being on the 360, it had awsome graphics. 
  
  It had a great storyplot, with a lot of added misions, that never happened in the anime. It also 
 did a good job putting the gamer in to the Naruto world, id defined the hidden leaf vilage. 
  
  It's not just a good game for Naruto fans, it's a great game for any kinda gamer, because it's 
 not just Naruto, it's almost like a diferent game mixed with Naruto. I love the bonust games, like 
 the races, the help people misions, and the messing around the leaf village. 
  
  It's also cool how it's a RPG, mixed with a fighting game, it gives a hole new definition to the 
 meaning of Naruto. 
  
  The bad thing, is some of the voices, are not the same as they are in the anime, and the face close 
 ups are glitchy.
  
  I can't wait till the sequel to this game. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REGAMER-X
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed this game from a friend of mine a few days ago, and I'm really glad I did not buy it 
 myself. Being a fan of the anime in the past myself, I had some hope for this game. I gave the 
 game 2/5 stars because it seems it could have had a lot of potential but it fell flat. I was on 
 the breach of giving the game 1 to 1.5 stars, but I did enjoy the game the brief time I spent with 
 it. 
  
  Naruto: Rise of a Ninja is plagued with repetitive quests, enemies, and boring surroundings. I'll 
 get more in-depth with those things later on in my review. Naruto: Rise of a Ninja follows the 
 path of the television anime to about episode 80 or so. The game itself doesn't really have an 
 ending. I can't really give it bad points on that since the anime is long itself and still hasn't 
 ended. What I didn't like about the ending was it seems Ubisoft was told to finish up two-thirds 
 through the game's story. The game's missions are basically the anime/manga's story, and the quests 
 in the game are these side things to do for townsfolk for more health, money, and training points. 
 The story is seems very rushed through the game until it ends when you fight Gaara in his Sand 
 Demon form. After that another clip from the anime and that's it.
  
  It's not just the missions that bothered me, the quests are far worse than that. The quests are 
 given by different people in the village, but they're either 1 of 3 things. You have a chance at 
 getting a race quest, (which there's a race mini-game you can do in the city that also give heath 
 and money, so there's no point in race missions) collecting quest, (which is where you have to 
 collect 20 herbs usually which is spread close together in a random part of the forest around the 
 village) and finally a go and fight some bandits quests. You'd think being a great and respected 
 ninja village wouldn't have such a bandit problem so close to the village. 
  
  Each of these missions are quality tedious and you will draw tired of them quickly. Race missions, 
 like the mini-game races, have you running towards target circles with a time limit and running 
 through a circle causes the timer to reset and/or add time. The races are usually starting from 
 the village and heading into the forest, and sometimes having you get to a point in the forest 
 then starting there.
  
  Collecting missions are pretty boring, but you don't have the worry of running out of time at least. 
 Every one I was sent on I had to collect 20 herbs because someone was low on them. The herbs are 
 usually crammed together since there's 20 to collect in most times, small to medium sized areas. 
 After collecting the herbs you take them back to the client then gain your health bonus, cash, 
 and training points.
  
  The bandit based mission, or running into the forest, and fighting a few bandits as returning missions 
 are the most fun of the set, which isn't saying much. I'll admit I haven't done every single quest 
 yet, but I'm sure I'm 20/25 or so done, and every mission based on bandits has you running into 
 the forest, kill the spawning bandits which always spawn in the same area, fight them, kill them, 
 proceed. After reaching the desination you have a bandit "boss" fight, retrieve the item they stole 
 and take it back to the client and collect the spoils. 
  
  Overall the quest system is pretty tedious, and really could have used more variations on quests, 
 and more types of enemies. On that note, I'll not discuss the enemies in the game. When you first 
 start you run into all the bandits, the weird peon bandit with a headband over his nose (maybe 
 he's sick?) , the weird bandit lieutenant with a bandage wrap about a good portion of his head, 
 and finally the bandit boss, which doesn't resemble a boss at all. He looks like he should be one 
 of the peon bandits more than the boss. At least he doesn't have a bandage on his face, just some 
 stupid hat. You might think, "at least they made bandits looks different and have some voice acting" 
 until you see those same bandits pop up everywhere when you run into a stray bandit. Every bandit 
 boss fight is the same looking bandit, every random spawn bandit is either the same peon or the 
 same lieutenant. Besides recurring bandits you have recurring medical, chuunin, genin, and jounin 
 ninja. They, like the bandits, pop up out of nowhere in the forest out side the village and surrounding 
 areas. You'd think they could of put a little more time and effort into the little thing like that.
 
  
  One thing of the game I really enjoyed was the open village of Konoha. Modeled after the anime's 
 village, that's what the box says. I really enjoy freedom in games, where you an run and jump across 
 where ever. I got a Crackdown feel to the game and how you could climb buildings in the village, 
 and sprint across rooftops and collect hidden coins and such. That was a positive aspect of the 
 game that I really enjoyed.
  
  On to the combat system. This is of course a fighting-adventure game, not a role-playing game like 
 some say. The fighting system is same as most fighting games. There is the health bar, and the 
 bar for the chakra, and the common circles or emblems, whatever the game has to signify a win in 
 versus combat. The combat itself is pretty solid, having combos, and jutsus, that aren't to hard 
 to do or learn is always nice. I also like having to do the hand signs with the thumbsticks for 
 jutsus, that added a nice touch into the combat. 
  
  What I didn't like about the combat was that like some other fighters the idea of harder difficulty 
 is usually make the computer player dodge more and basically be more annoying. Besides that, there 
 were a few other pet peeves I had with the fighting system. A main one being the rage mode that 
 each character has. Basically if you're not any good, or just having a bad round you can activate 
 a rage mode when you've taken enough damage to fill the meter. This mode greatly increases damage 
 delt, but negates jutsus. Going into this mode can severly help the person using it by taking the 
 majority of the opponents health away in the brief 10 seconds or so you're in this mode. The thing 
 is, by the time you have the chance to use this the opponent's health is probably midway anyway, 
 so this is a sure fire way to finish the battle quickly, without needing really much skill at all, 
 just go into rage and swing away. While in this mode, the one having to defend this can block the 
 attacks, except for the power hits and if they're not properly blocking a sweep or any lower attack. 
 They can also decide to engage in combat and still be able to knock the one in rage back to waste 
 some time, which helps balance the system out, but not enough.
  
  The jutsus are pretty interesting in combat, since most have you going into a button combo mini-game, 
 or button mashing mini-game with the opposing player. If you don't press the button faster you 
 won't do any damage, or maybe even none at all. I myself never really liked that sort of thing 
 in the first place. Besides the button pressing jutsus you also have the timed button pressing 
 jutsus which can be a pain for the most part, and also the jutsus where you have to try to get 
 the target over the player and press A, which the player tries to dodge the target, which is more 
 my cup of tea. The jutsu system is decent, it works, but I think it could use some tweaks.
  
  Finally, we draw near the end of the review. Just two more things I want to talk about, which 
 is the audio, and graphics. The audio itself is pretty good, the quality is fine, and no really 
 any corny voices, but the audio system does have some flaws. I noticed the dubbed actors from the 
 anime scenes, and the dubbed actors from the in-game scenes and just when a main character in 
 the talks, the voice actors are different. Also, some of the voice actors do say some of the characters 
 name wrong, which is more of a pet peeve for me. Everyone who has watched Naruto, and played the 
 games knows that "Sakura" is not pronounced "Sakora".
  
  Graphics wise, Naruto: Rise of a Ninja does a good job there. The cell-shaded graphics for these 
 cartoon/anime games seems to work, and why fix something that's not broken? Another positive note 
 to the game, the graphics are really well done, and makes you feel like you're more into the anime 
 with the cell-shading and art style.
  
  Overall this game isn't horrible, but it's just not great either. If you're a fan of the Naruto 
 anime/manga, then I think you should check it out, and you shouldn't feel cheated. On the other 
 hand, if you're a casual/hardcore gamer, you'll feel cheated with the mediocre depth in the game. 
 I wouldn't recommend buying this unless you're really into Naruto, or you've played this game and 
 loved it. This review is just my opinions on the game, and I know everyone has their own and should 
 run with it. Thank you for reading my review and I hope it helped or informed you in some way. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  well, when I started to play the game, I was super excited. after awhile I felt like things were 
 getting a little repetitive. but not too much. sure, the game has a few glitches here and there, 
 but it's easily overlooked by the over expanding environment and freedom. the missions are actually 
 pretty fun to go through. my favorite is the tree jumping sequences. if you're a fan of the show 
 like me, you're gonna amazed when you go it. sure, the game isn't very long, and that's the major 
 flaw. it shows clips from the show, so you won't feel totally lost in the storyline. but, sometimes 
 the fights seem nearly impossible to beat. but you will get the hang of it sooner or late. the 
 bottom line is, this is a good game. great for any hardcore naruto fan. and I recommend it to all 
 you nerds out there. but if you're not a fan, I recommend you play a demo of the game, or maybe 
 just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laiho7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  I love my xbox and i love naruto so this game I REALLY LOVE everything about this game i loved 
 the combat was solid and pulling of jutsu was fun and different to previous naruto games the whole 
 expierence is different and can be played by any one to fully enjoy the game tho it is best if 
 you have wathced some naruto episodes as the game lets u live out the 1st 80, naruto fans will 
 love it as it lets u play as most of the main chars from the 1st 80 episodes ( orochimaru, Gaara, 
 zabuza and man others inculiding the obvious like Lee neji sakura and saskue not forgetting good 
 ol' naruto) even tho the justsu are pulled off in similar movements he animations and ways to strike 
 ur opponent with it vary well from character to character, has plenty of achievments to greatly 
 boost ur gamerscore and the multiplayer is good as there is online modes which let u fight 1v1 
 matches in straight battles or a ranked tournament style mode call the chunin exams ( yet again 
 from the series) if u xbl u can download additional chars like shikamaru and many more, this game 
 will let you live out your fav parts from the show in a free roaming enviroment which is huge and 
 full explorable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomWarrior69
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 1, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Naruto : Rise Of A Ninja is too short. There missions are repetitive. All you do is fight bandits 
 over and over again, and the same ones. The missions to progress in story mode are not bad, but could 
 have been much better. It starts from episode one and ends at episode eighty. It's sad how they 
 managed to do that with only like about ten major missions. After you beat the game, there is basically 
 nothing else to do besides race, hide - n - seek, deliver ramen, and complete other minor missions. 
 I am a huge fan of Naruto, so this game is still fun for me. This game is for children or TRUE Naruto 
 fans. This game becomes boring after you finish story mode, so be ready to be disappointed. Online 
 is pretty boring since it is just fighting against other people. This game should have a bigger 
 variety of missions and things to do. The second game looks amazing and much more fun. Being a 
 fan of the Naruto series, the games I have played of Naruto were all terrible. This one is better 
 than the ones I have played, but still could have been better. It would be awesome if you were able 
 to go to other villages beside The Land Of Waves. You are basically either, in The Land Of Waves, 
 Konoha, The Forest of Death, or minor places outside of the Leaf Village. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rikuide_Furame
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 28, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  As one of Japan's leading anime series, it's no surprise that there are plenty of Naruto games 
 out there. However none have managed to reach the heights of their television counterpart, instead 
 being classed as nothing better than mediocre. However whilst previous iterations of the life of 
 our spiky haired hero come in the form of rpgs and beat-'em-ups (particularly the latter) Rise 
 of a Ninja takes a more action/adventure approach to the series. It is by no means the fully realised 
 adaptation of the anime but it is a considerable step in the right direction.
  
  Developed and published by Ubisoft, Rise of a Ninja is Naruto's first outing
  on the Xbox 360 
 and will lead you through the first eighty episodes of the
  anime. In fact, not only is this Naruto's first outing on the 360, it is also
  the first time 
 that any Naruto game has been developed outside of Japan.
  
  STORY:
  
  As previously mentioned the story follows that of the anime and begins right
  from the beginning 
 (allowing newcomers to jump right in) . You play as Naruto Uzumaki, a twelve year old Ninja in training 
 who, one day, dreams of becoming Hokage (a title afforded to the most powerful Ninja in Naruto's 
 village of Konoha) . From birth, the spirit of a demon fox who tried to destroy Konoha was sealed 
 inside Naruto granting his access to incredible power, but which has lead his village to hate him. 
 It's your role during the game to change their minds and show just what Naruto is capable of.
 
  
  Most of the game's cutscenes are actually taken directly from the anime itself which will instantly 
 prove popular with fans of the series. However the delay between the anime cutscenes and those 
 that are in-game cutscenes is quite substantial, and can really weaken the atmosphere. Another 
 problem is that the story feels rushed. Whilst in the anime, entire episodes are dedicated to fleshing 
 out a particular character (allowing the viewer to better understand them) , the game really does 
 very little of this. One of the game's main antagonist's appears on the scene without so much as 
 an indication of his past. That being said, the storyline is still a great one, with a breathtaking 
 climax.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The game plays like your standing action/adventure title requiring you to
  dodge and cross all 
 manner of obstacles on your way to your destination. You talk to your masters as well as villagers 
 to receive quests that earn you
  money, health/chakra points as well as training points (allowing you to
  purchase new combos 
 and Jutsu for Naruto to use. As you explore the areas outside of Konoha you will bump into many 
 foes ranging from simple bandits to deadly Ninja. At this point the game will switch to a fighting 
 system similar to Dead Or Alive's.
  
  The adventure aspect of the game is pretty well done allowing you to jump all around Konoha and 
 many of the main areas from the anime. Their are just under fifty quests to complete as well as 
 numerous mini-games. Only concern here is that the non-story specific quests often feel tacked 
 on, like no imagination has gone into them. Also, whilst the sandbox style system allows you to 
 pick which missions you do when it can often make the story somewhat fragmented. 
  
  The fighting system is however really well balanced. You have a wide variety
  of combos at your 
 disposal, as well as Jutsu (powerful special techniques) .
  On top of this, should you taken enough of a beating in a fight, you will be
  allowed to enter 
 Rage Mode where your character transforms into a must more powerful form, with increased speed 
 and power as well as invulnerability for the duration of the Rage Mode.
  
  GRAPHICS/SOUND:
  
  The entire game is portrayed in cel-shaded graphics and it looks every bit
 
  just as good as the anime. Each area accurately reflects the anime, with each areas subtle tones 
 changing to convey its atmosphere. Konoha, itself, looks just beautiful with the blue clear skies 
 showing that this is a gentle place. In stark contrast you have the aptly named Forest of Death 
 which, needless to say, has much darker tones to reflect its sinister nature as well as the dangers 
 that await you inside. 
  
  The major problem is that, despite how good the areas look, the characters
  just don't match 
 up. Characters often lack expression and at certain points
  (particularly during fights) , their mouths will not even move to show that they
  are in fact 
 speaking.
  
  All the music in game is taken directly from the show, further lending a sense of authenticity 
 to the game. The voice actors for the show also perform for their video-game counterparts barring 
 a few minor exceptions.
  
  PLAY TIME/REPLAYABILITY:
  
  A gamer that is familiar with fighting games could complete this game in under six hours provided 
 that he/she stuck to the story missions. However their are even more side-quests to do for the 
 villagers as well as plenty of mini-games to take part in (such as delivering Ramen) . There is 
 also a fair amount to unlock such as weapons and scrolls to enhance your abilities. If you wanted 
 to complete every aspect of this game it could easily take you fifteen plus hours. However, there 
 is no real reason to replay the game other than for a trip down memory lane.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
  Naruto: Rise of a Ninja has taken its first few steps on the road to becoming
 
  the first true representation of the anime but it has along way to go. More
  quests must be added as well as making sure that they are interesting in
  themselves (i. e. no 
 tracking down scarves belonging to little girls) .
  Character animations must be improved dramatically and this is highlighted even more by the short 
 story leaving characters a mystery to the gamer.
  
  This will definitely be enjoyed by fans of the anime and even those who are not but Rise of a Ninja 
 seems more like a prelude than an actual original. If
  Ubisoft can fix the niggles and expand the story and characters then Rise of a Ninja's sequel, 
 Broken Bonds, should be a very interesting title indeed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy-war-god
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge Naruto fan. So when I heard it was coming out for the 360, I was drooling. It was the 
 best game I have ever played. I won't trade it in for anything. Even when I found out I could only 
 trade it in for $8 I wasn't discouraged. Just because one person says it isn't worth any doesn't 
 mean I'll believe it. I will not trade it in because the game play rocked, the graphics are good, 
 I did not really like how you had to collect coins, but that did not harm my review, the fighting 
 was not complicated, it made me thirst for more and more, it was just so addicting. If I could 
 get all the Naruto games, Manga, Anime, and Accessories, I would get them. I would suggest this 
 game to anybody, and I mean everybody. I liked everything about this game except the collecting 
 items part because I just think it is useless, of course I do not like collecting thing in games 
 at all. That is why I give Naruto: Rise of a ninja a 10.0. I will not change my mind until a better 
 game comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightblade252
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: rise of the ninja was in my view one of the best games ive played since Halo 3. This game 
 remined me alot of the DBZ series, but it had something the DBZ series didnt have. It had an adventure 
 mode where you can wonder around the leaf village (and other areas) talking to citizens, sparing 
 with friends, or deliver the occasional ramen or 2. But what really did it for me was the fighting. 
 The fighting is fast paced, and intense. they have a solution or counter attack to everything your 
 oppenent can throw at you. and the jutsu!? omg it was just amazing on how easy but powerful it 
 is to pull-off. Theres only 2 bad things about this game, 1. It was long but it couldve been way 
 longer. 2. Way to many collectibles and side missions.
  So heres the overall run down for the game
  
  Fighting: 9.5
  Freeplay mode: 8.5
  Dialogue/cutscenes:9.5
 
  Online play:7.0
  
  so over all it comes out to be like an 8.6 but a 8.5 will have to do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hohb
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 14, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  I played this game about one year ago.
  
  This graphics were simply the best since it's on a new-generation console, and the game still delivered 
 smooth gameplay, and clear pictures. 
  
  I was very excited about the game before release, but after played it for a while, things became 
 repetitive - with same style of play and pressing the same buttons I managed to beat the game. 
 And the storyline wasn't very good if players have already read the comic books.
  
  Limited number of comic characters I think was a big factor why I gave the game a 6.0. However, 
 XBOX Live did provide paid downloads for around two additional characters, which I think are a 
 scam since you have already paid big dollars and got the game. Compared with Playstation 2 version 
 of the game ( around 35 characters, or more) , this game offers around one-third of that number.
 
  
  I recommend people not to buy the game. If you want to play it, go rent or borrow from a friend. 
 Since this is my first review for Gamespot, I'm a novice.
  In the future I'll definitely provide more detailed reviews. Thanks for reading!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: holy_terr0r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game, and still do! Despite the fact I beat this in maybe 6 hours, Rise Of A Ninja 
 is unbelievably fun. 
  Rise Of A Ninja not only has a great storyline, as it shows the transformation of a very immature, 
 silly Naruto into a true Ninja, you get to watch all of it happen. You get to follow Naruto's footsteps 
 for the first 80 episodes of the TV show. 
  The combat system in Rise Of A Ninja is really fun, you can use either your fists and legs alone 
 to pound the crap out of enemies, or you can use a combination of jutsus and punching. Each battle 
 will be different, each anemy will have different strategies, it's your job to figure out what 
 they are and blow the living daylights out of your opponents. Also, when playing tournament mode 
 or online, you can choose out of many different characters to fight with, for example, Orochimaru. 
 
  The graphics in this game are great, very littles glitches you'll run into, and there's a lot to 
 do like the ramen delivery or hide-and-seek minigame. 
  I wasn't even a fan of Naruto, but now I am thanks to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucario-kid
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  Naruto: Rise of a Ninja tells the story of about the first 80 episodes of the extremely popular 
 anime.
  
  You take control of series hero Naruto Uzumaki and do all sorts of missions and mini-games from 
 the Naruto Universe.
  
  The graphics are surprisingly good for a Naruto game and everything in the whole of Konoha (Narutos 
 home town of which you can explore) looks natural and vibrant, outside the city walls is a vast 
 countryside full of old building and secrets to find, the outside levels are also more like platformers, 
 some reveiwers have criticised this however i think it is good because it adds a whole different 
 way of playing the game.
  
  When you are sent into a fight it automaticly goes into a fighting game style 1on1 matchup between 
 you add your oppenent, there is also a fight mode where you are able to pick the character you 
 want to play as out of a roster of 10 and then play as them in either an online mode (Which i don't 
 have) a tournement mode, or a single match mode.
  
  Overall Naruto: Rise of a Ninja is an enjoyble game and probably the best in the Naruto game franchise 
 yet! 9/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanCris
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  I think it was great the game play was good but not the best it could be the side missions was 
 ok but got boring fast when your out of the city or in the forest the fighting was fun but its 
 boring fighting the same people over and over agin but the fighting makes up for that fast fighting 
 strong punches running around and exploring is fun online battling is real fun too graphics are 
 ok until you get to the face they need to work harder on that but it is good the voices are realy 
 good sound like the voices of the show the sound is great the music realy go with what you are 
 doin the jumping off trees was realy fun the colors are realy good ubesoft did a real good job 
 on this game it would of been beeter if you can like fight in the city but the is a little to easy 
 but game is realy worth getting .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaku_Abumi118
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  I I have had Rise of a Ninja for some time, as it is the only Naruto game for the Xbox. When I 
 got it I was pleasantly surprised. First of all the games graphics are beautiful. The city of Konoha 
 is a very well designed and executed location. Outside the city is interesting but some of the 
 traps are over the top, but so is the anime at times.
  The fighting is good old fashioned button mashing. I generally find that I don't use jutsus in 
 combat but there are many players who probably do, I find them quite challenging to pull of so 
 I just beat up my opponents with Lee or Neji's Taijutus.
  Characters wise there are surprisingly few playable characters. The campaign can only be played 
 as Naruto but there are other characters you can play as in fight mode, yet as I said there were 
 disappointingly few. 
  One final thing I'll say about this game is that it is brilliant for getting people interested 
 in the series. My brother who refused to watch any anime now knows a majority of the characters 
 and knows almost as much about the series as I do, with only seeing a few episodes. 
  This is overall a nice fun fighting game that is great for fans of the show and equally good for 
 getting people into the show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sqareenixfan
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited for Rise of a Ninja. I'm a huge Naruto fan, and I thought this would finally 
 capture the feel of the series. Boy was I wrong. 
  
  Running around Konoha is interesting. This is the one part I felt they got right, as the whole 
 village really felt alive and accurate in it's presentation. The graphics are good too, and are 
 a good example of what the next generation can do with cell-shading (though it doesn't look quite 
 as good as the upcoming UN Storm) .
  
  Gameplay is, for lack of a better word, frustrating. It's not the running around and exploring 
 part, it's the combat. The AI is incredibly cheap, and never gives you the chance to use a jutsu. 
 To be fair, though, it's easy enough to cancel their jutsu too, which would be good if they gave 
 you a chance to hit them.
  
  Now, the real reason I rated it this low is because of the voice acting. For the love of God, download 
 the Japanese voices! I never got the chance to use them, as when I rented this I didn't have the 
 ability to access Live, but I'm sure they sound infinitely better than the horrible job the English 
 VA's did. People who criticize Naruto would agree with me here, saying that Naruto's English voice 
 is annoying, but that is not the case here. Team 7 sounds fine, but when Ebisu, Konohamaru, Moegi, 
 or the Third Hokage talked, I wanted to rip my ears off so they couldn't be violated anymore. Moegi 
 sounded like a huge, buff guy was told to do his best little girl impression and then recorded 
 it. Why didn't they just get the voice actors from the show? Why did they have to torture us like 
 this?
  
  Anyways, I'm not saying don't play the game. I say rent it and see what you think. Form your own 
 opinion. But like I said, do your ears a favor and download the Japanese voices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaintedSaint666
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Naruto is a japanese anime all about a hyper-active and troublesome young ninja called Naruto (Suprisingly) . 
 Naruto: Rise Of A Ninja gives you control of the young boy and lets you take him through the first 
 80 episodes of his adventure.
  
  Graphics.
  The graphics are a unique cel-shaded style. It captures the quirkiness of the anime beautifully 
 while still making itself visually stunning. The frame rate is solid, but that is because there 
 is never anthing really straining going on on-screen.
  
  Gameplay.
  The gameplay fuses RPG style free-roaming, platforming and Street Fighter style side view fighting, 
 reminiscent of Naruto's outings on the PS2. All of these are done relatively well. The one that 
 stands out for a Naruto game is the RPG free-roaming. You are given free roam around Konoha. It's 
 not as spontaneous as Liberty City nor as big as Cyrodiil but it captures the feel of Konoha. There 
 are various other locations such as Land Of Waves and a temple which has nothing to do with the 
 story.
  
  Sounds.
  English voice acting, need I say more?
  
  Multiplayer.
  The main ranked mode is Forest of Death. This works by the player picking a character and starts 
 at the 'Forest'. Win two matches against human opponents and you move into the preliminarys, win 
 three matches and your into the final. Lose a match and it's back to the bottom.
  
  Length.
  Hate to say it, but this game is short. You'll breeze through the main story in 10 hours 
 or less. Side quests and fight mode add some replay value.
  
  Overall, this game is essential for any Naruto fan, and it's very accessible to newcomers to the 
 series. However, essential it is? But worth 30 pounds? Try to 'Believe it', just try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Jutsus make fighting a lot more exciting; a big city to explore; scenes from the show 
 move the story along nicely; graphics look really nice; voice acting and music come from the original 
 show. 
  
  The Bad: Some things left out in the story might confuse new-comers; a couple of slow down moments; 
 may feel short for some; some village missions get a bit repetitive.
  
  Naruto, the hit anime series in America, has hit the video game scene a couple of times, most of 
 its attempts being pretty mediocre. Now, Naruto tries his luck on the Xbox 360. Has this ninja 
 worn out his welcome in the gaming universe, or does he have a couple of tricks left up his sleeve.
 
  
  You play as Naruto, a young ninja hiding a big secret. During the time that Naruto was born, a 
 giant fox demon began destroying the village hidden in the leaves. The only way to stop it, was 
 to seal it inside someone else. Naruto was chosen, and the fox demon was sealed inside his body. 
 He, however, is unaware of this, and has no idea why everyone in the village, besides his sensei, 
 dislikes him so much. Throughout the game, Naruto gains allies, learns about himself, and tries 
 to control the raging power locked inside of him.
  
  The game starts out just like the anime. Naruto has failed ninja school yet again, and with no 
 one to comfort him, he watches as everyone who passed is showered with praise. Failing ninja school 
 for Naruto is a very emotional experience. He wants to be the best ninja in the village and become 
 Hokage (The leader of a village) so that everyone will respect him. The game does a simply amazing 
 job of making you, Naruto, feel like crap. At the beginning, when you control Naruto, he'll walk 
 around with his hands in his pockets saying things like "Someday I'll become Hokage, and everyone 
 will respect me!", only to be given responses like, "My mom said I shouldn't talk to you" and, 
 "Get away from us!" by citizens. It's sad, mostly because Naruto is being treated horribly, yet 
 he has no idea why. However, if you do missions for people, or help someone with a chore, Naruto 
 will gain respect from that person, and in turn, they'll help point out side quests or where you're 
 supposed to go next. 
  
  The game's platforming elements are fairly typical, but what really separates Naruto: Rise of Ninja 
 from the pack is the jutsus. A jutsu is a special power invoked by hand signs. You can perform 
 different hand signs with the analog stick. This works extremely well, and makes performing jutsus 
 a very interesting experience. It actually feels like you're performing the hand signs at high 
 speeds after you get the hang of it. These jutsus can be used to climb walls, break through barriers, 
 and even walk on water.
  
  Jutsus aren't only used while platforming and navigating through the world. They're also used during 
 the game's interesting battle system. Whenever you run into an enemy, the game will enter a battle 
 mode type screen. Basically, in battle mode, you use regular attacks to continuously push your 
 opponent back. Once they're far enough away, you can perform a hand sign, invoking a jutsu. When 
 a jutsu is triggered during a battle, the attacker, and sometimes the defender, participate in 
 a small minigame. For example, during Naruto's Shadow Clone Jutsu, you have to hit buttons at the 
 exact time that they appear on the screen to land an attack, or else Naruto will miss or get counterattacked 
 by the enemy. The battle system has a surprising amount of depth, and the battles themselves are 
 fun and engaging.
  
  Now to the graphics. The game uses a sort of cell shaded look while trying to capture the feel 
 of the anime. Let's just say, the graphics score on both categories. The environments are extremely 
 detailed, as well as the characters. Everything looks absolutely awesome, which makes the battles 
 and platforming elements even more exciting.
  
  The music is great as well. Tracks from the show keep the game flowing at a great pace, and make 
 it feel almost exactly like the anime. The character voices are good too. If you watch the show, 
 you'll notice a particular character's voice sounds almost nothing like his in the anime, but other 
 than that, the game does a great job in the voice acting department. 
  
  The game's kind of short, but at the same time pretty long. If you take no time to look around 
 and find some hidden goods, then yes, it will be short. However, most will be compelled to explore, 
 adding to the game's longevity. There's also Xbox-Live battles that help to increase Rise of a 
 Ninja's length to some extent.
  
  Overall, Naruto: Rise of a Ninja is definitely the best Naruto game to date. BELIEVE IT!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boi97
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  Worth buying. For people who are getting to know Naruto, this is the game for u to start. But some 
 hard bosses. Good game. Adventurous. the 1st Naruto game that u can explore around Konoha and many 
 other places. And it lets u know what happens at the begining of the series Naruto. Its fun jumping 
 on building and fight Naruto's sensei. Good graphics but theres a number of glitches like running 
 through poles and people but i hate is when u accidentaly bump into people in high speed. The minigames 
 will get harder when u do more of it. And the kunais and scrolls and many other items are quite 
 expensive when u get on with the game. The best is to have a fight with bandits and other ninjas 
 and when u go rage, its the best! Punches damage from 10 increases to 30 in rage mode. The bad thing 
 is that the rage mode time is for a short period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashwyn16
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Ok Naruto Rise Of a Ninja.. 
  
  First off i would like to say i am a fan of anime and naruto is one of my favourite but with that 
 said there were several things that i wasnt happy about after completing so here is my review.
 
  
  Story:
  
  Well the story of naruto is hard to sum up becuase if you've seen the anime or even read the manga 
 you will know the series has many different '' STORY ARCS '' and the game covers 2 or 3 of them 
 over the span of the game which also covers the first 80 or so episodes of the anime.
  
  I'm now quickly just going to mention the ARCS which the game covers:
  
  Zabusa and Haku:
 
  
  This particular ARC for those who haven't seen any part of the Naruto anime series is proberly 
 what would be called an introduction ARC due to the fact that we're still getting to know the characters, 
 their backstories and their abillities. 
  
  This is also the first A to S ranked mission Naruto, Sakura and Sauke take with there Ninja sensai 
 Kakashi Hatake.
  
  Within the game Zabusa and Haku are well used characters becuase just like Gamespots review says, 
 the game uses actual cut-Scenes from the anime series and also the voice actors from both the horrible 
 english DUB and the japanese voice actors reprise there roles =D.
  
  Orochimaru:
  
  Within the game the Orochimaru ARC co-insides with the Chunnin exams ( Basically an exam/tournement 
 for Ninjas all over the land to fight eachother and become higher in rank ) .
  
  Within the anime and the game Orochimaru enters the chunnin exams for one main purpose and that 
 is basically to kill people and i guess kinda scout for people to recruit.
  E. G. sasuke ( The main reason sasuke was chosen as a possible target was becuase his particular 
 was whiped out and only a few remain, that and the fact that he posses the Sharingan a special 
 ability that only a few in the world posses) .
  
  Again within the game both kinda of voice actors reprise there roles in voiceing Orochimaru and 
 as far as actual Gameplay goes he's pretty good to use online.
  
  Garra:
  
  Garra in the game depending on your prefrences can go ethier 1 of 2 ways, you'll eithier like the 
 way he plays or you will hate it ( I myself didnt really like Garra in the game ) .
  
  Now again with mostly all of the games main cast Garra's voice actors for both the Jap version 
 and english DUB reprise their roles and actually Garra in the English Dub doesn't sound half bad.
 
  
  Garra is also the Final boss you fight in the game just like the anime up to around episode 80.
 
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  The game itself consists of two major gameplay modes: one-on-one fighting and RPG, where Konoha 
 serves as a main hub to access various missions players can go on. The main story mode alternates 
 between these two modes, and takes place from the beginning of the series to the end of the Invasion 
 of Konoha arc, with included sidequests. 
  It features gameplay similar to that of a 3D platformer, like jumping acrobatically from rooftop 
 to rooftop or racing through checkpoints, as well as having one-on-one brawls much like the Naruto: 
 Clash of Ninja series. Like with most Naruto games, it features cel-shaded graphics.
  
  I found the gameplay to have a simple pick up and play feel to it as combos are pretty easy to 
 pull off for the most part. I did also like how the RPG elements to the game were emplimented and 
 the fact that early on kakashi-sensai is extremely hard to beat.
  
  Oh and i almost forgot most characters apart from Sakura and Lee have their own unique type of 
 mini-game when a jutsu ( Special move ) is pulled off...
  
  For example if you are using Naruto and use his '' Shadow Clone '' a mini cut-scene entails in 
 wihch Naruto ceates '' copies '' of himself to help him fight, you, as Naruto will have to press 
 certain buttons when they appear otherwise the move fails or does leff damage.
  
  This new type of mini game i found a very good emplimention due to the fact that it keeps you on 
 your toes and gives the victim persay something to do, rather than just watch while he/she gets 
 their butt kicked.
  
  Side Quests and Stuff:
  
  
  Well as Naruto Rise of a Ninja lets you pretty much free roam in Konoha (Leaf village) you can 
 participate in many mini games such as:
  
  Hide and seek = a mini game where you have to find Konohammaru before the clock runs down
  
 
  Race = Where you race against the clock through check points and try to beat the clock as fast 
 as you can
  
  Side Quest = You can also talk to certain villages and ask if you can do a particular quest for 
 them which may involve fighting bandits and robbers or just going outside of the village and finding 
 herbs.
  
  Ramen = Basically this mini game is you being a devilery boy and bringing people ramen ( noodles) 
 before the clock runs out.
  
  For the most part these quests will appeal to both people who like that sort of thing and to Achievement 
 whores.
  
  Online: 
  
  The game also allows online versus multiplayer via Xbox Live, titled "The Forest of Death", enabling 
 you to play with your friends. You start off choosing a character, and defeating other opponents 
 to rank up and eventually gain points to complete the exam. If the player is defeated, they must 
 begin from the bottom of the table all over again, but the points are still kept.
  
  The online aspect itself feels just like the Darkness felt... abit tacked on, but still, i did 
 get some play time out of it.
  
  Just watch out for people using the same moves over and over again to finish you off, these would 
 most proberly be:
  
  knocking you down and to the other side of the arena
  
  Then using a jutsu and the highest setting ( there are three settings the higher the settting the 
 longer it takes to perform the jutsu, but the more damage it does if pulled off )
  
  And then REPEAT....
  
  
  Overall Naruto rise of a Ninja is a treat for all anime and Naruto 
 fans thanks to reprising voice actors, superb visuals and some replay value however the story mode 
 without side quests or anything like that can be completed within 6 hours and the game does have 
 alot of repeatitveness, thanks to you fighting ALOT of bandits (who all look the same obviously) .
 
  
  
  The Good:
  
  Great Visuals
  Japanese Voice acting 
  A Naruto game where the sharingan is implemented well
  easy for achievements
  
  The Bad:
 
  
  Short story 
  Some characters have weaker jutsus than others
  
  The Ugly:
  
  English DUB (exept Garra and maybe sasuke)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  My Opinion:
  Well if you ever a fan of the Anime and the Manga then this game is really for Naruto Fans. If 
 you follow the series and enjoy Naruto I would recommend to anyone who are interested in anime 
 and manga. I also like Naruto, the only thing I don't like the American one is that Naruto always 
 say Believe it!! it quite annoying after a while. But this game is quite fun but quite short.
 
  
  Story-line
  You followed 80 episodes of Naruto (Anime) , you will be watching some clips of each of the 80 episodes 
 of Naruto. You play as a young Ninja that nobody seems to care about. You feel that you need to 
 prove your self that you are worthy and that you work really hard knowing that you can make a difference. 
 So Naruto becomes a ninja in training becoming poweful ninja, proving himself that one day he will 
 be look up too.
  
  Game-Play
  The game is really enjoyable but sometimes the missions can be a bit frustrating. The missions 
 that you will receive and earn respect toward the villagers are quite good, but you have to make 
 sure every villagers are happy. This game is fast and you can able to beat it in a day or so. I 
 really like this game and it went pretty fast for me. I wish it was a bit longer and add more fun 
 to it as well. 
  
  Camera/Graphics
  The camera sometimes it hard to see when you turning or trying to look at something. If you are 
 trying to jump or climb the angle can be hard to see if you want to one particular area. The graphics 
 is in great it looks like the anime but more 3-D form. 
  
  Music
  The music in the game is really cool, it pretty much like the anime when you watch it. I like it 
 when they use in different part of the cut-scene as well.
  
  Difficulty of the game
  Sometimes the missions are bit annoying when you do the Romen Delivery or helping the villagers. 
 Even when you want to stun all the villager with your sexy jitsu it can be annoying to find every 
 one of them. Sometimes the moves can be a bit difficult when you try to defeat your oppoent. At 
 first it was easy then slowly it becomes harder. Also when you want to build your health and jitsu 
 you have to do missions as well so that you can able to fight.
  
  Last thought
  I have to say this game is fun but way to short, I really enjoy the anime series. If you are a 
 big fan it a buy, but if you are curious about Naruto then rent the game if you never saw the anime. 
 So far Naruto Rise of Ninja is quite fun something different that I played before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  I think this game is really fun, Narutos unique skills really show in this game and the none linear 
 gameplay gives you the chance to do some exploring in the Naruto world.
  
  The game takes you through the first 90 episodes, and show DVD quality anime clips of the first 
 90 episodes in the series of some memorable scenes.
  
  Naruto has a comical art of being a ninja, you will learn to run up trees, scale up walls, run across 
 water, make gigantic leaps from tree to tree, and you do most of this using the Jitsu which requires 
 delicate timing and is challenging but gives you a feeling of accomplishment afterwards.
  
  There is combat of course and some of the bosses can be very tough, especially when they use their 
 Jitsu and punishing moves. However all your memo clips restore after you lose to a boss a few times (memo 
 clips restore Naruto's health) and although the combat may seem easy at first against the weaker 
 enemies, eventually the enemies become tough and you need to know when to block, when to counter, when 
 to use special moves and Jitsu.
  
  You can also level up Narutos stats like in a RPG by gaining experience points through defeating 
 enemies and enemies respawn in certain places.
  
  You can use the experience points to learn new moves too.
  
  It's fun exploring the village 
 and Narutos ability to run up walls, slide across ropes, great jumping and climbing skills allow 
 Naruto to get into tight places and explore places many people will not get to see. And the village 
 is so big and detailed there is a lot to explore.
  
  The quests can involve defeating bad guys, retrieving items (sometimes you have to find where a woman 
 lost her handbag in the forest or fight past a gang of bandits to get something back that was stolen 
 from someone) and making it to a location within a time limit to prove yourself or stop bad guys 
 getting away.
  
  You can find the other characters from the show around the village and challenge them to a duel. Sensei 
 Kakashi Hatake is very tough and if you beat him you unlock an xbox 360 achievement.
  
  The games mixes 3D and 2D well, for certain gameplay segments you need to leap from tree to tree 
 in a 2D view but you must do it very fast. When Naruto runs you see the anime style affect of the 
 air moving past him and he runs so fast it's great to watch while still being fairly controllable. The 
 only thing I didn't like about the game was when you had to make it to a destination within a time 
 limit and the delicate timing for Jitsu mean't it was easy to mess up and the time limit was very 
 strict. Also when I wanted to step onto a rope I would miss it because of the bad camera (also when 
 I was under a time limit to get to a destination) But this only happened once in the game, the rest 
 of the game is really fun.
  
  The village has a lot of detail and the forest looks just like in the TV show.
  
  The main 
 quests will only take 5-8 hours to complete, but there is quite a few sidequests to do, and you can 
 have a lot of fun exploring and trying to get all the Xbox 360 achievements will take time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3AD-SH0T
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is all good. The Naruto seriese is okay and it can be pretty sweet, but some time it 
 can be kinda gay. In this game however, it's all awsome. There is only one thing i would change 
 about it and that is i would have mabey added a few more characters, because many important characters 
 were left out of the game. Even though they left out many characters they still based the game 
 on all the important parts of the show. The combat is awsome and it is really fun to run around 
 the "Hidden Leaf Village". There are plenty of missions to keep you occupied and even when you 
 beat the main missions there is still alot to do. Like do missions to get popular in the village. 
 And when you not in story mode you can battle angainst computers or other people in VS. mode. This 
 game is really fun and I deffinetly recomend it to every one. I just hope theres a second one to 
 come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ucanimurself
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit I bought this game new and sold it to buy a game and then rebought it. Sounds stupid, 
 and in a sense it really is but I like fighting games. 
  
  Story Mode- I know the naruto storyline so i pretty much skipped every movie scene. The story mode 
 has missions that may confuse players who have never watched naruto. The players can pretty much 
 guess that there were no thieves in the actual anime, even though I believe the creators added 
 these missions to show that in the t. v. show that naruto and the other ninja's had to do pointless 
 missions. Overall, the story was pretty good and the side quests are kind of entertaining. 
  
  Online-
  
  I think the forest of death is way too difficult. I've beat people in player 
 matches and when it comes to the forest of death i am just owned or get up to the third match and 
 then fight some cheap***. I am sick of it but I want to complete it. I find the levels to be way 
 too small for a fighting game and the teleporting technique (pressing B after taking damage) can 
 be a bit overused making the battle one sided. I mean it will eventually be that whoever is able 
 to teleport last wins. 
  
  Rage Mode (online) 
  
  Same thing, it just goes to whoever has the most health will pretty much win. I mean sure there 
 are rare instances where my generalization will back fire but most the time no. When a player uses 
 it before another, obviously the person who used it last will have the advantage. I mean this game 
 has good ideas but really the small levels kill the game and all the noob attacks.
  I had a person be gaara and all he did was chuck sand at me. If he is such a bad*** throw a punch. 
 There are a lot of aggravating people in the forest of death, which in my opinion completely ruin 
 the online gameplay. That is why i still find interest in doing all the side quests. 
  
  I say purchase this game if you like to play fighting games, be pissed off, and want a break from 
 shooters. Because it is a good game but the next one better be fixed and maybe have a ranking system 
 that actually has players verse each other with similar rankings, not making it a pro verse a beginner. 
 I hope DBZ burst limit is not like this. I know the levels are bigger due to the demos but people 
 are wuss' online. So maybe this ranking system I mentioned should be applied to other games like 
 GOW2 and COD4. 
  
  Anyway, I hope you found this review helpful. Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ISQ93
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best Naruto games out there. It has everything that a Naruto videogame is supposed 
 to have. The free roam is amazing because you can explore the Leaf Village and get Missions from 
 the Hokage. This is probably not the best ninja game but it does satisfy all Naruto fans that are 
 looking for a good game. The fighting mechanic is pretty good since the special moves are straight 
 from the anime and manga. If you are searching to buy a game that is inspired by a classic TV show 
 then this is the best and right one to pick. It is a good experience and you have to try it for 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snatte
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  So...
  Naruto rise of a ninja huh ? 
  yeah...
  
  Online
  anyway, this game is pretty much the best Naruto game yet created right ?
  right...
  so...
 
  does it deserve that entitlement ? perhaps...
  Eh who am i kidding, of course i really like this game, check out my gamertag (bassdarksilver) 
 and you'll notice i've even done all the achivements for this game (except for the downloadable 
 characters, and the seriously SICK "find every item in the game") so anyway, i pretty much love 
 it, and i pretty much hated it WHILE i loved it...
  i hated it becouse the fact that the online "forest of death exam" is so frekin difficult to clear 
 with every character if you don't play like a mega noob... but i'm happy to say i hardly played 
 more nooby then my opponent in any match and after like 100 hours online, i made it with every 
 character (Sasuke is my favorite) and i really need to say, that despite the fact that i considered 
 Neji to be the most impressive enemy, people out there really LOVE Rock Lee, i mean, seriously... 
 when i cleared it the first time (with sasuke) i met a Rock Lee dude in every single match... not 
 kidding, even though i wish i was...
  
  Single-Player
  anyway, enough about that...
  You see, what people who buy this is gonna be more interesting in, is 
  probably the story (single-player 
 mode) where you will only be able to play as Naruto, the game works pretty good for a licensed 
 game, it does have flaws, actually, kinda... alot of them, but dont get me wrong, it's still more 
 than playable.
  The major hitches would probably the REALLY not solid frame rate, which hasn't been properly adjusted, 
 for example... the menu has frame rate issues, but that's where it's as worst. 
  in-game, the frame rate isn't awesome, but it still works, more than enough if you'd ask me.
 
  you might have already figured it out, but i'll just say it anyway, puh...
  (major silence... just like the one when Naruto farted in Kiba's face during the chuunin exams) 
 IM A DIE HARD NARUTO FAN !!! (what? that's it?.... i want my money back !) 
  Anyway, i hope you find my score fair, as i dont review as a Naruto fan, but a serious hardcore 
 gamer... ok, skip the "serious" part, but keep the hardcore... hell yeah.
  
  Anyway, see ya in Gears of war! (Yes, i'm still the GoW hulk... trust me...)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: a9IronShaolin
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 26, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is exactlly what I expected.... A fun way to blow time. 
  The story mode is short and can get repettitive but at the same time the stunning visuals of cell 
 shaded characters on realistic environments, draws the player away from the bore this game can 
 quickly become. One of the main reasons I picked up this game is because I was a fan of the Naruto 
 fighting games on the ps2. Now based on reviews I knew the fighting was not the main aspect of 
 the game, but I found my self supprised at how little they developed the moves list. Each character 
 has one or two specials, some even 3. But in terms of combos, None of the characters have character 
 specific moves aside from their specials. Their specials however do provide fun little mini games 
 such as button press sequences and lock on target games. I must say that while the fighting was 
 undeveloped in terms of the moves department, that the characters themselves fought very well, 
 their moves were fluid and every part of their body was a target. I hope that in the future of 
 the RISE OF THE NINJA series that they work more on the fighting aspect instead of the story's 
 free roam. In terms of multiplayer, there is an online and ofline fighting arena. Finally if you 
 are on the fence about this game, It gives you alot of achievements in fast and fun ways, and it 
 is a great way to spend your time waiting for the next big naruto game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 7
Date: May 23, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Naruto rise of a ninja is a game that does a lot of things in a descent and accessible for the 
 mainstream audience. The gameplay follows along with the series and switches from game graphics 
 to actual clips and it blends real well. 
  
  The game uses HD and blends it with anime in a way that you would want. The City and environment 
 looks colorful and vibrant and doesn't give you a generic view of the place your, in and allows 
 you to manuever quite easily. The character models look good, with the story driven characters 
 carrying much more focus and the regular citizens looking really generic and sometimes even identical. 
 The in battle mini games that occur during your special moves are also done real well and add more 
 excitement to the game.
  
  Naruto's sound is done well. It captures every action in a fun way. A big problem is the music 
 is limited to only a few tracks that you'll remember for the mere fact that you have to hear them 
 over and over everytime something important happens.
  
  Gameplay is done with platforming elements which will have you running around jumping and using 
 chakra to go through traps and get to objectives. You also can deliver ramen, race, and more importantly 
 fight. The bulk of the main story gameplay consists of old school arcade style fighting in which 
 you use combos and jutsus to defeat your oppenent. The combat doesn't fell like you have much control 
 and if you are playing on a hard difficulty your jutsus are about useless as you gain hardly time 
 the your buttons right to get good scores on the mini games. There are also online battles and 
 arcade style single player tournaments, but the fighting isn't so in depth as to keep you entertained 
 without wanting to take a break in between battles for something else as you would do with the 
 story mode.
  
  Nartuto is a good step in the direction that the series needs to go. The game seems to be made 
 toward the less hardcore gamers that watch naruto, but it has just enough depth to keep you going 
 through the very short story mode, and may even tempt you to fight some battles. After you'll go 
 through the story you'll probably get your fill and want something with more depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relentlessH52
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  The mega manga/anime franchise that has been sweeping the states as of late is the Naruto franchise. 
 The universe within the series pretty much says "game" written all over it. If you picked up a 
 random Naruto game, however, chances are it had "not that great" written all over it. Many of them 
 are shallow fighters or platformers that have no real reason to exist other than to make cash on 
 the popular craze. Ubisoft, however, has decided to take on the reels of the franchise and deliver 
 a Naruto game of their own. As the first game in the franchise to be developed outside of Japan, 
 and the first to hit Microsoft's console, it attempts to deliver something that the other games 
 have missed out on: being good. Does it succeed in its lofty goal, however?!
  
  Story:
  Naruto: Rise of a Ninja covers the first 80 or so episodes of the franchise, and tells of the beginnings 
 of Naruto's rise of becoming the very best ninja, known as "hokage" in his world. He is known, 
 however, as being a troublemaker, and try as he might, he never really seems to catch a break. 
 Not only has he failed ninja school, but he has an ancient nine-tailed fox demon sealed inside 
 him, which hasn't exactly made him the talk of the town, so to speak. Naruto now attempts to do 
 everything in his power to win the villagers trust. The setup is not too complicated, yet it makes 
 you want to help the young underdog on his quest to earn the one thing he's looking for: respect.
 
  7/10
  
  Design:
  There are two different modes in Naruto: Rise of a Ninja: Story Mode and Fight Mode. The Story 
 Mode is the main single player component of the game, and takes you through Naruto's trials and 
 tribulations of becoming a respectable ninja. At the start of the game, no one really likes him. 
 Your objective is to help out the villagers by taking on missions, quests, and several minigames 
 through the Hidden Leaf Village. As you complete these tasks, you'll make the villagers happy, 
 and it is also your main measure of your progress in the game. Also, like an RPG, doing tasks increases 
 your Health Points and Chakra Points. The tasks have quite a bit of variety, and you'll find quite 
 a lot to do in the single player component.
  The missions take you through select exhibitions of the main Naruto story covered in the manga 
 and anime. A lot of these exhibitions have plat forming elements, and you perform acrobatic feets, 
 a lot like a simplified version of Ubisoft's own Prince of Persia. These segments require precise 
 timing to jump over swinging logs, spears, and other nefarious traps. During the course of the 
 game, you'll also learn how to climb up certain walls and surfaces, as well as walk on water. These 
 abilities open up previously unexplorable paths, and you'll oftentimes want to exploit them to 
 find another section you couldn't get to before. This is especially a plus, because some of the 
 missions require you to hop onto treetops and get to the other side of the lake in order to complete 
 a mission.
  Quests are side missions you can do as favors for the villagers. Often, they consist of finding 
 lost items, gathering a certain number of coins, and others. Most, if not all, are required to 
 advance the story, but you still want to do them if you want to get the more elusive achievements 
 toward your Gamerscore on your Xbox Live profile. Other side quests include delivering ramen, wooing 
 lovelorn villagers with a certain jutsu, timed races, and hide and seek. There is quite a lot to 
 do in the game's world, yet the main story mode doesn't last that long, ranging from about 7 to 
 8 hours if you don't do everything else the game has to offer. If you are, at least double that 
 amount. It took me about 20 hours to do everything in the single player game, so that may be enough 
 bang for your buck.
  The other aspect of the Story Mode, which also has a separate Fight Mode, is the one on one fighting. 
 The combat system in this fighter segment is simple, yet somehow also deep. The fighter is made 
 so that newcomers can still have a reasonable chance to beat a vertran. There are standard combos, 
 throwing knives (or kunai) , and the jutsus that can be performed by holding down L trigger and 
 entering a combination of movements on the two analog sticks. Successfully pull off one, and you'll 
 initiate an event, where you have to enter a succession of either timed button presses, hitting 
 the target at the right spot, and so on. The one being attacked can also possibly avoid the onsluaght 
 by timing certain actions just right, so unlike other Naruto games, just because someone performed 
 a jutsu doesn't mean that you will automatically lose if you're low on health.
  Another thing that sets the game over the top is its support over Xbox Live. In the Marketplace, 
 you can purchase additional characters and maps (Shikimaru is free, though) as well as download 
 Japanese voice overs for the game (also free) . Add online play for the fight mode, and you have 
 a product that pulls a lot of punches.
  9/10
  
  Gameplay:
  The controller functions quite admirably for this game. Naruto moves smoothly, and all the actions 
 in the game are simplified. There are, however, the occasional rogue camera problems, where it'll 
 get stuck in an object and you have no idea where Naruto is. There are also some minor glitches, 
 like I encountered one where Naruto is mysteriously caught on a ledge and can't get off, and I 
 had to reset the game in order to resume. I also encountered a problem with the Shikimaru download, 
 where it causes the game to crash whenever you hit a tripwire in the single player mode and such. 
 The Jiraya and Sarutobi download did fix this problem, whether it be free trial or pay download, 
 but I figure it should be noted. Despite all these problems, you should have no real qualms with 
 controlling in Naruto, in either modes.
  Also, while the fight mode is fun and intense, it's implementation in the Story Mode lacks just 
 a bit of pizazz. Sometimes, you do fight characters from the anime, but most of the time, you're 
 fighting generic enemies. It's not really a problem for me, but it might be for some, so I figured 
 it should be noted.
  8.5/10
  
  Presentation:
  Perhaps the best aspect of Naruto: Rise of the Ninja is the presentation. The graphics look absolutely 
 breathtaking. The Hidden Leaf Village is just a delight to explore, and oftentimes, you'll end 
 up getting lost in Naruto's world just for the sake of exploring its lush, beautiful world. Oftentimes, 
 it actually looks better than the anime it's based on. One nitpick however is the lips not flapping 
 when they talk during the in-game cinematics. The game also has select cuts from the anime itself, 
 though mostly, they have boarders on the left and right sides if you're using an HDTV. I assume 
 this is done because the source material for the footage is still SD, which was provided by VIZ 
 Media, but it is still a bit odd. Still, if it was full screen, I guess we would be experiencing 
 a weak pressure, so this is understandable.
  Audio wise, the package has the voice work from the American cast, love them or hate them. Still, 
 it does make it sound more authentic. Also, like I mentioned earlier, the purists can download 
 (for FREE) Japanese voice overs, which also do a respectable job. In fact, they actually do better, 
 and are actually more funny, especially when Naruto falls into the water ("Flipeee!" Heh heh. I 
 never get tired of that.) The sound effects fit the Naruto world and I found no qualms with any 
 of them. Overall, this is an outstanding package in terms of presentation!
  9.5/10
  
  Overall:
  Naruto: Rise of a Ninja isn't exactly the best game out there, but it is one of the 
 best anime games ever released! It is great for fans of the show, and is very approachable for 
 newcomers of Naruto's world. While some may still want more, overall I'm very pleased with this 
 game, and it actually made a Naruto fan out of this former non-fan!! If that's not saying something, 
 I don't know what is!!!
  9.0/10 (Not an average) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maaly81
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 5, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  I got this game back when it came out in October with hope and dreams of a great looking game with 
 content I could deal with. For the most part I liked the game until it started freezing up on me. 
 At opportune times when I really start doing thing in the game it freezes. Certain parts of the 
 forest that I go to it never fails to stop. The very first time I put the game in the 360 it didnt 
 load out of the start screen. I would have been finished if it were not for this and it was too 
 late to take it back by the time it froze like the 4th and 5th time. What a waste of $64, and even 
 though I like it ok, it still could have been better. Ubisoft needs to test their disks better.
 
  
  Hopefully an update will fix my problem but I doubt it. I will just have to sale it back to the 
 store I got it from eventually, but I will wait for Burst limit to come out before I do that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash2X
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  +Great Graphics
  +Well made City
  +Challenging Online-Mode
  +Downloadable japanese Voices (for free!)
  +Soundtrack of the series
  +Easy to get around 450GS
 
  
  The Bad:
  - Short (finished under 10h)
  - Couldnt be much easier
  
  First off, I wasnt a big Naruto-Fan until a friend buyed this game. I didnt even really like the 
 PS2-Brawlers or the Action-Adventure-Games. I got into the series BEFORE I played this game.... I 
 recommend that to everyone whos interested, because this game got Cutscenes of the series that 
 are missing some important details.
  
  The Gameplay:
  You start off in order of the Storyline at the point Naruto is being mocked for not finishing the 
 Ninja-Test. This discribes already the love of detail that the developers made, giving you the feel 
 for the Storyline. After a few Cuscenes (Taken from the original TV-series, even without trying to 
 cut the picture to 16:9) youre getting to Konoha, which is the place you spend most of the games 
 short span.
  The City is really fun to explore and since you learn the Ninja-Arts in the way the series-storyline 
 you have to learn some to reach every point.
  The bad is, that theres not too much around. You only reach the (around 3 to 4) places that are 
 given to you until the fight against Gaara (Episode 80) which isnt that much.
  The Fighting-System is 1-on-1... I personally had prefered a Brawler-System, but its a lot better 
 then the one of the "Ultimate Ninja"-Games. You can do the typical attacks and you can use every 
 Ninja-Art youve learned in the fights, too. While you walk around you have random encounters, which 
 are, like the rest of the Game arent much challenging.
  Maybe thats the main problem of the game. Even if you have some nice sub-quests, the game remains 
 short and easy. You can buy Items to improve the Character, even new throwing Weapons... but I never 
 did, because I just didnt need to.
  The Multiplayer is basic 1-on-1 Fighting. To get all Gamerscore out of the Game you have to win 
 a whole buch of MP-fights which should keep you playing for a long time, if you like it.
  
  The Graphics:
  I was really impressed by the love of Detail they gave in some places. It runs 
 smooth even if youre sliding over the Citys ropes and it looks a lot better then the series itself. Thats 
 how a Naruto-Game should look like!
  
  The Sound:
  The Original tracks from the series sound clean, I personally liked them and the 5.1-Mix is good. The 
 greatest bonus was the downloadable japanese Voiceover, because I didnt like the english. The european 
 Version has English Voiceover, the japanese downloadable Voices too and is subbed in the chosen 
 language.
  
  So...:
  Exept that the game is short and easy, theres absolutely no reason why a Naruto-Fan shouldnt get 
 it for a nice price around 30 Bucks.
  It is really what a Fan can expects of the Game, maybe even a bit more, because Konoha is made so 
 great. But its just not worth full price. I had much fun as long as the game lasted, but the mark 
 was below 10h!
  Maybe only rent it if youre not the type of gamer that needs to have every game...
  If youre 
 not a Fan of the series... well you wont have that much interest in it anyway.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: comfnumb82
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  wow. Just wow. This was the first game i bought and played for the 360, and all i can say is wow. 
 Visualy stunnimg, great fighting engine, free roaming is great, has the music from the show, excelent. 
 now you may be wondering why a 9 instead of a 9.5 or 10? well, the only problem i have with the 
 game is that, unlike the ultimate ninja series, this game doesen't use all of the original voice 
 actors from the naruto TV show. the most important ones: David wittenberg as kakashi, yuri lawenthal 
 as sasuke, kate higgins as sakura, Maile Flanagan as naruto (can't have a naruto game without the 
 real naruto) and steven jay blum as zabuza and orochimaru. all fibne and dandy. but can anyone 
 explain why david lodge isn't playing the voice of the in game jiraiya? he's still in the anime 
 cut scenes, but not in the actual game. in his placewe get THE worst jiraiya impersonater ever, 
 are you kidding me? there's NO excuse for this. on top of this crispin freeman isn't ebisu. i assume 
 he''s played by the same guy who played jiraiya in the game. i can EASILY overlook ebisu, because 
 he's not as big a part of the story as jiriay, but why isn't david lodge playing jiraiya? that's 
 like if you have a game based on trigun and johnny yon bosch isn't playing Vash. that being said, 
 it's a great game and worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattia1992
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  ---------------------
  
  I am a great fan of Naruto and possessor of Xbox 360 so I bought this game. But in part, I was 
 very disappointed. 
  
  The game resumed on the first episodes of the series in cartons. 
  With Naruto Konoha you can explore freely and engage in numerous secondary missions. 
  
  The 
 story mode is short, there sufficient few hours to complete the game. 
  Secondary missions are more numerous but very repetitive. 
  
  The combat system fascinated 
 me, but I was also disappointed. 
  
  Each character has only 3 moves that differs from the others. 
  
  The online mode instead contains 
 no lag but it is boring. 
  
  One thing that has surprised me a lot is the graphics is very detailed. 
  
  + Beautiful graphics 
 
  +History fascinating 
  + Multiplayer fun 
  
  -Too Short 
  -Repetitive missions
  -Few character
  
  --------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ180
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Naruto Rise of a Ninja for Xbox 360 is a great fighting game. The game starts at the begining of 
 the ninja exams and ends at the Naruto v. s. Garaa fight. The story uses pieces of the TV show to 
 tell the story of the game. In the gameplay compartment the gameplay is good, and fast paced. As 
 for the multiplayer, is fun, the Xbox Live multiplayer is pretty fun to but at times can be kina 
 hard when your up against an expert player, but is still fun lol. The graphics that are in the 
 game are shell shaded, and look great and clear. The controls are pretty easy to master the only 
 time they are kina hard is when performing the jutsu's. 
  
  OVERALL: 9/10, Naruto Rise of a Ninja is a great first Naruto game for the 360, dispite the somtimes 
 hard jutsu's and hard Xbox Live multiplayer the game is still a awesome title for the hardcore 
 Naruto fans, or a new fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdyme4krumpany
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Alright so Naruto rise of a Ninja... this game is Fun.. RPG style game .. the battles maybe repetitive 
 but overall the game is great.. good game to have in your collection. lots of little mini games 
 to do its just one of those games you can sit and play for a while and not get bored. its hard 
 for me to really think of any cons for this game the graphics were great, the way the characters 
 use their special moves is cool the voices are of the english version naruto on cartoon network 
 which is great.... ubisoft has made yet another great game.. i'd say if you love Naruto then this 
 is the game for you! I'm waiting to see Naruto Rise of a Ninja 2!!
  the game also follows the story line of the actual series. online fights are very challenging but 
 keeps you playing. overall its one of those good games on X box 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_Reaper
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  I thought the game was OK, it had good graphics and sound, however, my issues with the game are 
 simply the simplicity and pointlessness of most of the missions, the lack of jutsu and characters, 
 and the short story line. I believe if Ubisoft would have taken out the pointless missions that 
 they could have fixed the games short comings, sure the game looks good, but if it has no real 
 substance in the story line and playable characters and techniques the play can use and experiment 
 with then I don't believe it will be to successful. Every Naruto game to date, exception of this 
 one, goes past the chunnin exams and have a larger cast of playable characters and techniques to 
 use in fights. I am not arguing that is was not good for Ubisoft's first Naruto game, but they 
 should have taken the time to make the better and not try to ride the popularity wave of the other 
 games. I did like the ability to roam freely in the village; I believe it was done right. I also 
 believe if someone could walk on water, it should also stand that they can swim, so I found it 
 to be ridiculous if you fell in the water that you would puff back to land and loss some of your 
 health. I also think that you should be able to play as more then just 8 characters each character 
 only having three jutsu to use, which not all are unique. Every character has the chakra concentration 
 ability, with the exception of a few characters. I did like the way you pull off your jutsu, using 
 the left trigger and the left and right analog sticks to make hand signs. The sounds are straight 
 from the show itself as well as the cut scenes taking clips from the episodes; I thought that was 
 a nice touch on Ubisoft's behalf. I like how much detail was put in to the creation of the village; 
 you see the care and effort they took to bring the village to life. Some of the voice acting was 
 not as good as I hoped and sometimes they pronounced a character's name wrong. Now I will break 
 down the categories I thought is the most important and tell you what I thought about them.
  
  Graphics: They were good; I would say 8/10
  Sound: They were authentic of the show 7/10
 
  Story: It was not as good or as long as I thought it would be. 4/10
  Characters: They design was good but there was not many to use 4/10
  Jutsu: Creative to pull 
 off and use, but not enough to use 5/10
  
  Over all I thought It was good for Ubisoft's first attempt at a Naruto game, but I hope if they 
 make another one they realize this game's short comings and fix them so they do not get passed 
 on to any future Ubisoft Naruot games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Review: Naruto Rise of a Ninja (360)
  
  The Little ninja that could finally finds his way to the Xbox 360, but will the transition be as 
 smooth as it was on the PS2, or the Gamecube?
  
  Story:
  You are a young boy, outcast by the people his own village, but whom are forced to live with him 
 by special order of the village's leader, because long ago the greatest ninja in the village imprisoned 
 a 9 tailed demon fox inside of this young boy, sacrificing himself in the process, while many good 
 men also died loosing their lives in the process, which all of the towns folk blame him for indirectly. 
 Follow his life and story and he finds his own way though life and gain the respect of the village 
 that despises you slowly but surly on your way to becoming the greatest ninja your village has 
 ever known.
  
  Graphics:
  To be honest we all know what to expect when it comes to anime games now a days, a cell shaded 
 look to capture the look of the anime. But where Rise of a Ninja sets its self apart is using the 
 cell shaded graphics to perfectly capture the look and feel of every location featured in the first 
 full 3 seasons of the anime in full out 3d. While all of this is wonderful and looks great there 
 are some collision detection issues when it comes the leaves on the trees and bushes in certain 
 areas, still this does not detract the experience at all, and the look, feel and authentic character 
 animations will suck you into the experience.
  
  Music:
  fans of the show will be ecstatic to find that the anime soundtrack comes completely untouched 
 to this game, and the sounds are spot on as they should be, and also make their way to the game 
 almost flawlessly from the supporting anime, but sad to say that the dubbed voice cast from the 
 American release of the Naruto anime found their way into this game. fortunately there will be 
 a download that will allow a player to change the voice acting cast from English to Japanese, until 
 then we are saddled with the weak American dubbing, that is not to say the American dubbing is 
 entirely bad, but the completely missed 25% of the characters voice wise I would say including 
 key characters like Jiraiya
  
  Control:
  well how can I describe whet Naruto Rise of Ninja feels like, it starts like a good GTA copycat 
 and turns it's self into a game that plays much like Spiderman 2 did after Naruto learns more ninja 
 arts to control, including walking up walls, walking on water, making multiple clones of your self, 
 and summoning a giant toad to aid you. Mean while the fighting scenes control much like the Naruto 
 fighting games on the PS2, meaning you have a good base for combat on top of the already interesting 
 game play make this amazingly fun to play, with out the majority of the frustrations that were 
 present in a another game like Spiderman 2
  
  Design:
  What I find the most interesting that that for a game that is based on a Japanese anime, that the 
 all Canadian team of Ubisoft Montreal have shown more spirit in this release than all of the previous 
 Naruto games combined and those were made by Japanese companies with the aid of the original creation 
 team. But this game is far from perfect in that there are still clipping issues a plenty in this 
 game, as well as slight spots of collision detection, and the camera can sometimes get in the way 
 even in the occasional fight scene but primarily in close quarters, that said the game it's self 
 is amazingly fun, and serves as a perfect set up for a sequel that will hopefully fix the bugs 
 but improve upon this release..
  
  Naruto fans this game is for you, and will appeal for those gamers looking for a good distraction 
 game, though if you hate the series than this story will not appeal to you
  
  Graphics
  8/10
  
  Game play
  8/10
  
  Sound
  7/10
  
  Fun factor
  9/10
  
  Tilt
  8/10
 
  
  Average score
  8.0
  
  
  Naruto Rise of a Ninja (360) :
  Pros:
  Fun game play
  Surprisingly large a mount of environments
  The type of game Spiderman 3 should have been
  
 Great fighting system
  
  Cons:
  Camera angles can be a pain some times
  There are a few collision diction issues 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovelessshakaku
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I say this game was wicked because the fighting was awesome. I love the part where you get to do 
 jutsus and stuff it was easy to beat but it was pretty awesome for the most part. something they 
 could have improved by making it a little longer so it was harder to beat. I think the coolest 
 jutsu was Sasuke's Chidori and Gaara's Sand Coffin. I think they should hane had more characters 
 and gone up to at least episode 100 instead of only episoide 80. another thing that I loved about 
 this game was Naruto's Shadow Clone jutsu. So thats what I have to say about Naruto Rise of a  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjakid4life
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Naruto rise of a ninja is very different from the other Naruto games but it still has its flaws 
 first of all the game is very short it is most likely 6 hours long second the voice actors are 
 not very good some of the voice actors are from the Naruto anime but others like Jiraiya sound 
 terrible the game play is okay it is a free roaming game with some platforming the fighting is 
 fast paced. The game can be quite repetetive you fight the same enemys alot and there isn't much 
 to do after you beat story mode. The game offers you multiplayer but it isn't much fun to play 
 the multiplayer has a tournament mode called forest of death its good but the connection is bad 
 often there will be a disconnetion and it will drive you mad. The game has only 11 characters to 
 chose from but there is a download that give additional characters. The graphics are good konoha 
 is well detailed.
  Overall the game is decent if you are a fan of Naruto you should get this game if your not you 
 should try it anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huntar12345
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Ah yes naruto: rise of a ninja a fighting game, rpg, adventure, action all in one fantastic experince. 
 im kind off a new naruto fan and this game was one of the reasons i start liking the show. atleast 
 i think you dont need to be a naruto fan to play this game everyone that enjoys a fun fighter will 
 enjoy this game.
  
  Good:
  it was kinda easy learning the combos
  Jutsu is fun and awesome
  exploring the city is Fun
  online is good and almost never lags
 
  
  bad:
  story mode is to short when this good
  rage mode can be annoying sometimes
  sometimes to easy
  some characters in my opinion have cheat moves that players online in ranked 
 mode use over and over again
  
  9/10 because it was to short for a game this good. atleast rent this game if you haven't played 
 a fighter in a while its easy to learn and easy to love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sillyfanzgirl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing this game and I would say that it's the best Naruto game so far; well 
 that I've played which isn't many but it's still pretty awesome. 
  
  It stays quite close to the anime which makes a change. I found the fights quite fun and the Jutsu's 
 made things quite interesting, annoyiing or simpler. The look of the game is good as for saying 
 the characters are catoonish and the landscapes are detailed and stunning, they work very well 
 together. Multi-player and Live matches are also quite fun. 
  
  The downfalls for this game is that it seems too short. It's good where they've ended it but I 
 think that they should have just done the whole series or got to at least the Naruto and Sasuke 
 fight. Also the fights do seem a little easy and repetitive especially in multi-player, also some 
 matches seem to be cheaply won due to character abilities. 
  
  Anyway I know that seems a lot but it's really not. I liked this game so if you are a Naruto fan 
 or like games like this you'll love it. 
  
  ~Sillyfanzgirl~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 16tony16
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 1, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Thank God i didn't buy this game, instead i rented it. The part of the game that was good was the 
 art work the designers put into it and running around town completing tasks. But after a while 
 the tasks seemed very annoying and i quickly grew tired of the game. I am not a fan of the fighting 
 style they had either. It was the virtual fighter style where there is two people facing each other. 
 The story followed the episodes good and it even included clips from the actual episodes which 
 i liked. I would not recommend this game to anybody, you will grow tired of it really fast and 
 its not that good. I think this game should be rented first because some people may like it and 
 others may not. I think the developers could have really made a great game but they just didn't 
 do it. Anyone who is looking to buy this game even after reading this review, think long and hard 
 about it because if you end up buying it you will regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasukefanx12
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I am a serious Narutard (person who's obsessed over Naruto) and even I disliked this game, The 
 story mode dosn't follow the story well at all (ex. you fight mostly random ninja who never appear 
 in the show, you get random missions that arn't in the show ect.) on top of that, the voices and 
 pronounciation are totally wacked out, the ramen guy pronounces ramen wrong, the Hokage's voice 
 is totally diffrent and so is Sasuke's. The fighting part is slow, not fast paced like a good fighting 
 game should be and it takes ages to get a jutsu off. Another thing that really got my goat was; 
 yes they did a teriffic job on the Leaf Village set up it looks exactly the same as in the show, 
 but they made all the characters look abserd (if u see Sasuke, you should see what I mean) and 
 their mouths dont move when they talk. Another thing with the story mode is the fact that it's 
 rediculisly hard to do a simple thing, like fighting Zabuza for one thing, its a pain in the ass, 
 then once you finnally do it, you gotta beat him all over again (which is even harder since you've 
 probly lost alot of memoclips by this point) . All in all this is a really stupid excuse for a Naruto 
 game, I rated it as a 5, If you want a good Naruto game, get Naruto Clash Of Ninja Revolution or 
 wait for Naruto: Ninja Destiny to come out, this game in particular is a waste of time and money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFlareKin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Naruto Rise of A Ninja is pretty good, but not as good as the Ultamite Ninja games and the Naruto 
 Clash of Ninja games. You only get to be Naruto throughout the story mode, until you transform 
 into the Nine-Tailed Fox and as Gamabunta. And even that is only for a little bit. There are no 
 unlockable characters, and after the battles with Haku, the fighting style gets boring. You only 
 get to use 3 jutsus as Naruto as well, and NO the summoning jutsu is not one of them, even though 
 you have to perform the hand signs for it during parts of the game. The good thing is that you 
 get to run around everywhere in the Leaf Village and everywhere else that is accesible in the game. 
 The game gets kinda cheap after that. The good thing is that there are missions not included from 
 the TV show that you have to do. This game overall, though is not really all that horrible, its 
 good, but it is not all that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iqen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  Being a big fan of Naruto myself, I was sure to enjoy Naruto: Rise of a Ninja, especially with 
 all the good comments I recieved from it. But when I played the game, I realized that even non-Naruto 
 fans could also surely relate to the game.
  The main source of the game is the Multiplayer mode. Action-packed but yet smooth gameplay gives 
 this title a thumb's up. 10 or so characters, each with a unique fighting style and and special 
 jutsus (techniques) is sure to suit every gamer. The graphics are eye-catching and colorful, with 
 amazing scenery throughout the game.
  The sound system is also top-notch, carefully exploiting each character's voices straight from 
 the anime.
  The first-player mode is also extremely enjoyable. Either completing the side quests, cruising 
 around Konoha town, or even completing the main quest. Detailed scenes from the show also appear 
 from time to time, to give a gradually good storyline and explanation. The single player mode is 
 unfortunatley extremely short.
  
  On a last note, Rise of a Ninja is a fantastic experience to behold. Non-Naruto fans are also sure 
 to enjoy the game as well.
  
  Pro's:
  ~Multiplayer mode is immense fun.
  ~A fantastic sound system and detailed environment.
  ~Beautifal fight sequences and techniques.
 
  
  Con's:
  ~May be hard from time to time.
  ~Campaign mode is very short.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Naruto rise of the ninja is a nice solid adventure game, which lasts long enough and entartaining.
 
  
  The combat system is fine as usaul, But there arent much of enemy variety.
  The game is nice and solid and voice acting is just great, Its nice to see a good game last long 
 and Rise of the ninja is good. The animation looks nice and so are the graphics. Somehow the game 
 is very easy and makes you just BEG to get harder , but not. Using Jutsu is nice but gets annoying 
 and reppetive and you just want something new. The game takes only a nice adventure game , that 
 forgets about the enemies and Jutsu or super techniqe ( they were the best asspects from the previous 
 ones , but now not )
  
  Adventure has its place too. You will explore forsts , do some missions and so on, fight some bosses 
 like zabuza. Humour is there too , but you wont encouter it much. Doing missions is fun , but thats 
 just it , nothing else there is just simple Jutsu and enemis, Thats all you do.
  
  Its great game but too easy and no super technique and the story follows the series might no be 
 so bright either. But if you just only want to have fun with a game, naruto ultimate ninja is just 
 for you.
  Its a nice adventure game , but the enemy varity , Jutsu is boring. Also only doing Missions is 
 all you do , but still its a fun game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiei939
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  When I went to Best Buy to buy a new game for my 360, I had in mind COD 4, but then I saw this, 
 and with the advice of a friend, decided to buy it instead. So the next morning I give it a try, 
 being absolutely sure that I was going to love since I'm a big fan of Naruto. It starts off great, 
 i mean perfect. After a bit, you can talk to Kakashi to start the land of waves mission. It's all 
 good until you get to your first boss, Zabuza. The one major flaw metioned above is the boss combat, 
 They are ridiculously hard. It's not even funny how hard they are to beat. I mean come on. And 
 the ramen you buy at the shop before heading out on a mission, you can't even use it while you're 
 in battle. What the hell?! So it took me a few times before i could beat Zabuza, and i had to use 
 2 of my meme-clips. I got this great sense of accomplishement, and then i found out that I have 
 to fight him again! UGHH!!!! Soent about 3 hours fighting him till I beat him. Then came Haku, 
 who was surprisingly extremely easy. Then the game went back to normal, being great fun. A few 
 hours later, I got to start the Chunin exams. The forest of death was ok in difficulty, although 
 I used up all my ramen and all but 1 memo-clip to survive it. In the tower afterwards, I had to 
 fight Kiba. Back to the major flaw. Kiba is too damn strong for a genin!!! I've been trying to 
 beat him for 4 hours and I still have not succeeded!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Ridicioulous! And, same 
 as Zabuza, I beat him the first time, got my sense of sccomplishement, which was then demolished 
 by the fact that I had to fight him again!!!!!!!! With no more memo-clips since I used my last 
 one to beat him the first time!!!!! This game is pissing me of!!! DAMN IT I should have bought 
 COD 4!!!!! After Zabuza, my score for this game went from a solid 9.0 to a 7.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowXsora
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Naruto: Rise of a Ninja is a perfect re-creation of the anime series, from episodes 1-80.
  
  In Story Mode, you follow the series' hero, Naruto Uzumaki, through his fantastic journey from 
 Academy failure to village hero. The storyline is the same as the anime, giving the feeling that 
 you are playing the actual show. Battles consist of combination button presses, which if executed 
 correctly can initiate a Killer Move, doing lots of damage. And they can also create an opening 
 to use a jutsu. The jutsu use is what makes the combat really shine. Whether using a combo of timed 
 button presses or just one, the jutsu animation is top notch, giving a feeling of satisfaction 
 when it is completed.
  
  There are also plenty of sidequests, which will keep you busy during and after you complete the 
 story. From helping shop owners by finding coins for them, to retrieving stolen items from bandits, 
 there is a lot of variety.
  
  The cel-shaded graphics provide further for the immersion into the game. They also add into the 
 feeling that you are playing the anime.
  
  Konoha, Naruto's home village, is perfectly re-created from the anime series. This gives fans the 
 opportunity to explore areas that they always wanted to see. The game's open-ended style creates 
 an opportunity to basically go wherever you want, when you want.
  
  The sound design is also very good, with music and sound effects from the series imported straight 
 into the game. For example there is a fast paced song playing while you do ramen shop side missions 
 and ninja races.
  
  Multiplayer over Xbox Live is also a good feature, with achievements included for reaching certain 
 goals while playing online.
  
  The only reason the game doesn't get a perfect score is there are a few glitches that with a bit 
 more time, could have been avoided. For example the collision detection is off a bit, when you 
 run into something that hurts you, you may get stuck in a corner and be killed by it, and there's 
 nothing that can be done about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuadraxisIV
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 18, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  So there I am, in the register line at Hastings (game rental place) looking at the brand new addition 
 to the Xbox's game list. 'Naruto has finally come to the 360', I thought. Little did I know that 
 in less than 30 minutes, i would officially hate Ubisoft. 
  
  Let's start by describing the story-line. First-off, it's even more repetitive than Assassin's 
 Creed. I mean, how many time do i have to see two exact same people walk by eachother on regular 
 basis. Secondly, the missions are not nearly as exciting as i would have guessed. Gather some coins 
 then follow a map to the same place a couple times and there you go. That's the whole BLAM mission 
 for you. Finally, the battle seem brutally tough even on easy. 
  
  That brings us to multiplayer battles. As I said before, the battle system is about one short from 
 a side-scrolling RTS; if that's even possible. X, X, Y, opponent blocks, then you get hit with 
 a lightning fast combo and a grapple. I know by now you're wondering about the Jutsu system. It's 
 nearly impossible to execute the hand signs and then charge it to the exact time. By the moment 
 you get it right, the opponent is already half-way into kicking you across the stage. 
  
  In conclusion, this game isn't even worth the plastic use to make the game case. By the way, for 
 a real Naruto game, try Ultimate ninja for Playstation. I don't have one, of course, but i have 
 played it at my cousins house on more than one occasion. Plus, the Rise of a Ninja game only has 
 about 10 characters from the game. They even replaced Shikamaru with Haku. WTF?!?!?!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ithail
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I saw the video review before buying the game and thought "wow.. this could be nice". I was not 
 disappointed. This game is very well designed. You get to play Naruto and go through developing 
 the character, helping the village and completing different quests. The gameplay is addictive and 
 offers a nice blend between solving the quests and fighting different opponents. The village is 
 marvelous and it's just plain fun to explore. The opponents are interesting and diverse and while 
 it takes time to master the controls, once you're there you really enjoy the flights. Took me about 
 10 hours or so to complete the game, enjoying every minute of it. The official score is too low. 
 This one of the best games of the year for me.
  
  Pro's:
  - Addictive gameplay
  - Fun character development
  - Looks great and handles well
  
  Con's:
  - A bit hard at 
 times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haee
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  It was that number 1 anime hit in Japan, its considered to be very popular in America watched by 
 many children or teens and it stars the infamous hyperactive ninja ready to step it up to become 
 a Hokage, a top rank ninja. 
  
  Naruto isn't new to the videogame industry. It has a notorious reputation for having terrible handheld 
 games, an overly simplified fighting game for the Playstation 2 where it consists of mashing a 
 single button to easily win a fight along with some minigames triggered by using your magical based 
 attacks (Ultimate Ninja) and now he's stepping up to the plate to see how he fares with the next-generation 
 systems leaded by a rather unusual development studio for this kind of game which is Ubisoft Montreal. 
 Thankfully Ubisoft Montreal gave Naruto's newest game some proper treatment with an accessible 
 fighting game where its easy to pick up and play and features a full story mode following the beginning 
 of Naruto's adventure all the way to the anime's second arc. Heck in fact if you're a Naruto fan, 
 you might as well stop reading my review and get the game now because while the game has it's share 
 of flaws, it ultimately appeals to those Naruto fans itching for the stylized action fights the 
 anime is known for. Now if you aren't one of those fans than chances are that this game wont change 
 your mind at all thanks to its share problems ranging from frustrating camera controls to how short 
 the game is.
  
  Chances are if you're reading this reader review than you already know what the story's about. 
 In case you don't than its simple, it follows a story of a Nine Tail Fox demon that wrecks a ninja 
 village known as Konoha until this great ninja sealed the demon into a boy who is Naruto. Naruto 
 grew up as an hated orphan and now he's dedicated to becoming the ultimate ninja so he can finally 
 get the respect he deserves. The story in Rise of a Ninja isnt conveyed as nicely as you would 
 want it to be because what happens in Rise of a Ninja is that the game makes use of actual clips 
 of the anime and puts in half of the major plot points along with other scenes focused on the shows 
 comedy to be honest isn't really funny at all. Anyways, imagine trying to pack something that would 
 originally be around 38 hours worth of the show while packing it into a 4-5 hour storymode and 
 as a result the game is missing many of the key plot elements the anime featured. Finally several 
 major plot points in the game arent really explained in detail unless you watch the anime leaving 
 many newcomers to the series confused.
  
  The game also has its share of technical issues. One is that the framerate occasionally dips noticably 
 in a middle of a fight, camera issues where its awkward to control which leads to some frustrating 
 platforming elements and finally I personally had a case where in several scenes the character 
 models would be stuck in the vitruvian man position. My other gripes about the game is just how 
 unconventional the transition from the games story mode to the actual act of battling is. You play 
 Naruto's storyline as if it were a platformer adventure game and while you proceed you encounter 
 some random bandit weakling and immediately changes to the game's fighting system. Another gripe 
 is throughout the extremely short 4-5 hour storymode you have to backtrack a lengthy amount of 
 times such as an early mission which is part of the game's main storyline where you chase after 
 this bandit boss to get a key to some bookshop and you eventually defeat him than you return to 
 your city to complete the mission only to go back to the same place where you defeated the bandit 
 boss to progress the main story. Another reason why the game is so short is because of the inclusion 
 of memoclips which after if Naruto were to die with a memoclip active than you would revive after 
 playing a button mashing minigame replenishing more health the faster you mashed on it. You can 
 equip up to 4 memoclips at a time which completely makes every fight a breeze seeing as how in 
 most cases you are able to restore these clips with a quick visit to the center of the town.
  
  Finally departing the old ways of the one button simplified combat that Naruto Ultimate Ninja 
 was known for and now on to the two button analog combat with a twist involving the games use of 
 magic called jutsus. First let me say that the game is still very simple to actually be considered 
 appealing to your average hardcore fighting aficionado but what is there is an accessible combat 
 mechanic that is easy to pick up and play. There are two buttons you can attack with and if you 
 want to count the third button which is basically a grab. There are a short list of characters 
 adding up to 11 in the character roster (This is without the downloadable content) which isnt really 
 that bad considering that these characters play with a unique sense of style. 
  Finally we have the jutsus where you have a unique way of actually pulling them off which you would 
 have to hold the RT while inputting your joystick movements which afterwords begins the process 
 of charging your jutsu. Finally while still holding the RT you enter a state of powering up your 
 attack turning into a minigame where you have to release the RT in the indicated meter and also 
 the longer you charge up your jutsu, the more powerful the outcome. Every character also has the 
 ability to enter a state of invulnerability after you take a good amount of damage, making your 
 character significantly faster along with a damage increase. 
  
  The flaw in the fighting system is the lack of depth and it will be inevitable until you quickly 
 tire out of the game's simple fighting system. Its fun initially but the fun wanes over time and 
 you're going to be left bored with the game even with the inclusion of the online multiplayer. 
 The graphics while technically unimpressive doesn't really look all that bad either. The city of 
 Kohana captures the absolute feel of the anime and the water in the game looks really incredible 
 which for some unknown reason if you jump in a pool of water you take damage and you're instantly 
 teleported outside the pool. It has an otherwise clean look that would probably make the fans of 
 the show glee with joy.
  
  Ultimately what makes Naruto : Rise of a Ninja worth a purchase is that it captures the feel of 
 the anime in terms of the show's spirit. If your not a fan of the show by any chance than I suggest 
 you approach this game with caution as the game's share of inconveniences and technical problems 
 can overall bog down the game experience however if you are a fan of the show than these issues 
 shouldnt effect the overall enjoyment of the game seeing as how this game is essentially as close 
 as you can get to living and breathing the world of Naruto. Naruto : Rise of a Ninja is a game 
 that overall caters to those that follow the anime but would probably leave others frustrated by 
 many of the issues present within the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HatakeKakashi08
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Naruto Rise of a Ninja is a hard game to class. It's an RPG, Platform, and Fighting game all rolled 
 into one. The RPG story which has amazing graphics and uses some of the best cut-scenes from the 
 actual anime series is a little too short and the side-missions, especially the races, can become 
 irksome. The fighting is extremely fun on-line and vs but the only complaint is that it's not very 
 detailed and there is no practice mode in which to train. You really need to go through story-mode 
 first to get the hang of the fighting unless you use the vs against a friend and allow each other 
 to figure out the combos and jutsus. The platform aspect, of running around Konoha and the surrounding 
 areas is pretty fun and easy to do. For those looking for a challenging fighting game or a long 
 RPG this isn't the best game. If you are a huge Naruto fan and can over-look the small flaws, it's 
 still a good game worth picking up. Hopefully, a second will be made with a little more care. If 
 they can work out some of the minor annoying aspects, it has potential to be one of the best anime 
 games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asilverbolt
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  Begining in the start of the series it will take you to the forest of death and the junin exams 
 and figth Gara. I finish the game in two weeks, only playing like10 t0 20 hrs in those two weeks, 
 now it only remains the mini games and other quests. You can do the sexy jutsu, Shadow clone Jutsu, 
 walk on trees and walk on water. There is also a fighting game ,in the game; so you can play the 
 story or play the fighting game. The figthing part of the game some times can be very dificult. 
 A fan of naruto will like this game, other players I dont think so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachicool
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This game really dissaponted me and i waited so long. What happened to the original voice actors? 
 Iruka the third hokage, jiraya: all of those characters had different voice actors. The graphics 
 were good though but when you look at the characters closer they looked weird. The game has a lot 
 of reapeting especially at the tree climbing part. At first when you go jump to each tree it gets 
 really cool but then when there is another tree climbing part the backround is always the same. 
 When you go outside the leaf vilage there are the bandits that you have to fight and they all look 
 the same. At the forest of death there is a lot of detail but to much tree climbing seuqences. 
 The best part of this game i think was at the land of waves. When you finish the game it gets really 
 boring. All you can do is go around the village and find coins to buy ninja tools, scrools, or 
 pictures, or you can fight at the vs duel. I thought that the game would be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMSL
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  This is the first GREAT Naruto game. The other Naruto games were alright and had some style to 
 them, but this totally blows them all away.
  
  It's a break from the original Japanese styles and gameplay, but in a good way. In Naruto: Rise 
 of a Ninja, you play through the first 80 episodes of the original anime, which is all the way 
 to the end of the fight with Gaara.
  
  You start of on episode one where you are the outcast in the Academy for having the 9-tailed fox 
 sealed within your body. You basicly go around finding the main missions which most of them follow 
 the storyline. When it doesn't follow the storyline you are fighting generic bandits in order to 
 help villagers reclaim their stolen items.
  
  Each quest will give you Health, Stamina (or Chakra) , and/or Happy villagers
  
  When you wanna 
 goof off go ahead and run around Konoha. Konoha village is HUGE. You'll have fun just jumping around 
 on the buildings, climbing up walls and bugging all the villagers that hate you.
  
  Naruto: Rise of a Ninja isn't just an adventure game it's a fighting game as well. This is where 
 I really thought they hit the nail on the head. The special effects in this game are amazing. And 
 each character has their own strong points. There is absolutely NO bad character. So if your favorite 
 character was Sakura but you didn't wanna use her because she sucks in the anime, you should seriously 
 use her because she's actually one of the BEST characters in the game.
  
  Overall I think that Ubisoft did a really excellent job on this game.
  
  9.0
  
  =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kid_buu222
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  with every naruto game out thier its just the missions . but with naruto rise of ninja you can 
 go exploring around the leaf village and have fun while doing it because of the sexy jutsu , ramen 
 delivery , chakra concentration and little mini missions while going through the story.
  
  
  Naruto rise of ninja has a cool feel to it when doing the jutsu and little mini games that 
 friends can just have fun trying to stop while your working to do ultamite damage. but in all case 
 the story does show the important stuff in the naruto show and it adds a little extra with the 
 bandits. but the best part about this game is how easy it is to get all the acheivements ...... to 
 boost your rank in Xbox live. 
  
  but what its missing as an every naruto game is the characters. in naruto rise of ninja their are 
 about 11 playable characters. like other games naruto has one player here and another player there. 
 example kiba isnt in clash of ninja but - is in rise of ninja while shikimaru is in clash of ninja 
 but kiba isnt.
  
  i just hope they make a game with every single character in it cause it would be more fun.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  First off I have to say that this game looks just absolutely amazing, graphic-wise. From head-to-toe, 
 every character looks like I'm watching the cartoon. Just amazing. Now onto the gameplay. The game's 
 combat and fighting is done better than any other Naruto game I've played, and I've played quite 
 a few. The game's story though isn't long enough. If the game's story had a couple of more diverse 
 side quests, bandit-like characters and a couple of more or so hours of actual story from the show, 
 then I'd be in love with the game but as I said, not long enough. I'm not that big of a Naruto 
 fan, but the game is just awesome. My other only concern is amount of characters. The game started 
 out with 11 characters (pretty small roster) and then they added in 3 more downloadable ones to 
 make a total of 14. Not bad right now but if they keep up the DLC, then I'll be fine. As I've said 
 early, this game is amazing and shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indalicio
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  I have to change my review. Altough I was enthousiastic about Naruto at the beginning, there are 
 to many factors in the game that bother me at the end. Weak opponents, missions that are the same 
 over and over and once you beat all the missions (wich is done in about 5 or 6 hours) there is 
 really NO fun in any way in this game. The Ramen delivery mini game just isn't appealing, Hide 
 and seek way to easy and the ninja races are a copy of Ramen delivery. The online function is the 
 only thing that makes me grab Naruto : Rise of a Ninja out of my closet. Although that can be a 
 real pain in the *ss especially for beginners or people with short fuses. Changing my vote for 
 this game from 8,5 to a 5,5 because the game is playable in the beginning and the graphics and 
 audio are well taken care of, also there are enough players that you can choose from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikebuck
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  well lets start simple on the graphics ok this game looks really nice and will always look nice 
 and its nicely cel shaded to make it look more like the anime feel but still 3-d plus the whole 
 town of konoha look nice 
  now story well this is based off the show of naruto so the story is simply that but they use scenes 
 straight from the TV show to help move the plot along but this can cause some confusion for people 
 who have never watched before but not enough that will turn some one away from this game and if 
 they were going to use the TV clips they problay could have used it more often so that you could 
 get to know more about it
  next gameplay the game plays nice and fast and will fell like some of the other naruto fighters 
 out there just a little bit faster while the fighting doesnt have to much depth that may turn away 
 some people it doesnt ever really feel like you are doing the same thang even though at best you 
 only get about 16 17 differnt combs per person 
  and lasting appeal simply put because of online this game will problay last a while because of 
 the online plus it seems that they will be adding new levels and characters through xbox live 
 
  all in all this game is a must for fans and for those non fans who get it they might want to check 
 out the anime first to get a feel about what the shows about 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuIgI_MaStR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  This is a great game! This is like the best Naruto game I've ever played. It's so fun because you 
 can battle, fight, gain firendship w/ other people, and do missions for people. I've said it once 
 and I'll say it again...... This is the best Naruto game on my shelf! Anyway if you don't like the 
 adventure mode you can just do a fighting mode. If you don't like the fighting mode, play adventure 
 mode. This game mainly follows along with the show, if you watch the show, this is the Naruto game 
 for you! 1 more time now..... This is the best Naruto game on my shelf!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  Naruto rise of the ninja is a nice solid adventure game, which lasts long enough and entartaining.
 
  
  The combat system is fine as usaul, But there arent much of enemy variety.
  The game is nice and solid and voice acting is just great, Its nice to see a good game last long 
 and Rise of the ninja is good. The animation looks nice and so are the graphics. Somehow the game 
 is very easy and makes you just BEG to get harder , but not. Using Jutsu is nice but gets annoying 
 and reppetive and you just want something new. The game takes only a nice adventure game , that 
 forgets about the enemies and Jutsa ( they were the best asspects , but now not )
  
  Adventure has its place too. You will explore forsts , do some missions and so on. Humour is there 
 too , but you wont encouter it much. Doing missions is fun , but thats just it , nothing else there 
 is Jutsu and enemis, Thats all you do.
  
  Its a nice adventure game , but the enemy varity , Jutsu is boring. Also only doing Missions is 
 all you do , but still its a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nsoliveira
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  This game of Naruto is like living the episodes of the series all over again.
  Anyway, this game is cool, the graphics are awesome, it's 3D images so it's cool. 
  Graphics- 
 8.6
  Now about the gameplay, it's awesome because it's so cool to walk in different places like the 
 village of the Leaf, the forest. Anyway it's awesome the gameplay.
  Gameplay- 8.4
  The challenges are very nice, races, hide n seek, ramen delivery.... all awesome.
  The most easy 
 boss battle that I fought with was Haku, because well it might be hard in the beginning but until 
 you find a way to fight against her, that's easy.
  The most hard boss battle that I ever had to face, was Gaara, because it is the final boss battle 
 of the game and it makes harder for you to defeat him.
  Anyway I'm going to conclude that I loved this game and I recommend you guys (even non Naruto fans) 
 to buy this game because it's so cool and it has some amazing things awaiting for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Lien
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Naruto is an awesome game that should appeal to people outside of the fan base. I can say this 
 because before I played this game I had never even heard of Naruto. The game itself is like cross 
 between an RPG, platformer and fighter. The animation and artistic design in this game are stunning 
 and I can honestly report no slowdown or frame rate issues. Fighting was very flashy and I must 
 say that I was impressed.
  
  As I said before this game is almost amazing. One thing I didn't like, was the side quests repetitive 
 nature. Too often I would be sent out to go through the same level I had done ten times before. 
 Side quests fall in one of two categories, fetch quests and races. There all pretty much the same. 
 Another issue was the camera. During the races often I would find myself struggling to get a bearing 
 on where I was because the camera could get pretty sketchy.
  
  All and all this is a must play game but unless your a big fan settle for a rental. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0felixis0
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Naruto: Rise of a Ninja is the best Naruto game on the market until now. It's the only Naruto game 
 which is not only about fighting like the other Naruto games. The biggest difference is that you 
 mostly are in Konoha the home city of Naruto. It's the only game which really shows how Konoha 
 looks like form the perspective of someone which lives there. 
  
  The missions which you need to do are very short. After like 7 hours you finished all main missions 
 and you need to do all the extra stuff which is kinda boring.
  
  Naruto: Rise of a Ninja you can play online. It's not that good the online because you can only 
 fight which becomes after a while boring.
  
  Overall its the best Naruto game ever ( until now) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spatan11711
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  When i read about this game coming out i got excited about it. But when I got it I was disappointed 
 with it. its goes up to the 82nd episode of the anime which you may think is a long way into the 
 series. Only on the game this goes very quick. If you played it doing mission after mission then 
 you would complete this game in about 6 hours straight. The story goes very quick in the game and 
 you'll find your self completing it in no time. It would have been great if it came out with Japanese 
 language instead of having it as a download as some people don't have Xbox live.
  However, the games' battling system is good as it can be quite difficult to beat the enemies. You 
 can learn new Jutsus and moves as you progress through the game. The game has great colour which 
 captures' the anime in great detail. You can do side mission like deliver ramen and play hide and 
 seek with the little ones of the village. You have to gain your popularity from the villages which 
 can be tricky as sometimes you only get 1 persons popularity.
  I would recommend this game to Naruto fans but just don't play it for too long at any one time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSHektor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Rise of a ninja is the first Naruto game for Xbox, it has some new features, one of them is the 
 story mode in which you take the roll of Naruto and play the story of the anime until the first 
 80 episodes of the series. The story through the game is a little bit different from the anime, 
 it could be much longer but in fact it is a good adaptation to the game, it also have some alternative 
 missions that makes the game more entertained. The versus mode has also some new features, all 
 of the characters have their unique jutsus and the way to execute them with their respective hand 
 sings. During a fight the correct use of the jutsus can assure the players win. The on line ranked 
 matches are of a great level, it requires a full domination of the characters moves or it can result 
 against you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATOMB
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  No this game is not perfect but it's damn good. I am a Naruto already and I was so happy to see 
 a good review on this game so I went out and bout it. Yes this game is good even if you are not 
 a fan of the anime but if you are it makes it that much better. If you are a fan you have to have 
 this game. The music and voice overs are great. They really got the Naruto feel in there and i 
 love it. It almost reminds me of Zelda TP. with its blend of action adventure RPGish style of play.
 
  With good sound and great grfx and solid controls this game is a must have for fans and if your 
 not at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  GOOD: Brilliant Visuals / 1-1battles are fast paste / Fun side missions / Online mode is awesome 
 / Using anolog for Justsu works well / Exploring Konoha is fun / Upgrades works well
  
  BAD: some submissions get repetative / not many playable characters / short
  
  GAMEPLAY:
 
  For the first time Naruto game has been created outside Japan and its better this way, the new 
 battle system is realy fast paste and challanging, like other nartuo games you use punch kicks 
 throwing weapons and jutsus, but this time around you use your Anolog sticks to pull of certain 
 types of jutsus wich brings the ninjas alive. Theres many different whys to pull of different jutsus 
 to win battles, theres also something called Rage mode, Rage mode gives you the uperhand in battles 
 when your lossing, for exsample narutos rage mode is Kyuubi power which gives him ultimate strengh 
 and no loss of health, but you cannot use Jutsus. Exsploring Konoha is awesome, it works alot like 
 GTA style, you have a map with legends on it, In konoha you can go up to people and ask for missions, 
 some missions advance your story, you can also buy upgrades like scrolls and weapons. Submissions 
 are realy fun, submissions aint pointless they surve a perpose which'll increase your health and 
 Chakra bars, You can deliver Raman, Play hide-n-seek, give love to people and some others, though 
 there pretty much the same the difficulty goes up. The game is very short and can reach up to 10hrs 
 if you include all the submissions, it goes up to the end of Chuunin exams were you fight gaara. 
 but theres gunna be a sequal cos at the end you see Itachi and Kisame standing on the Konoha Walls.
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are fantastic, its got a cell shaped style and there very sharp, Konoha itself is 
 fantastic to look at and very realist and stays true to the Naruto tv series. The characters themself 
 are captures great but the faces aint realy that good as they dont change there impression through 
 the entire game. and theres also some glitchers here and there but nothing to complain about.
 
  
  SOUND:
  The sound is great, it uses the real english voices from the accual Anime Naruto, and original 
 theame tunes. The sound effects sound great so theres no real probblem in this area, though i preffer 
 the japanesse voices that the English one and you cant change them.
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall no Naruto fan should not miss this opotuntiy to play the greatets naruto game every made!. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomastw
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  a bit sloppy around the edges but all in all a very good naruto game cud do with more characters 
 and more jutsus but apart from that its all good a must buy for any Naruto Fan although some parts 
 may be hard but with the memoclips its good and the gaara fight is awesome and also dont forget 
 the new revolutionary jutsu system but whats also to look forward to is number 2 but this ones 
 good enough to keep you playing until number 3 is released! well if it comes out well this game 
 is revolutionary in the naruto gaming world and we should look forward to a whole new generation 
 of naruto video games"A must buy for any naruto fan" (10/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shottasoul86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Not muchtosay about this game, beside the fact that its great. Naruto and XBOX 360 go well together. 
 The only problem I havewith the game is the length of it. I mean I figured it would be short after 
 I got it. But being around the game scene for a while, I know why. But i'm looking forward to the 
 sequel, and don't have to say much positve things about it because I'm sure all the great things 
 were said already. Naruto: Rise Of A Ninja is a game to get if your into the anime / manga fighting 
 stuff. I just started really watching the anime myself so its a great experience for me. But I 
 like it. The gameplay is smooth, characters look nice, Jutsus are brillient, with the anolog sticks 
 used to make the hand signs. Great attributes to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcma4393
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I was reluctant to play Naruto: Rise of a Ninja, considering most other licensed anime games have 
 been really disappointing, but Naruto: RoaN is amazingly good. True, it's not the best game in 
 the world, and you'll probably finish it in a day if you play long enough, but the experience is 
 worth having.
  
  Lets start with the story. Naruto: Rise of Ninja follows pretty closely with the actual anime storyline 
 and allows you as Naruto to actually feel like you have a role in the story. You go from the start 
 of the series until when you defeat Gaara (around episode 80 in the series) and experience most 
 of the key moments in the game. There are some battles I would have liked to have experienced that 
 they left out of the game, but for the most part, the storyline is engaging.
  
  Gameplay is pretty nice as well. Being able to free roam throughout the entire village was nice 
 and once you've acquired some of the more advanced skills, it really shows the amazing amount of 
 detail the creators put into the game.
  
  Fighting in the game can be hit or miss. Most matches you'll be defeating your opponents with the 
 shadow clone jutsu and with two combos, you can pretty much get to level 3 without much worry of 
 being stopped while powering up by the computer.
  
  The only thing I would have like added to Naruot: RoaN is being able to play some of the other 
 characters storylines, but it's a great game none the less.
  
  If you're a fan of Naruto, this game is a must buy! If you're not a fan, it's still a pretty good 
 buy, but you might want to rent it and go out and buy Assasin's Creed, Halo 3 or one of the other 
 longer lasting games.
  
  Ubisoft has created a great game and I look forward to upcoming Naruto games for the 360 from this 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j3ster1337
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  Visually beautiful. The unique style of this game is fantastic.
  The free roaming of the city is great fun. 
  Fans of the anime will love this game. All the main 
 characters feature with full voice acting. Though if your a hardcore fan you may be disappointed 
 to see some of the story is missed or only lightly touched on, but this is generally ok as it keeps 
 the game moving at a good pase.
  They could have added more depth to upgrading your character with more weapons/scrolls.
  The 
 difficulty is almost spot on, however some of the boss fights can be quite challenging as its almost 
 impossible to pull off your special moves successfully in some cases (to easily countered) .
  
  All in all good fun if a little short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toshirouhitsuga
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This naruto game is very ambitous but still it's nothing worship. The fact that you can run around 
 konoha freely and use some of the shows trademark skills freely is pretty cool, at first, but after 
 your first playthrough which won't be long since game will only live out about 6 hours you will 
 become bored of the gameplay and even the xbox live multiplayer will quickly become expendable. 
 Another big problem is that you have only 11 characters which is barely any more than 2005's clash 
 of ninja which was one of the first Naruto games out there. The difficulty wasn't pleasent either 
 frankly if it wasn't for the hair pulling difficulty the game would only last 2 hours. Overall 
 this game isn't as great as I thought but it does set a solid foundation for other Naruto games 
 to follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilmaster72
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  This game holds all the qualities you'd expect from the anime. The exploration of the Leaf Village 
 and surrounding areas make it innovative alone. The controls are easy to master although combat 
 is annoying due to a directional special move system and the make or break addition of a feral 
 form for all charcters. This game isn't long the many story can be beat within a few hours ( about 
 4-5) . For single player acheivments most are met by just playing through the story while few others 
 are based on race, hide and seek, deliever service, tideous tasks, perviness, and popularity. This 
 alone takes alot more time but with patience is easy to obtain. The online mode is frustrating 
 in the fact that you must complete 5 consecutive wins with all 11 charcters which is further impeaded 
 upon by the fact of uneven skill matchups and charcters going feral near no health allowing you 
 to come back or the opponent given an easy victory over you. Lastly the collecter acheivment is 
 one of pointless casue. Why would anyone want to find the 1,000 hidden coins in the game with no 
 way to find them other than sheer luck (although many are easily scene when first starting to play)
 
  
  Hard to place this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GingerTom1993
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  it is a good game with amazing visuals and fun gameplay but the bad points are the repeated tree 
 jumping sequences that get very very annoying, the repeated boss battles can get boring and the 
 side missions cn gt pathetic and the rate your health lvl goes up wen yu do side missions is ver 
 very f****n slow! the way the game end with a clean headbutt jus dissapoints everyone as it it 
 is just a pathetic end to a decent game and the range of npcs is orgasmic! but i fink tht the amount 
 the bosses is okayyyy but hey shud add more as they shud expand the game to about up to episode 
 100 or 110 or 90. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I don't like Nartuo, at all. Right now its nothing more than the equivalent of Dragon Ball Z to 
 my generation. Now if Naruto gets you into anime, whatever but it is in no ways the BEST anime 
 like barely-teen teenagers claim it to be.
  
  I find the whole story stupid. Its the cliched "I suck but for some reason I'm going to be totally 
 awesome some day" story, only this time with an over the top annoying protagonist. Naruto himself, 
 has to be one of the most annoying characters in anime I've seen in a LONG time. I'm not going 
 to go into detail but just know, I think Naruto is annoying. 
  
  The game has a bunch of little stupid things that bug me after awhile. First off, Naruto's number 
 1 weakness is his fear of getting wet... Now I don't know if I'm missing some story thing or if 
 this is the games fault but thats pretty weak. I swear to god if I hear "I'M ALL WET NOW" or "SO 
 COLD" after every time I fall in the water AND LOSE HEALTH, I'm going to blow my brains out. It 
 just is ridiculous, this kid wants to be the best Ninja ever and he can be defeated by splashing 
 him with water, yeah thats plausible. Now a lot of my water annoyances comes from the fact that 
 the controls can be annoying which causes you to fall in water. At high speeds Naruto can be hard 
 to steer and at times the double jump just doesn't work. 
  
  The fighting aspect of the game is good. It ranges from button masher to you better get your timing 
 down right or you're gonna die. I will give ubisoft props on that since I don't think they've ever 
 actually made a fighting engine before. Although if you're not properly equiped some of the fights 
 can be annoying beyond belief. 
  
  The graphics are probably the high point of the game. Ubisoft did a great job of making the city 
 you play in and the other enviornments. I don't like the anime's character models so its safe to 
 say that I hate them here. The cutscenes that go in between the actual show and the game can be 
 annoying and awkward since they obviously cut stuff out to get the point across. 
  
  Other than all my hate for the Naruto franchise. The game is fun. I just try and block out the 
 fact that it is Naruto. So with that in mind, I'm being extremely generous with this score and 
 not letting my biases get the best of me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galzakian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Let's get something straight. I'm a fan of Naruto, although only in its original Japanese format. 
 I find the Americanized dub appalling, and was rather annoyed when I heard the Japanese voices 
 for the game would only be available over Xbox Live. Regardless, I still bought and played the 
 game, and despite the constant "Believe It" I had to endure, I consider Naruto: Rise of a Ninja 
 to be a great adaptation of the popular animated series. With that said, I can't recommend the 
 game for those seeking to learn more about the Naruto universe, as the games storyline really struggles 
 to fully explain what's going on. The story is told through the use of transitions between clips 
 from the series and in-game conversations with other characters to explain the plot of the game 
 somewhat, but to truly understand what's going on, you really need to have watched the animated 
 series. Sadly, if you haven't, you may find yourself asking why some things happen, which isn't 
 ideal if you look for a solid story to accompany the gameplay.
  
  If you are a Naruto aficionado however, you're going to love this game. Ubisoft have put a lot 
 of effort into making sure the game looks and feels just like the animated series, and from the 
 moment you step into the world of Naruto, you really get the feeling that they've accomplished 
 that. The Leaf Village is a perfect example of that. Wonderfully detailed, the home town of our 
 hero has been beautifully replicated and whilst exploring the city, you really get the feeling 
 that you are free to explore every part of the village and aren't restricted by any invisible walls. 
 This free-roaming style is what really makes the game great, for me. Rather than following a series 
 of key steps in the story, you are free to explore the city and take part in the various other 
 activities available to you; and believe me, there's a lot to do in this game besides just completing 
 the main campaign. 
  
  As well as various missions that take you outside of your little village, there are several mini-games 
 available to you inside the village that will occupy a fair amount of time if you want to complete 
 them all. As well as the Ramen Delivery mini-game, you can also play a Hide-and-Seek game with 
 Konohamaru, and there's also a set of timed races you can activate whenever you see a village with 
 a little chequered flag over their head. Additionally, one of the games resources required for 
 purchasing and upgrading your skills and equipment comes in the form of two different types of 
 coins; gold and bronze. These coins can be found almost anywhere in the game, and exploring the 
 village, you'll be sure to find lots of coins in hidden locations.
  
  The main campaign itself is relatively short; you can probably finish it in about 6-8 hours alone 
 if you ignore everything else to do in the game. The main story of the game centres around the 
 first 80 or so episodes of the animated series. You play the role of Uzumaki Naruto (not Naruto 
 Uzumaki) , a young boy in the Hidden Village of the Leaf, a ninja whose dream it is to become the 
 Hokage, or the leader of this little village. Unfortunately for Naruto, nobody likes him, on account 
 of the Kyuubi sealed within him. This nine-tailed fox almost destroyed the village years ago, and 
 was sealed away inside Naruto by the previous Hokage, who died protecting the village. As a result, 
 none of the villagers really trust ninja, fearing the terrible power within. Throughout the game 
 you'll try and convince the villagers that you're a great kid, and performing various tasks and 
 using jutsus around them will go along way to securing the villagers trust.
  
  Ninjas in this village are not your conventional ninjas. They use jutsus; various techniques with 
 their own different abilities; such as summoning fire, or allowing the user to walk on water. Throughout 
 the game, you'll learn how to use several different jutsus which Naruto uses in the animated series. 
 There's the Shadow Clone Technique, the Sexy Jutsu, and the Chakra Concentration Jutsu. On top 
 of being used in fights, these jutsus can be used with your environment, and yield certain rewards 
 when used in the right place. The Shadow Clone Jutsu creates clones of yourself and allows you 
 to break down barriers which one Naruto can't destroy alone. The Sexy Jutsu convinces certain villages 
 to like you, and the Chakra Concentration Jutsu allows you to walk up walls, and later on, walk 
 on water. These techniques will need to be upgraded as you advance through the game, allowing you 
 access to different areas of the game as you progress. Using these techniques is quite fun, thanks 
 to the controls of the game. You use the left and right analogue sticks to create seals with your 
 hands. Get the combination of seals right and you cast a jutsu. Get it wrong and you get a funny 
 little animation, like Naruto farting or your clone appearing lying on the ground. 
  
  On top of the platforming elements experienced throughout exploring the game, you'll also get to 
 engage in a little one-on-one combat with various enemies such as basic bandits, all the way through 
 to high-end ninjas, capable of using their own jutsus on you. The combat in Naruto: RoaN has reasonable 
 depth; the key to victory is combining your hand-to-hand combat with the use of your jutsus to 
 unleash maximum damage on your enemy. The combat relies heavily on the use of combo attacks to 
 give you enough time to activate your jutsus through hand seals. The Shadow Clone Technique is 
 the main jutsu to use when fighting; a little mini-game appears in which you must time your button 
 presses in conjunction with the prompts on the screen in order to do the maximum amount of damage 
 from the technique. Mastering the combat takes some time, but once you feel you've got a solid 
 grasp on it, you can even try your hand with different characters from the series with the Vs. 
 Mode. You can even go online and engage in some ninja-on-ninja action with your friends.
  
  The cel-shaded graphics are fantastic; all the little details such as the little clouds that appear 
 when you use a Shadow Clone Jutsu or just the look and feel of the characters and the environment 
 of the game are all very important aspects in making you feel like you're in the universe of Naruto. 
 
  
  The game is a solid start for Naruto on the next-gen consoles. There's a lot to do in the game, 
 and you won't find yourself wondering why you bought it after you fly through the main campaign, 
 thanks to the side quests and mini-games available. There is still room for improvement, such as 
 changing up the animations that appear when you use a jutsu, and the sidequests do eventually become 
 a slightly repetitive. As I said, Ubisoft really need to work on their story-telling, as this is 
 a key issue in why this game wasn't as great as it good have been for me. I got the feeling that 
 if I was playing through the game without having previously seen the series, I would be so lost 
 and confused as to why certain events were occurring that it would ultimately cause me to feel 
 frustrated with not knowing what was going in. I hope Ubisoft continue on with the series, as this 
 first instalment proves they have a solid grasp on what's required to make a successful Naruto 
 game; working out the problems with the game shouldn't be too hard. Like I said, I can't fully 
 recommend the game for non-Naruto viewers, but for all you Naruto lovers out there; this is a must 
 buy. Believe it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa-jj99
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best naruto game ever. It so addictive and will have you up all nite guarnteed 
 or your money back so go get it and play it all day every dayAmerica's Army, developed in collaboration 
 with the U. S. Army, heads to the Xbox 360 with a focus on multiplayer battles. Following the second 
 season of the Avatar animated series, this game will find Aang 'n' the gang defending the Earth 
 Kingdom against the sinister Fire Nation. Play through all six Star Wars movies in this mash-up 
 of Lego Star Wars I & When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must 
 be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may 
 choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with 
 the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to 
 your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaronPwent
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: Rise of a Ninja is a solid step into the world of Naruto and sets the groundwork for future 
 development. This is a must have for fans of the series and even those who have never heard of 
 the anime/manga series might want to give it a look.
  
  Naruto: RoaN provides an interesting mix of elements from several genre of gaming including rpg, 
 adventure, platformer, and fighting. The core game is rather varied in this manner. Basically, 
 the game progresses as you control Naruto and explore the leaf village and the early tales of Naruto 
 as he progresses through his ninja exams in his quest to become Hokage, the very best ninja.
  
  Graphics - 8.5
  RoaN is beautifully rendered in the cell shaded style that properly fits 
 the anime/manga roots of Naruto. The leaf village is a massive and wonderful vision that immediately 
 immerses you into the role of Naruto. Hours upon hours can be used simply exploring the village 
 and looking at the scenary. The areas outside the village are a bit more generic but no less splendid 
 to view.
  
  The only real down side to the graphics are the cut scene clips taken directly from the anime. 
 Some of these scense are rather old and feel like a startling break from the amazing 3-d rendition 
 of Naruto and crew.
  
  Sound - 9
  Really isn't a lot to say about the sound in RoaN. The voice overs are well done. The background 
 music is perfectly fitting. It all adds to the immersion and helps recreate the anime in this interactive 
 format.
  
  Gameplay - 8
  The gameplay is sadly somewhat lacking. The core storyline can be completed in 5-8 hours. Even 
 taking the completionist route and doing all the sidequests shouldn't extend the duration of gameplay 
 to more then 15 hours. That isn't to say that those hours aren't a lot of fun. The time spent exploring 
 the leaf village and the associated areas is rather addictive. The platforming is well balanced 
 and never feels excessively tricky.
  
  The combat system is perhaps where RoaN really shines. Behind all the exploration and adventuring 
 is a solid base of a fighting system. Split between melee combat and special attacks called jutsus, 
 RoaN really captures the ninjutsu combat of Naruto. The general pattern is trying to execute a 
 melee combo to knockback your opponent giving you enough time to perform a powerful jutsu. Sounds 
 easy enough, but is compicated by evasion manuavers (subsitution jutsu to those Naruto fans) as 
 well as the use of throwing daggers to interupt your opponent's jutsu.
  
  Replayability - 7
  Beyond the main game, there is a multiplayer mode that focuses entirely around 
 ninja combat. Sadly there are only 11 selectable characters that cover the basic core group of 
 the Naruto series. The trim cast of selectable characters all feel unique and have their own batch 
 of special jutsu that come right from the series. Its definitely a nice start for fans to jump 
 into one of their favorite characters and execute those jutsus.
  
  This multiplayer and online combat add some replayability to RoaN. However, there really isn't 
 much point to replaying through the main story. Once you finish the main game you are allowed to 
 continue on and finish up any of the side quests that are still left.
  
  Final Thoughts - 
  No doubt the cast of selectable characters will be expanded and the combat 
 system improved in further iterations of the game. This game definitely feels like the early Dbz: 
 budokai and budokai tenkaichi games. Both of those series of games started off slow and continued 
 to improve with each new game. I look forward to another Naruto installment from Ubisoft.
  
  For now, Naruto: Rise of a Ninja will provide a solid taste of the world of Naruto to fans 
 and newcomers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madara_Uchiha
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  this game is my fav out of all of them right now 
  but the best part about this game is the multiplayer
  online is a really great feature
  but 
 they cold put more moves up for download such as narutos rasangan and nejis palm rotation or orochimarus 
 curse seal or some other moves
  and definitely more characters like itachi, third hokage, sharingan sasuke, guy sensei, and the 
 4th hokage heck yeah thatd be awesome
  and man i hate having to write 100 words for this all i wanna do is just rate i write enough essays 
 at school well time to go get the dictionary
  volcano 
  sky
  earth
  word
  game
  cant touch this duh duh duh duh duhduh
  oh and when i get ungrounded if anyones up for it send 
 me a friend request on xbox live and prepare to get your ass kicked seriously ill whoop up on all 
 yall with kakashi 
  GAMERTAG: AHM1111992
  well i hope this is enough words
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzkreig80
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Okay, this is probably the best Naruto video game to date, but it has just as many good issues 
 as bad ones. I'll try to separate them up so you can look at what makes this game good and what 
 makes it bad.
  
  Good
  This Naruto game is a good introduction into the world of Naruto. It gets you interested and wanting 
 more. The graphics aren't too bad either. They had to have decent graphics, since this game had 
 Naruto running around freely in the Leaf village, but the way they did it was superb. The story 
 line was also pretty accurate. Not right on the dot, but close to it, giving Naruto fans a little 
 something extra. The game play was also unique at times. Not the fighting, but certain things you 
 had to do outside of just fighting.
  
  Bad
  The fighting portion of the game, what the game is actually suppose to be based around, kind of 
 leaves you wanting more. I actually played through this game with little problems and just continuously 
 mashing buttons. There was no real need to use the combo's or jutsu (special techniques) you unlock 
 throughout the game to beat the opponents. Sadly, the fighting in this action game isn't what makes 
 this game good. There was also a glitch here and there that annoyed me, but those weren't that 
 big of a deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waveddiamond
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  Naruto starts fairly slow, but if you cope with it there is a really great game under it all. The 
 shaded graphics of the game are phenomenal, but not perfect. Fighting bandits gets extremely repetitive, 
 and they all look the same :|. Side missions can be fun, if you're into getting achievement, but 
 in the end you feel like people see you as their monkey rather than anything else. The combat control 
 is cool, its a great idea, but feels under developed since the characters could have used alot 
 more moves. The story sticks to the anime , even though some parts feel cut off. Im not going to 
 judge the games length since its only based on 80 something episodes, rather Im rating it based 
 on quality and its pretty darn good. In the other hand, dont buy rise of a ninja expecting a fighting 
 game, its rather an adventure game and it worst perfectly in that side. Online is fun, and they're 
 no real waits to fight your opponents, the game doesnt freeze at all and they is no real cheating 
 (expect for cheesy people) . I've seen 240 episodes so probably the next game would feature alot 
 more material and would fix the repetitive aspect of the game that ruins the fact that its the 
 best Naruto game, and could have been the best adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLACK_ROSE_WAR
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  As a Naruto Fan I had to pick this up, it lasted about 20 hours of off and on play, most of which 
 was in the fighter.
  The game was well put together and had some great ideas, but things did not stay fully true to 
 the anime, also as gamespot pointed out the characters faces look painted on.
  The fighting is good but a bit bland, and the story is very short.
  The use of Anime cut-scenes 
 was a nice touch I think. better then a CG one that would fail to live up to the real thing.
  The game was good, but I would have expected more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russell55
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  First off, the graphics in this game were amazing, the cell shading was very well done. The story 
 starts off at the beginning of the series and ends with the fight between Naruto and Gaara. Story 
 mode is fun, doing little tasks for the people of the Hidden Leaf Village is entertaining. The 
 VS mode is a lot of fun to play with your friends. Pulling off the Jutsu is fairly easy after you 
 get the hang of it. Almost all of the main characters from the show make appearances in this game, 
 and are playable in VS mode. Plays great, looks great, a must have for fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bj2790
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  ok so you proberly already know the story etc or how much the game covers
  which it dosent do essentially well but more on that later
  
  so being a pretty big fan i expected 
 something Awesome and, well i got it!
  
  Story Mode - Ok so we play as naruto through the entire story mode you run around doing odd quests 
 etc for the people of Konoha (which isn't as big as it could be but is a decent size) The quests 
 consist of from finding lost scarfs to Fighting the all powerful Gaara, the kinda social quests 
 are repentative and can be boring, the races are andrenalin (spelling?) rushes, well for me they 
 are. in the mode is also fighting, this is pretty awesome (more on that later) but you fight bandits 
 and even kakashi hatakai (and you get an achievement for beating him :) you fight all the characters 
 available in the game 
  
  
  Fighting - ok so we have alot of characters to fight with from Garra to Zabuza plus some more in 
 DLC 
  The fighting is sort of deep but is more then enough to keep you entertained with the addtions 
 of Justus to exceture these you must hold down the Right trigger and move the anaolog stick in 
 the right sequence to pull of a justsu each character has ateast 2 justsus (with the exception 
 of rock lee) some have 3 
  the fighting is the ussual combo bashing stuff and each charcter has diffrent strengths such as 
 speed, chakra etc. Its really fun to smash your opponent to death with garras un-stopable combo 
 
  
  Sound- well some voice actor couldn't participate in voice over but dont worry these are only very 
 minor charcters like the hokage and konoharmaru
  the music is taken directly from the series so it has the anime feel
  
  Graphics - graphics 
 are cell shaded to they keep that animated feel to them 
  they are flawless and are bright and colourful and are quite advanced you only have to look at 
 the water alone to see
  
  Online- Online chunin exam + achievements 
  stability is kinda weak but hopefully thats will be improved with a update 
  you can play against 
 anyone away from the exam and just have fun 
  
  now before i close i have to say the story leaves a few plot holes for those who havent seen all 
 80 episodes and can be quite confusing 
  alot of the story is told through clips direct from the anime and are edited for time or even GORE 
 (which is a let down)
  
  anyway this game has it flaws and it strengths but overall i like it 
  but i would love it if 
 some features were more fleshed out but any naruto should buy this
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackjack141
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Naruto games havent been good in time but this naruto game smashes them all. if your a fan of the 
 series like me its based from the start to the end of the chunin exams
  
  This game is a sandbox genre and one of the best things to do is run around the village of konoha 
 finding missions, races and shops.
  You can stick with the missions or go everywhere helping people. If you help people you can gain 
 there respect and they will be nice to you.
  
  The combat in this is exellent and in my opinion better than tekken or DOA.
  you can do a number 
 of combos or jutsus ranging from sexy jutsu or shdow clones.
  
  Multiplayer is fun also where you battle it out with a range of naruto charcters with each one 
 a unique jutsu.
  
  Overall this is a must buy foe naruto fans and will be a lot of fun for gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BouYasha
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Well, I finally finished the story mode and in all i have to say it was extremely fun. I was extremely 
 impressed how they tried to get everything in the game that was in the show. Graphic's were good, 
 gameplay was good as well and the fighting system was also prety solid. But sadly nothing is perfect 
 it did have some things that didn't meet my expectations. For one thing i didn't feel that it had 
 enough chacaters to choose from and that it was a tad bit on the short side. But in all i do believe 
 that this was a giant step in the right dirrection for future Naruto games to come. If Ubi-softand 
 keep pumping out more Naruto games like this they will make lots of sales.
  
  In closing i would like to say bravo Ubi-softbravo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krabool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun, you start from the begining, before the genin exam after seing a video 
 about the fourth Hokage sealing inside naruto's body the nine tail fox, it is amazing, it's just 
 great!
  
  First off, the visuals are so sweat, konoha is huge and freaking well made, it's huge, and the 
 fighting is hard at first, but so fun once you get the trick -challenging- 
  
  The base of it is to reproduce every eventh up to episode 80 in the anime, but not mission by mission, 
 you go to the village with everybody hating you, and if you want them to like you, you'll help 
 them. When you helped them, they'll like you but that's not the only thing it does, it makes them 
 your friend and trust me, you want to be their friend in this huge town lolll :P
  
  Let me explain myself: let's say you want to train to get a new combo, you need stars wich you 
 get by doing a story event or by doing a side quest like training konohamaru, getting some coins 
 to help a merchant build a store or selling ramen. If you want to let's say buy weapons or stuff, 
 at first you'll need to get some coins "hidden" in the village to a library or a weaponry shop, 
 but when you build them you gain stars to learn new combos. Per example if you help build the library 
 you can buy scrolls in it wich contains new techniques and all. 
  
  
  In resume, you'll spend a great time in the game and enjoy every second of it ^_^
  
  
  story: good 
 (same has the anime from episode 1 to 80)
  graphics: amazing
  sound track: really cool (same has the anime)
  gameplay: a good game play (per example when you 
 unleash a technique, if you can't push buttons at the right time, and other stuff for every jutsus, 
 you won't hit your opponent wich is even more challenging cuz you cant't just sit around and laught 
 once you started the jutsu) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  So here we have Naruto: Rise of a Ninja.
  The games based on the first 80 odd episodes of the anime, with some minor bits chucked out that 
 must not have worked and some minor bits chucked in. 
  
  The first thing you'll see is that th game is very, very easy on the eyes.
  This is probably 
 some of, if not THE best cell shading seen in a game.
  The characters all look like their anime counterparts, but you have to give the developers a round 
 of an applause for the enviroments, which really take a big slice of the visual cake here. You've 
 seen the screenshots, you've seen the videos. You know how pretty they look. They look even better 
 when moving and not played in some low-res crud video player on the net. Just stunning.
  
  The same could be said for the games soundtrack, which is itself easy on the ears - with lots of 
 tunes taken from the anime, which is sure to please fans.
  The voice acting? Well, depends on how you feel about the English dub.
  I for one am not a fan 
 of it, but different strokes for different folks.
  I could've sworn that prior to game release I read there'd be an option to use the Japanese voices, 
 but perhaps that was a different Naruto game or my head was fabricating nonsence at some point.
 
  
  The game plays well.
  Occasionally platform sections can be a tad frustrating, particularly when they revolve around 
 doing Narutos trademark really-really-speedy running and then jumping onto something, which can 
 often result in careening right off a cliff or some such. But with a little practice you can avoid 
 such issues. 
  
  The fighting game is a tad more interesting.
  You've got some combos, as is standard with fighting games - and they're all pretty simple to pull 
 off. Nothing overly complex about them.
  Jutsu's are represented in game fairly well, where you have to hold the L-trigger and then move 
 the thumbsticks in the directions specific jutsu require, which does a reasonable job of simulating 
 the complex hand-motions the characters use in the anime.
  
  One interesting mechanic is that of memoclips, which more or less simulate the parts of the show 
 where all seems lost, but with some inspiring memories popping into his head, Naruto is given a 
 second wind.
  When you get beat and have to use a memoclip, you pick one all varying in length, usually the longer 
 the better - as it gives you more chance to regain your health and your chakra. So you pick one, 
 and then you rapidly press the a button to regain your stats, a voice over from whatever memo clip 
 will play saying some inspiring words and you'll be thrust back into the fray.
  
  Now comes the critisism. It's short.
  I've owned the game a while, but I only just started playing 
 it last night.
  And I managed to plow through the games main story line in around six hours, not really rushing 
 it either. 
  
  With the game now finished, I'm free to concentrate on the games side quests. Which include Hide 
 & Seek, Ramen delivery and races.
  Problem is, none of these things are especially fun or interesting to do.
  So unless you're into 
 collecting achivement points, you could probably skip them and not feel overly bad about it.
  
  Length aside, theres a pretty decent game here and even non-Naruto fans might be able to get 
 something out of at least a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwar1105
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Everything from the anime is in the game from the music to the story, fun multi-player 
 online and off, fans will like most of the game, the look of the game really nails the look of 
 the anime, fun mini games, once you have all of your abilities the game becomes more fun, a lot 
 of stuff to do after you beat the game.
  
  The Bad: Single player wont be fun at first few hours, fighting part of the game isn't as deep 
 as other fighters, you can complete the single player mode in 7-8 hours, the music can get tiring, 
 also the voice acting, the side missions are all most the same,. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razoroo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Naruto is a great anime series based on a great manga series. It's about a hidden ninja village 
 where a young boy lives. This boy dreams of becoming the next Hokage (the village leader and uber-Ninja) , 
 but he has a minor problem. It's no big deal really, but basically he has a gigantic demon fox 
 sealed inside him. This hyper-active ninja kid is called Naruto, and he is teamed up with the cute 
 girl Sakura, and his rival, Sasuke, under the watchful eye (s) of his sensei, Kakashi. They go on 
 jolly good adventures, dealing with evil ninja such as the snake-like Orochimaru and the psychotic 
 sand-ninja Gaara. 
  
  That's an average summary of what Naruto is all about. For those of you who don't know the story, 
 that's about as much information as you're going to get from this game. 
  
  It claims to faithfully recreate the first 80 episodes of the series, and they would be partly 
 right there, but the main problem is in the narrative; it's just not there. This is a blemish on 
 an otherwise entertaining game that boasts wonderful graphics and and interesting mix of gameplay 
 styles and genre conventions.
  
  It plays like a mix of an RPG/platformer with mini-game elements and a beat 'em up engine that 
 works surprisingly well. This collection of gameplay styles may make the game feel somewhat inaccessible 
 or messy to some, but each aspect stays true to the series and can be genuinly fun to play with. 
 For example, when pulling off your "jutsus" or "special moves", the game will switch from a fighting 
 game to a mini-game that is unique to every character. Naruto's shadow clone jutsu (or "Kage Bunshin 
 No Jutsu" for the true fans) will initiate a quick-time event where you must press the correct 
 button in time to the attacks. In multiplayer mode, the defender can also press the buttons to 
 cancel out the move and so both players are fighting for control and this can create great tension. 
 
  
  The multiplayer aspect is surprisingly in-depth but still not quite as fleshed out as I had hoped. 
 In contrast to the story mode (where you only play as Naruto) , you can select many of the other 
 characters from the series, each with their own combos and jutsus. They are all fun to play with 
 but you'll very often find matches can be unbalanced. Many n00bz will go for characters such as 
 Gaara who can use his sand-attacks at medium range to devastating effect. Others will play as Rock 
 Lee, who is too fast and lanky for his own good. In the ranked matches, losing against people who 
 button-bash or repeat the same moves can be extremely frustrating. 
  The ranked match is basically a tournament where you rise a level for each victory. You need two 
 in the Forest of Death to enter the tower, and a further three wins to get those all-important 
 achievements. If you lose once however, its down to square one. Coupled with this are laggy matches, 
 bad connections and annoying load times. 
  
  Having said that, winning fairly can be very gratifying and the combat is both solid and satisfying. 
 You feel the impact of each punch and the character roster is modest but varied. Some may find 
 the slight delay and flashing animation after each hit annoying, but it adds to the meaty impact. 
 For Naruto fans, it's very very cool to see all your favourite jutsus recreated in gorgeous graphical 
 animation, and it is at this point that I can review the graphics. 
  
  Very nice is the simple answer. At least for most cases. The environments are often beautiful, 
 the grass, sways in the wind and bends as you walk over it and the water effects are lovely. The 
 art direction is pretty damned perfect and captures the anime's look brilliantly. It's a very bright, 
 colourful and happy-looking game, a welcome change from all the dark violence that seems to be 
 all the rage these days. The character models look great when they're moving and there is some 
 great animation most of the time. They're not quite cel-shaded but seem to be very nice 3D models 
 of the anime characters; there's no easy way to describe it. Needless to say, the models looks 
 sweet, apart from when they get too close to the camera or during a non-anime cutscene, where all 
 of a sudden, they looks strangely robotic and static. Naruto for example, never seems to change 
 his expression at all and his mouth doesn't even move when he talks. 
  The forests look nice and have soft lighting effects. It's times like these that you feel like 
 you're playing a typical RPG, and I'm not sure why, but it just seems to have that nostalgic feel 
 to it. Maybe its the music, some of which is original scoring.
  
  The rest of the music is made up of tunes taken directly from the anime and they suit the game 
 perfectly. You know the Konoha main theme when you're in Konoha village (the main hub area) and 
 you also know the battle music when things are about to go down, ninja-style. The rest of the sound 
 is made up of decent sound effects such as the meaty punches and kicks in combat, and classic Naruto 
 sounds such as the *poof* cloud thing and the kunai's being thrown. The voice acting is terrible 
 and for some can be highly infuriating. I personally watch the anime series in its original and 
 best form, uncut and in Japanese, so it hurts my ears to hear pre-pubescant American kids screaming 
 "Believe it!" every two minutes. 
  
  As I have said before, the story mode is a retelling of the first 80 episodes of the series. This 
 means from the moment Naruto sulks on his little swing in the school playground (which by the way, 
 was an effective opening level) , all the way to the point when Naruto head-butts Gaara into submission 
 after the invasion of Konoha begins. Very very unfortunatly, there is very little emphasis on the 
 actual plot. Many of the cutscenes are edited scenes from the series which move the story along 
 at a basic pace. None of these cutscenes seem to explain anything resembling backstory, nor do 
 they put emphasis on villains. I was personally distraught to find that Orochimaru, one of the 
 greatest villains in anime, was given a mere-two round fight about 2/3 of the way through the game, 
 and then disappears completely. 
  He is not the sinister and menacing super-ninja of the series, but rather just another "boss fight". 
 
  The same flaw applies to the basic gameplay structure. The main story "Ninja Missions" will move 
 the plot along but the side-quests (or "Social Quests") are almost a complete waste of time. They 
 range from finding a woman's scarf that she left very handily near the edge of a cliff to finding 
 20 herbs in the forest that will resupply the whole village's medical inventory. Wow, realistic. 
 And boring. This also means a lot of backtracking. 
  The main hub is the village of Konoha and it is recreated beautifully. It can be really fun simply 
 to run and jump around your favourite spots fans will smile when they see buildings that remind 
 them of an episode. It's a very good and faithful interpretation of Konoha indeed, and even some 
 of the outside areas look great too. 
  
  There are plenty of forests and caves to explore but you only get about three different paths out 
 of Konoha, each one leading to a famous site from the anime, such as the bridge to the Wave Country 
 or the temple near the waterfall or the Forest of Death where the majority of the infamous Chuunin 
 exams takes place. Traversing the roads is nice first-time but it soon becomes a chore. These are 
 the platform elements I mentioned earlier. You run and jump around on platforms and dodge swinging 
 logs and spike traps till you get to the goal. Then you play the tree-hopping mini-game which was 
 a nice touch but then its back to platforming. To make matters worse, you'll bump into enemies 
 which can't be avoided and enter a combat mode. These enemies are bandits and rogue ninja, and 
 you'll only ever see about 7-10 types. They look very generic and the random encounters are a hindrance. 
 
  
  Apart from that, the gameplay is fine. Controlling Naruto is fun and only takes a little getting 
 used to. He feels a bit too quick and is hard to control at first but once you get the hang of 
 it, you'll feel very "ninjary". Another great addition is the hand seal system. This involves you 
 holding down the left trigger and using the two control sticks in various simple combinations to 
 perform the seals and use your powers. It looks and feels authentically "Naruto" and works well. 
 
  
  The story mode is short and there isn't much to do once you're finished, apart from the dull collection 
 and race minigames to get those precious achievements. There is multiplayer but it doesn't offer 
 any new ideas save for the jutsu system which is great. 
  
  Overall, a decent game which fans of the series will enjoy a lot. For the uninitiated, it's not 
 really good enough to explain the story and this is it's weakest point. However, some of the gameplay 
 elements are great and I had fun playing it. The presentation and atmosphere are wonderfully recreated 
 and that was an impressive feat but it leaves more to be desired. Roll on the inevitable sequel 
 I say.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chybby
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  As a gamer I've heard of the Naruto game franchise and the anime series, but I had never been a 
 fan. This one got me , by the hard core feelings as I watched the previews online. Naruto is set 
 in one of the most beatiful world I have never seen. 
  
  The transition pof the universe il great and powerful. The fiting game is more than ok , but lacks 
 a bit of control and there is only few combo and powerful attacks. 
  
  The story is really good as well but the transition beetween game/actual anime shot, lacks at some 
 of the important parts, maquing gaps in the story line. The mini-games are fun and acessible but 
 thre isn't enough. With such a nice world to explore there should be more to do. I actally beated 
 the game in less than 8 hours and I'm no pro gamer. This lack the vision that people would really 
 like the game for the beautiful rendition of the anime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARKphoenix2k
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  After playing the PS2 games I found them to be a little bland and weak.
  This is the anime and the books brought to life. It's bright vibrant and really brings the story 
 to life. Its great for fans but more than likely the anime sequences will just confuse people new 
 to the series rather than acting as a refresh for those who have already seen it.
  
  Being given free run of the Village is great but at times the environment and some of the missions 
 feel far too scripted. At first it's like Grand Theft Auto Ninja then you realise its not it's 
 just a very large free roaming mission select screen but it's a nice one.
  
  They have tried to put far too much for the story into the game which is a shame but it gives you 
 a chance to develop Naruto. Having only read the books or watched the Japanese TV show the English 
 voice acting annoys me no end so glad to see that we can get the Original Jap voices for download.
 
  
  Best Naruto Game i have played but not friendly to people new 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghettokid15
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  I was waiting so long for this game and when i finally got it ,
  
  Graphics- i impress how the eniviroment look it was so lushy , they put alot of detail on it. Even 
 the water look so cool though. The whole overview of the whole village was just beautiful. When 
 you got to the highest building and look at it really nice. The character models look very very 
 good
  
  Gameplay- IT was very nice i luv doing th side mission and there were some that were pretty the 
 same thing. They had some hard side mission though which i really like. The story flowed ok , i 
 like the split screen to the anime series but they did it a little to much, they could created 
 there own screen for it or something. They missed alot key part in the game like the beginning 
 of chunnin exam when there in exam room if they could had had small mini game or something. That 
 part seem important to me it would been nice to have. FIx the voiceover they were bad especailly 
 jiyraya 
  
  Fighting- It was ok, i know alot people complain about this one, i dont blame them, but the fighting 
 style is very unique and this was a first for naruto fans to actually do the jutsus. One thing 
 they do right each person had there type of fighting stance of some wut like neji and kaskia. They 
 could change everybody grab, for intstance for rock lee it could been the primary lotus or something 
 like that rather than giving him the same as everybody else. There was good amount of combos but 
 not for everyone though the more popular charcter got more combos than the other such naruto and 
 sasuke while neji and haku got not as many when some of them have just as much though. 
  
  Online play- Not bad i like the idea of forest of death thing but dont like it as achievement though 
 and online playing against other people is really fun though but dont like those cheap combos lol 
 n have the download content when yr so pose to have dont tell people your going to have it when 
 u first get that alot b****** to me lol 
  
  OVerall- it is soild rently and im glad i brought it because im big naruto fan so if yr naruto 
 fan u should at least give this one a spin i have feeling that ubisoft will learn alot from this 
 first one and have better one from now on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shuhan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited when I bought this game. I was quite impressed to see how detailed the Konoha 
 Village was. The actual vs. mode was impressive as well and it was extremely fast-paced, which 
 I enjoyed. The only thing that I didn't like was that the game ended far too soon. I finished it 
 in less than 6 hours and it was great while I was playing it, but after it was over you're not 
 really left with anything else to do except completing the missions that are scattered throughout 
 Konoha and play Vs. Its a great game, while it lasts, but once its over I was left with nothing 
 to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ken1311
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  The worst naruto game ever.... (well maybe not the worst.. but close)
  The best naruto game so far is Ultimate ninja and Clash of Ninja, but thats just my opinion of 
 the worst and the bast Naruto game. But still why did they make a Rise of Ninja when theres already 
 a Clash of ninja. it makes no sense to make a Rise of Ninja. The graphics yes are cool but the 
 game sucks. The story mode all u do is fight neji. And clash of ninja yes sucks but the clash of 
 ninja revolution on the Wii is cool. But Rise of Ninja noooooo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scak4life
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  i loved the game while i was playing it but i thought the only problem was that it was waay to 
 short the anime in America is more then twice as far then the game is and pretty much 3/4 of the 
 Naruto games that came before it are longer then this one i like the adventure and fighting mix. 
 the environment is flawless it looks exactly like the real Konoha if it really existed. using the 
 thumb sticks to do jutsu is a very good idea they used it worked out very well and the fighting 
 element was fun and didn't really get boring. The ability to play on xbox live was fun as well 
 its the first online enabled Naruto game of the franchise. If you are the hardcore Naruto fan then 
 you should buy but if not then maby you should only rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  For the first time i'll played this game, i'll think it not very interesting naruto games so far, 
 but when you through the game you will like this game in action adventure persepective but not 
 in versus persepective. The best is it has it own cell shaded graphic that look marvelous on lcd 
 monitor or hdtv. The upgrade system also make you want to play more and more of this game to make 
 your character strong in battle. But the weakness of this game is versus system. You get a lack 
 of characters to play and their jutsu also are limited to use. But that enough said, i'll think 
 this game is made for the story and not versus. For gamers outhere try this game if you like naruto 
 anime. I'll hope someday Ubisoft will make a games like this one more time but in versus mode with 
 a lot of characters and their jutsu. Hope everyone enjoy this game. Comment from me, Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksoe17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  PROS:
  - AWESOME ENVIRONMENT, The environment looks exactly like the one in the anime, i like the fact 
 that Naruto can walk around the roof and etc.... the jutsu and everything is pretty good....... LOVE 
 IT
  - AWESOME FIGHTING SYSTEM, love the rage system, love the jutsu system, love the combo system, 
 
  - GOOD STORY, even though doesn't go exactly like the anime, but still good overall
  
  CONS:
  - VERY VERY VERY SHORT GAMEPLAY TOOK ME ABOUT 5-6 HOURS TO FINISH THE GAME (DOESN'T INCLUDE 
 THE SMALL SIDE QUEST, WITH SIDE QUEST TOOK ME ABOUT 8 HOURS MAX, TO FINISH ALL OF THE SMALL BIT 
 AND PIECES) , well i hope there'll be the continuation of this series...
  - NOT ENOUGH CHARACTER....
  - Small variety of jutsus
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozman_Beyond
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Naruto is a beautiful game, nicely done, game play is easy to follow. If you never saw the first 
 80 episodes the game does enough to update you but if you have seen them you will find a lot of 
 things that were left out that should have been in the game. Not a lot of main characters in the 
 game. Even though the game is about Naruto they left out a lot of things in regardes to Sasuke 
 Uchiha. The Chunin Exams was ok but once again characters were mising and a bit mor of the story 
 would have been nice. Over all the game is fun to play but short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursednavi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge naruto fan so of course i had to buy this game. I definitly think its the best naruto 
 out but somethings werent that great. First off there arnt many 3D visuals of charecters a lot 
 are just in anime scenes. Anime scenes are a little annoying since the xbox 360 can definitly make 
 everything in 3D cutscenes. The story is long with all the side missions but compared to other 
 naruto games it dosent go to far into the anime. Lastly there are a lot of cool things that they 
 definitly could have expanded on like the way you make villigers like you. Though i may of said 
 a lot of bad things but there are many good things like it tells the story very well. Konaha is 
 huge and there is even more then just konoha so there is a lot to explore. Its cool how they put 
 a fighting system in with more an adventure game. Overall its a great game but they could have 
 done better. It is definity the best naruto game out and will attract people to the show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaySplasher
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Whether you are a fan of the anime or not, you cant go wrong with Naruto. The gameplay is more 
 solid than stone. The story takes place from the beginning of the series to the Invasion of Konoha 
 arc. In short, the game spans during the first 80 episodes. I was disappointed on the fact that 
 the game does not have Japanese voice-overs. The graphics are cel-shaded to make it look more like 
 the manga. The combat is similar to the Ninja Taisen games (Clash of Ninja games for the Wii and 
 Gamecube) . You can perform the Jutsus by holding the L trigger and moving the analog sticks in 
 the corresponding order. Since you can control Naruto, he can gain upgrades like new combos and 
 jutsus, as well as health and Chakra upgrades. You wont be disappointed when you get this title. 
 By far, this game is one of the highest ranked anime based games around. GET THIS TITLE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: farrgman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  i love this game. this is one piece of work. if you are a naruto fan this is definitly for you. 
 you may start off slow but it will pick up so quickly.
  this game a top notch hit for all ages little small, big and tall lol. go naruto.
  cant wait 
 till the next one comes out. i can't wait..
  but i do prefer people to rent this game first. this game is for naruto fans mostly. the hd 2d 
 animation really shows the game polished scenary.
  rent this game buy this game either way your happy. 1-80 episodes at your dosposal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8smokes
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: Rise of a ninja is an action-adventure with a twist of RPG for the XBOX 360. It offers 
 tons of replay value but not so much that you'll be playing it for years to come. You play as naruto 
 through a roughly 6 hour story mode which takes place in about the first 90 episodes of the popular 
 anime, currently showing on Cartoon Network. If you have not be following the anime, there's no 
 need to worry. The game covers the key parts of the story so that you'll be familliar with the 
 naruto world in just a few hours. Though story mode is kind of short, and in about 20 hours of 
 non-stop gameplay, you'll be finished with the main story, all the side quests, and all the mini-challenges 
 hidden around konoha (naruto's home village) . But good thing Rise of a ninja does not focus soley 
 on the story mode gameplay. There is also a 1 or 2 player, head-to-head batlle option where you 
 could play as many different characters shown in the game. But if you have no friends (just kidding, 
 :pause:...: pause:...: pause: NOT!) or just get bored of playing with your friends (which you don't 
 have) , you could allways play in a head-to-head fight with a computer, or face other gamers around 
 the world via Xbox live. Clash of Ninja veterans will be familliar with the battle system so it 
 won't be too hard to pick up. Although, there is no pratice mode to hone your skills (anyway, you'll 
 be doing enough of that in single play) . xbox live battles offer many challenges such as the Forst 
 of Death challege, where you fight your way to the top of a tower . And of course, achievements 
 will be awarded. Overall, I believe this game diserves around an 8.0 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chewygun
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  As you probably seen from the other reviews, you probably noticed that most of them say best naruto 
 game to date . There's a reason. First off, the visuals are great, compared to any other naruto 
 game that's on the market. The fighting is similar to clash of ninja but each smack that you lay 
 on your opponent has a good feel to it, like it would make a big sound or make screen effects. 
 The jutsus that they added are great, but if you are a big fan of the anime or the manga, you will 
 probably be pissed off as to why some other cooler jutsus aren't added (naruto's rasengan, just 
 to name one) . The online, in my opinion was choppy. The ranked match portion of this is only a 
 one round battle that you must win six times in a row to win. It's harder than it sounds to do 
 it with every character because eventually you will run into someone using a character that's better 
 than the one you're using. Probably going to need some luck getting the online achievements. The 
 single player portion was very short (maybe about 8 hours or so to go through the whole thing?) 
 and it misses some key parts that was in the anime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abassler
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  Game play: The main story mode has you playing as Naruto as he undergoes his ninja training. And 
 while running races, delivering Ramen, or searching for Konohamaru are side quest in the game's 
 main story they are so fun, you'll spend most of your time trying to complete the challenges. Which 
 takes the form of running from place to place inside a set time limit and becomes progressively 
 more challenging as you go. This is mixed with this some nice platforming and combat. and while 
 the combat system might not satisfy fans of DOA or Tekken it really isn't the primary mode of game 
 play. Although they do include a Fight mode where you can play as various players. Graphics: Tight 
 clean graphics, this game is eye catching. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Appljaxx
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Let me preface by saying that i have never watched a Naruto video or played a Naruto game. I'm 
 not even sure why i picked it up, but I'm very glad i did. This game has a ton of different gameplay 
 elements that blend together seamlessly to provide a very dynamic and fun experience.
  
  Most of the game is spent in 3rd person view running around a large town called leaf village. In 
 the village you will spend a lot of time doing small missions and exploring in order to find coins 
 and other goodies. The town is multi-leveled and very fun to explore. I never really found myself 
 lost, but i was always finding new places. When you are sent out of the town you encounter some 
 fun platforming elements. Fighting is a fully developed fighting system ala-mortal combat. I'm 
 not a fan of fighting games, but i found myself enjoying this one all the same. The story is told 
 using cut scenes from the actual show and they do a great job of introducing all of the characters 
 and letting you know what Naruto and his world are all about. 
  
  My only complaint is the game is a bit short. I've played for 9 hours and completed the main quest 
 and about 88% complete overall. Overall i loved playing this game and recommend it for rental simply 
 due to its length. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Infimis
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Im going to be honest, when I first heard bout this game I thought oh its just another fighting 
 ( Beat'em Up) Naruto game. But this one is THE DIFFERENCE in the series. The Free Roam in Naruto: Rise 
 of a Ninja gives you a better feel for what Naruto is about. For example , your not a super ninja 
 at the beginning, you have to go through the missions and training to develop his ninja skills. The 
 fact that they add different elements of the Anime makes this the best in its class. From jumping 
 from tree to tree, to making hand gestures for your Jutsu. Naruto: Rise of a Ninja is definitely 
 going to be the Best Naruto game out for all Naruto fans and for the people who are just joining 
 us, TRY IT! If you love Video Games, If you love free roaming games, If you love Ninjas, This is 
 a game you want to pick up. you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MADDjoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  If your a Naruto fan this game is awsome. Konoha is dead on, I still cant belive how much detail 
 there was put into the town. I watched Naruto and Shippuuden so much that I new the town setup 
 and it came almost second nature to me when it came to finding things. I love the cell shade. Controls 
 need some help. Love how they did the jutsu moves. I wish they left the japanese voice overs in 
 the game or the option to use them with subs, the american voice actors for Naruto and the translation 
 for the american version is the worst I've seen. Hope they countinue with this style of game so 
 that it can keep getting better and better. Naruto Rocks, Shippuuden is the best, and if you don't 
 know what Shippuuen is... you suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daleerin24
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: Rise of a Ninja
  
  I enjoyed, immensly, the silly parts of the game most of all. The Chakra thing is totally cool, 
 and even when you fail, at the Sexy Jutsu, or perhaps the Chakra Concentration Jutsu, it makes 
 me laugh every single time, The way that he farts when he fails at the Chakra concentration Jutsu, 
 made me laugh so hard. Normally I would feel revulsion at such childish displays of bodily actions, 
 but it was so unexpected, I just found myself laughing uncontrollably. The graphics are so authentic 
 to the anime, It's like you are playing one gigantic version of the all too popluar Anime of Naruto. 
 The anime cutscenes are taken directly from the original series. The transition from the 3d anime 
 world to the anime cutescenes is slightly obtrusive and gives the game a fabricated feel. I think 
 the insertation of these cutscenes were a botched effort to add authenticity to the title and a 
 familiar feel to the fans of the series.
  
  The Leaf Village is where you will spend 90% of your time, and it is well crafted. For the first 
 ten hours, you will love the hopping from roof top to rooftop, or over vast exspanses of territory. 
 The Inttricate details of the environment are in a word, Stunning. The downside to the details 
 invested in the Leaf Viliage is the lack of emphasis on the other environments in the game. The 
 missions that take you to other locals are in a word, dissapointing. It seems to me that the game 
 was built around the initial setting and as an afterthought added less quality locations. The game 
 was brief, too brief. There are only 25 main storyline missions, and those can be completed within 
 8 hours max, the side missions are novelties at best, and get old within the first 2 or three levels. 
 I beat the game the day I bought it. I am a tried and true Anime fan, making it a policy to buy 
 any and all titles that have connections to either manga titles or anime titles. Compared to previous 
 installments of the naruto series, this one is by far the best looking, and the storyline, brief 
 though it is, it is perhaps the best. The online mode does not boast many players, but when i logged 
 on, I immediately started smacking down the competition, making me wonder, if either I was REALLY 
 good, or perhaps, the competition is not as hot. Anyways, there is not many different arenas for 
 the fights, but the fact that you can fight as any of the major characters from the game makes 
 me think a little fonder of the mode. The fights tend to get repititous after a certain number 
 have been completed, but there are multiple acheivements to be garnered for the diligent. The major 
 downfall of the game, was that the conversations with the locals and other main characters were 
 minimal at best. There was no depth to the story, making it impossble for any non naruto fan to 
 actually understand what the heck is going on. So many times when I was progressing through the 
 game I tried to talk to the locals in hopes to actually get a different response. In fact EVERY 
 conversation in the entire game is one sided and has no real depth to it. Only the most devout 
 fans of naruto will be able to keep pace with what is actuallty going on. The design of the game 
 is simple, but enthralling for the casual Naruto fan or the seriously devout follower, but if you 
 are not a fan and have not watched the anime or read the manga, you will feel the fractured nature 
 of the game. While I was playing the game, I kept in my mind the perspective of a non fan playing 
 the game, and well, it is for the fan that this game was made, and not for the ones with no previous 
 knowledge. Anyways these are just my thoughts on the title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricmasmor
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  I keep reading.. its not just for fans... and I think its just for those who havent seen a single 
 chapter of these anime. I hate animes in english... it should be an option for change it to japanesse.. 
 and if you think it hard.. its not an fighting game... its just another game for childs like winnie 
 pooh when youre final task is to gain coins or rings or something like that. I was waiting these 
 much for a really cool fighting game and I get a vs of 10 character or less.. where is all the 
 konoha cast... shikamaru, kankuro ... damn it these is a awfull game... cool graphics.. and run 
 around konoha its fun... but all the combat part... hate it... press the same botton and you win 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havok17
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  This game's combat system rocks! The animations are beautiful as well as the overall graphics of 
 the game. The feel of the game is very comfortable. The story mode is just plain fun. The throws 
 in combat could have been varied instead of 6 people all having the same throw's. Naruto fans will 
 enjoy. More characters, more places to go, more story, and different takes on the story from each 
 character would have made this game an eleven on a scale of one to ten. Just exploring the hidden 
 leaf village and aquiring your jutsu's make the game a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darphknight-xbl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  Well to start the graphics are superb. I just wish that developers would make more games graphically 
 look like this. It looks like it has taken the old skool video games especially the likes of sonic, 
 mario and earthworm jim giving it a 3D look and feel with retaining essential 2D look. I've never 
 seen any Naruto of the movies or the series but the story is both compeling and fun to play through. 
 The only problem I found was that it was a little too short which is the only bad point that I 
 can find with this game.
  
  Control wise there isn't a game of recent times that you can pick up and play with relative ease... 
 even the 1v1 Battles are true to the 3D but retain 2D principals. Much better than the more recent 
 DragonballZ games.
  
  The fact that the game is open to free roam is just amazing with what you can do.
  
  I'd say 
 this is a great game for anyone to play especially once you get past your 1st hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenGun
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  This game starts out with an intro into the Naruto world. Ubisoft did a very good job of adapting 
 the anime clips and merging it with their own cell-shaded rendering of the nine-tails during the 
 intro.
  
  To get the good out of the way first:
  This game is simply visually stunning. The best cell-shading I've ever seen. The music comes packaged 
 from the anime and usually that's a pretty bad choice but I must say Ubisoft utilized it well. 
 The chuunin-exams, especially the forest of death was very very well done. As much as they cut 
 out of the story it was done in such a way that you weren't feeling all that lost although if you 
 hadn't watched the anime or read the manga you'd be wondering why you were by yourself (Naruto) 
 the whole time.
  
  Now for the bad:
  The flow of the game is somewhat broken. I beat the meat of the game in less than 10 hours, so 
 if you're curious as to how this really plays you can probably make by with renting it for a week. 
 What Ubisoft lacked for this game was narration. Hopefully if they continue with the series they'll 
 add it in or at least cut the anime scenes together with the gameplay to make it understandable. 
 At times I was asking myself, What's going on? I'm not sure if they had a limit as to how many 
 minutes of photage they could use but it was really badly cut together and even though the anime 
 scenes were supposed to piece everything together it just let you down by trying to piece together 
 what exactly went on and what you are to do now.
  
  The controls aren't too bad but I would have liked to have the block button on the top of the control-pad 
 instead of being the B button. That fraction of a second it takes to move the thumb from the x 
 or y button (attacking buttons) while you're stringing a combo and realize you need to block all 
 of a sudden is really stressful. Having it on the top for your index finger to press would make 
 a lot more sense. Jutsu's are reaaaally difficult to pull off, especially the highest-level ones. 
 In order to do it you have to use your combo's to knock the opponent down. I have yet to set off 
 a level-3 jutsu against the computer. On top of just getting them off, they're interactive; meaning 
 the opponent has a chance to dodge your attacks even after you spent your chakra to do the move.
 
  
  I haven't really spent a lot of time online but when I tried to setup a ranked match it wouldn't 
 go through.
  
  Overall this Naruto game has to have been the most ambitious and to an extent it fulfilled what 
 it set out to do - introduce those who have yet to play a Naruto game or even watch the show. As 
 far as canon goes, it's far from being true to the manga and anime (it even changes the story in 
 some parts) and even Ubisoft's target audience of newcomers to the series will be left wondering 
 what just happened. To put it simply, this game wets your whistle but it's far from quenching your 
 thirst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shishio817
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm a Naruto fan, so this game was really high up on my list. Once I got it, I wasn't disappointed. 
 At least not at first. In fact, my initial rating of the game was a 9.5, and then it steadily decreased 
 to an 8. Here are its jewels and flaws, going by story, graphics, sound, game play, etc.
  
  
  First off, the graphics are amazingly good, so in that category I'd give it a 9. Everything 
 has a hand-drawn feel to it, with vibrant colors and lush effects. The water effects are stunning 
 as well, and the animation is very fluid (give or take a few slow-downs in frame rate every now 
 and then) . I will say that the upcoming PS3 Naruto game seems to be derived from this games looks 
 (thought its graphics are way more impressive) , so I feel safe in saying that this game is and 
 should be a standard setter for anime and cel-shaded games. 
  
  
  Second, the story is, well... broken. Naruto itself has an awesome and detailed story, and being 
 that this is supposed to be the first 80 episodes, you'd expect the game's story to be awesome 
 as well. Not so much; I'd give it a 7 in this department. The story is told mostly through short 
 cut scenes in which text, voice and action happen on screen (though the characters mouths aren't 
 animated, so thats a little odd) . It's also told through lengthy segments from the anime. However, 
 the transitions into and out of cut scenes are choppy at times and can be jarring. Some of the 
 placement is awkward too, so for example even when you beat an opponent, a cut scene will play 
 showing your opponent speaking in triumph (for example, a scene from the anime in which Kiba is 
 wailing on Naruto during the Chunin exam preliminaries) , and it leaves you thinking, "Hey, didn't 
 I just beat him???". In addition, the story skips a lot and is very short (I beat it in 6-7 hours, 
 doing side quests along the way) , so it's not as much the satisfying experience of living as Naruto 
 as I'd expected. Thankfully, there are a lot of sidequests and things to do in the Leaf Village 
 and elsewhere, not to mention exploring, so the game itself isn't short, just the story. Another 
 thing I should mention about the story mode is that some of the bosses (Zabuza and Orochimaru) 
 are ludicrously hard to beat. 
  
  
  Third, the game play is very fun and the controls are easy to learn (though there were a few times 
 where they were either overly sensitive or unresponsive) . You can upgrade your strength, jutsu, 
 and weapons as the game goes along. It's fun to use a Shadow Clone Jutsu or Water Walking Jutsu, 
 for the first time, but after doing it about thirty times, it gets old, though not enough to make 
 you want to never play it again, and it's always more or less fun. However, therein lies the problem: 
 the game is too repetitive. When exploring outside Konoha, you run into the same 3 or 4 different 
 generic "Bandit" or "Chunin Ninja" hundreds of times, and are forced to use the same techniques 
 and go to the same places for fetch quests over and over again. Also, the game is for the most 
 part fine in terms of difficulty, though the higher levels of certain things, like the ramen delivery 
 missions, are frustratingly hard. In addition, outside of Konoha, there are many traps that are 
 dumbly placed and very annoying, and makes the world feel more like some sort of strange obstacle 
 course than a real ninja land. Online play, though fun and a great feature, can be very challenging 
 as well, and many times, since there really is no ranking system, you're usually paired with someone 
 much more skilled than you. So, for game play I'd give it an 8. 
  
  
  Fourth, the sound effects in the game are very fitting, and are nice to listen too. Unfortunately, 
 the soundtrack is very monotonous and gets old quickly. The worst thing by far though is that many 
 characters (Jiraiya, Ebisu, Iruka, etc.) have different voice actors than from the show, and none 
 of them are, to be frank, good (Jiraiya sounds completely retarded) . The voice-acting overall is 
 okay, but a lot of speech is just awkwardly spoken, it could've been worked on a lot more. I'd 
 give it a 7 in the sound department. 
  
  
  Overall, this game is really great for Naruto fans who want to explore the Leaf Village and its 
 surroundings, as well as play a great Naruto game, and can also appeal to people just looking for 
 a fun game to play casually (and hey, it just might get you into the series) . It has quite a few 
 flaws that are hard to miss, and they hold it back from being truly awesome, but otherwise it should 
 not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonballz3220
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Im a naruto fan I watch the series online up to Shinnpuden and this game is good if youve watched 
 the series but it has its areas it needs to improve on such as it was too short I mean yes it covers 
 80 episodes but without fillers its pretty short youll play through it in a little over a day if 
 its the only game you play, some of the voices for the charecters are just sad such as Kakashis 
 and jariyas are lame the least ubisoft could do is work hard to get voice actors or at least close 
 to the original voices so its not too weird for naruto fans, and lastly just not enough of the 
 game was covered its good they chose to get rid of the spoilers and tried to make the game fast 
 paced but they cut too much out a lot of the story was in fillers and they should take some breaks 
 to visit those moments such as the fights durring the preliminaries of the chunnin exams they only 
 showed who was fighting and how it ended where as they should of show the clips from the show of 
 their whole fight shorten respectively that way people got a feel for the charecters better such 
 as gaara I felt that he wasnt covered well. He was a evil blood thirsty beast in the series but 
 in the game I caught him as just another fighter I feel they should take notes from the fans of 
 the series when and if they create another one so that it will be a enjoyable experience for both 
 newcomers and fans. All in all this was a good game but certain aspects need improveing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tevwalker13
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: Rise of Ninja is about a boy named Naruto Uzumaki adventures based on the first 80 episodes 
 of the popular show Naruto. This game is not all its cracked up to be, false advertisement at best. 
 Its an ok game but it not as big of a step as previously indicated. The only two things this game 
 has going for it is the fighting system and graphics, everything else is pretty lame. I mean sure 
 you can run around in the village but there isnt much to do. As you travel around the village you 
 soon notice that you encounter the same people over and over again. I think there is like 5 people 
 that are actually in the village, not counting the main characters. The story is badly told through 
 the cutscenes, any newcomers to the show would definitely get confused. If i didnt already see 
 the show i wouldnt have wanted to see after playing a game like this. Infact now that i think about 
 it, some of the main characters on the game dont even sound like themselves. During the story, 
 all the bad guys you encounter are basically the same, after a while your like are you serious?
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is as such, simple, easy, and the controls can be learned really fast. The 
 fighting system is probably the core of the game because nothing else is really that good. The 
 sad thing about this game is that after a while you start to notice alot of similarities in the 
 game, like throughout the game you will fight the same people over and over and over again and 
 nothing changes, fights then become tedious and repetitive.
  
  Graphics: The graphics look gorgeous, sometimes i wonder if all of the money was spent on the graphics 
 rather the actual game.
  
  Sound: Now the Sound is ok, The have actual soundtracks from the show which is always good, but 
 the voice acting pretty much sucks, and as i said earlier, some people dont sound like themselves. 
 plus as a bonus, their mouths doesnt move when they talk. Its pathetic because you would think 
 at this point in time game producers would have gotten mouth movement down.
  
  Value: The replay value on this game is extremely low, if you do somehow manage to get through 
 this game without going insane I doubt you would want to do it again.
  
  All in all, this game was badly put together, the graphics and fights is all this game has going 
 for it. I was really disappointed, i give this game a 5.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frogert
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Well this game was really fun for me, the story mode can need some work i admit that, but just 
 being able to run around for the first time in a naruto game feels great. Mini games are pretty 
 fun, the city is huge, the graphics f*cking own.
  
  Now a huge joy of this game for me was x-box live, sure you might think "it's the same thing over 
 and over" but no it's not, you always have a new opponent that will be hard or easy, so it's not 
 the same fight over and over. There are about 12 characters in the battle mode, but who knows there 
 might be new characters downloadable off x-box live sometime, which i think there most likely will 
 be. And it just makes you want to try and get ranked 1 on the leader board (which of course would 
 NOT be easy, but worth a try. 
  
  Overall x-box live is what made this game fantastic to me but not only that, the story mode was 
 pretty good to. Just be glad there is a naruto game like this.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  Game play - 8.5/10
  Enjoyableness - 8/10
  Other random stuff - 7.5/10
  
  I think gamespots 
 score was pretty nice, best score on a naruto game on this site, don't believe me? Check. And for 
 those of you that think it sucks, go try and find a better naruto game kthxbye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ply74
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  In a world ruled by shooters and action, Naruto rise of a ninja gives another type of gameplay 
 to entertain you. It's not perfect, i for one hate fighting games but, the way they made this game 
 is good for hardcore and novice alike. I'll be lying if I said I won't try to finnish this game 
 or enjoy it very much. It's definatly very very underated by gamespot. And for you Naruto haters 
 or just plain haters cause it's on the 360 only. Go get a life. This ga, me is very enjoyable and 
 deserves a 9-9.5 easily. Rent it or buy it it's up to you. I own it and i don't like fighters so 
 that should give you an idea of how playable this is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RokudaimeRaven
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I was quite excited for this game to come out, being a Naruto fan and all. I purchased it put it 
 in my 360 and played. At first I was a little disappointed.. it was all a little weird.. the fighting 
 didn't go so well. But after a short period of time you get used to it, and everything seems to 
 get better and better. Pulling off Jutsu's seems much easier now then a couple of hours ago. Simply 
 put the free roaming in Konoha is great. At first you can just run around and jump to a couple 
 of rooftops, but as you progress in the story you learn new things (double jump, sprint, wall running 
 etc.) which allow you to reach greater heights, and you can get around the village of Konoha much 
 faster. As I said before, in the beginning the fighting feels weird. But after a while you get 
 used to it and get better in it. As for the Jutsu, the cutscenes are pretty spectacular. And you 
 can really screw your jutsu up, if performed incorrect. There are some bad things about this game 
 too. The story is pretty short, if you take it easy and just go with a slow pace you should have 
 completed the story line in 6-8 hours. Then you can go for the achievements. Also I didn't have 
 much of a problem with the english voice acting (I watch the Jap. version of Naruto) except for 
 three people: Jiraiya, Iruka and the Third Hokage. The original voice actors for these three have 
 been replaced. Making the cutscenes from the anime ingame seem a bit weird as you'll hear 2 different 
 voices. This can be solved if you download the Japanese voices though... unless you don't like the 
 Japanese voices. Overall a great game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradyboy85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun. It does a okay job of represting the anime through Narutos eyes but fights like 
 saskue and Lee are not shown. You won't feel many of the feelings that youd get through the anime 
 but youlle get the main story line missing some fun things. I would have to the story mode it self 
 is pretty good but side quest get repptive and after your first three to 4 missions are boring. 
 that can make it feel repitive. Now, half the reason I got it was it was Naruto, and the other 
 half was A fighting game. The fighting system itself is decent but not the most in depth. If you 
 liked games like dbz budokai and or fighters in general youll like this game. The sytem is based 
 on hitting your opponent to knock him down and do a jutsu. The jutsus are done by moving the anoalog 
 stick and if done correctly activate, button sequences and mini games. I would say they tryed to 
 make the system creative and new but it gets repetive after awhile and it will be somewhat hard 
 to get it done in game. A online multiplayer is available but the disconnecting is a problem but 
 is sure to be fixed after a while. The forest of death is the ranked type match and you most keep 
 winning to get to the top. when you complete the exam you are rewarded with the acheivment for 
 the character that you where. Ubisoft did a good job represting the anime and this game is even 
 good for those that don't have it and might even want you to see the rest of the story. Im hoping 
 thought that the sequel will do a much better job on the fighting system and sidequests, If there 
 is one. Ubisoft this game has much potential so please make another one and get a little more indepth 
 fighting system and some new minigames. And last and not least Thank you for making this game and 
 bring it to the 360 can't wait for the tons of DL content hopfully. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: north_londonlad
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Started playing Naruto and have to admit i was loving it, the game was a challenge toke, some fights 
 where easy some where hard. The story mode is fun to do but the more you follow the main story 
 you relise just how short game is, It barely has any characters in it, its cut down like hell giving 
 you the bare necessitates of the story.
  
  Im a Naruto Fan Boy for life but this game is a pathetic excuse, makes me wish i didnt pay &pound;30 
 and borrowed it off a friend. You think if the game is made by UBIsoft it would be a well made 
 game and not feel 1/2 assed but your wrong
  
  Graphics are amazing!! Konaha is fun to run and jump around while doing the mini games, if it wasnt 
 for them i would have completed the game hours and hours ago.
  
  If you like Naruto you will prob give this a try, but you will prob be disappointed and keep telling 
 yourself its better then it actually is just expect the worse and you will come out happy lol
 
  
  GFX = 9
  Sound = 9
  Controls = 8
  Game Play = 7
  Length = 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halomaster911
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  I had very high hopes for this game, i have been a fan of the anime since it has come out. Finally 
 there was a real naruto game coming out that wasn't just a simplistic fighting game. The other 
 naruto games were alright although short, but this game was to be the savior of the series for 
 videogames. The graphics of this game are definitely very good, of course being on an xbox 360 
 I expect the graphics to be very good so i dont give it to many bonus points there. Although they 
 graphics are very very artistic, i can see their struggle with bringing a 2d anime into a 3d high 
 resolution world and still trying to maintain a look of the novel/anime. The gameplay in naruto 
 rise of a ninja brought a lot of new things to the franchise. Much of it is very fun for the first 
 few times, but after the new factor recedes it begins to get bland and somewhat boring. Most missions 
 seem to be for a younger audience, apparentally they are going for the younger crowd who watches 
 the naruto dubed versions. Most of the missions consist of o dear someone has stolen my insert 
 item here . Then all you do is run through a sonic like level to find it while you meet the same 
 bandit all the way fighting him. It isn't exactally the same bandit but the skin is exactally the 
 same so it might as well be. The fighting sequences are just like the other games. There arnt many 
 buttons to fight with, just two for attacking and one for blocking but there are many combinations 
 to do them with. But where the fun really comes in is the special moves, in the special moves you 
 have to hold down the RT and move bolth analog sticks in directions, such as doing hand movements 
 then charge it for a certain amount of time depending on the level of it.
  Once that is complete you go into a mini game type of play where as naruto you would hit a series 
 of buttons before your opponent to do maximum damage. Other characters have different mini games 
 attached to their special moves. Overall i would say rent naruto rise of a ninja, i don't see a 
 reason to buy it seeing that i did a lot of the side missions and i beat it in 4 1/2 hours which 
 is very very short. Unless you can find yourself spending tons of time with your friends in VS 
 mode or you want to wander around the city making everyone like you ) which is what you do after 
 you beat the game) there is no reason to buy it. I would have to agree with gamespot on this one 
 and give this game a rating of 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kermi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I'm not here to bash the game. I just wanted to enjoy it so much and it's disappointing 
 in the sense that the game hasn't given me a lot of reason to. In fact the problems I have with 
 it could be mine entirely, I don't know.
  
  Graphically, it's amazing. The environment is brilliantly done, fully living up to my expectations. 
 The cel-shaded characters stand out nicely, and the environment is so well detailed that I am compelled 
 to scour every square inch of it, especially since it's so important I find old/rare coins with 
 which to make purchases and access upgrades. I think there's a great balance of platforming action, 
 as well as the tree sequences, and the combat isn't so common as to become tedious and constantly 
 break the flow of the game when all I want to do is walk from one side of the map to the other 
 *cough*finalfantasy*cough*.
  
  I like that the game starts out on a real downer, reflecting how the village feels about Naruto 
 - you're pretty much forced to wade through the entire town telling you what they think of you 
 (which isn't much) in order to get to your first objective, and the game loosely follows the anime 
 from there. The cutscenes that have been ripped straight from the show feel very out of place and 
 I personally skip through them since I know what's going on anyway. I dislike the voice acting, 
 but there are too types of players of this game: fans of the US version, who will be used to it; 
 and fans of the Japanese version and Ubisoft has done the right thing by making the Japanese voice 
 track available for download (it doesn't seem to be available at this time butI know it's on the 
 way) .
  
  I like the format for taking missions and upgrading skills, though being sent back to the Wave 
 country for missions is a paid as it means running through the forest over and over again to get 
 to where you need to be, so the option to simply jump there would be nice.
  Navigating the massive leaf villiage with it's narrow streets and numerous buildings is easy to 
 adapt to even at high speeds and missions are made easier by being able to ask citizens for help 
 once you've gained their approval.
  
  Where the game really falls apart for me personally is the combat. It's implementation is great, 
 everything I expected. But it's repetitive and the learning curve is staggering. There's simply 
 nothing to prepare you for the first major villian fights against Zabuza and Haku and I actually 
 failed so hard at them that the game refreshed my memoclips free of charge just to help me out. 
 I went after the Defeated Kakashi acheivement and I must have gone through that battle eight or 
 nine times before I finally managed to avoid his Chidori and take him down.
  Which brings me to my next point: the jutsus. Let's forget for a moment that you only get a few 
 to choose from and only one is really worthwhile in combat. It seems the computer AI has no difficulty 
 in breaking out their best powers multiple times in a fight, and avoiding them is practically impossible. 
 I personally am lucky to activate my shadow clone jutsu one fight in ten, and it almost never connects 
 because the AI counters it without fail, even when I time my button press perfectly so I am tapping 
 the button the very instant the option to do so appears on screen. The only time I've ever prevented 
 an enemy from activating their jutsu is when I just happen to be at a distance hurling kunai in 
 desperation because my health is almost gone and I want them to stop wailing on me for a few seconds 
 so I can get my bearing. My combos are broken with ridiculous regularity and my defences seem pointless. 
 If this is what the standalone Naruto fighting games are like, I'm glad I avoided them.
  
  Maybe it's just me, but the combat in this game is a chore, and has killed a lot of my motivation 
 to keep playing on now that I'm approaching the Chuunin exam.
  
  In summary: I like this game, a lot. There are a lot of great things about it. But one key component 
 feels broken to me, and has ruined the game for me as a whole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knuckles10001
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  The games alright and i'm off to bed.
  The games alright and i'm off to bed.
  The games alright and i'm off to bed.
  The games alright and i'm off to bed.
  The games alright 
 and i'm off to bed.
  The games alright and i'm off to bed.
  The games alright and i'm off to bed.
  The games alright and i'm off to bed. The games alright 
 and i'm off to bed. The games alright and i'm off to bed. The games alright and i'm off to bed. The 
 games alright and i'm off to bed. The games alright and i'm off to bed. The games alright and i'm 
 off to bed. The games alright and i'm off to bed. The games alright and i'm off to bed. The games 
 alright and i'm off to bed. The games alright and i'm off to bed. The games alright and i'm off to 
 bed. The games alright and i'm off to bed. The games alright and i'm off to bed. The games alright 
 and i'm off to bed. The games alright and i'm off to bed. The games alright and i'm off to bed. The 
 games alright and i'm off to bed. The games alright and i'm off to bed. The games alright and i'm 
 off to bed. The games alright and i'm off to bed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tamoj2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  got it november 2 wen it cam out 'n' i hav been playin' it till now which is about 11 a straight 
 12 hours of kick ass ninja action uzumaki style
  there is no words to describe this game or well if you like naruto or fighting games in general 
 jus buy this game see what i mean. ther is also shikamaru free download on xboxlive marketplace 
 to add to your 13-15 character list a must buy hey what do you know i found a phrase to descibe 
 it just play the game right. dont listen to the gamespot guy reviewing it its completely different 
 to what he says it is. MASTERPIECE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heroface
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  OK So I've not played all too many of the Naruto games in the past but I am a big fan of the anime 
 and those which I have played in the past have been awesome.. so when I picked up my copy of RoaN 
 I wasn't epecting much more than more of the same.
  
  Little did I realise what I was letting myself in for... be it the simple-but-stylish 1 on 1 fighting 
 or the free roaming or the FULLY ANIME-TED CUTSCENES (I'm sure I must have missed some of this 
 if it's from the show but I am on episode 252 at time of writing)
  
  Just buy it guys I have no time to be writing this I need to get back to my Xbox.. also if you 
 hate Naruto.. Buy this... Then start watching the show. The cheapest place (for you skint folk) 
 that I found to buy this (annoyingly after I'd paid &pound;42 for it) is a place called BlahDVD. com... 
 I'm gonna be using them in future I think cos the deals they have on games generally beat anything 
 else.
  
  So yeah, Rise of a Ninja, The GREATEST THING EVER TO HAPPEN INSIDE MY XBOX!!! I cannot wait for 
 the sequel... just cos (like most people) I know what happens next... for the next 6 games... keep 
 up ubi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingcole225
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  this game is so good just after the first 5 seconds. the graphics are amazing (except up-close 
 faces) and the jutsus are so cool i just wish there were more than 11 chars. the characters to 
 play in versus mode are Naruto sakura sasuke haku zabuza kakashi kiba neji orchimaru gaara and 
 rock lee. sasuke is my main man me n my friends have already chosen chars the best of my friends 
 tho plays as gaara which is fun because its like the chuunin exam sasuke vs gaara. every1 plays 
 as lee naruto and neji online so try n chose an original character. the city of konoha is awesome 
 i cant wait until i get chakra concentration so i can get to higher places. its so cool how u get 
 people to like u and hate u because u'll have to find people (like konohamaru) and u have to ask 
 the ones who like u and they will tell u over that way and then the kunai tells u where to go for 
 a couple of seconds and then u have to ask again. anyway this is  
 great so just buy it, today, now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JayLeo08
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  I have never watched the show, nor really had an interest in Naruto. My friend actually buttered 
 me up into getting the game. I had my doubts, but I was really impressed. The game has a large 
 freeroam world to run and jump across buildings, slide on rails, run up walls, and tons of unlockables 
 for your character. The mixture between anime and graphic content really formed well with this 
 game. The overall story had me interested and I think I might start watching the show. Online fighting 
 is intense, frustrating, and hella fun. I would recommend this game to anyone who likes RPG, the 
 anime itself, or fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryeinkazamoto
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Naruto rise of ninja is the first naruto game on the xbox, and lets face it, Naruto games have 
 only been decent so far. Rise of ninja tries to break that, but ultimately falls a little short 
 of a full bowl of ramen (ha ha... ramen joke) . Anyway, let allow me to explain
  
  Graphics: Graphically, Naruto is great, tis done very well and the cel shading is a neat touch. 
 The game though doesnt do very well on cut scenes. Instead of rendering the cut scenes like in 
 the intro, they either take a distant camera and let you see naruto and the gang standing around 
 as subtitles and horrible voice acting tell you whats actually going on or they show you scenes 
 ripped straight from the anime. I feel this is a bit of a rip, especially seeing they edit scenes 
 from the anime and change them around to suit the story in odd ways.
  
  Sound: The music is great, they have all the awesome theme's from the real anime, which makes it 
 sound authentic. The voice acting though, is another story. The game is plagued with bad dialouge 
 and annoying voice actors, namely naruto... which is bad because hes the one you have to hear throughout 
 all of the story mode. And plus the way they butcher the word RAMEN is almost a sin.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay has two aspects, the fighting and the platforming. Neither feel completely 
 done or as cool as they should be. The platforming has its good parts, but mostly feels like a 
 chore. You are either running and gathering items, or jumping out of the way of the same spiked 
 log you scene in all your missions. The fighting almost seems like a port from one of the other 
 naruto fighting games, with a bit of a tweak here and there. Its ultimately annoying and quite 
 painfully at times to play. There is a lot of speed and the animations and such look nice enough 
 to bare... but the lack of special techniques plague the game and drag it down. You'll find yourself 
 using the same Jutsu over and over and over again... making the combat predictable. Knock over your 
 opponent, pull of jutsu, play little mini game, then do it again. NINJAS AREN'T SUPPOSED TO BE 
 PREDICTABLE!!!
  
  Story: Well the story is what you've come to expect. It basically plays through the naruto story. 
 they've added some extra scenes and such, where you mostly fight bandits or other nameless ninjas. 
 OH! and in the chunin exams, where everyone is trying to obtain the rank of Chunin, you fight a 
 few ninjas that happen to already be Chunin... or Jounin! wtf? Indeed.
  
  Overall: Naruto is great for a rental or if your a naru-tard, but if not, its better left untouched. 
 Sure its got awesome graphics, but really they dont count for much if the rest of the game is lackluster. 
 I give it a 6.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superrj
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest naruto games to date. The reason why i gave it a nine is, because of 
 the story. If the story did not go up to only episode 80 it would get a ten. Also i would be nice 
 if there where more Jutsu. The good part is the cutscenes from the show explane it better. They could 
 of also added a few characters instead of the ten plus three downloadable characters. My favorite 
 part of the game is exploring konaha (leaf village) . But in the end if your a big naruto fan like 
 my self you will love it. My Gamertag on xbox live is Backslash10 if you want to talk about the 
 game or challange me in a match. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbird991
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: Rise of a Ninja is surprisingly enjoyable. Once you get past the first hour, the single-player 
 campaign becomes a real treat. And the combat system, while not deep, is a lot of fun. Fans of 
 the Naruto anime will absolutely want to pick this one up. Those who've never watched Naruto can 
 still get a lot of joy out of this game. It may even inspire you to check out the series on DVD. 
 Naruto: Rise of a Ninja isn't the best adventure game or the best fighter on Xbox 360, but the 
 two pieces fit together to make for one of the better games on the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darreo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Hoopla associated with Naruto. In reality Naruto is a top notch anime and in this case (and a few 
 others) a freaking awesome game. I had the Japanese imports of Naruto (and part 2) for the ps2 
 and those are really good games. This however surpasses them to the fullest. The story mode had 
 me stuck on my Xbox for like 5 hours straight last night. Its very fun controlling Naruto &amp; 
 learning his sexy Jutsu &amp; the other ninja tech. This game is something to be reckoned with. 
 The 2 player vs. mode was another aspect that shinned very bright. The combo system was nice, the 
 graphics make other cell shaded games look like crap. The speed and controls of the characters 
 was astounding in HD. I cant give this game a negative mark. I think it shines all around. The 
 sound is well put together as is the overall presentation of the game is done supervene. The only 
 thing I thought could have been better is the fact that there are only a few characters to choose 
 from when fighting. The ps2 versions had 40 characters and this version only has 11. Well hopefully 
 on part 2. In the mean while this one is top tier gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lt_Roy_Mustang
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Naruto Rise of a Ninja is defiantly that best Naruto game that I have ever played and Ubi did a 
 great job with the licence. The visuals look beautiful, the scale of some of the levels are astounding, 
 and it truly feels how a Naruto game should feel. The several gameplay mechanics in the game work 
 well together, however gets to repetitive at times. The combat is slick and feels fluid and pulling 
 off the Jutus works well even in the heat of battle. The platforming is fun and running around 
 Konoha trying to collect coins and such can burn a couple of hours alone, and the tree jumping 
 scenes where you leap from branch to branch is enjoyable and is one of my favorite parts.
  
  That being said, there are several issues that I would like to point out on the bad side. Other 
 than the repetitiveness of several elements, there are several times that it feels more like a 
 chore to go out and either fight some bad guy, retrieve some object, or race around some area. 
 Also I should point out the bad voice actors that they chose for the game, several of which mispronounce 
 names despite many others pronouncing it correctly (It's Ramen, with an ah sound not an a) . Also 
 several characters never make an appearance despite that they brought more to some scene than say 
 Naruto did; like the scene where Shikamaru and Naruto stop Garra from killing Lee, in the game, 
 they cut out every scene with Shikamaru, who actually saved Lee, no joke. Also they replace the 
 voice actors for Iruka, Ebisu, Konohamaru, the Third, Jiraiya, Anko, the Ramen shop owner, and 
 pretty much anyone who isn't major in some way, while in the anime cut scenes keep the original 
 voice actors making the contrast even more obvious. I mean they had them in the Ultimate and Clash 
 ninja games, why not RoaN too?
  
  So in the end, I guess Naruto is a solid game sure to please the fans and is a step in the right 
 direction for a good game series. But to those who never saw the series you might enjoy it however 
 the story get chopped up, battles get thrown around or dropped and key scenes are lost, meaning 
 if you're in it for the story, go watch the anime. A solid 7.5 for me, Its good, but could use 
 some work around the edges, hope RoaN 2 gets made and does even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TENTHROW2
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This is really a great game when it gets down to it. I want to see more and hopefully opens way 
 for a sequel.
  
  The graphics are fantastic, and how the game intertwines scenes from the anime make it feel like 
 a nice big seemless experience. The controls are a little tricky to get used to, but not overly 
 hard and the way the inplemented using chakra and jitsu are very very well done and immersive.
 
  
  It's a standard platform/rpg/fighting hybrid. the fighting side of it is not bad at all, could 
 have probably been done as a standalone fighter.
  
  at any rate, i recommend this game to any. being a naruto fan i will get more out of it, as will 
 any other naruto fan, but anyone can enjoy this.
  
  Good to see someone finally made a licensed game worthwhile. Thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhetherMann
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Being the hardcore Naruto fan that I am, one of the coolest aspects of this game is that the developers 
 have included actual clips from the show to carry on the plot! On top of that, the fighting is 
 really quick paced and very engaging. It's basically obsessed with this game now! I can hardly 
 wait to get back home and keep playing it!
  
  Oh, another thing. The graphics are just simply amazing due to the cell shading. It looks like 
 an interactive anime, to put it simply.
  
  Not much else to say about it other than the fact that it is by far my favorite game on the 360 
 right now. Due to it being part fighting, part rpg, part adventure, part puzzle, I'm pretty convinced 
 that anybody would like it, so I do highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranma_X_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  All i can say is i've played my fair share of naruto games and they're turned out pretty good but 
 i gotta give props to ubisoft for actually doing justice to the source material.
  
  Being able to explore konoha village (or as it's known in the american version the village hidden 
 in the leaves) is the most fun i've had and it's refreshing to be able to run around in it and 
 see how vast it is from the roof tops of the buildings.
  
  The only thing to get used to is performing the handseals to perform special techniques as well 
 as the training excersizes with kakashi If anyone's looking been looking for a great experience 
 in the world of naruto i'd say give Rise of a Ninja a try i'm sure it'll grow on you and you'll 
 enjoy the game. i know i do so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crzy624
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  even if u dont like it u cant be hatin on the freeness of the city and the walkin around and if 
 u dont like the fighting ur crazy . the boss fights r very hard and take a long time to beat . 
 and i like this game because u actually have to try and play because the game is actually very 
 hard to play and control the way u use your jutsus and i have to write mad words for this review 
 so here they are n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n nn a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa r 
 r r r r r r r r r r r r u u u u uu u u uu u u u u u u t t t t t t t t t tt t t t t t t t t t to 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo all t he wa y 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke_Ninja21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  As you know there have been many dissapointing anime created games such as gundam crossfire, Naruto 
 Clash of Ninja 2 WHICH wasent a bad game but it could have been better but now i am happy to say 
 that this naruto game.... is the one that will revoulutionize this series.
  
  Naruto Rise of a Ninja is more then a game... its a great game!! what i loved about this game was 
 the balance between the characters and the jutsu's (which i will get into later) but i will start 
 off with the story line.
  
  The story line goes through 1 to about mabey 82 episode of the naruto series which we have really 
 all seen before in naruto clash of the ninja 2... but not as good as this. Naruto Rise of the Ninja 
 gives the idea of a freeworld concept which i belive paid off big time!! it really wasent all about 
 just fighting it was about finishing missions and getting your stats and rank up and the fighting 
 was more like the 2nd component to the game.
  
  More or less you will spend a good deal of time finishing other missions like delivering ramen 
 and of course real ninja missions but you can just go through the campaign pretty quickly if you 
 just go through mission after mission after mission without exploring the great Leaf Village of 
 Komoha.
  
  As i said above the characters are pretty well balanced with the new jutsu's. Each character has 
 diffrent jutsu's and also a rage mode which can be activated when you have 1/4 of your health left 
 but its the JUTSU'S that we all love.
  
  The jutsu's take a bit of the idea from naruto ultimate ninja by moving the controller stick to 
 both side or up and down which is a really nice way instead of just pressing one button to set 
 off a killer combo. Once you pull off your slick jutsu (good job took me a while lol) you dont 
 imdetiatly attack the opponent, some jutsu you might have to lock on and they can roll around and 
 dodge and with others come actions sequences when at the right moment then can press the A button 
 and they flip backswards dodging the attack!!! its a really great idea and it feels really good.
 
  
  The fighting does feel kinda the same as in clash of the ninja though and button mashers can shine 
 but there is a combo list and there is a new grab system where you can throw your opponent in the 
 air then hit them down to the ground which gives it a nice look.
  
  The graphics are eye candy and just looking at the surrouding area you can tell that they spent 
 a great deal of time of drawing and colouring then eventually shading in the coloured area which 
 gives it that nice cell shaded anime everyone loves.
  
  the voice acting is good but its not the best characters tend to messup a couple of times with 
 the diffrent pronunciation of the words.... especially RAMEN!!!! which can be kinda annoying but 
 you will eventually get over it.
  
  There is one thing that bugs me.... its that the game only goes up to about 82 episodes.... ive been 
 waiting for a naruto game that would go through ATLEAST 100 of the episodes it makes the game feel 
 short and which is why ubisoft created the side quests so it wouldent seem as short as it is.
 
  
  Overall though if you've been waiting for this game for a long time as i did then you will be SATISFIED 
 its is truly a great game and it is truly the naruto game that we have been waiting for 3-5 years 
 for and for new comers that are new to the series this game is a nice start because it does start 
 from the beginning of naruto to where they ended it at 82 episodes (the anime is at 111 now in 
 english and the japannese is on the next portion but i wont give any spoilers) So to new comers 
 or to the old lovers of this series... a couple of words.... get this game..... LOVE THIS GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narutofan30
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  First the name speaks for it self Naruto. But other noneNarutofans Should grab this game. If you 
 look a the forums people are going crazy about this game. Its got free roam and with an awsome 
 story line and the fighting in defiantly next gen.. This game has Xbox live so you can battle in 
 tournament like modes or cruse the streets of The Hidden Leaf Village. The free roaming is what 
 makes this game great. It is the first of its kind. NO GUNS Free roamlng. So its like Driver, Godfather, 
 And Grand Theft Auto. Take away the guns add ninja shurecken and BAM this game. This game has an 
 asome free roaming story with missions, Multiplayer, and Xbox 360 Live. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
