-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NASCAR 09
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/nascar09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Addition of Jeff Gordon onscreen improves the presentation and overall experience.
 Paint booth allows you to customize every aspect of your ride's appearance.
 Paint schemes can be shared online.
 Excellent audio.
 Career mode features a number of new options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Racing gets repetitive quickly.
 Gameplay doesn't feel much different from 08.
 Crashes are lacking excitement.
 Online races take a long time to get started.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.9, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 382 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Games
Genre: Stock Car Racing
Date: Jun 10, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NASCAR 09 isn't a tremendous step forward for the series, but it's a solid effort. 

  There's no question that with all of the new features, NASCAR 09 is an improvement over previous 
 installments in the series. The gameplay hasn't received much attention, but better presentation, 
 the ability to completely customize your ride, and other minor enhancements make this a game that 
 should please most fans of the sport.  

  Jeff Gordon's involvement can be seen consistently throughout the game -- he's not just the guy on 
 the cover. What makes his involvement unique is that Gordon essentially acts as a pit-crew chief 
 to help users navigate through all of the different stages that a driver must take to reach the 
 winner's podium. The onscreen addition of the four-time Cup champ improves the presentation and 
 results in a better overall experience. However, he's not the only driver to have an impact on 
 the game. EA has finally worked out a deal to add Carl Edwards and his #99 car to the roster. The 
 rest of the field remains the same as a year ago.  

           Jeff Gordon's influence is present both on and off the track.      

  Although some 
 may prefer to get right down to racing with the Race Now mode, many will be intrigued by the improved 
 Career mode. After you set up your new driver information, it's off to the garage to explore the 
 robust new customization options. You start by selecting and designing your own number, and then 
 lay down a base color for the body of your car. Racing stripes, waves, flames, and sponsorship 
 decals are just some of the graphics that you can use to pimp your ride, though many of the sponsors 
 won't be available until you earn them. As if that weren't enough, you can design your own graphics 
 in an image-editing program (such as Adobe Photoshop) and upload them to an online locker to make 
 them available in-game. This impressive depth of customization makes NASCAR 09 a much more engaging 
 experience.  

  Upon completing the design of your car, you'll be asked to sign with a sponsor. Each sponsor has 
 a set of expectations that must be met to improve your reputation and, ultimately, move up to bigger 
 sponsorship opportunities. Unfortunately, though it may be cool to raise your reputation and gain 
 bigger sponsors, it actually does very little for you other than boost your ego. The real key to 
 improving your skills in NASCAR 09 is to complete as many of the 77 different Sprint Driver Challenges 
 as possible. The first challenge asks you to complete a lap without going under 150 mph and to 
 avoid going off the track or hitting the wall. Another interesting challenge is to finish ahead 
 of a specific driver within a certain time frame. These challenges are actually more fun than the 
 races themselves because they are shorter and more intense. By completing the different challenges, 
 you'll earn performance points that can be used to improve your car's performance. The challenge 
 mode's variety is one of NASCAR 09's strengths.  

  Before each race, you can tinker with every aspect of your car's suspension, aerodynamics, tires, 
 drivetrain, and even weight distribution if desired. For those of you who aren't full-time mechanics, 
 you have the option of choosing between a basic rookie setup and a veteran setup, which immensely 
 simplifies the process of setting up your car. Nevertheless, you probably won't have to mess with 
 your car's setup if you're playing on rookie or veteran levels. Qualifying for a race is uninteresting 
 and too easy on either setting. It's possible to drive through the grass or even scrape the walls 
 and yet still grab the pole. Obviously, the first position is desirable to any driver, but starting 
 first often feels like you're racing the track alone because you rarely ever see any other cars. 
 In fact, the hardest part of winning a race may be staying awake for the remaining laps after you've 
 taken the lead.  

  Fortunately, if competition is lacking on the rookie and veteran settings, you can step it up another 
 notch to legend difficulty. This makes qualifying and finishing first much more challenging and 
 rewarding. If you start the race toward the back, it may take you 50 laps just to get up front. 
 You can also turn damage and collisions off as well as set the flag rules to full to further increase 
 the difficulty. Computer-controlled drivers aren't noticeably more aggressive on this setting, 
 but they are much faster and more precise when making turns. You may have to work a bit to find 
 the settings that fit for you, but NASCAR 09 provides a level of competition for all users.  

 
           The in-car view provides the most excitement.      

  There are five different camera options when driving. The in-car perspective delivers the most 
 exciting driving experience; every turn seems to be magnified and demands your utmost attention. 
 NASCAR 09 offers two different driving styles in the game to go along with the different viewing 
 options: normal and pro. Normal is the easier of the two styles in that it lets you be a little 
 less precise when taking turns. Conversely, the pro driving style requires a more experienced driver 
 with steadier hands to be successful. To master the driving controls, it certainly takes some precision 
 behind the wheel at first. The slightest wrong move and you'll slam into the wall if you're not 
 quick enough to correct. Despite the sensitivity of the controls, they're accurate. When racing 
 at almost 200mph, the stakes are high and your every turn must be precise, and the controls reflect 
 this. However, it's really not that difficult to remain on the road and become the pack leader 
 once you've adjusted to the game. Overall, the computer AI is definitely not as aggressive this 
 time around. Drivers will still attempt to fight for position, but it's nothing like the road rage 
 exhibited in the past.  

  NNASCAR 09's graphics are adequate but the crashes could use some work. The problem is that you 
 rarely get huge collisions that result in cars flipping end over end. Most crashes result in one 
 driver bumping another and spinning out of control until the yellow flag comes out. It's more realistic 
 that huge crashes don't happen that often, but it would no doubt add to the excitement of the game. 
 The graphics aren't stellar, but they still look pretty good considering the number of cars onscreen 
 at any given time. All of the tracks are the same from a year ago and look nice, but it's difficult 
 to notice any major graphical flaws when you're consistently driving more than 170 mph.  

  Online play was difficult last year, and it hasn't gotten much better this season. EA has changed 
 the number of allowed drivers in each race from 11 to 14. The change to 14 is nice, but that just 
 means that there are now three more drivers who can bring out the yellow flag by being reckless. 
 Fortunately, users can turn off yellow flags and collisions when racing in both ranked and unranked 
 matches. Keep in mind that you may have to wait a while for a race to start, though. Sometimes 
 the process of getting a race started will actually take longer than the race itself. However, 
 once you actually do get online, you may find that there are some advantages. For starters, when 
 the yellow flags aren't coming out, there's a lot more action during the race because so many drivers 
 are fighting for position. Furthermore, the lag doesn't seem to be a problem, despite so many drivers 
 playing at once. NASCAR 09's online play also includes the ability to share paint schemes with 
 other users. This cool and unique feature is another attempt to pull the NASCAR community a little 
 bit closer together. The Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions of the game played the same both online 
 and offline.  

           There are plenty of crashes, but they all feel a bit subdued.      

  The sounds within 
 NASCAR 09 are a great complement to the game. The noise from all the crowds and the engines sounds 
 lifelike throughout the game. Additionally, the spotter does a solid job of helping you navigate 
 through the field by consistently letting you know if there's an opposing driver running down low 
 or up high. The music on the soundtrack has a nice mix of hard-rock tunes featuring such bands 
 as POD and AFI to help set the mood on race day.  

  The bottom line is that NASCAR 09 is a good racer but doesn't provide the same level of excitement 
 as the real thing. Regardless, it's at least a small improvement over last year's game in nearly 
 every way. If you're willing to spend the time adjusting some of the settings, you'll find NASCAR 
 09 to be a fun and challenging game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (28 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pjr2682
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 12:32 am PT
Review:  lemme start by saying that i owned last years game and bought the ms wheel just for this game. 
 now lemme also say that for the money i put into hopes for this game wasn't worth it. 100 for the 
 wheel 60 for the game just didn't pay off. last year was a decent first effort 4 the 360, i thibk 
 they took the year off again with this 1. they need to worry less about putting jeff gordon in 
 the game to explain stuff and worry more about gameplay. oh wait.... forgot it's ea they just buy 
 out everything and don't care about us. anyhow moving on, this game feels the same as last year. 
 they need to rework the career mode it's just boring. game plays better if you have a wheel, if 
 you don't i sugget an extra controller cuz ya just might throw it when the cpu spins you cuz the 
 ai is retarded and doesn't even know your there. ( awesome) game soumds pretty good, although they 
 could make the air guns when changing tires sound better. the air guns sound like a jammed starter. graphics 
 are really nice but car manufactures would be a nice touch, even if they were generic. put in an 
 effort. this game only has decent replay value 4 me because of the lack of a in depth career mode. 
 the ea paint booth is just broken. i would avoid this. the ingame paint is easier but limited ( 
 lazy ea again ) . overall it's not a bad game but not a game that is worth going out of your way 
 to play. i would suggest renting it first or maybe working out or eating a pizza and watching the 
 real thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helghastbane
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 5:42 am PT
Review:  I like this game first and foremost. The problem i have is that it can be so hard to get a reasonable 
 setup for some tracks that it takes away from the main point of a game, that is to race!! Dont get 
 me wrong i like the fact that they have tried hard for realism but the setup difficulty is going 
 to send casual gamers running away. I like a lot of the features of the game the paint shop is 
 ok but they have had better versions of this on older games. The ability to create your own paint 
 scheme is cool but no one but your friends can see it which brings me to one of my main complaints. Online 
 races feature about half a field of GREY cars because the rest of the field cannot see your masterpiece 
 paint scheme.
  The online racing is the main draw for most with this game i think and for the most part aside 
 from the grey cars it is done reasonably well, it can be pretty glitchy at times though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UKPartisan
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong I like this game (game being an appropriate description) but I can't help but 
 feel disappointed by it. As a Brit with more than a passing interest in NASCAR anything that gets 
 released in the UK is a bonus. However what we have here is a Lite representation of the NASCAR 
 experience. I want to participate in the pace lap, I would also like the option to be able to race 
 back to the line for restarts, I want to be able to drive down the pit lane of my own accord etc, 
 etc...
  
  I'm not the kind of person that subscribes to the common held belief that console releases should 
 be dumbed down because console gamers have the attention span of a gnat. Whats needed here is a 
 true representation of a fine motor-sport and the option of whether you want an arcade race or 
 the full blown simulation works. The difficulty settings Normal/Pro really don't feel all that 
 different, even with all the driving aids off and the AI cranked up, it stills feels rather simplistic.
 
  
  However gripes aside, what NASCAR 09 does well, it does very well. It just a shame so many of my 
 compatriots misunderstand the sport. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Right out of the gate... this game gets major kudos from me for allowing custom skins to be created 
 for custom cars. I enjoyed creating the cars as much, if not more than the game itself.
  
  Graphics - Well done, tight, and pretty darn good looking. Every car was spot on with sponsors 
 and drivers. My Xbox did lock up on several tracks and usually once or twice a night.
  
  Gameplay - Not huge into NASCAR, but it was darn fun to play. I went with basic modes, because 
 I dont know enough about tweaking a race car to do me any justice.
  
  Storyline - Simple... your a NASCAR driver and you race. Some nice bonus stuff built in, and career 
 mode was decent. Jeff Gordon did a good job for a sports actor, and the voice overs were nicely 
 done.
  
  If you like NASCAR, its a must have. If you just like to pick up a controller and race, then not 
 a bad choice either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhern12
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  1,000 times better this year! I bought it! The three magic words the NASCAR 09 developers and producer 
 love to hear. This year's version could not have been any more addictive, and the best of the game 
 is that the cars are finally drivable, the controllers finally work right this year! -Please EA 
 DON'T change them anymore! You guys finally got them right! Looking forward to nascar 2010 already, 
 eventhough I think I will still be playing this one as well.- After last year's version and its 
 so many problems of the game and the disappointment, I almost gave up entirely on it, but I gave 
 it another try and I'm happy I did. The reason I'm only giving it this score is because it doesn't 
 have a two player co-op mode or versus mode where I could play with friends at home and not only 
 over xbox live. Other than that, the game is definetly worth the try, if you like nascar or racing 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I've been a big NASCAR fan since I was a little boy and still am I have always watched the races 
 on TV. And I've always bought and had a lot of fun playing the games that came out about them. 
 But there's just something about this game well actually there's a few things about the game that 
 seem wrong about it. But don't get me wrong this is a fun game just like the rest but it doesn't 
 seem like there even trying to make any steps forward in the game at all. I hate how they took 
 out the draft lock and the intimidation thing to those were to things that I really like and used 
 all the time in the game. And come to thank of it the cars don't make sparks no more either or 
 maybe I'm wrong but I'm sure they don't but that ain't a big deal to me. The soundtrack is ok but 
 not a lot of songs like past games but that is also not a big deal to me. This is a good game but 
 you might as well just wait until the price goes down to get it. Because there's nothing really 
 big to get it for.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicMatt777
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Now dont get me wrong, this game is awesome. Its all fun, but it misses what the older games had, 
 which would make this game more fun. What I miss most that they havent put in these games in a 
 while is the victory lane celebration, or the pre ceremony, with the jet fly over and the all famous 
 words of "Gentlement Start Your Engines." Would that not make it more realistic? Why would they 
 take those out to begin with? They say that want to make a realistic NASCAR game, yet theres nothing 
 realistic about it except the tracks, rules, and drivers. Okay, other than that, this game is fun 
 to play and very addicting. Career mode is nice but not deep enough for my tastes. Graphics are 
 incredible, the lighting and everything just looks amazing. The major problem, beyond anything 
 else, are the profile lock ups. Those suck. Anyway, get this game, its all good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rotten__eggs
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Graphics are i must say pretty good, but as most say the effects are total garbage, cars 
 dont make sparks (well atleast none visable) when they hit objects cars or the wall. The soundtrack 
 is pretty good but it doesnt have enough songs. updated menus and features are nice, such as the 
 new rep and preformance points.
  
  Cons: They took out everything that made the game easy to jump into. They took out the draft lock 
 and intimidator feature which makes it hard to get to the front, not to mention just a bad move, 
 drafting in a lock really helps, you cant even make allys or rivals any more i mean how dumb! your 
 tire wear and gas mileage generally is horrible compared to most cars, i was at pheonix in the 
 trucks, travis kuapil (spelled wrong) got 6 more laps in gas than me. The cars in my opinion are 
 way too hard to drive, there always too tight and easily oversteered. Thers no team option meaning 
 you cant switch with cars on your team (I found that prettty cool) . Black flags are horrible make 
 sure to turn those off. Still EA wont include every driver and has way too many made up ones. The 
 computers drive like pricks, they often times wont let you pass them even if there 8 laps down, 
 which is rediculous since any fan knows thats not what happens. The AI over all is just sad and 
 degrading to the Nascar series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JayXIII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I think with the more realistic crashes, and the more realistic driving style, it feels more like 
 I'm playing a NASCAR game, and not an arcade game. I was starting to miss the days of old when 
 Papyrus made NASCAR Racing for the PC. Maybe this is the step in the right direction without Papyrus 
 to fall back on. Finally EA has stepped out of the "arcade" style NASCAR games, and started listening 
 to what the real fans want.
  
  It still needs some more realistic improvements. I still see cars doing some weird things sometimes 
 that they wouldn't do in real life... like just run right off the track when you move up on them 
 really quick.
  
  I would hope to see their PC version of the game be more like the days of old, back when you could 
 customize EVERYTHING on the game, when Papyrus did it. You could make your own paint schemes with 
 whatever you wanted... if you just wanted to put a dot on the hood, for example, and that's all 
 the car had on it, then that's what it looked like. Kind of like any PC game with it's in depthness 
 of things you can do to the game.
  
  I miss being able to save a replay of a HUGE crash you might have every now and then, and then 
 looking back on it a year later and saying, "Man, that was an awesome wreck. It looked so realistic." 
 Yea, that just doesn't happen any more with the newer games. I thought maybe with the next generation 
 consoles, they would be able to add to what Papyrus once did. Yea, I've not been a fan of EA, espacially 
 when they bought the licenses of all other competitors, making a monopoly on sports games, and 
 limiting my choice. I do miss the better NASCAR games made by the other companies... 
  
  I sure hope this gets read by someone that would actually have some interest in maybe turning the 
 way they make NASCAR games around. It's been 8 years since I enjoyed playing a NASCAR game for 
 more than a day... thanks EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kabals
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to preface this by saying I did not play NASCAR 08. I had 07 and loved it so much I played 
 it right through the 08 version. Now that I'm on an Xbox 360, I decided it's time to upgrade.
 
  
  Sadly, many of the features that I loved about the series are missing from 09, namely, the $$$ 
 purses after each race, and the percentage take you receive based upon your contract. There are 
 no earnings whatsoever in NASCAR 09, and I think that is a tremendous miscalculation on EA's part. 
 The former ability to buy entire teams throughout 4 different circuits was extremely entertaining 
 and kept me busy for hours on end.
  
  Some good things: the ability to customize every tiny aspect of your car, from the paint scheme 
 down to the tire pressure. Many of the aspects of tuning your car are going to be far beyond most 
 people's casual understanding of mechanics, so I would suggest going with default setups in most 
 instances. 
  
  I really do like this game; the gameplay is solid except for the black flags with make no sense 
 on how they're handed out, so I just turned them off. I do with that there would have been the 
 same sort of emphasis on earnings and $$$ like we saw in the 07 version because it is a glaring 
 omission from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonSumrall
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  Ok, so anyone that played last years game knows that it was a major flop on the car handling, you 
 could roll a car very easily just by cutting the wheel to hard, running in the draft at a Superspeedway 
 was next to impossible. I am glad to report, problem solved. The car handling is MUCH better this 
 year over last year. The graphics havent changed much, although they are still great, cant get 
 enough of doing victory donuts and seeing the tires explode, just great fun. I do have a couple 
 of gripes, some that have carried over for a few years now. 
  
  1. Car Numbers: Come on guys! Im tired of driving a car with a number in the triple digits! Could 
 some one please tell me when was the last time the 188 car went to victory lane? A Cup field is 
 43 cars, which mean there are only 43 numbers in uses, let us pick from whats left! 
  
  2. Sponsors: Ok so this has gotten a litte better, you can now pick from a few legit companies 
 such as Napa, Coca Cola, Craftsmen, etc. How about some others that are already associated with 
 Nascar but are not primary sponsors..... Gatorade, Geico, Pennzoil, Wal-Mart, K-Mart, other lines 
 of Pepsi and Coke, etc. 
  
  3. Owners/Sponsors: I may be wrong on this, but its not to often the you see sponsors and teams 
 kick a driver to the curb or want to resign the contract after just 5 races. 
  
  4. Gas/Tire Wear: I cannot for the life of me figure out why the AL cars get twice the gas mileage 
 and tire wear that I get. I thought at first that it might be because I was out front letting her 
 eat, but after spending the first half of a race at Talladega behind JR in the draft and still 
 getting 6 laps less on a tank of gas that JR, I realized something was a miss. This can be a ROYAL 
 pain if you like to play with pit stops.
  
  All in all the game is much better than last years version, just a few tweaks would make it even 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordkai
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 5, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  What could have been a great game ended up being a very poor effort on a great license. EA has 
 exclusive license to make a Nascar product, so why does it fail to bring a game that actually works? 
 After it happened to me I checked on the official forums and the Xbox 360 forums only to find too 
 many people having the same exact problem as me. So why is there no official answer from EA other 
 than people on the forums complaining of major lock up issues? 
  
  To bad the EA I remember, you know the one that made quality games to attempt to compete with other 
 studios within the same genre, just doesn't seem to exist anymore. They only have one company to 
 compete with, themselves. There in lies the problem, because of this they feel they can release 
 a product that has not been fully tested and seem to be only worried about meeting a release date, 
 we the consumers seem to be the ones being affected. I've told myself after the NHL 08 console 
 to PC fiasco that I wouldn't purchase another EA title. How am I to stick to that if I have no 
 choice as to who makes some of my favorite types of sport games?
  
  So enough of that, here's what I think of the actual game beyond the issues I'm having with the 
 lock ups. Starting off the first thing you see and hear is Jeff Gordan and his whiny little girl 
 scout voice. Not being a Gordan fan I found his commentating somewhat annoying and somewhat unneeded. 
 Actually, considering all the information that's being given by Gordan the title would have been 
 better off with a Pit crew chief giving out the advice, the immersion into the racing in career 
 mode would have been better for me personally. As you race you earn Rep, you can earn it in a multitude 
 of ways but from what I've seen earning it (and losing it) is easiest in a race. If you want however 
 you can go in to challenge mode (Tiger Woods 08 style) and complete challenges that test your skill 
 in different ways.
  
  The graphics are fantastic and the best in any Nascar game I've ever played, not saying much since 
 EA has had the license for a while now and there isn't much else to choose from other than games 
 like Grid and Forza. Some of the problems I've seen while racing is with the black flags, that 
 should be the first thing you turn off. When first starting the game I jumped in and learned how 
 to drive on the track in a race to see how well I could handle being surrounded by other cars. 
 However, when you have all flags turned on you will be finding yourself getting black flagged more 
 than anyone else on the track. Even if you did not cause the contact for some reason you are the 
 one to be flagged. 
  
  Overall the game is great minus the major hiccup that EA needs to stand up and take responsibility 
 for and fix. Once the problem is fixed then it's game on but otherwise it will be sitting on my 
 shelf until a patch is released. Hopefully we'll meet on the track before next season is released. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  NASCAR 09 has improved a lot from its 08 counterpart. A career mode that actually tracks all your 
 finishes throughout your entire career makes a much needed return. It was always puzzling why the 
 past several years would only track your finishes for one year. We can finally import custom made 
 skins into the game. Anyone who played NASCAR SimRacing on the PC would be familiar with painting 
 custom car skins in Adobe or a similar photoshop program. However, for those who are new to this 
 concept, painting on the the PC and getting it downloaded to the console will likely prove to be 
 more of a hassle then it is really worth. Even being familiar with making my own schemes, it was 
 rather annoying and difficult to get the scheme into the game. Once you get it figured out it's 
 easy, but there's such a convoluted process involving EA's NASCAR 09 website that you just may 
 never figure it out if you're short on patience. It's something that was clearly aimed at the hardcore 
 players. In addition, these schemes are only visible to friends online, to everyone else you are 
 merely a blank, grey, car (boring!) . A livery editor such as what is seen in Forza 2 would be recommended, 
 but at least this is a step in the right direction none-the-less. 
  
  The presentation is light-years ahead of 08. While Jeff Gordon acting as a tutorial guide helps 
 improve the presentation, it's quite unnecessary. Nothing he tells you is particularly helpful, 
 but ok. The AI responds to your presence better in this version but they still lack much personality. 
 It would be nice if some were maybe more aggressive than others, maybe some would wreck more often, 
 some would actually run distinct high-lines around the race track, and so on. Too often when the 
 CPU crashes it seems more like a result of bad programming than from actual driver error.
  
  While there are three different series to choose from (trucks, national, and Sprint) it is 
 clear that the Sprint cup is the primary focus. In fact, I wonder why they even both putting in 
 the other two series. Why not focus on the Sprint cup series. Heck, EA, release three separate 
 games, one for each series, and watch the cash flow in! Anyway, as good as the graphics and the 
 cars look, they're void of manufacture logos and some specific logos like Budweiser and Miller. 
 While there may be some bureaucratic reasons for these omissions they do detract from the authenticity 
 and excitement of the game. The game is supposed to be a simulation of NASCAR, it's not convincing 
 when manufacturers, an obvious identifiable aspect within NASCAR, are missing. NASCAR 09 deserves 
 credit for making leaps over last years abomination. However, there's still a lot of work to be 
 done before NASCAR is truly a game for the masses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adams134g
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  The physics in this game are nice. Can be frustrating for players new to the racing games. Even 
 if you arn't a big racing fan you might enjoy this game anyways. If your not that good at racing 
 games you can change the difficulty to your liking. If you are good at racing games then this has 
 something instore for you. The AI is somewhat smart. This game has wonderful physics. NASCAR fans 
 will enjoy playing as your favorite racer. The online "Paintbooth" let's you download custom made 
 NASCARs. Even if your not a huge NASCAR fan you should still enjoy this game, such as the online 
 play. Having a steering wheel kit adds on to the fun even more. If you just have a controller though 
 you should still be fine but the steering wheel makes things a little easier. The AI can be dumb 
 at times but it's still pretty intelligent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverWeeZy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Ok I'm going to start off saying I really didn't like NASCAR nor did I understand any of it. Then 
 I just decided to download this years and I ended up liking the demo and went out and rented it. 
 I am still playing it. I don't even like NASCAR and I like this game. It is waaaaaaaaaaay better 
 than last years. The Jeff Gordon talking crap is a nice addition and I wish they would do something 
 like that in the basketball or football games. I think the graphics are ok but could still be better. 
 The paint booth and all that is really fun. I jsut wish we could make our own decals or something 
 but we don't always get what we want. It starts getting boring if you play it hours straight unless 
 you just like driving around in circles. Even so I still think it is a good NASCAR game and if 
 you like racing games you should play it. I would buy it but I would get bored with it easy because 
 I don't like NASCAR that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 4, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  Nascar 09 is a great improvement from last year for the most part. Its hard to really elaborate 
 on its positives because one major flaw holds it all down. The game has been released with the 
 worst freezing problems I've seen to date on any video game. Not long into the game at the beginning 
 when you go to load up your profile the game will lock up your entire console. No matter what you 
 do, how many times you try, what console its on, it will continue to do the same thing. All you 
 can do is delete everything you had accomplished up to that point and start over, but you most 
 likely won't even make it as far as you was before it happens again. I can't believe Gamespot didn't 
 mention this in their review, as a full month has almost gone by since the release of this game 
 and EA has yet to own up about the issue and announce that they are working on a solution. So BEWARE, 
 don't buy this game until if ever EA releases a patch to solve this problem. You don't want to 
 pay $60.00 for a game you can't play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrclortho
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  I have played the Nascar series games for years. I usually pick up one about every three years 
 and they do get better each year, just not that much better. Nascar 09 is different. This is the 
 best version of the game thus far and they have come a long way in the physics, game play and graphics 
 of the series. It just 'feels' more realistic and car adjustments make all the difference in the 
 world.
  There are two game modes in the career: normal and pro. Normal is for little kids or complete armatures 
 because it will actually slow you down for the curves automatically even if you are at full throttle. 
 Pro is not that much harder as long as you concentrate on braking and throttle control. The rest 
 is pure car setup and the ability to navigate in traffic. I love the fact that I cannot just blow 
 everyone away. If my car is not setup right, then I am NOT going to win.
  The only downside is that the physics of the wrecks are still a bit unrealistic both graphical 
 and physical. Sometimes when you wreck, you are able to easily drive out of it, and in real life 
 that just isn't the case. The cars also do not react realistically enough when they are hitting 
 each other or obstacles.
  Overall, it rocks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghawk7
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 27, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Nascar 09 is an excellent improvement to last year's Nascar 08. If we were simply comparing the 
 two, Nascar 09 would easily get a perfect 10. However, though the game is undeniably better, there 
 is still a lot of room for improvement. The game begins with an intro from Jeff Gordon. Before 
 beginning you must pick your preferred style of play, Normal, a more arcade-like approach to the 
 series for beginners, or Pro, a more realistic and challenging version for veterans of the series. 
 The game gives you the opportunity to run a test race at Michigan to get a feel for each setting. 
 Pro is the better choice hands down, whether you are a beginner or not. More realistic racing makes 
 all the difference. The game also offers a variety of settings for difficulty and also auto-adjusts 
 as you play, making Pro manageable for newcomers as well.
  
  There are several other activities you can indulge in before officially starting the game including 
 when Jeff allows you to create a driver and a car for the Chase for the Cup option of play. Most 
 of this is completely optional, but worth trying out. Jeff also explains the reputation system. 
 You earn rep by competing in races with your created driver/car. The better you do, the more rep 
 you earn. Rep allows you to purchase sponsorships and join race teams. You can also earn rep by 
 competing in driver challenges.
  
  The game offers several modes of play open to the Craftsman Truck, Nationwide, and Sprint Cup series, 
 including, of course, Race Now, Chase for the Cup, Testing Sessions, and Driver Challenges. The 
 season mode also returns this year. Most of these modes are good but could use some improvement. 
 The Driver Challenges can be fun at times but boring and bland at others. The testing sessions 
 are really helpful for mastering the tracks.
  
  The controls in the game have improved and are much easier to manage. The car setup options are 
 intricate as always but simple enough for those who don't know much about cars to set their ride 
 up. The AI in the game is much more intelligent, though not perfect. They do avoid hitting you 
 for no reason, unlike in 08. The games settings allow you to change the difficulty of the drivers 
 to easy, hard, etc. All of these modes seem to work well.
  
  Graphically the game looks great, especially in HD. The damage is, in general, great looking but 
 can be a bit mediocre at times as well. The 2D crowd can be a bit irritating at times, but it doesn't 
 really matter considering the focus is on the cars going at 188 mph. The impressive visuals are 
 probably the highlight of the game. The sound in the game is also fantastic. This time, EA actually 
 recorded the real cars and they sound great.
  
  The core gameplay has seen some changes but hasn't really improved much from last year. The cars 
 handle about the same and the game can be a bit buggy at times, for instance, in some replays, 
 cars are hovering slightly above the ground. Fortunately these are rare and short-lived so they 
 are easily overlooked.
  
  I would suggest renting the game before paying the 60 dollars needed to own it. This way you can 
 decide whether you want to bother owning the game at all. If the only Nascar game you own is 08, 
 you should definitely buy this game.
  
  Overall Nascar 09 is excellent when compared to 08, and a decent racing game too. While nowhere 
 near perfect, perhaps EA is finally stepping in the right direction. If they keep the good aspects 
 of this game and fix those that aren't so great, the next Nascar game will probably be the best 
 one we've seen.
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 9.5
  Sound: 9.5
  Value: 6.5 (rent it first)
  Tilt: 7
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjo1992
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Before the game came out I thought it would just be another ea sports Nascar game. But When I put 
 the game into my 360 and played I was very surprised that it was actually good! The graphics are 
 a big improvement over 08. There is no lag on the 14 player online which is even more surprising 
 seeing how 08 and all the past nascar ea games were laggy. The own the track feature makes things 
 very exciting when playing friends where you have to try to beat them and get good lap times and 
 more points to take over the track. Ea also made it so you cant just go online right away and race. 
 You have to do the sprint cup challenges offline to get performance points to make you car faster. 
 The performance points carry over to online. I think this is a good idea because it makes you get 
 involved in the game. 
  
  People will also be very surprised with the new create a car. Now you can go on the computer and 
 paint your car anyway you would like and put anything you want on it. Then you upload it to your 
 ea locker. Ea has also improved the in game create a car. You aren't stuck with the same colors 
 that ea gave you. Now you can edit the colors. And also move the sponsors around. Most people will 
 be very happy with the create a car.
  
  EA has also made the AIs better. They added adaptive ai which you can turn on or off. Adaptive 
 ais keep up with you can make passes on you which makes it very hard to break away from the pack. 
 The ai are still very good even when adaptive ai is off. The ais give you room and dont rear end 
 you like the did in nascar 08. 
  
  There is also a new career mode. They brought back some of the features from fight to the top mode 
 in nascar 07. You start out in the truck series and you sign your team and sponsors. Then you have 
 to complete objectives for your team and sponsors like finish in the top 20 every week or stay 
 in the top 10 in points. The career mode still needs some work though. Besides signing a team and 
 sponsor and completing objectives you still cant do anything else. Like own a team hire and fire 
 team mates. There is also no money. Ea has added rep points that add up but you cant use them for 
 money. The only currency in the game is performance points but you can only use that on one thing 
 in the game which is to upgrade your car. 
  
  Ea has made the game for hardcore racers and people who just want to go out and have fun while 
 they race. Ea has added to driving modes to the game. Normal and Pro Mode. They also have two different 
 default setups. You can use the rookie setup which is easier to control or the vetern setup which 
 is faster but a little more difficult to control. If your not happy with either of those setups 
 you can mess with 40+ setup options. 
  
  Overall most people will enjoy this game. The game still is behind Nascar Racing 2003. But it is 
 a console game. The game has some glithces and freezing issues but the game is still good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minizilla3074
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Graphics-9.5 The cars and tracks are spot on. The damage is the only thing keeping this from being 
 a 10. While much better than the overly aggressive damage engine that EA used in '08, it is still 
 somewhat off. At times it isn't realistic enough... ever see a Cup car slide up the track and tag 
 the wall going backwards? The trunk is crumpled. In this game, you drive away with minor damage. 
 And then, at other times, you'll bump-draft the car in front of you, and the hood is dented in. 
 Part of that is graphics, and part of that is gameplay, I know, but I include it here for space.
 
  
  Gameplay-7.5. Again, much better than last year's offering. There are many ways to play this game. 
 The gameplay options contain various settings, as do the driving options. Are you a casual racer? 
 Then the Rookie setting with all the driving assists and the AI set to easy is for you. More hardcore? 
 Turn off all the assists then and have fun. And for the gearheads out there, the Test and Tune 
 mode from '08 returns, allowing you to tweak and adjust many different aspects of the car, from 
 spring compression to gear ratios. 
  
  Originality-7. I debated this score in my head for a while. I wanted to score it lower, as it's 
 a NASCAR game. Not a lot that can be done with that. However, I will score it higher for the simple 
 addition of the Paint Booth. Paint Booth allows users to download free Photoshop (or paint. net, 
 if that's your preferred application) templates for all three series (Cup, Nationwide, and Trucks) . 
 Using that template, the user can create quite literally anything their heart desires. If you have 
 the skill needed to do it, make a number K-2 Dale Earnhardt car (his pink one) . Or an Adam Petty 
 car. Ever wanted to see the South Park car running at Daytona? With Paint Booth, you can. You can 
 do absolutely whatever you want. After creating the design, you can upload it to EA's servers, 
 and then download it to your EA Locker on the 360, allowing you to use that car or truck in the 
 game, in practically any mode. 
  
  AI-6. The AI in this game can still be horrid, but when compared to the AI from last year? It's 
 night and day. AI cars will try and stay to a racing line, instead of forcing you high into the 
 wall or low onto the apron. The one major complaint I have is if the AI setting is on anything 
 other than Hard, they tend to slow down too much in the corners, forcing you to do the same. As 
 far as the NASCAR AI, it is a little better as well, though I still get a Black Flag from time 
 to time for speeding on pit road, when I pitted on a yellow flag, and the console is driving for 
 me. 
  
  Replay Value-8.5. Trying to get all the Driver's Challenges will take some players a while, and 
 with the addition of a 'truer than 2008" Career mode, you now have a reason to run multiple seasons. 
 
  
  Online play-3. Higher than I scored last years game (1) , but still could be better. I'd still like 
 to see online leagues, sanctioned by EA and/or Microsoft, where a governing body could regulate 
 it and eliminate glitchers and drivers who think it's the funniest thing in the world to bring 
 out the caution before the leader takes the green flag... on every start. I recently ran (or tried 
 to run) a 100 lap race at Pocono. We ran under yellow, literally, 88 of the 100 laps. No fun at 
 all. If EA institutes fair play leagues, I'll adjust this to a 7.
  
  Overall-8.5/10. Much, much better than last years offering. I recommend this title to everyone 
 who likes NASCAR. You won't be disappointed..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MVZUWL
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  When EA realeased 3 great NASCAR titles from 2002 to 2004, its NASCAR franchise looked to go in 
 the direction to be the next Madden of EA Sports big line of sports games... But when they gained 
 the rights to the NASCAR games, something changed, did they get lazy because they knew there was 
 no competition? or were they experiimenting? either way the franchise started to crumble both on 
 the eyes of racing gamers and NASCAR fans, but with this years game it seems that after turning 
 right and hitting the wall time after time again, they made some well needed adjustments and they 
 starting turning left again, now they are still not as good as they can be but if they keep this 
 up we might see even the sim racing community join in the ride.
  
  NOW for the review itself:
  
  Presentation: 
  The graphics are sweet as hell, you can notice 
 the small improvements in this years game from last years one, everything from the cars and the 
 tracks look great (except the 2d crowd but when your going 190+mph who cares really?) cars look 
 very well when you take the perspective of the lighting, as well as the track, you can notice that 
 the car gets dirtier during the race and that the sun goes down and clouds move a bit covering 
 the sun sometimes (the time transition) It even sometimes makes it hard to drive into a corner 
 (in a in cockpit view) because of the sun, the sounds are very well done also, they took the real 
 car noises and intergrated them into the game, on superspeedways when you go behind a car you can 
 hear wind blowing and when you go close beside a car you can hear its engine mirroring yours, but 
 at times the sound of the engine goes flat and it got me a bit frustrated as I though my car was 
 having engine problems, crashes sound ok but they can improve the sound of bumping since it sounds 
 the same as a crash, music choice was very good as they toned downed the country for some rock 
 (for the new generation of NASCAR fans) The menu is very simple to navigate and the 3D garage makes 
 it fun to just stare at the menu for a while...
  
  Features:
  First off, the paint booth feature... THANK YOU EA! this is a great feature you can upload your 
 own custom made car (PC) and download it from the EA locker, even though the process of making 
 the car on my PC and uploading it onto my EA locker seemed a bit harsh for some people, but when 
 you do get your car it looks great on the game, this is a very good feature for guys who like to 
 race on cars like Dale Sr's old cars some special paint schemes that the game does not have, cars 
 from back in the day and cars for online leagues, and if your not a wiz in the PC EA lets you make 
 your car in the game with an improved paint booth from last year's game. The Sprint Driver Challenges 
 are a somewhat revival of the loved feature on which you had to play moments of recent NASCAR years, 
 but this time it's more of a board game type of map on which you steady work your way up harder 
 challenges and even drive against real cup drivers, with this you earn REP point which you can 
 use to upgrade your personal driver, this brings me up to a couple of new features:
  a. My Driver: You create your own driver with name and info...
  b. REP points (reputation) : with 
 these "points"you earn you can upgrade your cars and the bigger your REP the bigger your contracts, 
 and more "respect"from other driver in the track...
  c. Own The Track: Its sorta a leaderboard, it shows you a map with all the tracks and if you play 
 offline it shows you how you stack up in each track against the cup guys in the game and if you 
 play online it shows you how you stack up against your friends...
  This all plays out in the renovation of the Career mode though not as good as fight to the top 
 or the thunder series career modes it is A DEFINATE IMPROVEMENT to last year horrible Career mode, 
 this years one is just plain fun... Its very easy and simple and yet fun...
  last but not leats the JEFF GORDON feature... sigh... I'm a Jeff fan and lord I got sick of him, 
 he gets a tad annoying and his corny lines are terrible I DONT KNOW how Dale Jr fans and Gordon 
 haters will see this... but you know what, its just that I already know about NASCAR so It annoyed 
 me, but for some people it may help and I have to say he looks well in the game (green screen does 
 great things)
  
  Gameplay:
  You can really see improvements from lasts years game 'cause last year the game was or too easy 
 or too hard, your car was or too loose or too tight, this year the guys in EA made it possible 
 (should I say it?) TO RACE YOUR WAY, yes the slogan tell nothing but the truth it lets you have 
 2 driving models Normal (for newcomers or ARCADE racers) and Pro (for Hardcore Nascar racing gamers) 
 both work very well and you can notice the driving differences, the Ai has improved but its still 
 not perfect, BUT HEY! now you can bump draft them without them going to the apren to miss you! 
 last year there was no drafting and they constantly hit you for no apperant reason this year they 
 draft with you and they hit you with no apperant reason in a lower degree... the car setups take 
 a real effect on the car something you could not feel in 08, and you can feel the differences in 
 driving between series (Cup, Nationwide and Trucks) The online gaming in 09 is pretty good there 
 is still Lagging once in a while but it runs smoother than 08, I only raced a couple of races online 
 and I'm pretty satisfied... the damages are good but the replays sometimes dont respond well...
 
  
  OVERALL:
  Good game... NASCAR FANS MUST BUY, Racing gamers (if they are not ignorants who only think of it 
 as cars going in circles) also a game to buy aus its fun, Sim racers? rent it..... 
  
  The GOOD:
  its better than 08.... nuff said
  
  The BAD:
  You know EA can still do better, 
 Generic Cars, Gordon gets annoying, Online still has a bit of lag and only 14 guys in a race (WE 
 WANT A 43 FIELD RACE) , Nationwide and Truck series roster of drivers is TOO DANG LITTLE only like 
 4 drivers in the truck series... COME ON! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo4amtrak
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I was a little worried buying this game, I have gotten Ea sports Nascar every year 
 and over the past couple years they have gotten worse every year. The racing feels right no more 
 bumper cars before if you bumped the computer cars they would have major road rage and take you 
 out which is not real at all. I have been doing the challenges which are great, they help you build 
 up your points to make your team better, the graphics are awesome, the sound lets just say CRANK 
 IT UP, the paint booth is good hope next year it gets better. This is real racing don't expect 
 to win every race, the people who give this game a bad review are those people who say this game 
 sucks because they don't win every time they race. They don't even do that in real life. My time 
 with GTA 4 just got cut in half. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwallacefan
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Nascar 09 started off with a bang and keeps burning. One of the things that caught my eye was the 
 superb graphics. The cars look great, all detail is visible. Controlling the cars is much improved. 
 More additions to race tracks and damage detailling. A lot of fun to play. A couple negative comments 
 I have about this game is I wish more than one player could play this game on the system, but you 
 still have Xbox Live as a choice which is great. Controls are easy to learn and fully functional. 
 Sometimes you wreck yourself when by accident trying to pass someone this should be improved but 
 not really a big deal, just have to be a cautious. Speed and braking responds well while racing. 
 Lastly, the career mode brought back a few memories that I had when I was first playing Nascar 
 Thunder 2004 and the Jeff Gordon mentoring thing is really well done. 
  
  Overall, Nascar 09 is a great game to buy with a rating of 9/10. 
  
  Thank you for your time 
 and enjoy this game and racing :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed45823
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This wont come out to be a surprise buy nascar 09 is basically same as last year with some visual 
 tweaks and some fancy menus. not much has changed. the driving feels weird. u cant seem to keep 
 ur car under control due to poor handling. just like nfs prostreets. the rubber band a. i will make 
 u bash the game at whoever made this crappy title. also u'll notice that a lot of cocepts in this 
 game are a ripoff from other games such as nfs prostreets n previous nascar games. so dont except 
 this game to be exceptional but instead flatout bad game.
  
  If there was anything positive about this game, it would be the cover of the title which will deceive 
 u into buying this and in the end u will wish that u had never bought this game. i personally feel 
 that ea's nascar is played out with the same old game each n every year. thats certainly the case 
 in nascar 09. DONT BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BTG47
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  This is definitely the best NASCAR game since Thunder 2004. It improves upon last year's game in 
 almost every way, with a much deeper career mode, adjustable and much more realistic AI, and lets 
 not forget much better graphics with improved anti-aliasing. One of the ongoing problems in the 
 series was the game being way to easy, and that is fixed this year with Easy and Pro driving modes. 
 You can set your difficulty and how difficult the ai is as well. You can even decide if their is 
 a rubber band with the adaptive AI option. And the only really good thing from 08', the deep car 
 setups, is back in full force. And for the first time in recent memory, the game actually has instant 
 replay, a first for a EA Sports NASCAR game. And unlike before, when you had to guess on cautions 
 whether to pit, under caution it tells you everything from tire wear to chassis damage to the amount 
 of gas you got left. And on pro the hitting the wall hurts more than ever before, as it should. 
 I've had two DNF's in ten races when i got spun into the wall, really bringing out the true NASCAR 
 experience. So if you love NASCAR, and are looking for either a sim racer or an arcade style game, 
 this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  Deep career mode
  Excellent graphics
  Great surround sound
  Driver personalities
  Two distinct control settings
  Smart AI
  Import paint jobs from Photoshop
 
  Better use of ESPN license
  
  THE BAD:
  Rep system isn't implemented well
  Jeff Gordon can get annoying with constant tutorials
  Odd design choices for online play
  No 
 unlockables
  Key features from past games still missing
  Generic cars
  
  What a difference a year makes. This time last year, I was ranting about how NASCAR 08 was one 
 of the worst racing games I have ever played. It took a lot of excellent elements from past games, 
 and threw them out the window. It was just the bare minimum of a NASCAR game and it showed. Now 
 that NASCAR 09 has been released, it's clear that EA Sports took a lot of the complaints about 
 last year's game to heart.
  
  The biggest difference you'll notice is the choice between two difference gameplay styles: normal 
 and pro. Normal has more of an arcade feel. This mode is designed with NASCAR newbie's in mind. 
 You still need to know a fair amount about how to drive a stock-car, but overall it's much more 
 forgiving.
  
  Pro on the other hand is for hardcore NASCAR racers. Although not as challenging or as sim-realistic 
 as the Papyrus games on the PC, it will still test the skills of NASCAR veterans. You have to be 
 especially careful when entering and exiting pit-road to not spin your car, and avoid hitting the 
 apron of the track. Both control types allow you to adjust the assists, but only pro lets you adjust 
 them individually.
  
  Because the controls are greatly improved from 08, this also means that your car setup actually 
 matters now. Adjusting the settings can have a dramatic impact on how your car handles. Although 
 the very detailed setup system was in 08, because the controls sucked so bad nothing you did seemed 
 to really matter. A lot of NASCAR gear heads will be debating on what is the best setup for a given 
 track.
  
  The AI is actually, well, intelligent this time around. Other drivers on the track are aware of 
 your presence, and will try to avoid you if they can. They'll still run you off the track if you're 
 both going for the low racing line, but that's to be expected. Most of the time if you go low they'll 
 avoid you and go high. You'll also see AI drivers racing each other for position, and will race 
 you harder to avoid going a lap down. Drivers have actual rankings now for certain tracks, and 
 will race better on some tracks as opposed to others.
  
  New to 09 is the reputation system, or rep for short. This is basically a dumbed down version of 
 the hero/villain system that was seen in past games. As you run races you'll earn more rep, which 
 lets you unlock new contracts in the career mode. However, that's as far as the system goes. It's 
 never really explained how rep affects your overall career, and how rep is earned in a race. If 
 I drive aggressively, do I lose rep? It's never really explained, so I'm assuming not. Therefore, 
 rep seems more like a one-way gradual progression system. To compound this problem, you only earn 
 rep when you're racing as yourself in your own custom car. Want to race as Dale Jr? No problem, 
 but you wont earn any rep for doing so.
  
  There's an actual career mode in 09 now. 08 had a terrible "career" mode that was basically just 
 a series of individual Cup races and mini-games for different teams. The end result being that 
 you can own your team. NASCAR 09 fixes this by including a much more in-depth career mode, and 
 removing the mini-games to a different mode called the "Sprint Driver Challenge."
  
  Although the career mode isn't as deep as past games like 2005's calendar based mode, it still 
 provides enough depth to make you feel like you're working your way up the racing ladder. You'll 
 start out in the Truck series, and eventually work your way up to Cup level competition. You can 
 sign individual sponsors as you fulfill your contract obligations.
  
  The Sprint Driver challenge is a new mode that is comprised of a series of mini-games. It plays 
 out on a board-game like map. As you complete challenges, you'll unlock new ones. You'll eventually 
 be able to challenge actual NASCAR drivers to various tests of skill. These challenges range from 
 avoiding wreaks to passing a certain number of cars within a time limit. In past NASCAR games, 
 these challenges were presented with real-world scenarios. You were required to met certain goals 
 that happened at actual races, or to change history by doing something that didn't happen. Although 
 the challenges in 09 are fun, they lack this real-world quality from past games.
  
  Four time champion Jeff Gordon is not only on the cover of the game, but he also acts as your "mentor" 
 in the game. However, he's really nothing more than a tutorial guide early in the game. He can 
 actually get annoying, and some of his comments are just downright cheesy. This can be especially 
 true if you're a Gordon-hater.
  
  In addition to Gordon, all the drivers from Cup series, and the major ones from the Truck and Nationwide 
 series are in the game with actual driver portraits this time. Rusty Wallace is also featured as 
 an ESPN announcer. Although he won't comment during the race, when you're selecting a track he 
 gives you a brief overview of the track, and shows you a sample lap of how to get around the track. 
 This is a much better use of ESPN license than last year, but I still miss the days when there 
 were actual announcers commenting on the pre-race.
  
  Visually, NASCAR 09 has greatly improved since last year's title. Full screen anti-aliasing is 
 now in full effect, and it makes everything look that much better. The game runs at an incredible 
 60fps with 43 cars on the track. Details on the cars like reflections, bloom lighting, and damage 
 modeling are nice touches and very realistic.
  
  The environments are also improved. Although the crowds are still static and 2D, the actual tracks 
 look much better. The day-to-night transitions are back, and still look great. They actually have 
 an impact on the race as some tracks will have blind spots as the sun goes down and creates glare. 
 One minor complaint is that there are no manufacturer logos on any of the cars. Meaning that they're 
 all generic looking. Not a big deal, but when so much of NASCAR revolves around manufacturer identity, 
 it's a sore spot.
  
  The sound department is also greatly improved. EA Sports used actual sounds captured from events, 
 and the quality shows. Especially in surround sound. You can hear cars around you and can tell 
 if they're high or low. The spotter still needs some work though. He'll often tell you about cars 
 trying to pass you too late, or won't always tell you when you're clear. 
  
  The music has finally started to move away from the traditional country that's heard in NASCAR 
 games. The song selection is much better and includes songs from several different genres including 
 rock, country, and metal.
  
  The lasting value in NASCAR 09 is found the in afore mentioned career mode, and online racing. 
 There's still no online team, league, or clan support. You're also limited to running a single 
 race instead of planning out a season ahead of time. But you'll still find a lot of the same options 
 from last year's game. Which is a good thing.
  
  However, one design problem is that only the pro driving style can be used in online races. Which 
 basically means that unless you're a NASCAR pro, you can't race online. I could see making pro 
 racing mandatory for ranked matches, but it's a little much to make it a must for private matches. 
 The host should at least be given the option to choose what racing style is used, or let it be 
 up to the player.
  
  As you complete driver challenges, you're given upgrade points that can be used to improve your 
 overall performance at certain tracks. However, there is still no unlockable content. No legend 
 drivers. No fantasy tracks. This greatly reduces the single-player value to just running career 
 and driver challenges. It would have been nice to have a long-term goal like unlocking Dale Earnhardt 
 Sr or fantasy tracks.
  
  A lot of players will likely spend a lot of time in Photoshop making custom paint jobs for their 
 cars. Although NASCAR 09 includes the same clunky and limited paint mode from past games, it now 
 supports uploads from your PC. You can download a car template for anyone of the racing series, 
 do whatever you wish to it in Photoshop, and upload it into the game to use. It's really an excellent 
 idea, and sure to offer a lot more depth than the paint tools found in Forza 2.
  
  The achievements haven't improved much from last year. Most are still very easy, but a couple others 
 will take some time. I unlocked about 30% of the achievements in my first 2 hours of play. However, 
 I'm sure the 201 wins achievement will take me a lot longer to get.
  
  NASCAR 09 is a step in the right direction for the series. Although it's still a long way from 
 the nearly perfect NASCAR 2005, it's still a huge improvement over last year's title. Significant 
 gameplay and visual improvements were really what the series needed. Now if they can add in some 
 missing features from past games, add some unlockables, and better online league support it would 
 be on par with some of the best NASCAR games EA Sports has made.
  
  
  PRESENTATION  8.0
  GAMEPLAY  8.5
  GRAPHICS  9.0
  SOUND  8.5
  VALUE  8.5
  
  OVERALL 
  8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rangr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for Nascar 09 but approached it with a level of apprehension. Last years barebones 
 first foray into the next gen console version of EA sports' annual racing title left most gamers 
 wanting something with alot more substance. Thankfully, in this reviewers opinion, EA has heeded 
 the feedback and delivered and strong sophomore effort.
  
  The first thing you'll most likely notice is the appearance of none other than Jeff Gordon himself. 
 He acts as a virtual guide to the new game. I am not a big Gordon fan but his addition really gives 
 the game a much needed push in the right direction in terms of overall presentation. 
  
  The game will immediately thrust you into a quick race, and gives you the option of driving in 
 either Normal or Pro mode. This is also a nice feature, as it allows for both novices and seasoned 
 virtual gearheads to jump right in and enjoy the various aspects offered by the game. The game's 
 driving engine can be tweaked to your liking, from tons of assists to hardcore, pure sim settings 
 so pretty much anyone can enjoy it. I highly recommend that you try both before deciding on one 
 or the other, as both modes feel and handle very different.
  
  Another thing that I notice is a much improved in game look. Last years model seemed to be missing 
 the antialiasing as well as a much smoother framerate. Audio is solid as well, very representative 
 of what I assume it sounds like to drive an ~800hp stockcar around a track.
  
  There are several races modes to choose from, including Race Now, Chase for the Sprint Cup, Season, 
 Sprint Driver Challenge, and Test and Tune. Oh, did I mention that you can now paint your car on 
 the PC and import the skin into your game via EA's sportsworld beta service, as well as your drivers 
 avatar? While more customization for the other CPU-controlled rides would've been nice, this was 
 still a very cool feature.
  
  Overall, NASCAR 09 is a solid second next-gen outing and a worthy purchase for any NASCAR fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I'm in the minority when it comes to last year's Nascar 08. Yes, it had some major problems, could 
 have been much better, but I enjoyed it and thought it was a descent sim. With Nascar 09, what 
 EA has done is keep all the good things in 08 and fixing (somewhat) some of the bad.
  I must say I'm a bit disappointed graphically. Now let me be clear, Nascar 09 is a good looking 
 game, it's just now jaw-dropping good. In fact, the graphics are mostly unchanged from last year, 
 except for slightly better lighting and a bit cleaner look. 
  Where 09 is light years ahead of 08 is in it's Race for the Sprint Cup mode, where you start by 
 customizing your own vehicle (which is outstanding) and picking sponsors and contracts. You start 
 as a rookie on the circuit, and as your reputation improves, your car runs better and you get to 
 pick better sponsors and contracts. You can also race an entire season with any of the real Nascar 
 drivers. 
  The presentation is helped along by the real life Jeff Gordon. This is done incredibly well. The 
 menus are clean and easy to navigate. 
  On the track, you now can choose pro style or normal driving mode. Pro style is similar to last 
 year, while normal is much more forgiving. Overall, the driving is smoother and not as sensitive 
 as 08.
  There are two three areas where I will hammer this game. EA continues to have the ESPN liscence, 
 yet it does nothing with it in the presentation. I mean, nothing!! I would like to have an in-studio 
 prerace show or something of that nature. AS it is , you just simply start racing. Also, EA continues 
 to make pit stops totally optional and unnecessary. That's absurd when pit stops are so crucial 
 in real racing. Finally, while the computer driver AI is noticably better, it still isn't that 
 great. EA must find a way for your opponants to be smarter than this.
  Overall, I still think Nascar 09 is much better than 08, as it's driving is much better and the 
 career mode is outstanding. Critics will still hammer it, but that's not fair. I'd recommend giving 
 this title a chance if you didn't like 08. You may be suprised how much better it is. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
