-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NASCAR 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/nascar08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The chase is a nice way of introducing players to the sport.
 Plenty of tracks and drivers.
 Races are intense.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No career mode.
 Default controls are incredibly finicky.
 Driver AI is poor.
 Very limited visual customization options for cars.
 Online options are limited.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.1, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 746 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Stock Car Racing
Date: Jul 23, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NASCAR 08 is a decent racer, but it feels like a classic example of a game where the developer put 
 in limited effort because of the lack of competition. 

  NASCAR 08's box touts the fact that EA's NASCAR series is the number one selling NASCAR franchise. 
 Nowhere on the packaging does it tell you that it's the top-selling franchise because it's the 
  only  NASCAR franchise. However, the fact that there's no competition is made apparent as soon 
 as you play. It's extremely light on features, online play is lacking, and its visuals do little 
 to take advantage of the power of the Xbox 360 or PlayStation 3. NASCAR 08 is a competent racing 
 game, but you can't shake the feeling that it would have been a whole lot better if there had been 
 a competing NASCAR game out there.  

  NASCAR 08 features a solid number of tracks and almost every driver you'd want. The only major 
 driver who's missing is Carl Edwards, but there are some notable track omissions, including Mexico 
 City and Montreal. You can race a full, half, short, or custom season in the Nextel, National (Busch) , 
 or Craftsman truck series. You can race a season in the Car Of Tomorrow -- but it's just one and 
 done -- there's no career mode.  

           The cars show a lot of damage.      

  Instead, there's a new mode called the chase. You start the chase as an unknown driver and your 
 goal is to earn a contract by completing license tests. Each license is separated by track type. 
 There's a license for super speedway, speedway, Car Of Tomorrow short track, Car Of Tomorrow speedway, 
 Car Of Tomorrow road course, and Car Of Tomorrow super speedway. To earn a license you must complete 
 10 tasks, which teach you the basics of NASCAR racing. You'll learn how to draft, slingshot, and 
 avoid wrecks, follow racing lines, as well as how to maintain your speed through difficult turns. 
 The game uses some handy visual aids that show a car's draft and the optimal line around the track, 
 so it feels very friendly to beginners. Once you've completed a license, you'll be offered a two-race 
 contract with a racing team, and if you fulfill that contract, you can then race a season with 
 that team's car. The chase is certainly a good way to introduce the sport to newcomers, and it's 
 nice not to have to race through all of the lower-tier circuits as in previous years, but it's 
 still no substitute for a proper career mode.  

  It's a good thing the chase is such a good teaching tool because actual races can be quite challenging -- for 
 both good and bad reasons. One area where NASCAR video games differ from most racing games is that 
 one small mistake can mean the difference between finishing first and finishing last, even if you 
 have damage turned off. This makes every lap important and maintains the intensity of the races. 
 Never has the ability to be perfect been more important than in NASCAR 08. The game is best played 
 with a steering wheel because the default controls are  extremely  touchy, making it nearly impossible 
 to race in a pack. If you don't have a steering wheel, you can adjust the linearity and responsiveness 
 of the controls to make them more forgiving. This makes the game much more playable. You can also 
 use the Sixaxis' motion controls to steer. This works OK, but isn't a substitute for a wheel.  
 

  Unfortunately, there's nothing you can do about the game's artificial intelligence, which is quite 
 poor. Drivers don't seem to have personality as they did in previous games, but they do all seem 
 hell bent on wrecking you. Depending on which course you're on, opposing drivers will just as soon 
 run into the back of your car as they will pass you. This isn't bump drafting either. They'll do 
 it when they're clearly the faster car, they'll do it in turns, and they'll do it when you're racing 
 three wide. They say "rubbing is racing," but when it routinely costs you the race, it gets pretty 
 frustrating, especially when the CPU doesn't seem to wreck very often.  

  Once you've come to grips with the controls and have gotten used to the CPU's "love taps," there's 
 a solid racing game to be found. Races are generally close and though some may dismiss NASCAR as 
 "just turning left," you can really feel the difference from one track to the next, so it pays 
 to practice. If you do make it into victory lane, you can choose to celebrate by tearing up the 
 infield and doing doughnuts on the track. That never gets old. There's also a fair amount of tweaking 
 you can do to squeeze the most performance out of your ride. You can even share setups online, 
 but these adjustments are mostly optional, though they are beneficial against tough competition. 
 It's too bad that the ability to customize your car's looks isn't as deep as your ability to customize 
 its performance. You can choose from a handful of different paint schemes and colors, but once 
 again, you can't pick a number under 100 or create custom designs.  

  One area that really should have benefited from the move of one generation of consoles to the next 
 is online play, but that didn't happen. There are leaderboards, but there are no leagues. You can 
 race against up to 11 other players on the Xbox 360, but we were unable to connect with another 
 player on the PlayStation 3. Should you connect with another player on either system, you'll find 
 that it's rare to find a full field and that it seems to take a very long time to start a race. 
 Eventually you'll get to actually race, which is a good thing, because the racing is solid and 
 lag isn't a huge problem. One small issue from the offline mode, which is exacerbated during multiplayer 
 because of the tendency to wreck more often, occurs when the game waves the yellow flag before 
 wrecks are actually finished. This means that unless a wreck occurs right in front of you, you 
 won't have to deal with trying to weave in and out of it, which is kind of fun. More importantly, 
 it means that you never get to pass the wreck, and as a result, you'll be behind the people who 
 just wrecked during the following restart.  

           GPS isn't needed; you probably want to turn left.      

  The other area where you'd 
 expect NASCAR 08 to really take advantage of the Xbox 360 and PS3 hardware is its visuals. But 
 that didn't really happen either. The frame rate is nice and smooth, with day turning to night 
 during some races. The smoke and dirt effects are also pretty good, but mostly everything else 
 is underwhelming. The tracks look decent but come off as rather bland, and they don't look much 
 better than they did on the last generation. There's quite a bit of aliasing on both the tracks 
 and cars. Cars look OK, especially when you can check out all 43 of them in line during a restart, 
 but you rarely get to enjoy them much. Car damage looks nice during replays where you can really 
 watch the cars fall to pieces, but because every little bump causes your car to suddenly show damage, 
 it doesn't look very realistic when you're racing. The audio isn't much different from before. 
 The cars sound great, while your crew chief does an adequate job, even if he sounds bored and routinely 
 falls behind the action.  

  NASCAR 08 isn't a bad game; in fact, it's fun once you get the hang of it. Its biggest problem 
 is that it's not noticeably better than last year's game and there aren't any compelling new features. 
 If really want a NASCAR game and it has to be on the PlayStation 3 or Xbox 360, then NASCAR 08 
 is worth a look because, quite frankly, it's your only choice. But if you own any NASCAR game from 
 the past few years, you might as well stick with that one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (74 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: shorty-96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I have a few NASCAR games (NASCAr 07 , NASCAR SImRACING ect) but this is almost the best one. It 
 has all the drivers from the NEXTEL CUP and NASCAR NATIONAL Championships. It also has all the 
 CRAFTSMAN TRUCK drivers. You can also drive the Car Of Tommorow and Create Cars. It Has 4 Main 
 Modes , Race Now ,The Chase ,Season and Toyoyta Challlenges. If you want m, ore realism buy 09 , 
 but if you want to have fun , buy this , i gotit for only 20 quid so its cheap too. It would be 
 better if you could use your created cars in seasons though. CHEATS
  ea sports car - unlocks the ea sports car Wallmart Everyday - unlock wallmart car and track
  
 race the pack - Unlocks the fantasy drivers
  checkered flag - All Chase Mode Cars unlocked
  THIS GAME IS ACE BUY 
  I mean it it is very good , buut 09 
 is slightly better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bikerbuie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game used so this review will probably be a little bit nicer than if I had bought 
 it new. It seems Nascar has taken advantage of the fact the are the only Nascar Franchise..... 
 it seems they do just enough to make the game and thats it. We as Nascar fans would benefit from 
 a competitor being the the picture. That might make them step up the game, because I know they 
 are capable of producing a better product with this new technology. In previous Nascar games their 
 as been a few good additives, such as the in race save option which I thought would have been a 
 good option for every Nascar game. I also liked the team control from a few years ago. Overall 
 the game is a good game but I think it lacks the maximum potential. But I am not a game developer 
 so I would not know the limits of all the game options that can and can't be included. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowb0ysFaN15
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 16, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Over the years ea has made a tremondous amount of sucesses and failures this game has to fall into 
 the failure side because the first thing that really grinded my gears is you cant do 2 player on 
 split screen which is pretty pointless the steering is awful so your going to spend most of the 
 race in the wall. on the other hand the only really good thing about this game is the graphics 
 sometimes i feel like im watching real nascar so ill put down the contoller either that or im just 
 to furious to contine playing this game really dosent bring all the nascar racing has to offer 
 and its a dissapointment and isnt worth the money so if you are going to play this game i suggest 
 you rent it because you will end up playing it and then stop after like 2 days because of bad contoll 
 and lousy gameplay. So all and all this game just has good graphics other then that this game is 
 a complete waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 26, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  Something is off with this year's single-player mode and there is no carrier mode. Instead they 
 went with a mode called "the chase" where you start as an unknown and try and earn your license 
 and a contract. Players will need to complete ten different tasks for each license. While the tests 
 will teach you, die-hard fans are going to grow tired of going through this step in the game.
 
  
  Once you earn a license, say the short track one, for example, you will be offered a two race contract. 
 Race in them and do well and you will get hired for the full season. So in a way there is a carrier 
 mode, but it is not one most are used to. In a strange way, I see what EA went for this year trying 
 to focus on the skills in that one little mistake will cost you the race. As luck would have it, 
 the way the AI is set-up you will see an example of this several times throughout the game. EA 
 has added drivers and now has almost every known driver in the game. They also got major events 
 and tracks, but when compared to the series, it still seems short on tracks. Your choices are to 
 enter Nextel, National and Craftsman series. They also have the "car of tomorrow" to compete in 
 but it a one race and it's over and not the full season.
  
  While the game is fun to play, it just seems almost thrown together for the sake of adding another 
 year to the series. Here is when gamers and reviewers start to wonder what the game would be like 
 if there was another choice out there. Perhaps the game just didn't turn out as planned. It happens 
 but gamers are not going to think about that. They judge while playing and make their minds up 
 quickly. This is the main issue with NASCAR 08. They took too much time with the tests and other 
 tasks so by the time the game shows off that is a solid game it may be too late. When I say solid, 
 I mean there is a decent single-player mode, but it takes time to see this. To be honest, the game 
 is not presented in a solid way and it hurts it big time.
  
  They added more customization features this year, but they seem to be for show and will not affect 
 the cars' performances. They need to take a look back and bring out a real carrier mode. They also 
 need to adjust the AI and try and make it so it's consistent at least. Gamers want plenty of action 
 and the feeling of being in the sport. NASCAR 08 takes too long to offer this feeling.
  
  The online mode seems stripped of some of the features fans are used to. You can set up a room 
 easy enough or join one. Finding racers is not hard at all. The first thing I noticed is that when 
 the first race starts, the graphics change and not in a good way. Granted 12 players online is 
 great, but if the graphics suffer this much, you won't enjoy the online mode for long. Normally 
 I would save this for the right section but the graphics are one of the biggest issues with the 
 online mode. To be blunt they are ugly and look almost like a PSONE game rather than an Xbox 360 
 title. Once again the game shows a lack of depth or the need for competition and hopefully they 
 will adjust and make a deeper and better online mode next year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teletran0n3
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I have been buying NASCAR games for years. I am a big fan of the sport. Up until now, I have enjoyed 
 the games. This game had to of been put off then hurriedly pushed out for release. No career mode? 
 Are you kidding me? Cheesy little trials. Online play is very glitchy. All in all abysmal.
  
  What happened to this franchise? The previous installments were good. They actually put a little 
 badge on the front of the box proclaiming it the number one selling game in the franchise. Well 
 here is a news flash for you, it's the only game available. 
  
  The online play is the best part of the game. The game servers are so horrific that the cars tend 
 to jump around the track. Then you wind up trying to correct with steering and go flying into the 
 wall. Look I'll sacrifice the single player portion, like what was done in this game, for fantastic 
 online play. This game didn't deliver though.
  
  In the end, the fans of NASCAR get the shaft because there is nothing else to choose from. Great. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackbeard269
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  The more realistic the Nascar series gets the more players who no nothing about Nascar give it 
 bad reviews. So 80's as one member said but the fact is the game is more user setup to get the 
 car running right. So for the complainers stick to PACMAN Nascar is for Real Gamers. Setting up 
 the car is getting more realistic. The car acts just like the real deal. I should know I have drove 
 one almost every year at DOVER. The only problem with the game is when going down pit road the 
 computer takes over. They need to make it 100% user control with no computer take overs. But they 
 will need to put that in as an option for the none Nascar gamers. Pace laps are also another computer 
 take over and needs to change to the users taking control. With tweaks this game would be better 
 if the designers of all games would learn to listen to input of the users of what they want in 
 a game not what the company wants to make and save money. But in the gamming world it will always 
 be about money and not about the users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usaeagleawards
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Us Nascar Sim Fans have been waiting for a descent stock car simulation since Papyrus Nascar '03 
 (PC) . What EA gives us is a worse looking version of Daytona (Arcade) . EA's exclusivity of Nascar 
 is putting a real hurt'n to us customers. There is clear evidence now that with competition between 
 creators, there is less quality. Maybe it's time for a new race series (ala XFL) so that a new 
 developer can dig in and pump out a true stock car sim racer for those die hards out there! The 
 best way to describe this version of Nascar Racing would be to put it like this..... "If you wrap 
 a piece of crap with shiny paper then all you have is a shiny piece of crap" -SooHoo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bf210
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  NASCAR 08 is a pretty enjoyable game if you actually understand the sport, but if you don't then 
 it could be frustrating and difficult. The Damage is a lot better I like the fact that if you hit 
 the wall the car doesn't seem like it's made of titanium like the previous games. The achievements 
 are very easy, which I don't mind but if you play games just to get the achievements then you won't 
 like game because it'll take you about a week or two. The graphics aren't bad, but could be better. 
 All in all NASCAR 08 isn't that bad of a game but it could have been a little better. EA has a 
 long way to go if they are going to catch up with Forza Motorsport & PGR. But there is a chance 
 that they could do it in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjwickstrom1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  NASCAR 08 is decent. If EA had taken more time into making it, it could be a lot better though. 
 The trailers for the game left me with great impressions for what was to come, but when I actually 
 played the game I was hugely disappointed. Although the graphics are outstanding, the AI is fartoo 
 easy and rarely gives you room to pass them by, and there's many other noticeable glitches in every 
 aspect of the game that'll leave you pounding your controller on the floor. 
  
  Gameplay-
  NASCAR 08's gameplay is decent for the post part. Car physics are much improved over 
 the series previous installements on the PS2 and Xbox, but it could still use a bit of touching 
 up and realism. Pit stops are nice. The pit crews move around nicely and realisticly, but it would 
 be nice to see the AI's pit crew, and not just yours. Another nice feature is the manual drive 
 out of pit row during practice, although it would've been nice if that too was in the actualy races, 
 making the game more user mistake prone, realistic, and exciting depending on the situation. Another 
 great added feature in NASCAR 08 is the 40+ tuning options, which include camber, grille tape, 
 angle of front and rear splitter/spoiler (COT) , etc.
  
  A HUGE diappointement with this game is the many, many glitches!!! Some of these glitches include 
 AI ramming eachother under cautions, cars going through eachother, random black flags, no car damage 
 for your opponents online, randomly getting put laps down, disconnect for all players online after 
 many cautions, qualifying and practice leaderboards, incorrecxt resetting of the field after a 
 caution; shall I go on!
  
  For these reasons, I give gameplay a 4/10.
  
  Graphics-
  The graphics of NASCAR 08 are great! The car of tommorow and normal Nextel Cup cars look very realistic, 
 nearly lifelike. The tracks got a major graphical boost this year on next gen consoles, making 
 them look and feel more realistic than ever! The only graphical flaw in this game if the way the 
 car looks uner certain damage situations. The car occasionally with be bent to the left in the 
 front and rear ends, which never happens in real life, and the way the front splitter of your car 
 looks after head on impacts in the car of tomorrow.
  
  I give graphics and 8/10.
  
  Advertising-
  With any game by EA, you know it'll be loaded up with adverts, and NASCAR 08 is 
 no exception. Advertisements can be seen throughout every track in the game, and in the game's 
 menus. Most of the adverts are for EA products like The Simpsons Game and Madden 08, or sponsors 
 of EA such as DLP. The overadvertising in NASCAR 08 does get a bit annoying, but like all of us 
 that buy EA's products year after year, we get used to it for the most part.
  
  Achievements and Difficulty-
  You know I have to talk about the ahievements!!! In NASCAR 08 there 
 is 24 achievements worth a total of 1,000 gamerpoints. The achievements are all very easy, with 
 the exception of a few that will take some time. Some achievements include save a replay and upload 
 a setup to EA Locker, which are easy enough to obtain.
  
  Conclusion-
  Overall, NASCAR 08 is a decent product by EA for it's first year producing a next gen NASCAR game, 
 but it could've easily been much improved. If you're looking into buying it I suggest you wait 
 for a price drop, because at it's current price of $60 it's not worth the waste of money. I'm just 
 excited for next year. I expect 2K Games to make a NASCAR game to compete with EA, since EA's exclusive 
 NASCAR liscense ended this year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slick022
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  I figured that NASCAR's journey into next gen would bring with it some huge improvements in game 
 play. Boy, was I wrong... The thing that I like about the NASCAR series and just about any other 
 racing game is that you have to EARN the best ride. Although many people may not like racing through 
 the lower NASCAR sub-series, I really enjoyed it, it gives the player a feel for the tracks and 
 the controls and the game as a whole. Plus it really makes you earn your place among the NASCAR 
 elite. Let's start with The Chase. Why is EA treating all players like it's their first time ever 
 picking up a racing game?? I know how to draft, I know how to pass, I know how to avoid wrecks, 
 give me some credit. It's a GREAT learning tool for actual newcomers, but come on at least make 
 it so experienced players don't have to relearn everything just to start a career. That brings 
 me to the alleged career mode, what a joke. Let's say that after passing all of my Chase tests, 
 I accept a deal with Hendrick Motorsports, I get to drive Jeff Gordon's car, what happens to Jeff 
 Gordon?? I dont' get to race against him now?? That doesn't make any sense. In the real world of 
 racing you have to work your way up. With each sucess you earn a new opportunity. Winning races= 
 better car= better contract= championship. That' show it works. EA has clearly lost sight of this 
 fact by presenting us with this weak effort that apparently was just meant to keep the seat warm 
 while they worked on next year's version. All in all, it's pretty vanilla, and that's giving it 
 some credit. the controls are what was expected and the gameplay really doesn't stand out, although 
 the crashes this year are spectacular. I guess the game is worth playing, its a good time killer. 
 it was just pretty hard for me to get into without a proper career mode. Everyone should decide 
 for themselves, but for me, it was really dissappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leedurr
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 3, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  More control with car than the last couple of years as far as adjusting. The game play is a little 
 more realistic also. Seems like though AI could use some help to help seperate tha good drivers 
 from the okay drivers etc.... Having to get all of the pre chase driving done is a little boring 
 at times. You do learn a few things doing the challenges and getting contracts but for the more 
 experienced nascar game player it will get redundant. The on-line play is good but not great. When 
 you have to many people it glitches really bad. When you have the right amount it can be a lot 
 of fun too though. All in all better than the last couple of years but still needs more work. Maybe 
 some should challenge EA and make then actually put some effort into the next one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: habsfan21
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Well.. EA Sports really messed up again..
  
  Ok, I gave it an 8, because i'm a nascar nut and as long as i had the COT and updated driver list 
 i was happy.
  
  But the COT was never finished. It's generic! how bad it that!
  
  There are still generic sponsors, and no beer sponsors. Beer sponsors are aloud in baseball games! 
 The BIGS still put in Coors Field and Busch Stadium, so why can't EA have the Blue Deuce with Miller 
 Lite on it, or the #8 Bud or even the #07 Jack... and the #26 isn't even sponsored by Irwin i think 
 so thats a big no-no
  
  &amp;&amp;&amp;&amp;&amp; they didn't include Carl Edwards again... he's Roush Fenway's biggest 
 winner this season... and they didn't put him in!
  
  &amp;&amp;&amp;&amp;&amp; yes, the tracks look weird, but they're better then they used to! I went 
 back to compare the screen shots from 05 to 06 and the 06 to 08, and DAMN they've changed... Bristol 
 (for one) looks amazing now... and they still don't have the pit road at bristol straightened out..
 
  
  Bristol is supposed to have 2 pit roads.. yes. But you should b allowed to go in your half during 
 green flag pits like for real, and then only under caution go in by the back stretch... but whatever...
 
  
  On to some goods.. the tracks look better, I named that already. The COT shows up. Busch series 
 is updated, and the Trucks, but no one REALLY cares about those two series. The day to night thing, 
 it goes so well, i've never noticed it change.. it just did!
  
  But anyway... if you like NASCAR like myself, pick it up, but wait till it's about 40-50 not 69.99...
 
  
  Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Bottom line: this is not a game you can casually pick up and play. If you are willin to take the 
 time to learn and get better, this game can be very rewarding and fun. But it' is a very difficult 
 game. Also, computer AI is terrible. Cars will bump you off the road, which is ridiculous. Graphically, 
 the game is fairly sharp, but it certainly could have been better. I like the music for the most 
 part, but the tracks are limited. The sounds of the track are the best this game has to offer. 
 Still, with no real career mode, this game is a bit shallow. But I don't think it's fair to give 
 this game a 5 or 6. There is quality here. And if you are a true fan of the sport, you should enjoy 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GLhardcore24
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Nascar games always have problems. Theres been good and great ones but this one wass okay to say 
 the least. Lets start with online. Compared to other 360 racers like Forza 2 and PGR3 this game 
 has horrible online. You lag out of almost every race and you have to know tune setups in order 
 to know be suceccful. During online cars will do stupid things like glitch around the track into 
 other cars. The Chase mode is a good idea with badexecution. You have to work you way through contracts 
 and licences which is a waste of time. Turning on this gameis nearly impossible unless you have 
 a racing wheel. Nascar fans will probably buy this game anyways. But I don't recomend it to people 
 who want to have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmblackmaster
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  First off if you have played any of the past Nascar games you'll notice the handling is different, 
 but its a good thing. At first this game seems impossible to drive but once you get a hold of the 
 concept that jumping on the gas is a bad thing about part of your problems will be fixed.
  The game gets more detailed with the car setup in the game like individual tire pressures, springs, 
 camber, caster, etc. Which plays a big part if you're going to make it though a turn or spin out 
 trying.
  Now use of the wheel is recommended it makes the car feel more in control, but thats my preference.
 
  
  One thing that game suffers in is the idiotic AI. For example your racing in a pack in Daytona 
 or Talladega, and the AI will do a suicide run in your rear bumper and take you out. Another is 
 your starting to make a run under or on the high side of someone and the computer will act like 
 your not there and will put you in the wall or spin you threw the grass, which is very annoying 
 especially when trying to complete the owner contracts. One last flaw in the AI is that they don't 
 race each other. Very annoying like again when your trying to complete the owner contracts, your 
 stuck back in traffic and the AI is two wide side by side and not moving an inch so your forced 
 to drive in very unrecommended places or force your way though but the problem with that is you 
 can get the black flag for your aggressive driving.
  
  Some of the glitches which could be fixed with a patch if EA cares about doing so, really stand 
 out. For example its very easy to roll the cars. Last time I check the cars are very heavy and 
 they shouldn't roll in place like Martinsville. Also with the roof flaps on the car that should 
 keep there chances of a wild flip to a minimum, with a quick turn your air born like a quote from 
 Homer Simpson like a candy wrapper caught in a up draft .
  Also the cation system is a joke, the wreak happens then the field is frozen automatically without 
 the chance to avoid the wreak. Also without the chance to avoid the wreak with the field freezing 
 you have a great chance to start behind those cars that started the wreak. Which is a bunch of 
 bull especially online which I touch on latter.
  
  Now far as career mode there isn't much of one. You just do the Season to make the chase and win 
 the cup. Thats it, sure you can modify the season a little to do trucks or the Busch series or 
 even do the COT.
  
  Far as the Online you can race against 11 other people or mixture of people and AI up to 11. Now 
 if memory serves me right in the past games you can race a full field of A. I cars with your online 
 buddy's. But nope 12 in a race take it or leave it. One thing still EA hasn't fixed is the lag 
 in its Nascar game. They say its my connection but why does the rest of my games work fine but 
 not theres hmm? Anyway that really hurts the online especially when you start a race and you get 
 disconnected or you get spun out b/c someone thinks your at different part of the track. Again 
 when doing ranked matches the cation system plagues you from doing well in a race or just race, 
 which I touched earlier the cations don't play out. Also another annoying online glitch is after 
 a caution comes out someone can have a two lap lead for some reason.
  In all there are some cool features is the EA ticker with live Espn radio updates. The Ea locker 
 which friends can exchanged setups in which none of mine do. And the fact you can practice with 
 your buddy's and get an idea of how your car stacks up against them.
  
  Sound is pretty good on the game it makes you feel like your part of the game.
  Graphics on this 
 game can be really nice to uninspiring. Like Daytona is very nice but go to Darlington the textures 
 look bland. With a track like Darlington you expect to see how rough and grainy the surface is 
 and all the cracks in it but you don't. Also the COT car really looks bland especially with all 
 the different manufacturers missing.
  
  Speaking of missing have you seen Carl Edwards. Nascar needs to get the full field of drivers and 
 tracks from the other circuits I mean come on they got the exclusive license but some effort in 
 it.
  
  All in all rent this game b/c your going to love it or hate it. But there is a decent driving game 
 in there once you get passed all the bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjsharks112
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 20, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  i thought this game was absolute sh! t the first time i played which isnt very fair. I tried it 
 a few more times and messed with the settings and really got into it the sad part is the lack of 
 a career type option makes the replay value of this game very low and the fact that without a wheel 
 its very frustrating at most times makes this games pretty graphics just a way of keeping this 
 game from a rating of 2 out of 10
  
  pros: Graphics, Day to NIght, Test and Tune, Force Feedback
  
  Cons: Needs Wheel for great 
 play, horrible replay value, damage sub par, no Chase, no multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ko69
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 18, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  if you enjoy racing games, DO NOT PLAY THIS PIECE OF GARBAGE, put it down immediatley and go play 
 forza 2, or, even pocket bike racer handles better than this game, nice graphics for next gen debut, 
 nice collision effects, poor career, limited options and terrible a. i., make racing sims like gt4 
 and forza 2 look like GODS. at least EA makes racing better with need for speed, maybe they should 
 put more time into nascar, take the need for speed racing engine, toss some nascars in it and then 
 they would have a better game, i would have settled for a graphic update from last year.
  and once again WTF IS WITH THE HANDLING, THE F'ING CARS SLAM INTO THE WALL MORE THAN THEY MAKE 
 LAPS AROUND THE TRACK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathFROMabov82
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 17, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  It was a good game but it was good graphically but that was it the physics were nice but the real 
 substance of the game was not there the crashes were spectacular but that was the only reason why 
 i got this game and they took out split screen which was a major disappointment that was what i 
 was looking forward too hitting my friends head on and causing a huge pile up but you cant do that 
 without split screen there for i give nascar 2008 a 7.0 out of 10 7 points for the 3 points for 
 the graphics and 2 for the game play and 2 more for the chase mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxLongJohnxX
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 17, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  Well If being Nascar wasn't enough of a blow to this game, then you can take your pick of what 
 you don't like about it. Is it the Playstation 2 quality graphics? Is it the god-awful controls? 
 Is it the fact that driving in a circle for hours on end is the most boring things imaginable to 
 man? Whatever your gripe with Nascar 08, one thing is for sure, this is one game that is hard to 
 recommend, even to your worst enemy. Just trying to think of even one positive thing about Nascar 
 08 gives me a headache because, quite frankly, there isn't anything good about the game, it's just 
 plain garbage, and EA should be burned at the stake for even publishing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bugs24
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Does anyone other than me notice that you dont get sponsors during the chase mode, i am almost 
 to the 2008 schedule and still dont have a sponsor, all they do is make you pick a paint scheme 
 and make of your car and says you wont be able to change them at all in the chase and doesnt give 
 you any sponsor deals. I am dissapointed in this!! Does anyone know if you can get sponsors during 
 the Chase Mode?? Other than the sponsor deal i like the overall game looks and how the car feels 
 when racing, better than any of the other PS2 nascar games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grimstoned
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Wow! I had no idea it was nearly impossible to drive a stockcar! Cool! Its awesome when you cant 
 go a single lap without losing control. Thankfully when you do get good enough to drive a single 
 lap the A. D (Artificial Dumbass) crashes you. Just like real life! Sweet! Did that car have a HEMI! 
 Dang! Oh well.
  
  But hey if you like creating a driver and customizing paintjobs and having like a franchise mode 
 and can celebrate on a podium and receive cool feedback about your season like newspapers or sportcenter 
 replay and/or things of that nature then ...... TO FRIGGEN BAD BUCKO! This game doesn't care about 
 being a video game! Its a sim dummies.. Geez, didn't anyone ever tell you what a sim was you nub! 
 Well me ether . But I think a sim must be a crap rushed game with no features that you hate to 
 play.. but you play it anyway because you dont know what good actually is. Right? Must be because 
 this game is like, a pile of doo doo?
  
  I bet there are a bunch of die hard race wheel buying dip spitters that will just love this garbage 
 game. Ok. Put down your spit cup , put your pants on and go get a game thats worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowpap76
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I was down right disappointed with EA's effort in this game. The last game I had was 
 either 05 or 06 and it had the career mode starting out in the Featherlite Series and working your 
 way up with the option of buying race teams and getting sponsers. Nascar 08 has virtually nothing 
 worth even looking at. No career, no sponsers, no buying teams. Nothing. Please save your money 
 for a future release because this game in all actuallity SUCKS! I think one of the things that 
 ticks me off the most may be the contract series to get a car so you can actually race for the 
 cup. Some are down right almost impossible to complete so you will never move on. Get a clue EA 
 and put some effort into next year's version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RushMetallica
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I was very exited for this game but when I got it I was very dissapointed. The handling is bad, 
 the chase is very very stupid and no point, and theres just nothing special or exited, thank god 
 I only rented this game. But I do have to say that the online mode is very cool, although I wish 
 they had more people available to play with, but nothing's perfect. I hope they make 10 alot better 
 (09 is okay, but still has the cruddy career) . Nothing more to say about this game, I'll just have 
 to go back to 06 'cause Microsoft are cheap B*stards and won't have 07 compatible, that game was 
 perfect. Don't waste your time with game, unless you want achievements, which are pretty easy to 
 earn.
  Ignore the following:
  sldkgj lsdkflk lksfgmlsd glskdnv sd flksngfladfkgnlkdf dlkfn ldfkg lakedfgmbldk mldfmg ldkfmgvkl 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 4.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Intense racing; lots of tracks and drivers; good music and sound effects; day to night 
 transition.
  
  The Bad: Everything else; jagged edged visuals; stripped down career mode; other modes are short; 
 no unlockable content; no fantasy tracks or legend drivers; bad controls and physics; poor AI; 
 little car customization; terrible presentation; missing features; feels unfinished.
  
  I waited two years of my life for a next-gen NASCAR game, and this is what I get? Im a huge NASCAR 
 fan, and this game is not only an insult to me, but also to NASCAR. Nearly everything about this 
 game feels either unfinished, or stripped down. A lot of people had similar complaints about Madden 
 06. It must be EAs goal to make sure the first next-gen game in a franchise sucks.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  God, where to begin? Ill start with the good because theres not much here. The 
 racing is intense, but thats more the nature of the sport than because of anything EA did. NASCAR 
 is all about 43 cars racing side-by-side at speeds close to 200 mph, and that intensity translates 
 well into NASCAR 08.
  
  Now on to the bad. The biggest problem here is that theres no career mode. Instead, EA replaced 
 it with a mode called The Chase. This is basically a training mode consisting of several mini-games. 
 The end result being that you get to own your team. This clearly has the feel of being a training 
 mode to show new players how NASCAR works. This is unacceptable. To have a sports game without 
 a career mode is like having a RPG without a story.
  
  The Craftsman Truck and Busch National series are present, but arent included in this mode. This 
 makes them purely optional via season or race now modes. In past games you had to start in the 
 modified series, and if you did well enough youd be offered contracts in the higher racing series. 
 Bottom line is that theres no sense of accomplishment for The Chase. It feels hollow and incomplete.
 
  
  There are a wide variety of Nextel Cup drivers to choose from, but few in the other series and 
 no legend drivers. All the tracks from the Nextel Cup are included, but no fantasy tracks, or other 
 tracks exclusive to the Truck or Busch racing series.
  
  Although there are a lot of options to adjust on the car, they have little impact on the actual 
 gameplay. This is mostly because the controls are so finicky, that any change you make to these 
 setting is either going to be small, or non-existent. To compound the bad controls is the stupid 
 AI. The other drivers on the track act like you dont even exist. They will frequently run into 
 you instead of avoiding you. They all tend to race the same style, and arent any better on some 
 tracks than others. And for the most part, they stick to the racing line.
  
  The physics are also odd, and clearly skewed to make crashes more dramatic. For example, Ive never 
 flipped my car at Daytona going 190mph. Yet Ive flipped the car dozens of times at both Bristol 
 and Martinsville going about 70mph. You figure that one out.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Some areas of the graphics look great. For example, the damage modeling is perhaps the most realistic 
 its ever been. There are also nice lighting and reflection effects on the cars, and a fantastic 
 sense of realism and speed when using the cockpit view. And the slow transition from day to night 
 at certain tracks is a wonder to watch. The spark and smoke effects look very realistic too.
  
  But the game is in some serious need of some anti-aliasing. There are also serious clipping 
 problems. If a car flips near the wall, theres a good chance it will flip through the fence and 
 get stuck. This happened to me about half a dozen times. I also flipped over on my roof, only to 
 have the car disappear through the ground before magically reappearing on the track. If you turn 
 on the preferred driving line assist, it will actually clip through the car in the exterior cameras 
 angles.
  
  SOUND
  
  Oddly enough, this is probably NASCAR 08s strongest point. The music in this game is probably 
 the best is has ever been for the series. A dozen or so tracks are used while in the menus, and 
 you can also add your own MP3s. All the songs are southern rock/country songs that fit the theme 
 of the game well.
  
  The roar of the engines and the crowd is fantastic. Your crew chief and spotter will give you vital 
 information, but the spotter is often too late when giving you info about a car being next to you. 
 The only lacking area for sound effects is the crashes. EA went out of their way to make them overly 
 dramatic, but when your car actually flips its oddly silent.
  
  VALUE
  
  There are a lot of different play modes within NASCAR 08, but none of them are well fleshed out. 
 Online play is very basic, and you cant setup clans or leagues to do season or career races. The 
 Chase mode can easily be beaten in a couple hours, and then all you have left to do is boring mini-games, 
 and season mode.
  
  The presentation is also terrible. NASCAR 08 uses the ESPN license, but there are no announcers 
 of any kind. When you enter a track for a race youve only given the most basic of menus to practice, 
 qualify, or race. No driver intros. No national anthem or military flyover. No feeling that this 
 is an exciting NASCAR race. The achievements are highly unbalanced. You can unlock 50% of the achievements 
 in your first 2 hours of play, and 6 of the achievements give 100 points each.
  
  On top of all this, is the fact the PS2 version of the game contains a lot of missing features 
 from the 360 and PS3 versions. Things like Total Team Control and Driver Rivalries are present 
 on the PS2, but not next-gen systems. So what do the next-gen versions have that the PS2 version 
 doesnt? The Virtual Telemetry Visor, which is just a fancy GUI that gives you a lot of information 
 like oil pressure. Information that might have been more important if this game didnt suck.
  
  The box says that NASCAR 08 is the #1 selling NASCAR game. Probably because there is no other 
 game for them to compete with. EA holds an exclusive contract with NASCAR. Which means they can 
 put out crappy games like this, and no one else can take away from their profits. Bottom line: 
 NASCAR 08 is perhaps the worst NASCAR gave I have ever played. EA took a major step backwards with 
 this title, and no fan should devote their money to this complete waste of a game. I regret buying 
 this game for $60, and wouldnt have taken it if I were paid $60 to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherif77
Rating: 2.2
Date: Aug 13, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  Okay so here is the deal, I love nascar. Watch it every week. So to anyone that might think I don't 
 like the sport you can kiss my ^$$ cause I do, but I will not give this game a good review cause 
 I love Nascar so much. We all know that games based on licensed movies always most of the time 
 end up being bad, cause the developer is depending on the name of the movie to sell the game. EA 
 on the other hand is more comfortable than any of those developers depending on the movie name, 
 cause EA is the only company for the last 4 or so years with the Nascar license. And they know 
 that the fans love the sport and will buy any peace of crap they send out the door and slap a photo 
 of our favorite drive on it (Screw you TONY)
  
  EA I refuse to be one of these fans that go blindly out and buy your game. I have been refusing 
 your game since 06 Total team control, and 07, and now 08. What is amazing is you took a year off 
 from Xbox 360 to give us the right product but you have failed miserably. There is at least 2 Nascar 
 08 games getting sold on Ebay every few hours. Those you the fans that went out blindly and bought 
 your game. They are now stuck on Ebay trying to selvage what ever they can get back for it. As 
 a publisher you don't look at the quality of the game? I mean you don't say no this game won't 
 stand a chance in this day and age with Forza 2 doing so good with the customization tool and online 
 play? Your game in impossible to play online. Connection is bad on LIVE??? how did you manage that??? 
 and even if I do get a decent connection the drafting don't work.... I end up wreaking. Your even 
 sooooooo stupid you made the wreaks so short ppl can't even enjoy their misery after they crash 
 how bad is that??? My advice is give the license of Nascar to other developers and learn to be 
 inspired by their work again. Cause since nascar 04 and 05 you have been doing a poor job at this 
 franchise. Also stop being so proud about the SMOKE effect in the game, smoke doesn't mean anything 
 to any of us if the game is this bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnmetcalf
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 13, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  I was so excited when 08 was released for the 360. I had it reserved a couple months in advance. 
 I get the game home expecting decent challenge and what do I find. ONE OF THE HARDEST TO DRIVE 
 GAMES I HAVE EVER PLAYED. Ok now that I got that I out I feel better. Graphically the game looks 
 good a few details could stand to be cleaned up but all in all it's not ugly. The sound is really 
 good I don't have any complaints there. Game play is what shoots this game in foot. The control 
 for this game is possibly the worse control of any driving game I have ever played. The cars are 
 constantly pulling to the left in the straights which I know is a feature to make the game a bit 
 more realistic because that's how the cars are setup to help get into the corners but there is 
 a point where the realism can go too far this might not be as big of an issue if you have the steering 
 wheel but for those of us who don't it is a major headache. This especially comes into play when 
 you are trying to thread your way between two cars you may as well be prepared to bang up one or 
 both cars on your side. Now lets move on to bump drafting. The AI should know that you should not 
 bump draft in the corners at least it shouldn't do this all the time . The occasional love tap 
 in a corner if a driver is mad at you but the AI does this all the time. Since we are on the subject 
 of drafting the game focuses too much on the slingshot feature sometimes I just want to ride around 
 in the draft and then sling shot in the straights or if there is no room to get around the driver 
 at the moment but guess what happens it sucks you right into the back of the car in front of you 
 and if you lift off the accelerator in the slightest you loose the pack immediately I not just 
 talking about you falling back a few feet I'm talking you get passed by about ten cars. Also the 
 default setup on the cars are a pain as well especially in chase mode because you can't practice 
 the car to adjust it to your feel and the default setup is way too tight in other words you plow 
 right up the track or you will have to lift off the gas alot and get passed by ten cars. Well that 
 just about covers it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnemo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 11, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  The reason everyone complains about the car being to twitchy or doesn't
  drive right, or wnders to the left, is because they need to learn how to set
  the car up.1st thing 
 the LF &amp; RF cambers have to be adjusted along with air
  pressures to make the steering right .Front tires need to at least read this way
  before you 
 can even drive it = LF 190 185 180 RF 210 205 200. then tighten
  the rear of the car up a lot, move steering lock to 6. In controlers options make lineary= 0 senativity 
 =10 when using a game pad. steering trim , front sway bar
  are other adjustments needed too. This game was made in my opion for true
  race fans that know 
 more about Nascar than just names! I have been playing computer racing games for 10 years and this 
 is by far the most realistic
  sim ever. If you don't learn how to set-up your car you will never be able
  to play this game! Thanks 
 EA Sports for a great racing game, sugestion add a crew chief for people who don't wont to set-up 
 cars &amp; just want to race.
  Also tone down the AI from running in the back of your car on the track &amp;
  coming out of 
 the pits, a little rear bumping is ok but it seem like the AI
  hit way to hard and to many times in 1 race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iggy1297
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I had high (er) hopes for EA's Nascar games coming to the next-gen consoles, I thought we'd see 
 an incredible game that would finally be worthy of the title Nascar. However, once again, I was 
 let down, majorly. The graphics have seem to have gotten worse since 07 and the physics are, once 
 again, total crap. I'm going to start comparing it now to the holy grail of Nascar sim racing, 
 that's right, Sierra and Papyrus' Nascar Racing 2003 Season. In Nr2003, you actually feel like 
 you're driving a racecar and not a box, on wheels, on a slot-car track. The graphics are as great 
 as almost any racing game I've ever seen, and, dare I say it, apart from maybe GTR2, it may very 
 well be THE greatest looking racing game. You have infinite possibilities with your paint schemes 
 in NR2003, instead of pick a scheme, now pick colors, and sort through numbers 100-199. You can't 
 have a 3-digit number in real Nascar, aside from modifieds, so why have them in the video game? 
 Granted, Nr2003 came with 3-digit numbered cars, but you didn't HAVE to paint your car that way. 
 While there is no career mode in Nr2003, you don't need one. In EA's game, however, it feels incomplete 
 without a career mode. What was wrong with Fight To The Top? Atleast that gave it some longevity. 
 Another thing that just irks me, howcome on the COT and the trucks, there's no real, clear manufacturer 
 representation? You can't tell a Toyota from a Chevrolet from a Ford from a Dodge. Even Gamespot 
 has said there's plenty of drivers to choose from, but there just isn't you've got a handful of 
 actual drivers and then some fantasy drivers thrown in. I'm sorry for all of you EA-faithful, but 
 if you want even just a decent Nascar game, go buy Nascar Racing from way back in 1994, If you 
 want a good Nascar game, buy Nascar Racing 3 from 1999, and if you want a Nascar game so real Dale 
 Jr., Denny Hamlin, and Elliott Sadler are known to play it, get Nascar Racing 2003 Season, if you 
 can find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerxmm55
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great graphics, tuning your car can be fun
  
  The Bad: No career mode, game can get glitchy especially online, didn't do a good job on the rosters 
 for the other series.
  
  
  A lot of people got this game and right from the start they couldn't control the car and the gameplay 
 sucked. After ten minutes they all went back to the store and traded it back in and got their money 
 back, but not me. After about an hour i decided to tweak the setup on the car and in the settings 
 then when i got it perfect, i really enjoyed the game. The gameplay: The game actually feels realistic 
 and it gets fun after you do some tweaking. You can tell that EA put some effort in this game.
 
  
  The graphics: I have to say the graphics are really sweet in the game from the lighting effects 
 and the wrecks that look spectacular.
  
  The sound- The soundtrack is kind of lame, EA needs to stop putting the country music in the game 
 it gets annoying after awhile.
  
  Value: This game really dosent feel like it should be worth 60 bucks.- More like 30.
  
  Overall: 
 The game does not have alot of features but the graphics are amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panchulo
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 8, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  When's the good game coming out for the 360? The new one in stores is definitely not it. I was 
 hoping that the Next Gen graphics would help, but EA did a piss poor job with the realism. Where 
 are the AI cars wrecking? Where's the pit crew member hammering and bending the fenders back in 
 place? Not in pit row, I can assure you of that. EA, please give up trying to make better games, 
 you're not getting it done anymore. Hand over whatever you have in your backburners to other game 
 makers, I'm sure that even ATARI can come up with a better looking and sounding game than that 
 piece of crap on the shelves.
  Oh yeah, what about the ONE PLAYER MODE??? What in the hell is that? I'm ready to return this game 
 back to the store and get Parrapa the Rapper! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud75x
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 7, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  This series has fallen back into the past with the recent realese of Nascar 2008. Since nascar 
 2005 I believe, EA sports has added in amateur modified racing and the top 3 Nascar series (trucks, 
 bush cars, and nextel cup cars) but didnt this time around. They also dropped their fantasy tracks 
 some of which I liked (the short tracks for the modifieds) and only put the Nextel cup season tracks. 
 As real Nascar fans know, the Craftman trucks race on alot of short tracks, while the bush series 
 follows in the foot steps of the NExtel cup with a few exceptions, like MExico and Canada. Neither 
 are in this game. So yes, no matter which type of car you pick, its the same track options. Creating 
 your own ride is like back in the Nascar Thunder days. You can only pic 3 digit numbers and only 
 select for a hand full of graphics. To make it look better you can add 3 layers, but in the end 
 there are only about 10or so graphics in all and 3-5 number graphic options. AS someone who likes 
 sport games and loves what EA has done, this is sad. I love getting these sports game and starting 
 a new character, mainly myself, and going form the ground up. I guess this is why dirt to daytona 
 is my fav NAscar game ever because you start at the local dirt tracks and work your way up like 
 Dale Earnhardt did back in his day. Ive always wished EA sports would do the same. Maybe one day, 
 afte rlooking into arena football and etc, they will do a local short track/ dirt track racing 
 game and yoru saved data can be transfered over to the nascar game and you get go form there... like 
 you can with NCAA football and MAdden now.
  
  ... one can only dream 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwallacefan
Rating: 3.3
Date: Aug 3, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This is my review of nascar 08.
  
  I am tired of reading false energized reviews about this game. This company also known as EA Sports 
 has done what everybody does, they have spent all their money in marketing it. I have a big problem 
 with this game because like all other people, ive spent 60 bucks for a major letdown. The impressive 
 thing about Nascar 08 is the next step forward in graphics. Regarding playing the game, big deal!!!! 
 I have had so much fun playing the simple Gamecube game called Dirt To Daytona which was made in 
 2002 puts this game to shame. I cant believe here we are in the year 2007 with all the greatest 
 developments of technology and I get this pile of puke? A single player game???? this is out right 
 a major ripoff. You guys go back to the drawing boards and do your job right and stop taking people's 
 hard earned excitement money. I am not going to offer EA Sports any ideas of what they should have 
 done with this game because these people get paid alot of money to NOT do what i am complaining 
 about. Have a nice day.
  Congratulations on a real nice disappointment.
  If you have any questions of this review.
  Feel free to contact me. I will be waiting for your 
 response 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipzor
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 3, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Nascar was actually a halfway decent game on the PS2 where there was a money system, a team system, 
 different classes, and unlike actual NASCAR; more than the speedway. What do they do with the Next-Gen 
 console version, they completely scrap all good things about the last one and replace it with bad 
 control and no reason to go near it. Shall we begin with this mess.
  
  Gameplay: There is a new mode in NASCAR called The Chase where you play a season as a driver. But 
 before starting we must go through getting the licenses for each race then after we get that license, 
 we must get the car then we can officially start... the first race. The other problem is the autosave 
 system after each race. When you completely screw up the first race then quit before it ends, you 
 register in last place right away and you cannot change it. Restarting The Chase puts you in the 
 position to go through the licenses. Already that ate away hours of your life. Technically this 
 game is killing you. The reason you might restart The Chase might be because the racing controls 
 are horrific and the slightest tap of the stick might sent you of the track. There is absolutely 
 no variety when it comes to this NASCAR game.
  
  Graphics: Ugh. Cars look like cars, no suprise but there are no special features to this. Honestly, 
 these graphics not a step up. Sound: Sounds better than Big Rigs. But that is easy to do. Does 
 it sound better than Forza, not even close. There isn't a sound for metal scraping against metal, 
 so there really is not that much to hear besides a subpar soundtracks and bad car sounds.
  
  Value: Paying next-gen prices for a game that is no where near as good as the previous game 
 on the past-gen system, instantly gives a feeling that you are being ripped off. Play the PS2 version, 
 its cheaper.
  
  Do yourself a favor, if you own Forza 2 on the XBOX360; you don't need to add this game to your 
 addition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stomique
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 3, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  The excitement of stock car racing comes from too many cars going way too fast , way too close 
 to one another in much too small a space. Anyone who's been to the local Saturday night race track 
 or has been lucky enough to attend an actual NASCAR event can tell you. The rush of the crowd, 
 the SOUND of all those engines screaming is enough to make your hair stand on end. Anyone who says 
 it's just a bunch of guys turning left has probably never been to an actual event. I believe that 
 EA managed to get the frantic racing aspect of it reasonably right in this latest iteration of 
 their exclusive video game franchise. Although the graphics vary somewhat from track to track, 
 they're really not as bad as some would have you believe. A few are actually well done. Martinsville 
 and Michigan come immediately to mind. The game play is pretty much in the arcade bag but you'll 
 forget about it as you careen around Bristol looking for an opening and trying to keep your ride 
 from coming completely apart.. I know it's no Papyrus ( I'm an on line league administrator for 
 NR2005) but NASCAR 08 for the 360 is fun on it's own merits. I for one am glad they seem to be 
 moving away from distractions like Total Team Control and are focusing instead on the near panic 
 of good ol' close up stock car racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rblk26
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 3, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  To put this game in the same ranks as Transformers is stupid, no other way to explain it.
  Maybe Im out of the loop, maybe theres a Nascar game that is the end of all ends. I love this game, 
 if you have a steering wheel this is as real as it gets. I was not expecting to fight the wheel 
 while turning, or navigate thru a pack of cars all unwilling to give up their spot. I am impressed 
 by this game. The best part about this game is it is hard. If you are a perfectionist and the thrill 
 of going 180 plus mph and then drafting bumper to bumper to make that pass, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visnovsky17
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 2, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game for quite awhile because many of the more recent Nascar games 
 have been, in my opinion, well bad. This game is good but it has room for improvements. The graphics 
 in this game are amazing, the gameplay has it's highs and lows, and the online is hit and miss.
 
  
  This Nascar game is one of the most immersive because the next-gen graphics make you feel like 
 you could actually be at a race. It's mostly little things like the fact that the track actually 
 looks like it's someplace real instead in the middle of nowhere. The crowd is pretty simple but 
 3D crowd is better than colored boxes. The damage on the cars is ok, but better than any other 
 Nascar game I have played.
  
  The gameplay has it's high points such as the Chase mode and it's low points the highly unintelligent 
 A. I. The Chase is very fun and definitely prepares you for the best way to drive a Nascar race 
 car in many different situations. The crash avoidance tests are my favorite and are very fun. Now 
 the A. I. is pretty shotty in this game. I haven't tried the game at the hardest difficulty yet 
 but on easy and medium, especially on superspeedways, you leave the other cars behind so much it's 
 not really fun. However, the challenges on hard are pretty difficult and take some skill to finish.
 
  
  Online is great for uploading setups and i love the ESPN ticker at the bottom, it's pretty much 
 the same as the one in NHL 07 but it's still great, and i love that the ESPN podcasts update and 
 play throughout the day and gives you all the major sports headlines. Online play is ok but tends 
 to lag a little bit.
  
  Overall this one of my favorite games and I really love the Chase feature, I don't really miss 
 the career mode i never really played that in the older games, and the general racing gameplay 
 is pretty fun. It definitely helps that I'm a HUGE Nascar fan so that easily makes it a lot more 
 fun than if you're not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: massote1
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  EA is almost there. I believe that NASCAR 09 will be a great game. The game needs to improve engine 
 and graphics. However, it is the best NASCAR game by now. A lot of people love Nascar Season 2003 
 from Papyros. We have to reconize that is a great game for 2003. Today, I have been expecting a 
 new generation NASCAR game and EA NASCAR 2008 is the closest seen by now. For Nascar Fans; this 
 game really worth a try and do not compare the DEMO version with a FULL version. The FULL NASCAR 
 game is much better than the DEMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yofer32
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 2, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  When i first started playing Nascar 08 i noticed how realistic the physics are. The cars will spin 
 when you over accelarate or brake too heavy. The single player is decent but lacks very many game 
 modes. There is a new mode called the chase where you must compete to get contracts to compete 
 in The Nascar Nextel Cup Series. That is pretty much the only mode besides race now that there 
 is. Not much replay value there. The game also features The car of Tomorrow , Busch Series, and 
 The Craftsmen Truck Series. This game also has an online multiplayer mode. This is where the game 
 is covered in problems. Most likely in a race you will sustain most of your damage from cautions. 
 This is because cars behind you (controlled by the cpu) will hit your tail end and damage it and 
 whoever is behind you will recieve hood damage. Wrecks will occur in front of you and when the 
 caution flies, that person will still be in front of you. People can run around the outside wall 
 at Bristol and have great lap times. It flaws like these that keep me from scoring the game very 
 high. They are very frustrating and may make me eventually stop playing all together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callofdutyzzz
Rating: 5.6
Date: Aug 2, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  To start off, NASCAR is a motorsport involving of many drivers around the world competing in a 
 circuit for First Place. Theres many manuevers such as Slingshot, and following the draft, etc. 
 This game is a replica of the sport which does a horrible job. First of all theres the Chase the 
 Cup mode, where you start out as a unkown driver, racing in little minigames, and eventually using 
 other pro cars and becoming one of the top. This mode is very fun, but yet it is short. This game 
 has no Career mode so you cannot play with your favorite driver going through championships. The 
 online also has very few modes, basically just play now. I believe this game was rushed and is 
 only worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adcox49
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 1, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  Best NASCAR game I have ever played. The game tops the graphics are stunning the crashes look phenomenal 
 the dirt kicked up from the cars on the grass, the debris from the car, and the damage on the car 
 it all looks amazing. The sound is just as good the sound of the cars roaring the sound of the 
 crashes it all sounds great. The game play is great but difficult as well. I liked the difficulty 
 in the game its a great step up from the previous games but some gamers may not like the game 
 because it is difficult to master but that was not so in my case. The AI drivers are well done 
 they ram you from behind and the slingshot to pass you. The one problem I found though is when 
 I first started playing and I was overlapped a couple of times when the leaders were passing me 
 they would put my car into the wall for no reason. The pit crew is great it all looks real. There 
 are mini game challenges like avoid a pile up which is very fun. The game brings a lot of new features 
 to the series which you have to see for yourself. You also have the choice of different kinds of 
 races like truck races for example which is very fun The online play is decent but it is sometimes 
 hard to get in a game where the other players arent trying to wreck you. Or you will experience 
 major lag. Overall the online is similar to single player but with actual people playing with you. 
 Overall this game is great it has stunning graphics, great sound, and great game play. I recommend 
 this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giosac
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  the game is very good, its easy to learn just in the very start of the game.
  
  in the license practice you can learn how ti drive and is very good, the engine sound in fun and 
 the car perfomance is fear,,,,,, driving is funy once you know how to do it because you cant try 
 to take a curve with just one stick move, you need to stay in the curve position and take the goos 
 angle in the control. bottom line is a very good game for a driving person and car lovers.... i 
 never like nascar but i give it a chance and it didnt fail me...
  
  thankss give it a chance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhall68
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  NASCAR 08 is a solid game but you really have to spend some time with it to find that out.
  
  I've been playing NASCAR games for ten years now and over the years, I've pretty much played 
 them all. Most of them were dismissed after about a week of playing. One in particular had some 
 real staying power. After spending a week with NASCAR 08, I'm ready to say that it's going to be 
 a keeper.
  
  The graphics are really quite good but you won't fully appreciate the graphics in the first impression. 
 There are some aliasing problems here and there but I say that about most console games. The lighting, 
 shadows, modeling etc. are the best available for a NASCAR game at this time. Some people care 
 about this, some people don't. I'm one of the people who cares about graphics and NASCAR 08 delivers 
 pretty well.
  
  The gameplay is very good but not perfect. After spending a week on hardcore I'm satisfied that 
 the physics are convincing and deep enough for me to consider this game more of a sim than an arcade 
 game. The force feedback felt through the xbox 360 wireless steering wheel is possibly the most 
 complex I've ever seen in any NASCAR game. But again, it takes time to really appreciate it's subtle 
 nuances.
  
  The biggest weakness in the gameplay is due to some annoying bugs mostly related to the way Yellow 
 and Black flags are handled and some occasional strange A. I. behavior. If EA releases and update 
 to correct these problems, I would be willing to give the gameplay a solid 10.
  
  I found the sound to be pretty good but one of the weaker aspects of the game. There's nothing 
 horribly wrong with it but the car sounds seem a little weak to me and the way the sounds react 
 while rev-ing the engine seem a little simplistic to me.
  
  Whether or not you like this game will probably come down to what your looking for in a NASCAR 
 game. I myself am mostly interested in the on-the-track racing experience and in that regard, NASCAR 
 08 is very well done. If you want a casual, easy to get into experience, you will likely be disappointed. 
 The game can be frustratingly difficult and it takes quite a bit of time to find a comfortable 
 feel.
  
  I don't personally care about all the other bells and whistles like owner mode, hiring and firing 
 people and managing the finances of a race team. If that's what you're looking for, NASCAR 08 probably 
 won't be for you.
  
  Bottom line... NASCAR 08 is the first time in 4 years I've been really happy with a stock car racing 
 game. Take that for what it's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josmith16
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I've played 5 games online. Two of the games locked up and when back to the server. One I finished 
 and it didn't add my race to my stats online. Two races it added online. All this stupid game does 
 is say Disconnected from the EA Server. EA puts out a bunch of crap cause we are willing to buy 
 it. I suggest everybody boycott EA games.
  
  If your not willing to buy a wheel, then I wouldn't buy this game. This game is unplayable with 
 out a racing wheel. I bought a racing wheel and the game handles pretty good, but when I tried 
 using a controller, it was one lap and spin out.
  
  If your happy with not playing online and are willing to buy a wheel, then this game is pretty 
 good. I'd rate this game a 8 or 9 if the online play worked and I could use a controller, but it 
 doesn't and I can't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  When I read the reviews that people were giving this, I was a bit cautious of this game. Then I 
 realized a lot of haters don't like games like this that are "too realistic". If you are a PGR, 
 Forza, Grand Turismo fan, you will probably dislike this game. If you are a fan of a challenge 
 and realism, this is the game for you.
  
  Gameplay: 7
  
  Good but not great gameplay. It isn't the sensitivity of the controls that bring the gameplay down, 
 it's some of the occurrences during the races. Sometimes when you spin out, your car goes in reverse 
 and it's hard to spin it back around. Crashes are a bit exaggerated and sometimes during crashes 
 cars seemingly warp into the concrete and completely disappear.... I have thrown myself into walls 
 twice trying to avoid these vanishing cars. The controls and physics are so realistic, it has turned 
 people off and even frustrated me. But that's what makes a game like this great... it isn't easy.
 
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  Courses and crowd animation looks great. Car detail and gloss effect give one the experience of 
 feeling like you are watching a real race. Car damage looks a lot more realistic than previous 
 generation releases. I can't really give much more than that... it's about what you should get 
 form a next-gen nascar game... and it works great.
  
  Sound: 9
  
  If you lack surround sound you are missing something excellent from this game. True 5.1 surround 
 will give you the feel that you are right in the cockpit manning your own car. The engines, screeching 
 tires, crashes and the voice of your crew chief are all up to par and the attention given to them 
 is experienced when you race your first series race.
  
  Value: 7
  
  It offers a decent ammount of options. Chase for the cup is decent but lacks options that keep 
 it from getting a higher score. I like being able to race almost right away, but it would be nice 
 if there were more options i. e, racing your way up to the nextel cup, but it isn't bare bones like 
 some people want to paint it as. Online is a bit laggy but, like the rest of the game, is fine 
 once you get used to it. The value is worth the buy IMHO.
  
  Tilt: 7
  
  I will say this, I didn't like this game at first... In fact, I was pissed I spent the $60 at first, 
 but once I got used to it, I couldn't put it down. The challenges at the beginning of the chase 
 really help you learn the control sensitivity and courses.. actually they pretty much make you 
 learn.
  
  If you have patience and like Nascar or Nascar games, pick this up... if not, then don't. But remember, 
 just because you aren't good at it, doesn't make it a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willam13_basic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure how to rate this game... if you are looking for a game that is like Cars don't rent/buy 
 this. If you want to play a RACING game buy it right now. The hardest part of this game is the 
 setup of the car... it is absolutely the most important part of the game. That being said, after 
 you get the right setup... this game is awesome. In conclusion, if you have ADD or are impatient 
 at all do not buy this game. If you have discipline and enjoy racing buy it now. All in all the 
 game is enjoyably frustrating and it makes you want to do better every time you don't place first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: draphtmasta
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 29, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Yes EA finally made a quality sim... and just like in nr2003... you will need to have a wheel to 
 enjoy this game. Period. But it is worth the investment. This game is flat out one of the best 
 nascar games ever made. It looks better, sounds better, drives better than any other console nascar 
 game ever... and is quite honestly almost up to nr2003 on core gameplay... that being physics, 
 graphics, speed, tuning options. EA really nailed it this year. I thought I would never see the 
 day. Keep it up ea... IGN totally missed the review, hopefully gamespot will get it right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Filip_XxX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 29, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  Graphics are astonishing never seen Nascar like that before! Even though i like Fromula 1 way more 
 then Nascar, Nascar 08 isn't bad at all! It got me into Nascar way more after I've played this 
 game! Sound is on the spot and Gameplay is Right as rain! Can't really compare it to any other 
 game but i still think its an amazing game to own and play! For all those Nascar fans out there 
 this own is a keeper for sure! No doubt about one bit! Even if ur not a Nascar fan like me it'll 
 still keep u playin for hours! Nascar 08 is one of the best racing games i've owned beside Forza 
 MotorSport 2 and Burnout Revenge! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjr2682
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  Strait up EA made a good nascar SIM for a change. I'm not about to award them the noble prize or 
 nothing so don't hang me for writing an honest opinion. Ok, for all you morons who are complaining 
 about the way the car handles either watch the tutorials and learn how to play or go into options 
 and make it handle like an arcade game so you can keep complaining about the same garbage. Honestly 
 if you have ever drivin a car over 120 mph you would know that this how cars really handle at high 
 speeds so get over it. The car drives good it's just that EA has put out monkey poo year after year 
 and we all still buy it. But they did themselves a huge favor with being able to adjust the way 
 it drives. So well done on that EA. The way the damage appears is a really nice upgrade over previous 
 yrs which is what you expect for the next gen systems. The fans in the stands are generic as it 
 gets but your racing (pay attention to the race 4 god sakes) ! The chase is new compaired to the 
 same ol song and dance for the past 4yrs or so and takes getting used to. Although i don't completely 
 agree with how it is all unfolding so far in the game with all the liscense and all the drive such 
 n so's car and you can have it. It makes the game longer to play and gives you stuff to do in career 
 mode, cuz face it this career mode is not as deep as we'd all like. If you don't have the patience 
 to go through all the formentioned mumbo jumbo jus do a season then and skip the chase. It's a step 
 in a new direction for a new game on a new system which is what game developers are supposed to 
 do. IT's just it takes EA longer to get the monkeys to come up with new idea's. Graphics are very 
 solid couldv'e been a tad bit better in some areas but remember this is the first release on the 
 next gen so it will get even better, it always does. Sound???? Oh my god! the game sounds good but 
 the menu music is just plain awful and continues to get worse every year! Just a perfect example 
 of what happens when you have a bunch of country hillbillies do rock and roll it's a disaster! 
 Y can't they just get good stuff like nickelback three days grace, i'd even settle for some american 
 idol bum but not this. YAK! But all in all Ea has shown that they can make a decent game if they 
 put some thought into it. This game feals a little rushed, a cuople more months of work and it could 
 have been alot deeper but all being said i think its a very good first installment for the next 
 gen era. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EKWeeks
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 29, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  The learn curve to play this game is long. At is way soon to the reviews are bad. They did not 
 take the time it take to learn to play the game. A good game if you give it time to learn to play 
 it right. You need to learn how to dive the car and learn how car should feel on the track. All 
 of this and learn the in and out of setting up your car. The most important about your car is the 
 setup, you can say the 90% of game is about have you set-up your car. How to setup your car will 
 take time in the game or time on the internet to find a good setup for your car. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hallrick
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 27, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  It took me about 8 hours of game play to get to the point where I was ok driving at the normal 
 difficulty level. Overall the graphics are pretty good and I like the sound. The spotter gives 
 good comments that haven't become old yet. I've played the single and multiplayer and both are 
 good and pretty solid with me hosting on a normal dsl connection. Learning curve aside, the one 
 big knock I have on the game so far is the lack of fun and different ways to play the game in both 
 single and multi modes. So, if you want to race NASCAR it's pretty good. In terms of innovating 
 something different or unique, it comes up a bit short.
  
  Overall, I'm enjoying it and I am not a diehard NASCAR fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generallee01
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok, lets get the crappy stuff out of the way, the career and sound. The Chase is obviously for 
 newcomers to the sport and has no value to us real NASCAR fans that already know this stuff. Although 
 it may provide much needed practice for some. But compared to past EA NASCAR games, this career 
 is just bare bones and just plain sucks. Even the season mode. Usually I'd start up a career mode, 
 but this year, I didnt even bother. But along with the career mode being crappy, the sound is too. 
 Many glitches and unheard noises never before heard in a NASCAR race show its true colors many 
 times, especially during a post-race victory burnout. So like Forrest Gump said, thats all I have 
 to say about that. 
  
  Now the racin is just plain SWEET. I love setting up my car and racin on the track. The realism 
 it provides is what brings me to play it. True NASCAR fans will love the control they have over 
 their car once they get their own sweet spot in line.
  
  But along with the realism the racing provides, great graphics go along with it. The move to next-gen 
 has made the game very visually pleasing, even though its not the best a 360 can put out, its still 
 nice.
  
  Online is another aspect that keeps pulling me to this game. The lag really 'drags' me down while 
 in the menu but the sense of community and creation of leagues is very positive for us NASCAR fans. 
 When I first played it, I didn't think the leagues would last but after I played a couple online 
 races, I think they might, even with some negative comments and let's play GRAW later comments. 
 Overall, its a GOOD game. Obviously has the 'bare-bones' package, but worth a rental AT LEAST. 
 True NASCAR fans will either love it or hate it and newcomers to the sport should play earlier 
 games to get a better NASCAR experience overall.
  
  BTW, join my league. I'm accepting dedicated drivers that will race in 3/4 of the season.
  
 
  http://www. freewebs. com/thenascar08league/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdonthate
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I always wonder when I read a review, who the reviewer is, so to those that care and take this 
 in to consideration: Age: 33 - Been gaming since an Atari 2600 - Have played just about every driving 
 game EXCEPT NASCAR ones (I just moved to the South and got in to the sport :-) )
  
  I'll start by saying, this game is EXTREMELY sim like. If you are looking for Daytona USA (arcade 
 game) where the brake pedal is optional, this game is not for you! You are going to have to drive 
 like a real NASCAR driver. I am convinced that the majority of these reviews saying the game is 
 impossible are written by 12 year olds who are used to physics in games such as Need for Speed 
 and Test Drive. Go watch a real NASCAR race some day. Channels such as ESPN sometimes show how 
 much acceleration and brake a driver is using. Watch when they go in to the turns, they are completely 
 off the gas and leaning heavily on the brakes. To the user who said at the beginning of every race 
 the car pulls to the right and puts him in to a wall. Um, NASCAR cars are made to favor the left 
 and have a bias to go left when the wheel is straight, so what are you talking about?
  
  Anyway - On to my review, and I do own the game. Please, if you are just playing the demo, spare 
 us the wasted time of reading a review. Don't write one until you buy it.
  
  Setup review was done with:
  Samsung 56 1080p DLP
  Pioneer VSX-815 with 5.1 surround sound
 
  Controller (no steering wheel)
  
  Graphics - (8/10) The game is beautiful looking. The cars are crisp colorful and very nice looking. 
 The tracks are rendered perfectly (I could even see exactly where I sit in the Champions grandstand 
 in Atlanta) . The crowds are not the same type of crowds that you have in some of your newer sports 
 games, but when you are traveling at 180+ MPH, do you really care? For a game that is keeping track 
 of 42 other cars on the field, I'm pretty impressed with the looks and frame rate. Very smooth 
 running game.
  
  Sound - (8/10) This is the only category where I am left wanting more. The spotter you hear over 
 your radio gets tiring after a while. Maybe they should have used some commentary instead. I guess 
 they wanted to give you the In the car feel, but the option of a commentator would have been nice. 
 Your music lineup is mostly country, I guess HipHop would have been way too much to ask for in 
 a NASCAR game :-p I went back and changed the score I originally gave for sound, and surround sound 
 in particular from a 6 to a 8. After being able to play without my fiance around (and blasting 
 it) , I have a new appreciation for the job they did with the surround. Good job EA.
  
  Gameplay - (8/10) Finally!! A game that I am not going to master after 4 hours of play!!! Like 
 I said, you have to drive like a real driver. Real drivers follow a line, they do not sway all 
 over the track. When you do this, you hit other cars trying to pass you. Eventually, you will get 
 black flagged. When a car is passing you, this is not a demolition derby, or Need for Speed, you 
 can not purposely put them in to the wall. You will get black flagged. When you enter a turn, you 
 can not be doing 200 miles an hour and not expect to slide up the track. You have to brake. Yes, 
 in real life, these cars do slide laterally. You can watch them just about leave the ground and 
 move sideways as they race. Racers are always walking that fine line of the most speed they can 
 get out of their car while barely having control. Respect that. Look guys, you can't expect to 
 finish first every race. It's not realistic. Dale Jr. hasn't won a race this year, and Tony just 
 got his first win 2 weeks ago. If you give this game some patience, maybe turn down the sensativity 
 of the controller a little bit, or invest in a wheel (this game may make me do that) you will begin 
 to get the hang of it. The first 2 hours that I played, I really thought that this game was going 
 to do nothing but give me headaches and frustration. After a while, you get a feel for how you 
 have to drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kahnebeast
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  When I walked into GameStop to buy the new NASCAR game, I had very high expectations. I was expecting 
 to find a golden game ridden of flaws and glitches. That, my friends, was just not going to cut 
 it. I saw that game in its perfect case, unopened, fresh, new. It was staring right back at me 
 promising a new start in the EA Sports NASCAR collection. Then I got home and flipped it into the 
 disc tray of my Xbox 360. The game loaded and I started The Chase mode. I soon realized that the 
 game had many glitches and problems. It did not have a good career mode. The only thing close was 
 a 55-challenge, license-earning, car winning mode called The Chase. It was boring, frankly. I really 
 didn't spend much time on it. I went straight to Lowe's with Kasey Kahne. One of the first things 
 I noticed about this game was the graphics. They are absolutely great. The cars are crisp with 
 colorful paint jobs, and the tracks are unbelievably detailed. The crashes are good if you don't 
 use cautions. (The caution cutscene cuts out almost your entire wreck!) At Lowe's, I went onto 
 the track and spun out right in Turn 1 coming out of the pits. I avoided the wall and got back 
 going again, only to be swept into the wall in the same turn the next lap, my first counted lap 
 for qualifying. Before I knew it, my back end was crunched up and my car was loose. I was practically 
 dirt-tracking every turn, on the edge of spinning. I qualified 37th on my second lap and started 
 the race. The green flag shows itself and we head into the first turn. I am cautious and let off 
 the gas a lot to avoid repeating the same mistake. I come out beside David Reutimann and we drag 
 race down the straight, lights blaring down on us from above, the pack slowly pulling away. I go 
 into Turn 3 and get into David because he gave me no room at all. It was as if I wasn't even there. 
 He runs his line like he would if he didn't even have someone on the inside. I run him straight 
 into the wall and destroy my suspension, ending my race. I finish 43rd and give a good yell for 
 anyone listening. This was my first race on NASCAR 08, and I'm sure it wasn't unlike many who bought 
 this game just the same as I did. Anyway, I kept playing, trying to figure out what the problem 
 was, and I finally started tinkering with setups. That was fun, and I started liking it better. 
 The rest happened pretty quickly. I won a race in all the series: everything is good. I am really 
 enjoying myself. Then I decide to give The Chase another try. I decide it isn't any better than 
 when I left it, so I choose to stay out of it and run seasons and things like that. Overall, this 
 game is good. It is much better than any NASCAR game EA has ever put out, and I think fans will 
 be happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spencerw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  i give it a 9 because i think the lag in the servier and the name poping up while talking needs 
 to be fixed. the lobby has alot of lag and under caution your car gets destoyed by bumping into 
 the car in front. come on ea get the patch out. now the good. graphics ok but not crisp game play 
 a blast .multiplayer when you are playing with players that know how to drive is a blast , but 
 get some kid in there that still has his training wheels on his bike and you wil be under caution 
 the whole race . yellow flags 24/7. come on ea get to work on the lag and name poping up in the 
 field of view. dont drop the ball on this ea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAJORMOIST
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 27, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  I'm a HUGE Nascar fan. I really appreciate the games visuals for the cars and tracks. Even the 
 sounds are amazing. However, EA has not completely finished its homework on this one. There's no 
 career mode like fight to the top ( although I can learn to live with this one) . Also, the AI drivers 
 are constantly ramming into your rear bumper intending to bump draft you but instead SLAM drafting 
 you- causing you to spin out. What sucks about that is that if you managed to luck out and not 
 hit anything, you still go to the end of the line under caution. Nascar games in the past have 
 allowed you to keep your current track position previous to a caution. During cautions where you 
 decide to pit, the car cinematics to get to the pit take way too long! At Daytona, you must go 
 over 2 mi at 55mph before you get to the pits. Thats close to 2 min. before you even hit pit road 
 ,which still takes forever to get down to your pitbox from there. Maybe all the time waited is 
 suppose to cooldown a hotheaded driver like yourself from getting spun out. EA past games asked 
 if you wanted to pit and if you chose yes then it automatically put you on pit road. Here is the 
 worst part of this game: the steering. First off, there's no d-pad option to control with. Using 
 the analog (or joystick) is very difficult for all of you d-pad players out there. To me, a n analog 
 is like someone who's left-handed and d-pad people are right. Why did EA leave it's right-handed 
 people out in the cold this year? Also, game controller response to the game is horrible! With 
 those two things combined your going to be saying: Baby Jesus, it's about to get bumpy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  Well the 360 has been out for almost 2 years now and we finally get a taste of next gen Nascar. 
 This latest installment is easily the best in the series. There are a few modes to play now instead 
 of just jumping into another drivers car and playing a season. Here is the lowdown.
  
  The Chase Mode
  In the chase mode you will have to earn licenses by completing mini game challenges. 
 There are 55 challenges total. This mode helps to teach you the tracks . There are 3 medal types 
 you can earn for all 55 mini games. If you get a gold medal then that will unlock attribuite boosts 
 for the cars in your garage. You also get to choose your own paint scheme for you very own race 
 car.
  
  Contracts
  After earning your licenses, you can start adding cars to your garage by completing contracts. 
 Each contract is different and if you complete the terms in the contract you then will own the 
 car you were driving in the contract. Usually big name cars.
  
  Owner
  After you won some cars you can start your journey to the Nascar Nextel Cup. Now you will need 
 a car that will run on each track in order to complete the Nextel Cup. You must have a Superspeedway 
 stock car to race in the Daytona 500.
  
  Season
  You can choose the 07 Schedule which is the official 2007 schedule or you can choose the 07 Chase 
 for the cup which is only 10 races and only the top 12 drivers get to race. You can also create 
 you own schedule.
  
  Toyota Racing
  Challenges and Test and tune modes are in here. More mini games and learn how to tune your car 
 on an empty track.
  
  Now that I covered the basics of the game I will review the game.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are probably as good as Forza2. It could have been better. The crash 
 effects and time change is pretty sweet though.
  
  Sound
  The game sports some decent sound effects. I would have liked a commentator option instead of having 
 to listen to the pit crew all the time. And even they dont speak that much. You can listen to music 
 while you play which is nice for those 100+ laps.
  
  Value
  This game offers a lot of replay value with all the different modes. You should stay pretty busy 
 competing in the full 07 schedule.
  
  Rating - 85/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmw1981
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 27, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  If you don't like NASCAR, you won't like this game. I am very pleased with EA FINALLY updating 
 the NASCAR franchise. I did prefer the NASCAR 2006 season/career modes compared to this new Chase 
 mode. It's still very fun if you know what you are getting. Rent it if you aren't sure, you'll 
 either love the realism or hate the realistic controls. It looks like most of the negative reviews 
 are due to the controls, which are adjustable, but still take a while getting used to turning, 
 which is exactly what it is like in real life (according to stock car drivers) . You really have 
 to watch out driving this car and be accurate (hit your marks) and you will start having a lot 
 of fun! Also, if you aren't a NASCAR fan, it probably isn't worth it, buy Forza! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casey_johnson92
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  EA Sports has done a amazing job on this addition to the Nascar series, they are really showing 
 next generation graphics. Many people are thinking is this really worth the next generation game 
 cost and also, what's the difference between this new Nascar game compared to all the others? Well, 
 compared to the older version of Nascar such as Nascar 07 people are wanting more fetures in a 
 game but Nascar 08 offers so much more then more functions. The Nascar 08 game offers more graphics 
 so you're going to get a better picture in the game and in Nascar better picture means better gaming! 
 So in this addition Nascar series game you're getting more functions and a better view of the game 
 and also all the Nascar updates that makes the game worth buying in itself. Hope this artical helps 
 you make a decision on choosing this game to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKU11CRUSHER
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Good- the graphics are awesome the day to night effect is cool and the cars look great, music is 
 good and Chad Knaus as Crew Chief is awesome, gameplay is still exciting racing going three or 
 four wide at Talladega or Daytona. The Chase mode is a great way for new comers to get a hand on 
 this game.
  
  Bad- The controls suck. it is impossible to turn on any track , it will take some getting use to, 
 the country isn't well fit for nascar 08 at all,
  
  Overall- Fun game, but the controls keep it from this game being a fanatsic game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Argon24
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  The thing that separates all the other games form this one is the simulations style. On all of 
 the older games u just barrel it down into the corner and hold the stick to the left. In this game 
 you actually have to me smooth and fluid with your motions on the thumb stick. I am glad they brought 
 back all of the flags including the black flag. I am also very satisfieds with the damage model 
 and the roll physics i think they developed them very well. Another thing i think will be good 
 is the way the Chase is layed out they let it teach you the ropes and get used to the game before 
 you get too into the thick of things. Lastly I think the Car of Tomorrow is also a good adition 
 because it give you the variation while still being able to race your favorite nascar nextel cup 
 drivers. I am a little disapointed that they didn't get the COT makes onto the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frankenfrag
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Well there is no right or wrong opinion on NASCAR 08 only your own opinion and Im sharing mine 
 here as a review.
  
  Gameplay (9) : Personally I find the gameplay to be quite satisfactory. Yes it is hard but ever 
 since EA received an exclusive contract with NASCAR the gaming community faithful have been screaming 
 for them to create a game that is more like a simulation then an arcade game. I believe NASCAR 
 delivered the goods in NASCAR 08 and some gamers arent too happy with it. I own a large selection 
 of racing games for both the PC and the console, along with some pretty decent hardware and this 
 game just feels like driving did when I went to the Richard Petty Driving Experience. I think there 
 are a lot of gamers in the racing community that consider themselves expert drivers that are 
 struggling with this well welcome to the real world of auto racing. Graphics (8) : I like the graphics 
 but they do pale in comparison to FM2. The tri-ovals in FM2 were just amazing and I had hoped that 
 NASCAR 08 would be the same. But the graphics are a step up and they do look very nice. Just for 
 reference I am running on a 42 HDTV at 720p.
  
  Sound (7) : The engine sounds are great, best Ive heard for a game other then the custom ones Ive 
 downloaded for NSR2003 from Blackhole. But Im not too thrilled with the spotter. He is either 
 real lazy and tells me nothing or he tells me to much of the same thing. Plus I can barely hear 
 the spotter at times.
  
  Value (9) : Ill be able to replay this time and time again. Yes the Fight to the Top mode is gone 
 and I kind of miss it and kind of dont. Not all drivers start in Wheelen or Craftsman Truck and 
 work their way up that should be an option not a requirement. I just like playing season after 
 season trying to win the Cup year after year. I would like a Dynasty mode like in other EA Sports 
 games such as Madden and NCAA Football.
  
  Reviewers Tilt (10) : It is NASCAR and I love NASCAR, have for about 30 years. It is the first 
 installment in the 360 arena and I hope they keep building on it. A word of caution to everyone 
 complain enough and you may not see another NASCAR game on the 360. People complained so much about 
 NSR that EA pulled the plug on the project. No one likes being given that much grief.
  
  To me the bottom-line is the game is great. It plays great, its difficult enough to make me sit 
 on the edge of the chair and Ill play for a long time. If you think Im nuts for liking it well 
 I think your nuts for not liking it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonSumrall
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Ok. Lets go with the good. The graphics are awesome! Totally out of this world. Crash scenes, donuts, 
 all great. Yeah thats about it for the great stuff in this game. Ready for the bad? No Busch Series, 
 No Truck Series. I have to pass all kinds of test just to be able to drive in the cup series. Come 
 ON! I would rather spend 2 seasons in the truck series or Busch series. Not to mention that the 
 car they give you for the test handles like a dump truck on ice. Which brings me to another point. 
 The handling on the cars is HORRIBLE! You can forget going three wide at Daytona or Talladega, 
 impossible! Unless maybe you have the steady hands of a surgeon. EA missed this one big time. I 
 dont know if they designed this game for the 6 axis controller on the PS3 and just threw this one 
 together. I have played every release of Nascar since the original release on PS1, or Days of Thunder 
 back on the old NES. This one by far is the worst handling. I dont know if the cars really handle 
 that bad and EA nailed that, but its a royal pain in the _ _ _ on the game. I am still in the process 
 of trying pass all the test just to get my cup license (I REFUSE to do so on easy) . Maybe I will 
 just trade it back in and go back to play NCAA 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NA3D
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  The physics are great, they are everything the players have been asking for almost. They have made 
 the game a Sim instead of an Arcade, which is great, but I want to be able to play the game I have 
 been playing since Thunder 2004.
  
  I want my Ravils, Allies, teammates, team commands, swap cars if I wish, to own my own team, to 
 sign sponsor deals, to fire my agent, to upgrade my team, to prove my self to my car owner, to 
 play a NASCAR game %100 worth buying.
  
  This year it is 60% worth buying after last years minor upgrade from 06 which was 10% worth buying. 
 If you love the career mode from Thunder 2004 or 06, then this game is 20-30% worth buying. If 
 you are a Sim racer, that loved NASCAR 2003 by Papy, and dont give a hoot about a career mode, 
 then this game is 95% worth buying.
  
  The thing is with NASCAR 2003 with Papy is that you can customize your car's look, driver information, 
 and much much more.
  
  The graphics are great, definitely up to next-gen level for a game with 43 cars on a track. The 
 texturing is amazing as well. The tracks, skyline, and effects are great. Though the effects need 
 massive work to be more real, they have the look right at least.
  
  Though not everyone loved Whelen, it was worth leaving in there as well. If they would of kept 
 it in there, I would of actually baught the game.
  
  EA bragged about the looks, the AI, and the effects, but the looks are just okay - good, not great 
 or amazing, the AI is stupid as heck, and the effects, like I said before, look good, but dont 
 react correctly.
  
  I say no one should buy a NASCAR game from EA until they do it right or let someone else who will 
 actually try make the game as great as Papy did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haterbater123
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Above all, this game was just plain rushed out. Lets first talk about the good the game brings.
 
  
  * way better graphics then the last gen games.
  * the night to day transition is a cool new feature.
  * a sensible damage that rolls on nicely
 
  * the cockpit cam is pretty nice.
  * the tracks are done almost to perfection.
  
  now for the bad. and let me tell you. its bad. i feel as if EA (like usual) through it all together 
 way to quick. i wouldn't mind waiting for the game to come out in September like it always does. 
 but i guess ill survive. im not bashing this game. just speaking the truth.
  
  * Although the damage is cool. the flips happen way to easy. * Lets face it the steering is way 
 realistic. but come on have a way that beginners can practice without spinning out all the time.
 
  * sometimes flips go through the fences
  * sometimes cars go through the ground.
  * the race results malfunction. i. e mark martin in the replay finishes second behind me. but when 
 the race results screen pops up hes not in the top ten. and therefore doesn't receive points so 
 the standings are all messed up.
  * the chase mode is a waste. * car customization is empty
  * only 22 tracks. no Gateway, Kentucky, 
 IRP, etc.
  * trucks = generic
  * COT = generic
  * music are you kidding?
  * the fans in the stands are nonexistent. paper cardboard and no cheering.
  * NO MULTI-PLAYER??????? 
 except XBL.
  * Carl Edwards needs to end his contract with that electronics company so he can get in the game 
 for once.
  * spotter should be shot.
  * black flags me when i don't go under the yellow line and pass someone.
  * and the A. I really 
 like to play bumper tag.
  
  all around i kind of expected this. but next year will be more promising. im sure of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fsume93
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  The car control is not easy and it shouldnt be, but it is either too stiff or too jelly like. I 
 havent been able to find a happy medium for me on either large tracks like daytona or short tracks 
 like Bristol. I am using a controller and not a wheel.
  
  There is no career mode, sadly. The cars look good and overall the game looks good. The spectators 
 look like last gen although you arent looking at them as you play. Anyone watching you play looks 
 at them and let me tell you they look bad.
  
  After racing at Bristol for 2 hours it felt like destruction derby. I havent yet managed to make 
 smooth passes consistently without bumbing and rubbing. That is the way it should be you say. Well 
 I agree, but the bumping and rubbing shouldnt make my engine steam and then both my water and oil 
 overheat within 5 or 10 laps. Which leads to a DQ and the race being over. This happened EVERY 
 time.
  
  I would rate this game as a typical EA effort. Some aspects are really good and done well. On the 
 other hand some aspects will let you down. I am not sure yet if this is a game that will provide 
 lasting fun. The dynamic of having every single race being different should provide lasting fun 
 and replayability. The control of the cars may make this a mute point. Only time will tell. I hope 
 to update this review in a week or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themilkman418
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  NASCAR 08 is a good game, not a great game but a good game. This is my first NASCAR game and I 
 am pretty happy with my purchase.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 This is what is being complained about the most, I personally don't mind it because 
 it gives the best of both worlds. For people who want to feel like their actually driving a NASCAR 
 car they can keep the sensitivity the way it is, where too hard of a turn can send you spinning 
 out. People who prefer a more acrade like experince or people who feel the need for the turning 
 and control to be easier can turn the sensitivity down. The game is good at what it does with draft 
 meters and other NASCAR releated things. Pit Stops are pretty basic, overall the gameplay is GOOD 
 but not great.
  
  Their are many mode to play in like usal. Chase, Season or just race. All of these modes are executed 
 correctly and they are all enjoyable. With being able to decide inbetween 1 percent of the race 
 or 100 percent you can really adjust the race to your likings.
  
  Graphics 8/10 I don't see why people complain about the graphics the cars all look very nice and 
 their are many camera modes that you can pick from. The tracks also look good. The fan sections 
 aren't that great but you shouldn't be paying attention to them. This is the next gen game for 
 the 360 so the graphics are pretty good.
  
  Sound 8/10 The sound of the cars is very good. So are the hosts. EA always does good with things 
 like that so it's not a suprise that it got an 8/10.
  
  Value 7/10 60 bucks is a little to much for this game in my opnion. You get some of your bang for 
 the buck but not all of it.
  
  Reviewers tilt 8/10 Only review ive seen it OXM and it got an 8/10
  
  If you're a NASCAR fan 
 pick this game up. If you are questoning the decision rent the game. BUT DON'T JUDGE THE GAME BY 
 THE DEMO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandpa_gamer
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  As a devoted racing game fan, I was anticipating the first X-Box 360 NASCAR game with a bit of 
 excitement. I had purchased the X-Box wireless steering wheel and loved how it added to the visceral 
 enjoyment of Forza 2 and DiRT, in particular. I bought NASCAR 08 within the first hour on the first 
 day it was available.
  
  My first emotion was disappointment. The handling of the cars is a large step back from previous 
 years. After a half hour of nonstop high-speed practice at Daytona, I was able to manage handling 
 adequately, but as far as being competitive, the jury is still out. Using the wheel or the controller, 
 the steering is way too much work, needing to constantly do a correction to the right to keep the 
 car off the infield.
  
  Will that be a deal breaker for me on whether to spend a lot of time on this game? I'm not sure 
 yet.
  
  One thing I am sure about, however, is a profound sense of WTF over the lack of a career mode, 
 where I can create myself or Daffy Duck if I choose and work my way up through the ranks.
  
  Why would EA even consider discontinuing a meaningful career mode, much less actually do it?
 
  
  I'm writing this on July 25 and grading the game at 7.3. I intend to let a little time go by, perhaps 
 a month, then submit an addendum. I hope I'm able to change my mind by then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commander100
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  to me this is one of the best if not the best nascar games that EA has produced. The graphics are 
 the best ive seen in a nascar game in a looooooooong time. This is a huge step in the right direction 
 for EA and their nascar games. Whether you are a hardcore racer or a rookie to the series, there 
 is something in this game for everyone. From the black flags right down to the car tuning and even 
 the addition of an actual flagman in the flagstand, this game has it. the game is well woth the 
 60 dollars in my book. There are a few things that stop it from being a perfect ten but if EA continues 
 this step, then next year's game will need its own scale. If u love nascar then u have to get this 
 game. Well done EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jarnold360
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 25, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  I've been a gamer all my life with racing games and sports games being some of my favorites. I've 
 played them all from the original Pole Position to the recently released Forza 2. I own all 3 next 
 generation consoles and there have been very few racing games that I have simply passed over or 
 haven't played. So I myself am a very hardcore racing gamer. I am 32 years old and have seen some 
 truly great racing games in my years. This is just a little background on me so you'll know where 
 I as a gamer am coming from with my review.
  Nascar 08, this is a game that I was really looking forward to. I've played all of the Nascar games 
 up until this point and I would have to say that Dirt to Daytona was my pesonal favorite. I had 
 the game pre-ordered for months and was counting down the days to its release. Now it's sad to 
 say I am totally disapointed.
  I love a good simulation racing game, they are difficult, but very rewarding. Take For example 
 Forza 2 or F1 for PS3, at times these games post very steep challenges to the player but with practice 
 and dedication, the challenges these games present are not impossible to overcome. Nascar 08'a 
 greatest fault and greatest obstacle to overcome is that the cars are impossible to control over 
 any sustainable period of time. This does not make a good racing game or any kind of enjoyable 
 experience. I played the game for hours and hours, and the majority of that time was spent spinning 
 out, crashing into walls or other cars, then adjusting the Linearity and Responsiveness of the 
 controller. It was like a vicious cycle one that was not in any way fun or rewarding. Making a 
 simulation racing game is one thing, but making a game that is near impossible to control is a 
 complete and total ignorance on the part of the developer. The fact is, this game should never 
 had been released with controls like this. It is by far the worst handling racing game that I have 
 ever played in my entire life as a gamer and trust me I have played some pretty bad games.
  This alone should prevent anyone from even considering purchasing this game and the rest of the 
 package (sound, graphics etc..) , shouldn't even matter, but I will for reviewing purposes give 
 you a quick breakdown of each one.
  The game's sound is about average. The cars sound very realistic. The soundtrack contains some 
 very good quality artist and songs, but is far too short. The crew chief would have to be classified 
 as slightly below average occasionally saying things out of context and repeating him-self. Even 
 with these problems, the sound would have to be the highlight in an otherwise pitiful game.
  The game's graphics would have to be described as average to below average. The car models and 
 damage modeling look great, although a bit jagged from time to time. The rest of the game is something 
 that could have been easily accomplished on the original Xbox. With minimal track detail and a 
 general blur accompanying the game to cover its otherwise pitiful textures.
  As a hardcore racing gamer and a Nascar fan, I'm telling you don't even bother buying this pitiful 
 excuse for a game. You will only spend hours upon hours trying to get your car to feel and drive 
 like a car and not like a 400 pound ice skater. I not only wasted my money but also several hours 
 of my time. EA needs to recall this piece of crap and send it to the junkyard where it belongs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maverick2448
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 25, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  For years now EA Sports has attempted to capture the expirience of NASCAR racing while still trying 
 to keep it accessable to the general populace. Truth be told there were some bumps in the road. 
 The peek of which was reached with last year's sub par NASCAR 07. Now EA is back for another season 
 and I am happy to say that while it is not the ultimate NASCAR expirience it is a huge stop in 
 the right direction.
  Many fans of the series will recall that sometime last year EA held an online survey that allowed 
 fans (myself included) to voice their opinions on what they thought about the current state of 
 the series as well as what should be changed or added in the future. Having read these and a number 
 of other forums one thing seemed very consistent, to add more depth to the simulation of the sport 
 of stock car racing. Apparently EA took this to heart by not only employing the former head of 
 the acclaimed NASCAR Racing series for the PC, but rebuilding the entire physics engine from the 
 ground up. What does this mean you might ask? Well if you found yourself wanting more realism out 
 of the core driving expirience then my friend you have found it. Be warned though, casual racers 
 may find it overwelming to try and set up a car using the new setup interface which includes everything 
 from tire preasures to spring rates to fender flare to even the tape used across the grill. Fortunately, 
 if this is too much to grasp the game still has a basic setup slider that covers the major facits 
 of a car's handling. On the track the cars handle much more realistically then ever before. One 
 thing that many people (including those who mock the sport for it's simplistic nature) may be surprise 
 just how hard it is to handle these machines, especially if all assists are turned off. Yes it 
 can be hard but also more interesting since this is how stock cars are in real life, on the edge 
 of control.
  There is plenty of content to go around and keep you busy for a long time. However, like most of 
 EA's first next-gen endevers you can't help but feel that there is something missing in the overall 
 expirience. The biggest of these of course is the presentation or lack there of. Like many EA games 
 NASCAR 08 feels very stripped down in this department. It would have been nice to see some of the 
 content seen in an actual NASCAR event such as the national anthem, the flyovers, and of course 
 those most famous words in motorsports . Also another big thing still missing from this game is 
 the ability to build your own car and driver. Sure you can create a custom car with a modest array 
 of options but you can't personalize it the way you should be able to. Heck you can't even put 
 your own name on the car.
  Graphically the game looks good but not great. The tracks look a whole lot better then they did 
 on the last gen systems but they still lack character and atmosphere. The cars themselves look 
 nice but there is no option for addtional paint schemes. There is a decent interface for the in-game 
 stuff but one thing that would have been nice is a more clear cut performance analysis of changes 
 made while tuning the cars.
  Sound wise, the game has some great ambient sounds. The engines in perticular sound awsome especially 
 if you have a good sound system. The rest of the game is okay but like the rest of the package 
 needs more character. Overall, there is plenty to like about this game. There is plenty to do in 
 the single player game such as playing through a season in any of NASCAR's top three series. Or 
 you can attempt to make a career by winning contracts and advancing through the ranks in the hope 
 that you can reach the Nextel Cup series. You can also play online with up to 16 players. Though 
 the online is not as fleshed out as most of us would like it (another trademark of EA Sports games) 
 it does play a solid game. So in closing if you are even remotely interested in NASCAR racing and 
 are curious as to what driving cars in circles is really about and trust me it is not as dull and 
 easy as many of our lesser peers might think it is, then you owe it to yourself to give this game 
 a try. And if you are a motorsports junkie like me then don't waste another minute. Get out there 
 and pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sydthekid087
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Nascar 08 is a new expierence racing game. The handling of the cars are very sensitive. Some people 
 complain that it is too sensitive but I believe that it makes the game harder. I was tired of the 
 older nascar games that were so easy to beat, but this one is tough. The online play is good but 
 it sucks when you get with drivers that all they want to do is wreck you. The new feature with 
 the A button to talk is pretty cool too. The challenges on the game are hard especially if you 
 go for the gold ones. The graphics are insane! It looks so real it couldn't be better. Setting 
 up your car is pretty much the toughest thing on the game. I actually like setting up your car 
 and trying to make it run better. To make it run faster you basically change the air pressures, 
 gear ratios, and changing the suspension. I love this game it is so good and I also see that it 
 is number 6 on xbox 360 ranking so that shows you how good it really is. Enjoy it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFXFan22604
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 25, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Everybody knows that EA's Nascar games have been lacking in the past few years. Well this year 
 is an exception. This game is really nicely done and alot of fun. Great graphics, car models are 
 near perfect, Damage/Wrecks are very nice (Although a bit too dramatic) . Now if you liked the way 
 previous Nascar games handled you will have to get use to the handiling in this game. It wont take 
 long to get use to, but at the beginning its like WTF? This game has alot of good things going 
 for it.. BUT there is alot of missing parts.
  
  The carreer mode ( The Chase ) is completly boring and stripped down. Its nothing but a few Tests 
 to see how good you are and a Nextel Season. There is no Work Your Way Up . The cars still feel 
 like huge bricks. You hit somone they SHOULD spin or get loos... not just get some damage and keep 
 going. The game is very very shallow with barley any features at all. There is a full feild of 
 NEXTEL drivers, but there are only a few NBS drivers and like 5 Truck drivers.... The rest are Fantasy 
 (WHY EA!!!!!) . The worst part is probably the MOST promising. The online is so Laggy/Glitchy/Buggy 
 thats it is almost unplayable.. BUT without all that it is a BLAST!.
  
  All in All Nascar 08 is a step in the right direction for EA, but they still have a long way to 
 go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastersnake1988
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 25, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. Totally different from anything EA has put out before. This is more of a 
 sim racer. If your into tuning your car this is your game. If not stick with the arcade games such 
 as pgr 3. This game takes a bit of time to learn. the controls are hard at first but after while 
 they grow on you. The Microsoft racing wheel works well with the game. A nice feature in this game 
 is that you are able to set the sensitivity of both the controller and the wheel. this is a nice 
 fit in making the control of the game fit your needs. overall this is a great game. In the end 
 your either going to Love It or Hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earnhardtfan77
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  well first off everybody is complaining about handling in the game... which is understandable... its 
 just something you have to get used to and adjust on.. nr2003 for me took a little getting used 
 to and when i got used to it i loved it.. everyone was complaining about how previous nascar games 
 were to easy and could just come from last to first in one lap and then lap the field in one more... that 
 is not nascar you have to pick and pull your way thru traffic and thats what ea has created and 
 now everyone is still crying. because its too hard.. they are few minor things in the game that they 
 could have fixed... even though the graphics are amazing i think they could have done a little better, 
 the ai is much smarter. the wrecks in the game are unbelievable, really good job thier. i really 
 do think everyone needs to just play the game and learn things before judging, thinking they can 
 just pick the game up and just go and lap everyone right away... thats not how it is, it takes practice... i 
 love the game and im glad they made it such a challenge, it gives you something to have to work 
 for, a true nascar sim, not arcade... i think ea did a great job on this game .i think with some 
 getting used to this will be the best nascar game we have to play 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
