-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA 2K7
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/nba2k7/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Individual player shots look great.
 Robust online play.
 Terrific animation.
 More gameplay modes than you can shake a stick at.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Free throws are extremely difficult to make.
 Controls are often unwieldy.
 Not significantly improved over last year.
 Questionable artificial intelligence.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 25, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.4, 53 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 2,395 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Visual Concepts
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Sep 25, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NBA 2K7 is a great basketball simulation, but a multitude of nagging issues keeps it from reaching 
 its potential. 

  Neither NBA 2K6 nor NBA Live 06 were quite able to meet people's high expectations when they came 
 out during the Xbox 360's launch last November. Live had sharp graphics and snazzy presentation 
 but not much in the way of substance, while 2K6 was a prettier, slightly enhanced version of what 
 had been released on the Xbox and PlayStation 2 a few months earlier. With Visual Concepts having 
 an entire year in development, hopes were high for NBA 2K7. Perhaps too high. Sure, there are oodles 
 of new animations and gameplay options, but many key issues went untouched. It's still a great 
 choice for anyone who likes a realistic pace to their NBA video games, but it's not the defining 
 basketball simulation that many were hoping for.  

          Individualized player shots look amazing.     

  NBA 2K7 features a dizzying number 
 of gameplay modes. Quick play, 24/7, season, the association, tournaments, and a robust online 
 component give the game tremendous replay value. There are also a number of options and sliders 
 that let you tweak the game to your heart's content. Having so many choices to pick from is great, 
 but navigating through all the modes and options is made needlessly difficult due to the new menu 
 system. It's unreasonably complex, and you're forced to bring up menus with the right analog stick. 
 Rarely are you able to simply go back a step; rather, you're forced to go all the way back to each 
 mode's main menu and do things all over again.  

  The association is NBA 2K7's multiseason mode, and it's deeper than ever. You're placed in charge 
 of an NBA franchise and it's your job to hire coaches, set up practices, perform general manager 
 duties, and play the games. Watching your team's chemistry as well as fatigue level is very important, 
 since players will tire after hard practices, thereby not giving you their best effort during a 
 game. Should you need to shake things up in the locker room, three player trades are now supported, 
 though to be honest, we spent 30 minutes trying to pull one off without success. You'll also need 
 to prepare for the NBA draft by scouting players and even putting them through a series of predraft 
 workouts. One thing's for sure -- there's never a lack of activities to keep you occupied. For such 
 a complex simulation, the association runs smoothly, without any major glitches. Dwayne Wade did 
 win the MVP five seasons in a row, but other than that anomaly, player statistics seemed realistic 
 and players retired at reasonable ages.  

  24/7 mode has received a face-lift, and while it doesn't hold a candle to NBA Street, it's surprisingly 
 robust for a secondary game mode. Improved create-a-player options allow for some crazy-looking 
 characters, such as a mullet-haired baller that would make Joe Dirt and Randy Johnson jealous. 
 New street-specific moves like bouncing the ball off an opponent's head and some over-the-top dribbling 
 have been added, giving the game a decidedly arcadelike feel. There's a story that accompanies 
 your player's rise to street-ball glory, but its execution is downright embarrassing. You're a 
 young no-name baller who happens to be on the court while Shaq is practicing free throws. Somehow 
 your buddy is able to talk Shaq into letting you shoot against him, and after you win, O'Neal hands 
 you a flier with details on a legends tournament in New York. The combination of a corny script, 
 so-so voice acting, and silent NBA players who act out their parts like mimes make the story difficult 
 to enjoy. If you're looking for a street-ball experience without the story, you can play one-on-one, 
 21, and half- or full-court in locales from Miami to New York's Rucker Park.  

  On the court, Visual Concepts didn't make any huge alterations to how the game plays. Newcomers 
 will likely find the controls difficult to pick up, while series veterans will appreciate them 
 for their seemingly endless depth. Player substitutions, play calling, and more can be done during 
 play by pressing the appropriate direction on the D pad. Effective use of set plays is an integral 
 part of getting open shots, partially because that's how real NBA teams do it, but also because 
 players move around the court as if getting open and cutting to the hoop aren't high on their list 
 of things to do. Crossovers, spins, and hesitation moves are done via the "isomotion" controls 
 (right trigger plus the left analog stick) . Shooting is mapped to the X button, or, should you 
 prefer, you can utilize the right analog stick for greater shot control. In theory, using the right 
 analog stick to shoot lets you pick the best shot for the situation. A shorter guard posting up 
 a power forward might want to opt for a fadeaway, while a taller player might go up strong and 
 attempt a power dunk. In reality, using the analog stick results in players frequently putting 
 up unnecessary low-percentage shots, rather than the simple shot you were hoping for.  

          Mission Impossible.     

  Final scores and shooting percentages are noticeably lower 
 this year, in part because teams play like their real-life counterparts. One night you might put 
 up a bunch of points against Phoenix, which loves to push the tempo, and the next evening put up 
 far fewer against the slower-paced Spurs. There's also an ugly side as to why scores are so low. 
 Sometimes defenders legitimately play great defense, but just as often you'll skate in place, performing 
 crossovers and hesitation moves against an invisible wall. Down low, the hop step is an effective 
 way of establishing dominance in the paint, but it, too, is often rendered useless by unseen forces. 
 Fast breaks are prone to coming to a screeching halt, either from a turnover due to an errant pass, 
 forced because the camera was too close, or because of streaking players stopping in their tracks 
 to receive a pass. The big way in which the game seems to keep scoring down is with an inordinate 
 amount of missed shots. Blown dunks and lay-ups, wide-open three-pointers clanking off the rim, 
 and missed put-backs are all commonplace. A few tweaks to the gameplay sliders can correct the 
 anomalies, but that shouldn't be necessary.  

  For a game that bills itself as "the next-generation champion," 2K7 has some significant problems. 
 The artificial intelligence is spotty, with point guards dribbling away 10 to 15 seconds at a time 
 if left unguarded at the top of the key, and players constantly rotating into mismatches. It's 
 not uncommon to see a center guarding a point guard or vice versa. Not all of the AI is bad. When 
 the computer is on defense, defenders will fight through picks, rotate quickly, and double-team 
 the hot player. Players also have a difficult time picking up loose balls -- they'll just stand there 
 and watch the ball roll around. When someone dives to the floor to get a ball (99 percent of the 
 time it's the computer) , there doesn't appear to be any sort of animation for a defensive player 
 to try and tie them up. Everyone will just mill about as the player on the floor sits there looking 
 for someone to pass to.     

  Free throws are performed by pulling down on the right analog stick to start the shot, and then 
 letting up to shoot. This is exactly how they were done last year, but something has gone awry 
 over the last ten months, because free throws have suddenly become extremely unwieldy. Whereas 
 it was easy to shoot 85-90 percent in NBA 2K6, you'll be lucky to shoot 50 percent from the charity 
 stripe in 2K7. Because of the large number of unique shots, you're forced to adjust your timing 
 for each and every player, a difficult task made more difficult because of the ever-changing camera. 
 You'll shoot one shot from one angle, and your second shot from another, making it tough to figure 
 out exactly when to let up on the right stick. There's a practice mode, but you're shooting from 
 yet another perspective, meaning success on the practice court doesn't translate to success during 
 a real game. Unless you like losing close games because you missed 15 free throws, you'll want 
 to adjust the free throw slider straightaway.  

          Nothing gets the crowd roaring like a man in an animal costume.     

  2K7's online 
 play is a great example of how to do sports right on Xbox Live. Whether it's a quick game of one-on-one, 
 a tournament, exhibition, or a fully-featured league you're looking for, NBA 2K7 has got you covered. 
 The league option lets you set up and customize an online season for up to 30 players. You can 
 allow trades, upload preferred slider settings, and even set how long people have to play their 
 games -- it's incredibly deep. You're able to check out other player's VIP profiles and even scout 
 their playing tendencies. Should you run into a jerk, a brief series of postmatch questions will 
 let you leave appropriate feedback. All of the options in the world don't mean a thing if the game 
 doesn't play well online, but there's no need to worry -- the game runs smooth and is very playable. 
 NBA 2K7 has downloadable premium content in the form of a video-editing tool called the 2K ReelMaker 
 that lets you save replays, add effects, captions, and music to them, and then lets you upload 
 them to share online. It's not available yet, but the teaser trailer clearly says it must be purchased. 

  Because all 1,000 points could easily be earned in one game, NBA 2K6 has a special place in the 
 hearts of achievement fiends everywhere. It's not nearly as easy this time. The 50 achievements 
 are spread over a variety of gameplay accomplishments and will require a great deal of perseverance 
 to acquire. Some achievements focus on getting a specific stat line from star players like Shaq, 
 Kobe Bryant, Ben Wallace, or Tim Duncan, while others reward online prowess and even winning specific 
 team rivalries on the Hall of Fame difficulty.  

  Perhaps the most noticeable, and certainly the most talked about, visual changes this year are 
 the new signature style animations. The developer went through the arduous task of adding hundreds 
 of new player-specific moves, so you'll see Shawn Marion's awkward-looking jump shot, Yao Ming's 
 unique free throw, and Kobe Bryant's unmistakable fadeaway. Basketball aficionados will no doubt 
 love seeing their favorite player's shot accurately re-created for the first time, but casual fans 
 probably aren't going to notice a whole lot of difference between players' individual shots, outside 
 of the big stars, unless they're watching a replay or shooting free throws.  

  The rest of the graphics are on par with last year, meaning they're generally excellent, but also 
 starting to show their age a bit. As usual, the player animation is outstanding. There are lots 
 of little touches that go a long way toward making it feel as though you're watching a real NBA 
 game. Players move and react realistically to the action and will move their heads to track the 
 ball as it's in the air, and they'll try to tip a just-out-of-reach rebound to keep it alive. You'll 
 also notice players exhibiting more emotion -- raising their hands in shock at being whistled for 
 a foul, and hanging on the rim for emphasis after throwing down one of the game's fantastic looking 
 dunks. The arenas are another highlight, accurately modeled and full of life. Cool things to look 
 for are mascots and cheerleaders performing during timeouts, fans milling about the arena, and 
 the referees signaling that a ball has been tipped on a shot.  

  Most of the popular players are instantly recognizable and look realistic. Lesser-known players 
 aren't so lucky, and often look downright hideous. Player sweat and jersey movement appears to 
 have been toned down a bit, and looks great. Those with a keen eye will notice that while both 
 Kobe (24) and Amare (1) are sporting their new numbers, Steve Nash is still rocking his long hair 
 from last season. As longtime fans of the series have come to expect, the frame rate is fast and 
 silky-smooth. Of course, the same people who have grown to expect a smooth frame rate won't be 
 surprised to learn the game suffers from frequent clipping problems, particularly during replays. 
 The $30 difference in price between the Xbox 360 and Xbox versions make it worth noting that when 
 viewed on a standard-definition television, the game looks considerably less impressive. This is 
 something that budget-conscious gamers without access to an HDTV might want to consider if they 
 still own an Xbox.  

          Yeah, he cuts his own hair.     

  One area that went virtually untouched from last year is the audio. Kevin Harlan and Kenny Smith 
 do a fair job calling the action, but they fail to offer a whole lot of analysis, and they're quite 
 repetitive. Plan on hearing about how a team can get a "two for one" with 30 seconds to go nearly 
 every quarter. Sideline reporter Craig Sager gives his canned spiel at the beginning of each half. 
 Kenny Smith shows first-half highlights and gives his "stamp of approval" to the top performers 
 during the halftime show. It's not particularly interesting, and you'll probably end up skipping 
 it after just a few games, but at least it's there. The players are quite talkative on the court, 
 yelling when they're open, calling out picks, and pointing out double-teams. 2K7's soundtrack features 
 a hefty number of hip-hop tracks, though you'd never know it, since for some reason most of them 
 are set by default to not play, forcing you to go into the options and turn them on.  

  When everything manages to come together, NBA 2K7 looks and feels amazing. Watching a player in 
 the low post receive a bounce pass, pivot one way, take a drop step the other, and finally slam 
 the ball home is truly something to behold. Unfortunately, these instances of perfection aren't 
 as frequent as they could be, given the preponderance of nagging gameplay issues. Those who were 
 expecting a big leap from last year will likely be disappointed, but fans expecting only a slight 
 improvement, or anyone looking for a great, well-rounded basketball game, will be pleased with 
 NBA 2K7.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (220 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Xbox 360-NBA 2K7
  
  Review 168
  
  Released: September 25, 2006
  Publisher: 2K Sports
  Developers: Visual Concepts, Kush Games
  Game Genre: Basketball Sim
 
  ESRB Rating: E for Everyone
  
  Opening Thoughts:
  I have had a lot of beef with EA Sports's March Madness series. I recently picked up College Hoops 
 2K7 and thought it was much better. Now, I do not have a problem with the NBA Live series, but 
 since 2K Sports had impressed me so much with College Hoops 2K7, I figured I'd give the NBA title 
 a try.
  
  Gameplay: 50%
  Graphics: 30%
  Durability: 20%
  
  Gameplay (8/10)
  Much like my review of College Hoops 2K7, the shot stick impressed me quite a bit. I immediately 
 noticed the lack of a lock-on defense, as well as the fact that there was no scoring involved at 
 all. With the Live series, 6-minute quarters were more than enough to rack up 100+ points. With 
 NBA 2K7, 8-minute quarters were only resulting in 80-60 games, or at the most, a close game in 
 the 70-70 range. I didn't feel like spending 2 hours on a single game, however, especially since 
 the NBA season is 82 games long, plus best-of-7 series in the playoffs, so I just left the quarters 
 at 8 minutes. 
  
  Graphics (7/10)
  As with College Hoops 2K7, the graphics are too arcade-like. Carlos Boozer looks like a short, 
 pudgy round-headed version of himself, and don't even get me started on Shaq. You'd think the cover-boy 
 would at least look like himself in the game. 
  
  Durability (7/10)
  
  Overall Score (7.5/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  2K won the college basketball battle, but I think 
 EA takes the cake with the NBA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Mulder
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  I am not a said proclaimed NBA expert of any sort but I can say this is one of the most impressive 
 NBA titles I have some across. I very much enjoyed reminiscing the days of having KG on my team 
 (Kevin Love you better be good) Jamming down a shot or taking his patented fade away was just great 
 fun. The game had all kinds of options for getting involved in your team, with management and scouting, 
 but it proved to be to much for me in that regard. I am more of a "get out and play for a bit and 
 try not to loose the majority of my life playing this game" type of player. I am having some success 
 at doing this seeing as how i have a women (yes a real one) who actually wants to marry my goofy 
 as@. Anyways, back to my review, I would recomend this solid title to anyone interesting in shooting 
 some hoops, or we could shoot some real hoops and get off the couch for GOD'S SAKE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed the previous game, NBA 2K6 a lot. What's the difference between this and that game? Well, 
 it has cleaner visuals, better audio and AI. The visuals look great for a 2K game. The basketball 
 players actually resemble their real life selves. Th crowd looks good, and the animations have 
 been noticeably improved. The commentary has been improved so they aren't saying the same things 
 over again. The gameplay has pretty much stayed the same, except the AI is now a lot better, and 
 players actually go after rebounds. The controls are easy to come to grips with, and the game is 
 actually more realistic since the AI has been improved. There's still tons of fast-paced action 
 going on, and it is enjoyable to play the game and also to watch the fantastic new AI go head-to-head. 
 This is probably the best 2K basketball game I've played in a while, so I would recommend this 
 to anyone who likes to play a realistic game of basketball.
  
  Graphics: 8/10 -- there are some flaws, but the game looks very good
  
  Gameplay: 8.4/10 -- Improved 
 AI makes the game seam more realistic and fun
  
  Enjoyment: 8.2/10 -- I enjoyed playing this game a lot and it was really fun
  
  Final Thoughts: 
 If you like basketball games, then go pick this one up!
  
  Final Score: 8.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IncredibleHulk5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Please do not jump on me for my review. I love this game. The basketball players seem realistic 
 (the way they shoot the ball, how they make faces, the sweating, etc) , the use of the right stick 
 on defense (to raise your hands up, cut the ballhandler off, contest the shot, defend the paint, 
 and steal) is effective, the use of the right stick on offense (to try a bank shot, to make moves 
 while posting up, etc) is a good tool once you get the hang of it, and the new features (doing 
 the jab step, many fancy crossovers, doing the step over, jab step with head fake, and protecting 
 the ball) is a good feature. The only thing that is annoying is the free throw shooting. Its difficult 
 to make free throws. You have to use the right stick to make them. If you hold the right stick 
 too long, your shot goes off. If you release the shot stick too early it goes off. Its so difficult 
 to make free throws, that a good free throw shooter (Ray Allen, Kobe Bryant, Steve Nash, etc) will 
 have trouble making the first one. Guys that are terrible free throw shooters will have harder 
 luck. I practiced my free throws on the practice free throws mode. I tried pulling the right stick 
 down then releasing it at (2-3) seconds and it says the release is too early (the shot goes off) . 
 Overall its a good, well-rounded basketball game. The score is down because the diffiulty of shooting 
 free throws. You'll need consistently made free throws to put a team away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jman2k7live
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best NBA game I have played the graphics are above average, it has fun game 
 play, and superb sound.
  Even though the game has some glitches like shirts coming off players and some of the blocking 
 calls can get quite annoying the game play makes up for it.
  There a couple of fun game modes like 24-7, and some of the street modes, but it is still missing 
 some like the slam dunk contest, and the three point shoot out.
  Online is quite fine because you will find some good competition from time to time. 
  Music in 
 the game is nice I like some of the songs they play, music also fits well during the games.
  controls above average controls the free throw shooting may be at first hard but you get use to 
 it. Good how you can make substitutions while dribbling the ball up the court, and also change 
 game tempo.
  Signature shoots are off da hook, people like Shawn Marion, LeBron James, and Kobe Bryant's shoots 
 actually look like the way they would shoot in games.
  
  Break it down
  
  graphics-8
  sound-9.5
  gameplay-10
  controls-9.5
  
  I recommend this game to any NBA fan or any one 
 who enjoys playing sports games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spurs2103champs
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is a little better than last years game. The main difference is the signature shots. It 
 basically means that most of players will shoot in the game like they do in real life. It is a 
 nice new feature but sometime scan even be frustrating to have to learn how to get the players 
 shots to release at the right time. Another new feature is the 24/7 Mode. This year there is a 
 story line behind it. It is rather cheesy but it can be fun. The graphics are pretty much the same 
 as last years game. A big difference is the sweat. It isn't as noticeable this year and more realistic. 
 The main problem I have with this game is the stupid missed shots. I always play with the Spurs 
 and I always shot with Tim Duncan. I always miss wide open close shots with him and it really gets 
 annoying. The other thing that bothered me was the graphics of the white players. Manu Ginobili 
 looked nothing like he does in real life and Chris Kaman, well he just doesn't even look human. 
 The game is a lot like last years version and doesn't have many new features. However if you liked 
 last years game you should like this one but don't expect anything new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicnash
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  My hats off to the creators of the NBA 2k series,
  better graphics, better game play, better everything, EA Sports, and Sony Entertainment have nothing 
 on 2K, I give it a perfect 10, the only way that this game can get any better for next year, is 
 an 11 rating.
  
  The graphics are awesome, every player model is recreated in full 3d to perfection, the gameplay 
 is fluid, no need for trick stick when you can pull your moves with the analog stick. Extremely 
 high replay value, season modes and online modes are awesome. Hopefully this series can make its 
 way into the wii, because what they are giving us in wii right now is live, and its a very lame 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kasumifan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  yes i know NBA 2K8 is coming out tomorrow but we can't forget this game. this game added many new 
 things to the 2K franchise, such as signature shots, new isomotion moves, etc. To start things 
 off, the graphics are good, while yes most of the character models don't look real you have to 
 admire how smooth and fast paced the gameplay is. The sound is pretty good, i enjoy the commentary 
 way more in this game than in Live games, I also think that the artists featured in this game are 
 better than the well known ones featured on Live's soundtrack. I've had this game for almost a 
 year now and yet I still find myself playing this game on a regular basis, something i couldn't 
 do with the Live games, even after getting Halo 3 I still made time for this game, I've had countless 
 games and I love the Association mode although I think it should be deeper and that you shouldn't 
 be able to switch your player's stats to 99's just by editing their attributes. All and all this 
 is by far the greatest bball game, that is until tomorrow when 2K8 comes out, but then we'll still 
 have to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoovkilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This is the best basketball game i ever played on any console. In hd the graphics look great but 
 could still be improved. Gameplay is fantastic and very realistic. The shotstick helps improve shots 
 and depending on what you pull it allows you to perform different type of dunks. Also most players 
 have there own style of shots which makes it so realistic. Free throws are pretty simple just pull 
 back the right analog stick and let go depending on the time of the release counts on if you score 
 or miss, also each player has his own styleand by the way shaq's is horrible. Achievements are 
 pretty fun to try you have individual achievements with big players like iverson, Garnett, lebron 
 and so on. If you are a basketball fan this is amust have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: something1257
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is a amazing game. The Graphics are amazing. I mean when you run the sweat will come off 
 you. The shooting is really acutaly the same as the real persons in realy life. I mean Shawn Marion, 
 his gorrila shot is in the game. Jason Kidd's free throw shot has the kiss and everything. Gilbert 
 will walk off at the buzzer, an spin the ball around him at the line. And the stamina is all so 
 realstic. Like Shaq can only play for small amount of time. And Allen Iverson can play or mostly 
 the whole game. And the Dunks wow are they cool. I mean the 360's and the and the huge wind miles 
 and well you get the point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moviemancc213
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  This basketball game was the first ball game ive picked up since ncaa college basketball 94. All 
 the other games i had play were horrible, you didnt feel like you were in the game and like you 
 really had control over the ball handler. I rented this game to see what it was like (as i do every 
 year with any sports game) and i loved it as soon as i started playing. My friend and I were played 
 it from 7 that night to 5 in the morning the first day i had it. Everything about the game runs 
 smooth and is just plain fun. There is a glitch if you play for too long someone on your team's 
 shirt and/or pants. will go through them making it look like you ripped there clothes off (no nudity. 
 just shows chest then a blank spot where shorts are) . And its such a funny glitch we would crack 
 up everytime it happened to us. I love this game cant wait for 2k8 to come out and i would recommend 
 anyone get this game. You can prob find it for bout $20 now that its been out for a while. Only 
 down side is they dont release updates for team roosters as much as they should. And prob will 
 stop releaseing them for this game once 2k8 comes out, but its all good you can easily make changes 
 to the rooster yourself and go right in and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingCloudX90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 really improves from NBA 2K6, NBA 2K7 new features, are:3-man trade, new dunks, new layups, new 
 street ball moves. The Gameplay is amazing, if you are playing it on a big tv (like I do) , I garantee 
 you that someone is gonna walk in and say ''so the knicks are playing'', and you're gonna say ''no, its 
 a video game.'', this game is so realistic, the graphics arent all that good, but gameplay is what 
 matters in the game, and the game is smooth. You can basically say the game is real, except for The 
 Glitches... The leg rip, arm rip, and the infamous Cheer Leader Glitch, when their still dancing while 
 your playing, lol. But overall great game. The Music is decent, I think NBA 2K6, had better music, but 
 the best music on NBA 2K7 for me is ''catch me'', By Lupe Fiasco, and ''Planet Rock'', By Afrikah 
 Bambadah. NBA 2K8 is gonna be really good, and the only reason why i'm saying that its because its 
 about to come out in about 5 or 6 more weeks, so then we might have the possible greatest basketall 
 game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7-ate-9
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is a great game. The controls are responsive and the graphics are awesome. The online mode 
 holds up very well. I've had the most fun playing through a season as the New Jersey Nets. The 
 management options are detailed enough to make you care about all the stats and potential trades 
 ect. The players have signiture posts, dunks and mannerisms like they do in real life which is 
 a great touch. The only problem I have with it is the free throw mechanic is hard to get used to 
 and you can miss an unrealistic amount of free throws, in my last game online I would have won 
 if it wasnt for the damn free throws (I missed 12!) . If youre playing off line you can adjust the 
 game sliders though and this makes those free throws much easier to cope with. This is one of the 
 best sports games I've played in years. I will never play EA sports again. 2K are doing a much 
 better job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PC_JOE_9
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  Believe me, I have had both live 07 and nba2k7. I must admit that 2k is funner than live. It doesn't 
 have horrible graphical glitches and its individual player shots are truly fun and amazing. The 
 little cutscenes in between say fouls and free throws are cool at first, and later become boring, 
 particularly because of the fact that player models' faces are still not that much of an improvement. 
 Although there is no all - star weekend, the franchise mode is a bajillion times better than live's. 
 next mode is retarded, although bsketball players who are used to playing outdoors (pickup games 
 and such) (like myself) can find it highly amusing. AChievements are lackluster and can be achieved 
 in about 2 - 3 hours, if you tweak the setttings a bit. My actual score for this game would be 
 an 8.7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NatchoKing
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is the great addition to the already great series of the dominant 2K basketball brand. 
 With slick visuals, relatively smooth gameplay and a revolutionary shooting system, who wouldnt 
 rush out too buy this game to see KG slam it down on a hapless defender or watch Kobe pull up a 
 3 from beyond the ark? Well, i did. And for the most part this game is all it is cracked up too 
 be, but a few little naggling issues really do stop this game from being the best basketball game 
 it can be. Overall the gameplay is just too easy, you will likely always win with a reasonable 
 good team on the the hardest diffculty after playing for a couple of hours. The legacy mode is 
 of course the best and most deep gameplay mode but managing to trade 3 mediocre players for an 
 all star is just too easy.
  
  Overall the NBA 2K7 is the best game of its class but little bugs and quirks stop this game from 
 reaching full potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: High_Spy
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  It was all about NBA Live back then. Now it's a new generation. The 2k generation. NBA 2k7 is arguably 
 the greatest basketball game of all time. From the gameplay, to the graphics, and to the robust 
 multiplayer, NBA 2k7 should be checked out by any self respecting basketball fan.
  
  The first thing you'll notice after a quick game of NBA 2k7, is that the game is incredibly easy 
 on default difficulty. On Hall of Fame mode, the game is much harder, but can still be dumbed down 
 to be very easy. All you have to do is edit the game sliders. Game sliders are basically the odds 
 at which something will happen. For example, if 3 point shooting is at 85 in the sliders, you are 
 more likely to make the 3 point shot than you are to make it. Which is a negative. Player tendancies 
 are basically the same as sliders, but are focused more on one specific player, and not everyone 
 in the game.
  
  The game is very complex, and yet simple at the same time. The left stick, as in all games, is 
 used to move the player. The heart of the game are the iso moves. By holding down both Right Trigger, 
 and Left Trigger, and moving around the left stick, you can perform different moves, such as the 
 basic crossover, the behind the back, and so on. Iso moves can also be used to perform fancy passes, 
 and with the use of the shot stick , can be used to perform dunks. The shot stick is basically 
 the right stick. By moving it around in different motions, you can perform different shots. If 
 you stay at the 3 point line, and use the stick, the basic shot is performed. From mid-range, the 
 same is performed. However, when driving in, or in the post, you can perform nasty dunks, lay ups, 
 hookshots, and so on.
  
  Plays can be called on the fly by using the D-Pad. They aren't incredibly effective in this game, 
 as they are in Live, however they are still efficient enough to get the job done.
  
  Timeouts are performed by both the user and the computer. Time outs are incredibly useful during 
 tight situations, just as in a real NBA game.
  
  All players in the game have their own jumpshot. That's right, you heard me right. All the players 
 have the same jump shots that they possess in real life. For example, in real life, Kobe often 
 kicks out his right leg and holds the ball high over his head to take a shot. When you shoot with 
 Kobe in NBA 2k7, the same happens. When creating a player, you can choose his jumpshot from a list.
 
  
  The create player is great. It has many details that can be utilized to make your player be the 
 spitting image of you. You can make fictional players as well, and make them look however you wish.
 
  
  The multiplayer is admirable. There are 3 different servers to play on. There is the beginners 
 server, for newbies, the advanced server, for people that've been playing a while, and the street 
 ball server, for those who want to have a bit of fun. The multiplayer is a great place to meet 
 new people, and build up your rep as an awesome NBA 2k7 player.
  
  There are many game modes to choose from. But the main two are The Association , and 24/7 Mode 
 . The Association is basically franchise mode, where you manage your team, draft new players, trade 
 players, sign players, win championships, and so on. 24/7 mode basically involves creating a player, 
 and having him build his way to the top. After conquering the streets, you have the option of getting 
 drafted. Think of it as Madden's Superstar Mode. 
  
  The graphics are amazing. The whole crowd is mobile. Fans in the stands swing their arms up in 
 excitement and get up to grab drinks. They bicker with eachother, and call the players names. NBA 
 2k7 possesses a special graphics engine in which the players jerseys can actually sway in the wind, 
 and move up and down, just like in real life. The jerseys movement resemble that of a real jersey 
 moving.
  
  The players faces aren't overwhelmingly amazing, but they get the job done. Although some of the 
 lesser known players pretty much all have the same looking faces. But I believe 2k sports will 
 attend to this matter in NBA 2k8.
  
  NBA 2k7 has a nice soundtrack. I love hip-hop, and 2k sports made sure to add in a great variety 
 of rap songs that are a joy to listen to. Of all the NBA 2k games though, the best song ever was 
 Carolina Agents , by, Little Brother . I loved that song.
  
  The fans scream, and occasionally, the players talk with eachother on the court, in game. It's 
 a nice touch of realism in virtual reality.
  
  The game has great value, as I still play it to this day. If NBA 2k8 didn't have incredibly new, 
 never before seen features, like the dunk contest in it, I wouldn't get it. I'd stick with 2k7 
 and get roster updates. However, 2k sports had to add completely new features that you NEED. So, 
 I have to get 2k8. I'm just saying if NBA 2k8 wasn't a total change from 2k7, I'd stick with 2k7.
 
  
  I love this game. It has a great multiplayer, fun game modes, and so on. NBA 2k7 is a great title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pistolero983
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 5, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  This game is so good but there are some annoying things about it.. I have it on my xbox 360 and 
 i can't complain about the graphics. The only thing that really bugs me about this game is the 
 passing. Even when there is a totally open teammate across the court, the player with the ball 
 still passes to the nearest player, totally ruining the play. I have lost many games because of 
 this. I don't expect such a stupid thing to hold back such a good game but it does.
  
  In the carrear mode, it is impossible to make any decent trades. Not almost impossible - impossible! 
 CPU teams simply will not let go of anyone that has the same ratings, you have to try and trade 
 one or two more players for a superstar but that makes it illegal because of the salary restrictions... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Impex
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is solid in NBA 2k7. It may seem weird to have to hold the right trigger to do moves, 
 but it actually works out great. The shot release system is excellent, and way better than a meter. 
 Online play is fair, but The Association more than makes up for it. The graphics are good... at 
 times. Star players such as LeBron James and Kobe Bryant look really good, but some of the other 
 players just look awful. Overall, the graphics are decent, but they could be better. The Sound 
 has a mixture of rap-like soundtracks that can eventually get annoying. It's the same song for 
 each part of the menu, and eventually you do get tired of it. That being said, it isn't terrible. 
 The in-game crowd is excellent, and gets really excited after you slam it down with a dunk, or 
 pull ahead with a three pointer. However, the announcers are a bit dull. Some of the lines they 
 say aren't bad, but they don't get excited after you slam it over your defender, or make a clutch 
 three. The value is definitely there, with the fantastic Association mode, and a few others that 
 are worth checking out. Overall, I rated this an 8.6. The game has some flaws, like those retarded 
 menus and for some reason parts of players' clothes will just disappear. That one is kind of funny 
 though. Anyway, it's a steal at $30, and if you like basketball at all, you'll pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saidcortijo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  2KSports is always good. This game is like 5 light years ahead of any other basketball sim. All 
 this game needs are some slight adjustments for it to be perfect. The player models can be a bit 
 better. Maybe it should and the all-star festivities in the next version. the only thing that can 
 stop this series of games for NBA 2K is EA buying up all the basketball license like they did the 
 football line. 2K7 does have some issues that keeps it from reaching the level of greatness, but 
 no game can be complete without something to blame you losses on. That's the bottom line! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing on the visual side and on the game play side. Not only are the graphics great 
 but the animations make it look ever so realistic.
  
  on the game play side this game plays amazing as well. The controls couldn't be tighter from ball 
 handling to no look passes and the dunks.
  
  imo this is the best basketball game ever i have been playing them since them for a long time my 
 first was on the playstation and i have been playing them since. this game really shows a great 
 next gen experience and you will notice quickly why it cant be done on previous systems.
  My only beef with this game is that in standard definition it doesn't look so great so please unless 
 you have to don't play this game in SD it makes it ugly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iboo01
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 13, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  NBA 2k7 is one hell of a game. With great player movement a lot of game modes, amazing game play, 
 and very realistic in every way. If you are a ball fan you have to own this game. The game has 
 a great season mode, and is just plain fun. After a couple goes you will not be able to stop playing. 
 Online play is just revolutionary, test your skills with some of the best across the world. It 
 never gets old. It is easy on all modes except Hall of Fame where the AI is very alert on offense 
 and defense, its a real challenge from then on. The street mode is just amazing, you can pull of 
 some wicked moves and breaking ankles never gets old. This game is better than live any day of 
 the week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stegnjv
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 12, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  A really fun game, beats Live any day and all of the Live fan boys may think that it doesn't but 
 trust me its better! I used to be a fan boy and i shifted my gears... there are some little flaws 
 but nothing to change the game experience... where i live its 10$ cheaper and with those ten dollars 
 u can chip into buying some XBL time... :) Overall a great game and its for everyone even those 
 Live fanboys. 
 
  p. s. if your guys shorts rip offf... its a natural glitch, its kinda funny the first time u see 
 it!
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Graphics - 9
  Sound - 10
  Value - 9
  Reviewer's Tilt - 10
  
  ALL THE SMART KIDS ARE GETTING IT. WHY ARN'T YOU?... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MotRFalcon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 12, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  Awesome game although it is easy on all mode except one and thats hall of fame mode where the computer 
 seems to be more aggressive on both ends of the court. graphics are amazing some lesser known players 
 don't have as much detail as the superstars but still have good quality. By far the most amazing 
 in the series to date. Now talking about street mode where you can pull off moves such as off the 
 heezy ( bouncing it off of someones head) and in addition to a normal game of street ball you can 
 play 21 a playground favorite. game play blows away the competition defiantly the smoothest b ball 
 game out there. So what b ball game should you buy Live or 2k, its quite simple if you want an 
 arcade type of game where you can pickup and go with messed up dunks, yeah youve seen those videos 
 for live and there dumb dunks they have that arent even realistic, then Live is for you. But if 
 you want a total NBA experience closer to the real thing than anything else and you want a real 
 simulation game then 2k is the game for you. AND DON'T FORGET NBA 2K8 RELEASING THIS YEAR ITS A 
 MUST HAVE FOR TRUE NBA FANS!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjonsilver
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is a fun way to pass your time while getting achievements. Some of them are very simple, 
 like set up My Availibility which anybody with Xbox Live can earn just a few mineuts after starting 
 the game. The graphics are very well done except if you look a players outline you can easily see 
 rigid lines which is quite dissapointment but the sound makes up for that. Everything sounds great 
 in the game, there really is nothing wrong with the sound. Infact the sound is so great that you 
 really feel like your there. The game really shows that graphics don't have to be very good to 
 make you feel like your there. AWESOME GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petshopboy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 11, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 has just about everything that a gamer looking for a great basketball game would want. 
 The graphics are great, the character models look gorgeous, the controls are pretty much spot on, 
 the gameplay is crisp, and their are a multitude of gameplay modes to choose from, so every fan 
 can find something they like. One of the best (and hardest to adjust to) parts of the game are 
 the signature shooting styles everyone has. Shawn Marion really does shoot like a girl, and Shaq 
 really does take an hour to shoot a free throw. This means you'll probably spend a little time 
 in each new team getting used to each player's shot (different release times and shooting peaks) . 
 I would say that it's a great personalization though.
  
  I do have a few qualms with the game though. At times, when you score, your team may take a really 
 long time to get back on D. Players will just let the guy they are supposed to guard, cruise by 
 them, with little pursuit, to the other side of the court. Although this isn't a huge deterrent 
 (as it only occurs infrequently on inbounds passes) , it can be exploited by other human players. 
 Also, some of the passes in the game are just ridiculous. Nash might do a bounce pass instead of 
 a lob to a posting Amare that's guarded by Tony Parker and get it intercepted. It just uses the 
 bounce pass way more than it should be used making it a little harder to penetrate the lane.
  
  If you like basketball, but aren't looking for realism, you might want to try NBA Street Homecourt 
 because it's much more simplistic. This game does have a slight learning curve (assuming you haven't 
 played any of the 2K7 franchise) , but it does a good job of teaching you the nuances in 24/7 mode 
 or you can just practice around yourself. This game is a must-have for any basketball fan and is 
 definitely well worth the money since its multitude of options will keep you busy for a while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightjam
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This game seems allright but a really good game is nba live 07. many people allready know that 
 live and 2k are in competition but 2k did out do itself with 2k7 because it made live 07 look like 
 live 02. this game has realistic graphics and is very detailed. nba live 08 is to come out soon 
 but who knows, maybe nba 2k8 will once again be much better.2k7 is also not hard to get used to 
 and overall the game is very fun. anyone who says this game is bad could in a sense be right or 
 wrong because just about every game in the world has good sides and bad sides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattG2010
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  this game is awsome, i play it 247 and it's awsome. they gamplay is great. if u want to call a 
 play, then u call it and it follows through. Not like NBA Live 07, u have to actually use strategy 
 to beat ur opponant. the only thing that i don't like is the lack of features and game modes. but 
 other than that, it's a solid game. the season in this game is awsome. u can manage ur team any 
 way that u want. if u want to trade someone cause they're doing bad then u can. if u pick any of 
 the NBA Live games over this one, then u must be mentally retarded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riddle015
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  this game is really good for you if you like NBA games. It has great graphics better than Nba Live 
 atleast. The 24/7 mode is really addictive and fun. But one of the best things in the game is the 
 players have their own unique form. It really makes it look more realistic. Kobe shoots like he 
 does in real life, Shaq shoots freethrows real slow just like he does in real life. This atribute 
 is fun, but it also adds difficulty to the game. You have to know a player's form to actually be 
 succesfull in scoring a basket. So if you know the NBA like myself then you should get this game. 
 Trust me you don't want to waste your money NBA Live 07 because I own that game as well and it 
 is a real dissapointment. Nba 2k7 is better than Nba live far as graphics wise and gameplay wise. 
 So if you are looking to buy a sports game I highly reccommend that you pick this game up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I don't think this game is getting the praise it deserves. Is it perfect? No. Graphically, the 
 player faces could and should be better for a number of players. And there are still times when 
 animations take too long, and you get stuck waiting for them to end before you can move. Also, 
 I hate the new menu system. Now for the good: the graphics are awesome, the best in series. The 
 animation, especailly is eerily realistic. I mean, really realistic. The commentary is the best 
 of any sports title. The gameplay is smooth, fun, and just plain good. Player contol is better 
 than years past, if still not perfect. This game deserves high praise, instead it is being ignored. 
 Do yourself a favor if you want a basketball sim and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kritts
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k7 is a great basketball game... it has everything a basketball game needs.... excellent graphics 
 ... great gameplay... good sound. There are loads of moves and tricks to be learnt so dont be in a 
 hurry to learn them all.... take ur time... and u'll perfect them!!!!.... once u'll perfect them.... the 
 game is on!!!!!!!!!!!!! ....... The game has many new gameplay modes... some of them are quite boring 
 though but u'l still hav some fun here n there. the graphics in the 24/7 dont look really kool.... but 
 still it doesnt spoil the fun .... overall i'd say its a great NBA game.... and u shuld really try 
 it out if your sport is basketball!!!... go grab it basketball fans!!!.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CapinCrunch17
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 7, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k7 is an improvement from 2k6, but there are still issues to be cleaned up. Association is 
 has improved now they give you full control over your team and allow you do perform any trade you 
 want. Second the control can be a little confusing at times. Games modes are excellent the harder 
 the difficulty the harder it is to score. Also some of the players shooting styles were really 
 ugly and hard to get used to. They gave weird shooting stlys to players who don't even shoot that 
 they in real life. All in all it's one of the best basketball games out there and it looks great 
 on the 360 and can't wait for the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cardfan_01
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 4, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  well as you first pick up the game you notice the visuals. then you get into the gameplay and its 
 a really solid interface. at first it can be a little hard to pick up and just play. you have to 
 play a few games to get used to the rather deep controls. one thing that annoyed me was missed 
 dunks. and that happen way to much in the game if you ask me. but its all good but they have this 
 game mode called 24/7. its where you start streetballin and work your way to the big times. the 
 acting in the cutscenes are just terrible, but its the game play that counts and its just as good 
 as the normal games. they also have of coures online which is everything you would expect of online 
 and a little more. they have these tournaments that are held which are quite fun if your into that 
 kind of thing. and i advise you go and buy this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seabass242
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 30, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  NBA2k7 is the best basketball game out there, too bad it has so man nagging gameplay issues that 
 keep it from greatness.
  
  I play all the time against my roomate and here is what we hate about the game. We tested these 
 things in all modes
  
  - Defensive AI is terrible on the baseline. On every single offensive possession we test and see 
 if we can just drive it in and lay it up or dunk it. The CPU defensive will make little to no effort, 
 and any fast player has a very high chance of just running around the Defensive. You have to manually 
 switch to cover the baseline almost every possession.
  
  - Shots in the paint fall way too much on all modes. You can literally take anyone and run into 
 the post, hook shot it over any number of defenders. You get an amazingly high percentage. Try 
 this with Vince Carter... You will not miss.
  
  - passing passing passing... Sometimes you will have a player on a fast break. This player will 
 be way ahead of the closest defender. You will pass down the court only to throw it into the opposing 
 players back. They dont take into account that a real player would know to lob it or pass it arround. 
 So there is a full animation of you following through on pass that goes one foot into the back 
 of the closest defender. - passing 2.0 - another huge mistake in this game - When you hit the steal 
 button you lose some ground, so to avoid this, just step in front of any bounce pass and it will 
 bounce off your legs and become a loose ball. So you not only avoided the steal lunge and miss 
 , you also performed a succesful kick ball, which is illegal. Its a great way to get a cheap steal 
 since the game has no concept of altering a pass to not go directly into someone.
  
  There are many other really bad gameplay issues. Sometimes we can go a complete game without it 
 being too unrealistic.... some games we roll our eyes over 50 times at some glaringly unrealistic 
 play.
  
  We just want realism... the closest thing ever to this was NBA Live 2006 for the Ps2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IFIHADNOLOOT
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  the best basketball sim EVER!!!!!!! this game puts the LIVE series to shame, i was a big LIVE head 
 since 95, now that 2k has came into my life its like crack, i cant stop playin. the gameplay is 
 sick, the sig shots are sick, everything about this game is great, i cant wait for 2k8 to come 
 out because i know that its gonna only be 10x better than this one! 2k rules EA better step their 
 game up. other than gears of war this is all i play, i bought nba live 07 also since both of them 
 dropped the same day and from that day on LIVE never saw my 360 again lol. as a big basketball 
 fan this game does everything for me, the only minor complaint i have is when ur in the post and 
 say u do a spin or whatever ur player sumtimes shoots the ball behind the backboard, thats my only 
 beef with the game other than that its perfect, hit me up for a game online gt=ifihadnoloot
  
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boricua529
Rating: 1.8
Date: May 22, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Lets make this simple, quick and straight to the point:
  
  Well, if you want a game where passing sucks, can't shoot, can't do moves, controls are horrible, 
 and the only sure 3 point shot is the one where you take the game and shoot it to your trash can, 
 this is the game for you. Otherwise do NOT waste your money on this horrible designed game. Even 
 the AI is really dumb and does not react quickly. Its like trying to work with a bunch of idiots!!!! 
 I was very disappointed since ESPN series usually have very decent games Not this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fReSh805baLLa
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 19, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  If u is a true balla and basketball fan, then this game is the one for u. I'm telling you the graphics 
 are tight and the players lookin fresh. You no i ball with the Lakers and lookin for more compitition. 
 I had this game for a long time now so ya no yall need to get this game. Who ever got dat nba live 
 07 game.... neRrmind. but yea you gotta get this game. This game is overall the best bball nba game 
 out there. So hurry up and get it. Forget live and w/e ther is out there any console get NBA 2K7. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AIRVRIDER11
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 11, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is a great game with more good than bad. It's graphics are amazing, and actually look realistic. 
 The game modes will have you playing for a long time, and association mode just plain rocks! The 
 sound can be a bit better, kind of like Ea Sports, NBA Live 06. The commentary can get pretty repetitive, 
 but what sports game isn't? Commentary is most of the time right on every play and it will make 
 you feel like yu're actually controlling the real Steve Nash.
  
  Overall, NBA 2K7, has a lot of subtle changes than it's predecessor, NBA 2K6. And it's a great 
 game that will have you playing for a long time, or at least until NBA 2K8 comes out. :] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: draebless
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 5, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  I've been playing b-ball video games since double dribble on the NES, so i guess you could say 
 im a veteran or maybe even hall of famer when it comes to b-ball videogames. NBA 2k7 is by far 
 the best basketball game to every grace a console. I really cant say enough about this game. I 
 was a huge ea fan all the way from lakers versus celtics for the genesis all the way to live 99 
 for the ps2. Once nba 2k came out for dreamcast i converted imediately but never could i have imagined 
 that 8 years later this is what the game would be like. It's truly an authenic game of basketball. 
 If you are a basketball player or just a fan of the NBA, you should own this videogame. It's an 
 instant classic. I may be a little biased because im a grown man who isn't into arcadey type games 
 but whatever. And dont get it twisted, im no ea hater. I even own nba live 07, i had a lil money 
 to blow so i picked but titles up just hoping that live would surprise me, but it didnt. And 2k7 
 actually surpassed my expectations, i figured it would be great, but i had no idea how great. If 
 you searching for a b-ball game or just a classic game for your collection go out and pick this 
 one up. Its a shame that 2k8 will be out in about 5 months cuz this game is one for the ages. 1 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 3, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Sports games on the Xbox 360 (and now for the PS3, for that matter) have been a real letdown. The 
 first generation games were pretty lousy. This year we have games that range all over the place. 
 Some are pretty good (NBA 2K7) and some are just awful (NBA Live '07) , to use basketball as the 
 example here. And I am really beginning to think that developers are starting to run out of new 
 ideas to add to these games. Most of the time we just get updated rosters, semi-updated visuals, 
 and some lame new gameplay feature that barely anyone uses. The 'Madden' series has become famous 
 for this. So where does NBA 2K7 fall in this mess? Well thankfully, this is one of the good sports 
 games out there.
  
  To be honest, I have always been an NBA Live guy. Don't ask me why. The game has been stale for 
 years now. So I thought this would be the year I convert over to the 2K Sports side of things. 
 And while I am glad I bought this game and did have a lot of fun playing it, I certainly was hoping 
 for more. NBA 2K7 certainly is the most realistic basketball game on the market. I love the visuals 
 and the presentation. The play-by-play is done by Kevin Harlan, who I love. He used to the announcer 
 for my Timberwolves (wow, what a crap team we have now) here in MN. There are TONS of gameplay 
 options. No other basketball game even holds a candle to NBA 2K7's online capabilities. As with 
 all 2K Sports games, you get tons of sliders to really make the game play exactly how you want 
 it to play. I even like how MOST of the achievements are distributed. Although having some for 
 the 'Association' mode (a. k. a. Franchise mode) would have been nice.
  
  Most of my problems with the game are minor. Whomever designed the menu system for this game needs 
 to be taken out back behind the wood shed , so to speak. It's truely awful. And I will give 2K 
 Sports credit for trying to come up with a challenging free-throw system, but they failed this 
 time around. The '24/7: Next' story mode is awful. The voice acting and storyline are so absurd 
 and cheesy, that it's laughable. I guess it might appeal to the '14 yr. old wanna-be gangsta' boys 
 out there, but to a 31 yr. old adult...... it's ridiculous and stupid. While some of the player 
 models are excellent, there are some that are frightenly bad. My favorite player, Steve Nash, looks 
 terrible!
  
  And I know the demographic that an NBA game is reaching out to, but why do we always have to just 
 have rap music in these titles?!! I hate rap music. In fact, calling it music gives it more credit 
 than it should ever receive. Everybody has their own tastes, but why must we all be forced this 
 crud upon our basketball videogames?
  
  Other than those minor flaws, I think NBA 2K7 is a fun basketball game. Does it change the way 
 we play these games? Nope. But it does enough to at least FEEL next-gen. It's easily the best NBA 
 game on the market (NBA Live sucks....... hard) and at this point you can probably get it for a 
 bargain price. If you are looking for a basketball game, I would certainly check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy_Kid314
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 2, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  From the get go, the game starts out with a rectangle (that looks like its on fire) zooming through 
 the streets for about 8 to 10 seconds and flies by two buildings where you select 2 teams to play 
 play now mode. No menu, it just goes to play now . In order to get to the menu you have to use 
 the right stick to get to it. Why can't the skip the intro and go to the menu to begin with. Its 
 just a waste of power. Some things confuse me. There's plenty of modes to keep your family from 
 seeing you. The street basketball sucks though and dosen't make sense. The gamplay is great and 
 th only flaw I see is that players will miss wide open shots. WTF! The graphics are good but if 
 you zoom up on a few... most of the players, you might hurl so be warned. The courts are magnificent 
 looking ang the crouds roar at home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmformm
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  this game is awesome and people played before definitely should love it if you are NBA fan. Hopefully 
 NBA 2k8 will be better than 2K7, NBA LIVE 07 is nothing like this. this is the game you should 
 get it if you really love the game of Basketball. best of best, top notch, truly deserved a high 
 score and lots of fun. this game is awesome and people played before definitely should love it 
 if you are NBA fan. Hopefully NBA 2k8 will be better than 2K7, NBA LIVE 07 is nothing like this. 
 this is the game you should get it if you really love the game of Basketball. best of best, top 
 notch, truly deserved a high score and lots of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt-slaughter61
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 23, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k7 is most likely one of the best basketball games out there, in my opinion. The graphics 
 weren't what you would think they could have been, when i was shooting fal shots the backboard 
 wasnt a perfect rectangle or even close to one, it was more like a rectangle with lots of diagnal 
 spikes on the top (i know i am very picky) . Speaking of fal shots i did not like its new system 
 at all, i just found it way too complicated especially if is easier to do in real life than in a 
 game. The gameplay is alright once you get used to all the controls (or just use Kobe Bryant 24/7 
 then it dont matter.) when i first got the game i really hated it because of the controls. I didnt 
 like the main menu system as well. You'd have to watch the big orange line go all the way through 
 town then it brings you to a quick game, It took me 30 mins to figure out how to play season, you 
 have to move the right anolog stick. Sound doesnt matter much in a basketball game i don't think 
 so i wont waste your time talking about it. All in All its a decent game but dont buy it until 
 you rent it, seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: champhf
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  this is an outstanding game the graphics anre amazing the attention to detail and loke the courts 
 you get to play on. this will be in my colection for a long time and i can't wait to see how a 
 game like this can be improved. im a basketball head and love being able to get right into a game 
 without the headachs. controles take some time to get use to but im sure with practice you will 
 be gaming for hours. im going to get football next so im holding out a lttle longer. i didn't think 
 they could make a game of this type but sure enough it is possible because im playing it. im a 
 pc gamer and the xbox is a great addition to my gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alfredo_Sauce
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I use to be a fan of NBA Live but they games were way to easy and you can shoot three pointers 
 all day with anyone. Unlike this game you have to know some knowledge about basketball. Knowing 
 what players are good at and not. This game is just plain out awesome. I play it all the time. 
 This is the most realistic basketball game out there. You can pick the ball theres fouls called 
 in the game that has never been another game cause it wasn't possible. I love this game. If you 
 are a big fan of basketball you will love this game as much as me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howell123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Ok so walking through my local gaming store I find a game for &pound;25 and I need another for 
 a 2 for &pound;40 deal so looking I came across NBA 2K7 and thought this could be good and in the 
 end IT WAS!!
  
  Another thing this game was saying to me was that this is the only competing game against EA Sports 
 and 2K Sports have absoultley proved they can beat the gaming indusrtires Number 1 for sporting 
 games!
  
  First off was the graphics and they did not dissapoint! the models look fnaatstic and so does the 
 asnimiation such as the Slam dunks and passes and body movement
  
  There are a vast vareity of game modes but one that stood out for me as a dissapointment was 24:7.......... and 
 it was very dissapointing first off you start in a Miami beach and you see O'Neal shooting hoops 
 and it goes awful! from then on you meet other players and they don't SPEAK!?? they just nod or 
 shake their head it is very dissapointing and embarassing!!
  
  So final verdict if you love the NBA and Basketball and can't decide which is better EA or 2K?? 
 FO FOR 2K!! you won't be dissapoitned! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Well it seems like EA and 2k sports swap every so often as the best sports game. 2k sports def. 
 is better then this years live. It has fun gameplay. good franchise mode, online play and its just 
 fun to kick back and play this years NBA game. Sports Developers i believe have the hardest job 
 making games. They have to make a new game every year for every sport. Basketball, Football, baseball 
 etc.. you can never take a year off like other guys can its one game after another and you need 
 to get them all in. plus you have to make it accurate to what player is on what team. So you can't 
 finish it too early or it will be out of date and not sell copies. This year the guys at 2k sports 
 have made a great basketball game that is basically what every other basketball game is. slightly 
 better graphics maybe a new mode some minor new customization and new rosters and logos. They do 
 all of that to make a really enjoyable. another problem with other sports games are the controls. 
 some games make it too complicated that all you want to do is just play but you have to master 
 different control styles that make game a lot less fun and more work. The graphics on this game 
 is good but sometimes has glitches. the most notable one is where the shorts come off the guy and 
 he is running with no pants! other then that the game looks great! it also works well if you are 
 having sims. many people don't know what they are but they are internet kinda games where you are 
 gms and you use AIM or aol to talk to other owners to trade. the owner sims through the season 
 at times and you see if you win the championship. its a great way to make friends and stuff. Overall 
 this game does everything it needs to be to make a great fun game that is easy to pick up. and 
 you may get addicted to the franchise modes.
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: fun basketball with some different modes all of witch are fun and easy to play
  Graphics: 
 Looks really really good but the glitches make it not as enjoyable
  Sound: Not a fan of the music in this game it will appeal to others a lot more but personally i 
 don''t like it
  Value: You should be able to get a year out of this like most sports games. after that they are 
 worthless
  Overall: Very enjoyable that does not over do the game and makes it plain fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakko19991
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the 2k sports franchises since they debuted on the Dreamcast and will likely 
 always play them over the EA franchises which haven't been good since the genesis days, in my opinion. 
 Regardless of either frnachise, all I want to see all these years lataer is still a practice mode 
 where you can actually practiccet he friggin plays with defenders if you choose to do so. The only 
 tihng you can do in this practice mode is practice shooting. Ummm you can master that playing the 
 regular game, but the plays take work. It is done in the football games whu not basketball where 
 it takes more of a coordinated effort to execute -- or are these compnaoes hiding something??? You 
 cant tell me it never came acorss the feature for discussion whuile being developed. L ove the 
 franchise, would be perfect for me if you could practice the plays, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-cubano
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  This game is a true basketball game, great graphics and gameplay. You can see the sweat from the 
 persons nose, i was shocked when i heard the game in surround sound aswell. The players shot justb 
 like they do in a real game, the commentators says things at the right time. They have so much 
 modes to play, like 24/7 that's my favorite. Your player can get drafted to the NBA after you do 
 all the challenges. Online is ust as fun as offline you can do alot more and there is always something 
 at marketplace that catches peoples eyes so it might catch yours aswell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twopic58
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Well i was never a fan of the 2k series. But then i bought Nba Live 07 and it sucked so I picked 
 up this game and I love it. The graphics and the gameplay are some of the best for a basketball 
 game. The only downside to this game is that there is no dunk contest or three point shootout. 
 24/7 Mode is alot of fun. I didn't think street games would be as fun as they are. The characters 
 look realistic and theres cool things in this game that alot of other basketball games don't have 
 like the halftime show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndyX2492
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I am amazed at how good this game is. I always though that the NBA Live series was always better 
 than the 2k Series. But I was wrong. I played NBA Live for the 360 and I wasn't impressed. It all 
 seemed like the same. There was no game improvements except for the graphics. So I told myself, 
 lets try out NBA 2k7. I am glad I bought this game because everything is good. The graphics are 
 exremely great. And the players movements are excellent. The competetion is great especially when 
 you play online. I only play the games online and it is fun when you are trying to play against 
 another person that talks a lot of smack because when you beat him, you got the bragging rights. 
 This game is better than NBA Live 2007 and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360-king
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Im gonna get right to it, LISTEN UP!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! LOL
  
  Graphics- Amazing on HD wow, if your big on graphics check this game out, jerseys, player models, court, 
 amazing!!
  
  Gameplay-so much more improved for 2k6, much more smoother, AI is great and works so smoothly
 
  
  online- great online play, leagues, tournments its truley an amazing thrill to hop on live with 
 this game in hand.
  
  overall a must buy if you like sport/basketball games!
  
  
  EXUSE ME I HAVE TO RITE MORE STUFF CAUSE U CANT PUT IN A REVIEW WITHOUT A TOTAL OF HUNDRED WORDS!
 
  jkladfjd fdaj klajdsal fj sfkljsadfsa j klfdjaklfja aewkrjl fdfkajklw rewjrkl dsjfjasfkl sa wejrkew 
 lf jdsafkljas lfjsaf wr jej fd ajflsa fjsafklsajdfsa fwjre rjklwar afjdsaf f jajsa fafjdsfjsklf 
 bkllflafj djfdfjdsalf a jfa flsa fja ffljlf saffj safds fkeu owkfjsa fjkladfjsafjla aklfjlfd kdfjaofjprjalkfjalfjaouewpr 
 fjafjlsa pew fjkafjkl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mutejjmb
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  This is one of the game you call a clasic, a very good game, exalent game play AI etc.. but as 
 far as the aver all makings of the game eg menu etc.. this is just SHOKING i genuienly believe 
 it to be the work i have ever come acros unless u no the menu on the back of your hand then well 
 it is simply impossable. Confuse is the word that spring to mind.
  
  Howevery you cannot disbute the great game, easy of gameplay, supurb graphical assets and much 
 more. i have come to the point that howver confusing the menu are and such, the simple fact is 
 its a great game (if u inot sport games) and when you ad your friend are playig against each other 
 you forget all about it CLASSIC !
  
  A*
  
  My space: www. myspace. com/teamchaosuk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigfoot_Slayer
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Over the years I have really gotten into different sports games. Whether it be football, hockey, 
 soccer, basketball, whatever... I have always enjoyed sports games. My favorites are usually traditional 
 basketball games...
  
  Ever since the Next-Gen has come out, many sports games have missed the mark on things that really 
 aren't that difficult to get right... And NBA 2K7 is not an exception.
  
  Now, don't get me wrong... NBA 2K7 is a great overall game... But it has some problematic issues. 
 For the sake of my review, I am going to go into most, if not all, the negatives first.
  
  First of all, which is probably the biggest bummer to me... Is the lack of personal achievement 
 in the franchise mode. Yes, you can control a team for many years, scout, train players, play games, 
 and many other things, and for the most part this works well... But there isn't really any personal 
 player achievement. No MVP, no sixth man awards, no awards whatsoever. There is no trophy or award 
 room in Franchise (there is for the xbox 360's achievement points, though) ... There is no real 
 incentive to do well with one particular player. Yes, player's do retire after awhile, but after 
 they do there isn't really any show of them ever being on your team, or ever really doing well. 
 The only thing that even comes close to this in the franchise mode is the All-Star ballots and 
 the All-Star game. There are also no record books in the franchise mode, or anything of that order... 
 So there's no individual achievement for breaking a record with any given player. I'm not sure 
 if this bother's anyone else... But when I play a franchise mode, every little thing that isn't 
 there, that should be, bothers me. It's hard to worry about any player retiring if it doesn't really 
 matter how good they were in the first place. The only thing to really go for in the franchise 
 mode is to get a championship... But even then it's kind of lackluster. The only thing to show 
 your achievements as the GM is your little profile showing how many games you've won, and how many 
 NBA Championships you have acquired. Another annoying thing is that without messing with the game 
 sliders at all, players miss way too many shots. They tend to miss dunks that they should, wide 
 open jumpshots... And freethrows are incredibly difficult without a heck load of practice. The 
 player rating system is also very strange... Since it gives weird ratings such as giving KG a 99 
 in the paint, but only a 69 layup ability. The A. I. is kind of hit and miss. There are times when 
 your team mates will run, set picks, help each other on offense, break through picks, call for 
 the ball, post up, etc... And there are times when they don't set a pick when asked to, make a 
 weird decision to just stand around out of bounds after passing in the ball, stand around, or other 
 weird things. The CPU A. I. is the same way. There are times when it makes no sense... Given a wide 
 open shot they may just stand there holding or dribbling the ball, and may pass it giving up the 
 wide open opportunity... And other times when they will shoot when they are triple teamed and attempt 
 to make a strange fadeaway attempt... But, the same as your team, they also make very good and 
 realistic decisions at times as well. Getting rebounds is also a chore... I found myself getting 
 frustrated trying to get the Bill Russell Achievement (Get 25 Rebounds in a game) ... When (even 
 with the rebounding sliders turned all the way up) , the defense always seems to get the boards, 
 and somehow, seems to get a lot of offensive rebounds as well... The graphics can be a little weird 
 at times. Sometimes players shorts, jerseys, or other parts of their bodies will just disappear 
 and you will see straight through them... Some player models look fantastic, though some look quite 
 strange... The announcers at times can be incredibly annoying... Repeating themselves quite a lot, 
 saying things that never happened... Like, when I shot a 3 pointer and made it with Mike James, 
 and Garnett tried to get the rebound in case there was a miss... They said it was a nice put back 
 by James... Sometimes the announcers will get the names wrong of players, sometimes they will make 
 mistakes.
  
  Okay... Now that I am done with the negatives on with the positive. Though the graphics can be 
 weird... They are quite good. While playing the game, it's hard to tell it's not a real basketball 
 game on T. V. Player models are proportionate to their surroundings, to other players, and look 
 like they should in an actual basketball game. The sound is terrific, though the announcers are 
 quite annoying... They do quite well compared to past attempts... More to say, and more variety 
 to their broadcasting. The gameplay is quite solid. Though you may get frustrated by a few minor 
 things like not being able to make some shots that you should every once in a while... It plays 
 great, and feels like it's the best game of basketball out. The Franchise mode is quite deep, except 
 for the issues I listed above... And features a lot of team chemistry issues, and practicing mini 
 games that can help improve individual players. Online is as smooth as can be... Barely any lag... 
 Which is the main concern for a basketball game online. The team trading is done quite well this 
 year. It is a lot closer to real life comparison then any other basketball game I've played. In 
 past games I would be able to muster a power hours player like Tim Duncan just by trading 2 or 
 3 Decent players that did nothing for my team. This time around, teams have an interest bar... 
 And you will find that it will be quite difficult to acquire some players, such as Lebron James 
 and Dwayne Wade. Overall, NBA 2K7 is a good basketball game with some minor, though annoying, deficiencies 
 and is great for any basketball fan... Though if you are expecting anything Next-Gen then you had 
 better wait for possibly next years edition... Because other then the graphics and the surround 
 sound, the game is missing some things that past games on the Xbox had, and did well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airgorden023
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game about 2 weeks ago and i still can't put my controller down. For the price this 
 game is a must buy for every sports fan. The game play can be improved but is easily the smoothest 
 game play u well find. I like how the players actually shoot like their real life counterparts. 
 For example Shawn Marion shoots like he does in real life a retarded shot i might add. I also like 
 how they made everyone that was supposed to be good good. A thing i don't like about this though 
 is that you can't really dunk good and most of the time you try to do a dunk and miss. Plus it 
 seems to me that they do the same dunks every time, you should be able to do crazy dunks and stuff. 
 And lastly they should somehow get there own version of All Star Weekend. That is what i think 
 held this game back from getting a ten. It's almost there and with a little adjusts
  this game well be game of the year no doubt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thakingk05
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 19, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong this is a good game of Basketball, but i just fell like I played this game last 
 year. The graphics dont even seem to be any better than before. I'm just starting to fell like 
 Visual Concepts is running out of ideas for a NBA game. They even took out 24/7 mode and replace 
 it with this boring pick up games that make no sense what so ever. Somebody please explain to me 
 why Steve Nash and Kobe Bryant are at a beat down wear house playing pick up games? Its just stupid. 
 Last years 24/7 mode was better.
  Online is where I spent most of my time, finding real life people to be more of a challenge then 
 the computer even on higher difficulties. You have league play and street mode to play online. 
 This kept me busy but not for that long. The sad thing with this game is I found it more fun to 
 get the achievement points then playing a full season. This game and all NBA games have lost there 
 touch in the next Gen crap. They need to give us the gamers something new besides this crap, Or 
 just lower the price to 40 dollars because 60 dollars is just not worth a new NBA game of the same 
 crap as last year. If you have last years version then theirs really no need to buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinoy5545
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 12, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  For the past decade I have been playing basketball games from NBA Live 1996 all the way down to 
 NBA 2k7/ NBA Live 2007. Out of all those games, this was by far the best graphically improved game 
 as well as gameplay. Many of you have noticed that NBA Live 2007 has good visuals and controls, 
 but lacked in gameplay as well as the large amount of off-line lag. With 2k7, the actual gameplay 
 is smooth and flows from one end of the court to the other. Once in awhile there might be some 
 game flaws such as the basketball shorts stay on one side of the body and you could see the legs. 
 Other than that, this is a very complete basketball game and I recommend it to everyone who loves 
 basketball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdmetal2101
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 8/10- There are a good range of difficulty option to fit your skill level. Timing is everything 
 when it comes to shooting because if you hold the button too long or not long enough you will probably 
 miss your shot. The game can get a little frustrating if you start to lose.
  
  Graphics 8/10- The graphics are good but the player models are not the most accurate. The game 
 also looks a little blocky if you look at the court close enough. But overall the graphics are 
 fine and arent enough to bother you at all. Sound 8/10- The sound is great nothing wrong here. 
 Good announcers and accurate sneaker squeaking on the court. The halftime show with Kennys stamp 
 show is pretty funny and a good review of your stats.
  
  Value 9/10- The Association and the Online play will keep you playing for a long time and you wont 
 get sick of it. The 24/7 mode is boring as always if they could improve this than this game would 
 be excellent. Reviewers Tilt 8/10- Good game but could have had better graphics and gameplay could 
 have been a little smoother. But the online will have you coming back for more after you get sick 
 of everything else.
  
  Overall if you are a Basketball fan then I would recommend it over NBA Live 07 any day. It is another 
 great sports game from 2k Sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murat8
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 4, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best basketball game I have played so far. A side note my review dose not 
 include the XBL stuff because I don't have it yet : ( First the bad thing theres no trick stick 
 instead the RS is used for shooting. Thats about it for the bad stuff the graphics are very good 
 the gameplay is good and smooth. This game is not great but it is the best basketball game out 
 there. You probably shouldn't get this game if your not a basketball fan. I like what they did 
 with the free throws they are not as easy to make as other basketball game. This is a must have 
 for basketball fans.
  
  GO LAKERS :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyboiii
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you will notice when you start playing NBA 2k7 is the signature styles from all 
 your favorite players. You'll notice Shaqs odd almost one handed free throw shots, Marions bunny 
 hop shot, Tmacs unique cross over, you'll see Nash wipe the front of his hair as hes coming down 
 the court, and Lebron James biting his nails during timeouts. This game definitely picked off from 
 their last game 2k6 and the slight improvements are what make this game great. Playing on Xbox 
 live is where it's at, this is where the game flourishes. You have the option to play in tournaments, 
 join leagues, street games, ranked matches, and unranked matches. Another idea I really like that 
 was added to 2k7 was how you must rate your opponent after each game, this helps a lot when determining 
 who are quitters, cheesers etc. Overall the game is great and if you're deciding between this game 
 and NBA Live 07 look no further NBA 2k7 is a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoderickOrtiz21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best basketball game this year and the best one in the 2k series. I love everything 
 about this game, well except for the on line gaming. When i play a game on line it lags... not 
 a lot, but it will still bring your perfect free throw shot to a ok release . And the thing that 
 i love the most is how every, EVERY, player has a different jump shot. Man o Man, that is so cool. 
 This game is a must have. Even if you don't like basketball games, this game will draw you into 
 liking them. Oh yea, you can also download the current NBA roster from the download-able content 
 in the game. Pretty cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apolloluke
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is the latest game in the series. If youve played NBA 2K6 I can tell you already this years 
 offering is 1,000,000 times better. I guess I will get straight into talking about the game...
 
  
  The career modes in the game are pretty weak and unappealing. The usual season modes have been 
 included, as well as a street ball career mode. Visually, NBA2K7 looks pretty damn good. Sure, 
 not all the faces look as good as they could, but does it really detract from the game? No. It 
 would take 2K Sports years to model every player with the sort of accuracy that can be seen in 
 other games (eg. Tiger Woods in TW PGA Tour 07) . The game isnt without its fair share of faults 
 and graphic glitches. Some times player singlets and shorts appear to disappear at times. Ive also 
 seen a member of the crowd walking through the air. An obvious gameplay glitch occurrs when a substitution 
 is made when the player is at the foul line he is able to take the 2nd shot before the new players 
 take the court. Its terribly frustrating when people exploit this on xbox live. NEVER SUB WHEN 
 AT THE FOUL LINE ON XBOX LIVE!!
  
  The menus totally suck in this game. Since when has there been a learning curve for using a games 
 menu system? NEVER, until now! This game has the worst menus in the world. They are ugly and the 
 control terribly. I like that when you boot up the game you go straight to the team select scren 
 though.
  
  The controls are pretty good, but not perfect. The right analogue stick has some functions in both 
 offense and defense, which I totally ignore so I wont talk about them (the buttons have the same 
 function) . One button that could be a little better used is the Y button, which in offense simulates 
 a spin manouvre. This almost always results in getting called for a travel and was a pretty stupid 
 idea to be honest. Another flaw in the controls that will be obvious from the first time you head 
 to the foul line is the foul line shot. The right analogue stick is used to simulate the back and 
 forward motion of shooting. Sounds good in theory, but you literally need to remember every single 
 players shooting style to get it right. Shaq and Marion shoot like retards and are near impossible 
 to score with. If you can get 1 from 2 foul shots your doing well.
  
  The audio of this game is pretty good. In-game the sounds are great and creates a great atmosphere. 
 Out of the game, you will quickly get sick of the horrible rap soundtrack. The multiplayer and 
 xbox live modes are where I have spent most of my time. Live play is lag-free, enjoyable and the 
 stat tracking system is good.
  
  I have been over-critical but I feel that you should know what your in for before you buy this 
 game. If you have a xbox live gold account the game is worth purchasing for playing online. Otherwise, 
 only fans of basketball simulations need apply. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billydakid2k3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 26, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  People the hate life like sports games, dont buy this game, stick with lives arcadish Hoops style. 
 But if your like me and love real sports games, buy NBA 2k7, its easly the best Hoops game out 
 there. Its light years ahead of the competition. T%he graphics are great, the dunk and layup animations 
 are better than ever, although on some dunks they dont grab the rim. I think they could have toned 
 down the point gaurds 3 point shooting a bit, but other than that, the game is awsome. The crossovers 
 are great, if you take the time to learn how to, its all about body position, and anolog movement, 
 plus what trigger, and or triggers your holding down. Online is awsome, my fav part of the online 
 play is the online laeuges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnakeEater187
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  WOW! What an awesome game that is so fun and realistic. This game has so many features and game 
 play modes that you would never get tired of. The game gameplay is real fun to me this is my favorite 
 basketball game. Although the graphics kind of kill it but other than that the game is incredible. The 
 best feature is the 24/7 Next which is the story of the game. But to bad there is no dunk Contest 
 or any other All-Star event but even without that the game kept up and became the #1 Rated basketball 
 Game Ever. NBA is an AWESOME game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 22, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I've played NBA live and 2k7 and 2k7 is WORLDS above the competition. I also played the demo for 
 both college bball games and unless they improved it greatly since the demos I really wasn't feeling 
 them either. I'm not saying 2k7 is that great, but it just goes to show the lack of competition 
 out there.
  
  I really do love this game though, it's very fun, there are just so many weird glitchy bugs that 
 happen during a game that it's hard to take it seriously sometimes. Granted gaming should be fun, 
 so if you aren't a hardcore gamer like me, then you may not care, but I like my bball games to 
 be serious unless I'm playing one that is intended to not be so serious (nba jam type games) . The 
 glitches range from player's uniforms disappearing to the ref throwing the ball off of a player 
 5 or 6 times trying to throw it to a different one waiting to inbound the ball. I hate how when 
 you drive the lane sometimes and you go to dunk, you stop and shoot, then sometimes when you're 
 15 feet away and you go to shoot, it goes into an animation and you attack the rim. This game isn't 
 bad, but it's full of glitches like this. The plays on offense, do they work? Are they even programmed 
 in? The only play that ever works is isolation, everyone runs to the side and leaves you alone. 
 I've called for a pick about 500,000 times and am still waiting for a player to throw one for me. 
 Alley oops are useless unless you're doing one to a Tayshaun Prince or a Kobe Bryant, it doesn't 
 matter if it's just you and your buddy, they'll still find a way to screw it up. I think the Gamespot 
 review of this game is garbage. The reviewer rants about how hard freethrows are and I really don't 
 know what his problem is. If you can't shoot them, put on the free throw helper and it tells you 
 if you're doing it late, early, etc. Maybe you aren't pulling it directly down, you'd be surprised 
 how inaccurate we are when pulling it to the right, left, etc. Basically, the review rants the 
 whole time about impossible freethrows... unless you have a team of Shaq's, freethrows really aren't 
 that hard at all. Including my big men, I usually shoot about 85% as a team which is fine. One 
 thing I did notice is that if you are playing online, unless you both have really fast connections, 
 the freethrow shooting gets a little laggy and a little weird.
  
  Although there are MANY glitches, this game is a great experience and a really fun game. When you 
 get over the glitches, it's a solid bball experience. I've been playing online which is great fun 
 and a change of pace. I don't mind the controls although I really miss the freestyle stick of years 
 past. Oh well, if you're going to buy a bball game for the 360, buy this one, but if you don't 
 mind waiting for next year, that might be just as good of a choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WOUslimshady
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 13, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  This game has got it all I think. On a plasma tv, such as what I have, you can see a relection 
 of the players off of each of the courts. The have a nice shine to them. The players sweat, and 
 it looks real. I have never seen this many little corks to a game that made a difference in presentation. 
 I absolutly love the game. The gameplay is similiar to last year's game. Only problem I have is 
 that it is a sports game. Next year when NBA 2k8 comes out my 2k7 will be obsolete.... do not get 
 me wrong, this game is worth every penny, but they sure do a great job of getting us to fork up 
 $60 every year for the same game with different rosters and a tiny difference in gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calcheesmo
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 12, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I've played NBA live and 2k7 and 2k7 is WORLDS above the competition. I also played the demo for 
 both college bball games and unless they improved it greatly since the demos I really wasn't feeling 
 them either. I'm not saying 2k7 is that great, but it just goes to show the lack of competition 
 out there.
  
  I really do love this game though, it's very fun, there are just so many weird glitchy bugs that 
 happen during a game that it's hard to take it seriously sometimes. Granted gaming should be fun, 
 so if you aren't a hardcore gamer like me, then you may not care, but I like my bball games to 
 be serious unless I'm playing one that is intended to not be so serious (nba jam type games) . The 
 glitches range from player's uniforms disappearing to the ref throwing the ball off of a player 
 5 or 6 times trying to throw it to a different one waiting to inbound the ball. I hate how when 
 you drive the lane sometimes and you go to dunk, you stop and shoot, then sometimes when you're 
 15 feet away and you go to shoot, it goes into an animation and you attack the rim. This game isn't 
 bad, but it's full of glitches like this. The plays on offense, do they work? Are they even programmed 
 in? The only play that ever works is isolation, everyone runs to the side and leaves you alone. 
 I've called for a pick about 500,000 times and am still waiting for a player to throw one for me. 
 Alley oops are useless unless you're doing one to a Tayshaun Prince or a Kobe Bryant, it doesn't 
 matter if it's just you and your buddy, they'll still find a way to screw it up. I think the Gamespot 
 review of this game is garbage. The reviewer rants about how hard freethrows are and I really don't 
 know what his problem is. If you can't shoot them, put on the free throw helper and it tells you 
 if you're doing it late, early, etc. Maybe you aren't pulling it directly down, you'd be surprised 
 how inaccurate we are when pulling it to the right, left, etc. Basically, the review rants the 
 whole time about impossible freethrows... unless you have a team of Shaq's, freethrows really aren't 
 that hard at all. Including my big men, I usually shoot about 85% as a team which is fine. One 
 thing I did notice is that if you are playing online, unless you both have really fast connections, 
 the freethrow shooting gets a little laggy and a little weird.
  
  Although there are MANY glitches, this game is a great experience and a really fun game. When you 
 get over the glitches, it's a solid bball experience. I've been playing online which is great fun 
 and a change of pace. I don't mind the controls although I really miss the freestyle stick of years 
 past. Oh well, if you're going to buy a bball game for the 360, buy this one, but if you don't 
 mind waiting for next year, that might be just as good of a choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chansaet
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 13, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  I bought this game about a month ago and I bought oblivion 2 months ago and I played this game 
 over twice as long already. Let me start by saying this game is alot better then NBA 2K6 for xbox. 
 The gameplay is good. Very similar to years befores. I don't use the shockstick pro that often 
 but it is fun being able to decided if you want flashy dunk or plain. The game is fast pace but 
 playing with computer they slow you down so much. I set 8 minutes for a quater. This way I know 
 I will score reach NBA level. At 5 minutes you will have a hard time getting 60 in an entire game. 
 The graphics look good from far away. Thats it. Up close the players does not look like them at 
 all. Nash is an alien. Most players do not look humans due to there face. NBA2k7 for Xbox looks 
 more like them than this. I really do not know why they decided to make all the players look like 
 some kind of mutated creature (the face is just horrible) . Other than the face the game looks amazing.
 
  
  The sound is good. Kenny Smith does a good job here. He really does sound like a real NBA anouncer 
 at times. The music is really good. Nice hip-hop.
  
  This game will keep you playing for months. I play this game the most. There is also online and 
 tournaments. This game is well worth the $$.
  
  The game has some huge flaws that makes it from being great:
  #1. It just bothers me in the game 
 when you seem to miss wide open dunks and layups. I miss one to four almost everygame. Then kenny 
 smith says This is one of those things that happen in a few years. But it happens in the game so 
 often. #2 Freethrows, In NBA 2K7 it takes the same amount of time for every player allowing you 
 to master it. In this so much players have it at a different time to release the analog stick. 
 Like Yao, Tim Duncun, Wally Serbiac etc. It is really hard to know when to release the analog stick.
 
  
  #3 For some reason they decided that ones you get a big lead you have to get ice cold. This is 
 the stupiedest thing they did. I am up by 30 when I become icecold and miss open shots and dunks. 
 My oponet then becomes hot and hits hard contested threes over and over. It should be about skill. 
 They should not force a close game everytime. #4 Pick and Roll, When you call for a pick and roll 
 or any play that requires a screen you'd expect it to be almost instant for it to happen but this 
 is not the case. It takes from sometimes over 10 seconds for your players to actually set the screen. 
 And alot of times the players get stuck walking back and forth for 5 to 10 seconds and they never 
 screen you. You'd have to redo and and it takes another 5 to 10 seconds.
  
  #5 Computer seems to want to slow down the game to much. I play against the suns and they take 
 20 seconds before they even attempt to do a shot. I want to score a 100 not 50.
  
  #6 computer seem to only use the PG for most of there offense. Even with players like dirk the 
 mavs will never use him. Terry would score 30 while dirk gets 10 at best. Same thing with most 
 good players that are not PG. This game makes nash a ball hog. He never wants to pass.
  
  Even with these flaws I'd say get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Plucky7
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 9, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking it was better than NBA live 07 and i trully think it is. The graphics 
 are awesome. I have never played a better looking basketball game in my life. This game is fun 
 to play. By getting achievements or just playing with your friends. Gameplay- I think this is a 
 pretty reaslistic basketball game but there are still a ffew nagging things about it. I think it 
 is 100 times more realistic then NBA live 07. The problems with the gameplay that i have is that 
 almost every time you pass them the ball they run away from where you want them to be. Like you 
 through torpido. For example, lets say they is a guy is wide open in the paint and your driving 
 with someone. When you pass them the ball and when they finally catch it they sumtimes end out 
 of the paint. also some other times if its by the sides they step out of bounds. Also the main 
 foul is a blocking foul and i think they went over the top with it but its not its constantly called 
 all the time. Besides that the gameplay is great. There is not really any problems.
  
  Everything else is good (sound, value and my tilt)
  
  The free throws are kinda hard. They could 
 have made it a little better but besides that this game is one of the basketball games i've ever 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chuman231
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 6, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Nba 2k7 has finally proven itself as the top basketball game. I previusly played only the Live 
 series, but now i have gladly switch over to the 2k series.
  
  This game has very good controls, it uses all the buttons well; which allows for very thorough 
 control over ur players. In the Xbox version of this game the controls are the same as 2k6, which 
 are not nearly as good as these controls. I happen to like the free throw system despite most people 
 complaining that it is too hard. i can usually shoot around 70% from the line.
  
  The game displays very nice graphics and animations. One problem is that its hard to read some of 
 the letters and numbers without an HD quality picture. This was distracting, however, it didnt 
 take away from my enjoyment of the game.
  
  The game includes not only the normal basketball modes found in all basketball games, but it has 
 a franchise like mode called the association, streetball, and a seperate game where u play as a 
 streetballer and work your way up to fame. This game has incredible value and is veyr enjoyable. 
 whether ur getting this game just to play with friends, to lead a team to championships, to compete 
 online in leagues or pickup games, or all of the above; this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imfeelinpanda
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 26, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  this is just one of the best basket ball games ever. The gameplay is probley the best. iT has ever 
 thing a basketball game ever need to keep going for a long time. The grafics could have been better 
 but i was really im pressed with how the bright colored jerseys looked and if u get a good look 
 at the players they made them look good. The sound is good but it could have been better cause 
 it kinda cracks somethimes. They did put ok music in it though. The value isnt really that good 
 because its klinda the same as 2k6 and the others. It kinda a hard game cause even on rookie mode 
 its still really hard to learn the ropes of the game. It takes a while to learn the game cause 
 the other teams keep scoreing on u but if u take the clutch facotr off it really helps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrutch
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I got this game last week and im totally into it........2ksports really did a great job kicking 
 ea sports' ass........... there are many great things about this game but theres also some flaws............ heres 
 my pros and cons for this game......
  PROS:
  navigation is quick and easy
  24/7 mode is kind of fun
  deep franchise mode (association)
  player models are amazing
  gameplay 
 is excellent
  halftime show is great and fun to watch
  3-man trade
  very realistic
  cheap (bought it for $40)
  online play is robust
  sig shots and ft routines of almost every 
 player
  tons of camera angles
  
  CONS:
  reel maker costs money/points and is a waste of time
  have to pick a play every time you get 
 the ball
  jersey glitch
  AI can penetrate easily
  commentary is almost the same as last year
  too many missed layups
  some player models are 
 very ugly (esp. hairs)
  music is lame
  
  This is all I can think of right now............ i dont regret buying this game cuz dis is the best 
 sports game.. hands down........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshuafonsecais
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7. The original reason I bought the game was to enter into a tourament but I soon found that 
 I just might have found a good game to play until NBA Live 08 comes out. At first I was kind of 
 pissed off at the defalt camra angle because i could'nt see anything other than the guy that had 
 the ball. the controls also threw me off only because I was used to the NBA Live controls but with 
 time I got it down and was able to play the game to the full. I also didn't like the fact that 
 the title menu brought you to quick game first. It took me a while to figure out how to bring up 
 the menu page. The players in the game are a little to detailed so that it made the players look 
 a lot different than they are. Like Steve Nash he still has his old hair cut and he looks ripped 
 but he really isn't, also with O'neal he has his tatoos but his face looks took old. I also liked 
 how the game made you rate the players you played with after each game. Normaly I would be to lazy 
 to report the really bad atitude players but now its automatic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedsTheNewBlack
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  Most of us remember NBA 2K6's cheesy charges and unfair dunks. Even the way to easy blocks were 
 frustrating. Though, this year, 2K has stepped it up and they have kept it fun at the same time. 
 In order to get a charge, you actually have to set your feet this time, and stay in that position 
 for a second or two. Also, your can't completly flop everytime in real life and still get the charging 
 call on the offense. Blocks have become much harder to perform, because your body puts full momentum 
 into each block. So, in turn, you have to wait a recovery time, which can become tedious in itself. 
 The one big flaw in this game, though, is how simply any guy can make a three. Don't get me wrong, 
 this game is great, but even guys online will just pick the Sonics or Suns and shoot 50 three point 
 attempts. As for the graphics, they were the best seen on the 360 thus far. Player models look 
 phenomenal (excluding some goofy looking faces) . What's even better is about 150-200 players have 
 their very own jump shot AND free throw. You just have to remember them in time. 2K7's gameplay 
 is awesome with the great improvements. It just feels so realistic, and similar to what we see 
 on tv. The score by the end of the game is a little higher than what real NBA players would score 
 by the end of a 25 minute game (even though you are playing a 20 minute game most of the time) . 
 247 also improves as you go up the ranks of reputation through facing NBA stars such as KG or Lebron 
 James. You can't get achievements on 247, but it is fun nonetheless.
  
  In conclusion, all sports fans should at least rent this work of art. I personally love this since 
 the NBA07 is just a slam dunk contest every year. Check it out, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoonster
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  This is the first basketball game that i have ever picked up and i think its great. The gameplay 
 is smooth and all around it looks sweet. The player detail is some of the best ive seen and the 
 way that they've taken some of the bigger stars shot animations and put them in the game really 
 adds to the experience.
  
  There is occasionally a glitch. The only one i can think of off the top of my head is when i find 
 players randomly missing a piece of there clothing. However it doesn't really hinder your experience 
 and is easy to get around.
  
  There are tons of different modes to enjoy and it'll keep you playing for a long while. Ill definitely 
 be buying more additions to the series and i recommend this for any basketball fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExciteTruck
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  I dont have a 360 i only played it at a freinds on new years eve. It was the first i tried out 
 and i was pretty amazed. i love basket ball but it was the first basket ball game i played. It's 
 an all and out good sport game with good level graphics for the 360. the sound is amazing it just 
 sounds like you are actually watching the game in the stadium. All the shoes squeaking on the floor 
 all fans cheering and booing and even you can here the fight song faded in the background. multiplayer 
 is pretty fun playing with your team against you freinds team. the game is pretty good controls 
 but it is hard somtimes. the game can somtimes feel slow a choppy. Theres a few minpr problems 
 but this is the main game i would recommend if you wanted to play a round of basketball with your 
 freinds or with out. But the game really shines if you play against a freind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360-0wnage
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 31, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  This game was a big dissapointment for me because i was realy looking forward to actully playing 
 this but when i finaly did i was shocked by some of its grafics and gameplay.
  On street mode the graffics are no where near as good as they are on season NBA it realy not as 
 fun on the season but its little better on career street cause u have to go on tours around the 
 world and you have to get your rep up what is fun at time and fustraiting at others.
  After a couple of hours on career street i got bored and i have never played the game since but 
 then i did and still found it disapointing.
  So i SOLD it what was a good thing and i got saints row in stead what is such a better game.
 
  
  Thank you for reading this
  
  [ [Me360niall] ] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3rdcarnales
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 10, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  Wow, this is a great game now i can
  find what the good game to play with the xbox 360
  this game also have a great graphics and world class
  game play. In this game you can find what 
 is the great
  basketball game. If you want to play with the best team in this game
  you can edit all the super stars in this game.
  For me the best in this game mode is The Association 
 and Kenny Stamp Aprovall because the kenny stamp aprovall had some cool words
  like: Wilt and Kobe Show , Phi Slamma Jamma , Please don't Hurt Em ,
  and Home Coockin . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GEARSpartan0415
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 9, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  ive been playing basketball games for a long time now and the graphics are amazing in this game, 
 and signature style looks almost exactly like the real players jumpshots i only wish they did the 
 same thing for their dribbling and dunk and layup style and free throws, and also they need to 
 improve the free throw shooting because once you get used to one players free throw shot it will 
 throw you off on someone elses because they are all different and they should fix some of the glitches 
 nex year................... buy this game its worth it you wont be dissappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PilotInspektor
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is possibly the best basketball simulation i have played. The graphics look amazing, 
 escpecially in HD. It even sounds like a real game. Players look perfect especially with the cloth 
 physics. It has a real basketball feel with the crowd reacting with the action, people getting 
 out of their seats and walking up and down the aisles. All the well known players have their own 
 shot, which adds a realistic factor. There are great animations for dunks that look quite realistic. 
 If you like basketball and own a 360 do yourself the favor by picking this game up. The association 
 is also amazing with so many coaching options. And three way trades are pretty cool but they are 
 hard to pull off due to the salary cap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is another installment of teh solid 2K sports series, and since NBA Live is the only other 
 game available it is pretty much automatic for basketball game purchases in the next gen. ITS GRAPHICS 
 have been improved upon and all of the players look more lifelike. Also it seems tehy have put 
 more time into shaping players individual appearances, however there are still players you look 
 at and say.. Wait, thats Chris Duhon?!? All in all the graphics are two steps ahead. Teh annoying 
 white outlines around the players is gone and the crowds have more dimension to them. THE GAMEPLAY 
 has built upon the sturdy base of the last installment. So expect all of the old back mixed in 
 with soe new features like a revamped online for ease of use. Also teh free throw system is much 
 more challenging and perhaps the hardest part about the game. Other than that just expect teh same 
 control scheme with the shot stick and everything else the you have already seen. THE ACHIEVEMENTS 
 are actually well thought out this time around. There are several for online success as well as 
 your usual get a triple double with any player. But also there are Player achievements for mtaching 
 the stats of say Kobe Bryant in his 81 point game. Also the rivalry achievements are for winning 
 as one of the teams for a specified NBA rivalry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iversonman314
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas and I'd have to say its the best basketball simulation I've played. 
 I have 2k4, 2k6, and 2k7, nba live 03 and 05 for ps2, but 2k7 for 360 is by far the best. The players 
 don't move like robots and the animations are spot on from dunks to shot to blocks. Graphics are 
 very smooth and extremely realistic. Some of the players faces and looks could be touched up to 
 make them seem a little more like their real-life counterpart, but that will come with time as 
 the series progresses through the next-gen consoles. Street mode is sweet and the detail in the 
 street courts is just as high as in the arenas themselves. 24/7 mode is ok but not as good as the 
 24/7 mode on 2k6 for ps2. When I first started the game I realized the players moved slower in 
 the game than in real life so I boosted the PLAYER SPEED to 65 and this made the game seem even 
 more realistic than it started out to be. Once you update your roster and make minor tweaks to 
 appease to your kind of gameplay, this game is untouchable. Yes, free throws are freakin' hard, 
 but who really cares?? I'm guessing you don't buy a basketball game because it had a good free 
 throw system, but on the gameplay and graphics. If you are a basketball, NBA, or sports fan, I would 
 recommend you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: castlebaM
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  First of all the graphics in this game are phenominal! I mean they look beautiful. The player models 
 look great and the movements of the NBA players are so fluid that it sometimes it seems that im 
 watching a real basketball game. The faces of the players dont always look like their real selves 
 but the best part is their shots. They look like thier own shots and its pretty cool. The gamplay 
 is fun and really acts like a simulation, but the biggest problem of the game is that you miss 
 alot of open shots that would normally go in and its pretty easy to miss a dunk or layups. Overall 
 this game is great and you should definitly check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaddenBowler10
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  plain and simple, this basketball game is the best out there. the animations are great, the graphics 
 are great, the sound is great, the framerate is amazing.
  
  graphics- great, nothing looks too overdone and everything looks realistiic.
  
  sound- very 
 good, but some things can sound a little louder than it should
  
  animations- awesome, all the different moves you can pull off are all personalized to a player's 
 personality on the court. one problem is that jumping in the air to block a ball is really weird 
 since you almost always jump into the shooter causing a defensive foul and it gets really irritating 
 and annoying and frustrating. all the players have their own kinds of shooting like they are in 
 real life. dunks are very kool but some of the reverse layups and dunks are unrealistic in some 
 situations where you wouldn't think it would be possible to do. 3 pters are done well and realistic 
 but i will tell you now, steve nash makes all 3 pters!! my friend beat me pretty much because of 
 nash. value- high replay value because it's the best sports game out there and you should be playing 
 this throughout the whole basketball season.
  
  another issue is that there are too many fouls. it's very very easy to draw a defensive foul by 
 pump faking and then when the defender jumps in the air to block the shot he always always jumps 
 into you and then you shoot the ball for the and 1. the jumping in the game is very unreallistic 
 like i said earlier. also sometimes the computer will just take his PG and have him sit at the 
 top of the key and do nothing but dribbble and you can't steal the ball so that gets pretty annoying. 
 also, the new menu layout is terribly complex to use.
  
  some good things are the many different kinds of game modes which will always give it a great replay 
 value. shooting is very realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toyeboy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  This game looks very good, the jersey's on the players move realistically and the players themselves 
 have excellent animations just like in the actual NBA game, such as reacting to fouls and such. 
 The weak point would have to be the controls, something about them isn't exactly perfect, it's 
 hard to remember everything. It seems that post up moves never do what you want, and it's hard 
 faking out people. Playing defense is quite tough, you really have to stay with your guy and keep 
 in his face or he WILL score on you. They've made some players a bit too good as well such as T-mac 
 and Kobe, they can usually score everytime even if you play excellent defense they'll drain a long 
 3 pointer at the buzzer which is very frustrating after trying so hard to stop them. The other 
 thing is there isn't enough specific play calling on offense, I usually play with the Pistons and 
 I want Rip Hamilton to curl up but thats not an option and when your teamates set picks the AI 
 can usally walk right through them. Lastly the default camera in this game is TV view, while this 
 looks realistic, it's not good for gameplay, you can't see all your players very good and it's 
 hard to stay in front of your opposition on defense, so be sure and change it to 2k view it's MUCH 
 easier to control your team.
  
  Overall it's still a good game, the controls definitely take getting used to if you haven't played 
 2K7 before, but the visuals and animations are great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lysluk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 25, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  No, I have not played 2k6 before. And no, I havent really fully played out NBA Live 07 on next-gen 
 except on PC and from comparing that to PS2's 2K7.... 2K7 is superior. Now on to the next-gen version 
 of 2K7. I can safely say that there is no looking back anymore. The overall experience, the level 
 of detail, the accurateness of the arena and player's movements is so close to its counterpart 
 that I swear Im watching a Live NBA game instead. So about my thoughts of likes and dislikes.
 
  
  The loading time from the menu to the actual quick game was snappy. There are enough modes for 
 you to enjoy with, but the most fun comes with playing with your friends in quick play mode. The 
 practice mode was actually fun, something I never looked in before. There is a 24/7 streetball 
 mode, I didnt really bother with the actual career, but trying the 5 on 5 with a buddy is fun. 
 You can actually do some streetball moves (like... wouldnt it be stupid if you couldnt rite?) ... from 
 the nba stars, or celebtrities or whoever. The only thing that wasnt good was the loading time, 
 the graphics sometimes felt like PS2, and the overall gameplay can get boring. Its trying to be 
 realistic, but its lacking the excitement from that of the indoor game. I liked the arenas the 
 most, and this is what Live is missing out on. A real arena has cheerleaders, mascots, people walking 
 around, and that not every seat in the stadium is taken! The cheering, booing, and the noise that 
 the commentators and the crowd makes just adds to the game a lot too.
  
  This is also where 2k7 shines in, the level of detail they put in. Every camera cut to the timeouts 
 to the intermissions of the dancers doing their thing is just great. Its like they studied each 
 and every ball game closely to match as close as they could. The bench will react to the game also. 
 They may stand up and cheer when you make an amazing play. Or they will stand up, when the game 
 is close near the end...... just similar to real life. The player's movements are quite fluid and 
 responsive. There's no skating on the court, although sometimes theres occasional glitches where 
 the player will slide or have a lockup in their animation. Not important but its annoying.
  
  I hate the quick access menu they have during the game. You can tap your stick any direction 
 to let you quickly make substitutions for later, or to change your teams tempo for offense and 
 defense while playing. Its great, but the pop up menu takes up half the screen almost. It defeats 
 the purpose.... might as well pause the game each time then.
  
  Overall, I enjoy this game a lot.... but only playing with people can it bring more excitement. 
 Its meant to be realistic, but you can still win a game using one player and keep scoring. The 
 AI can behave awkwardly at times. The graphics is amazing, but the animation and player models 
 need improvements. Not revolutionary, but the best of its kind today. Anyways, I still recommend 
 this game to anyone who likes sports or basketball in general. Even if you dont play it, watching 
 others play can be just as fun too because of the atmosphere it has in its arenas, lighting, animations, 
 and graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_cde
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  If you are a big fan of basketball, this is the game that you need to buy. It completely beats nba 
 live 07. The graphics are almost perfect because ther are still some weird faces like the face of 
 adre inguandala (he looks like a monkey in this game) but in general the graphis are really impressive (you 
 can see the sweat falling down the face, they look tired when you see them shooting at the free 
 throw line. The point guards in that game make the player realise that being a point guard is hard 
 especialy dealing with stress and make good passes without causing a turnover. In that game if 
 you have to much fouls, turnovers, misses the coach will make subistutions to make you bench. The 
 songs are good but they could do better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilden
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is a fun game. I have played different Basketball games over the year and I have to say 
 in overall quality of graphics and sound this is the best. But I found the game to be overly technical 
 maybe players of the series have gotten used to how all the details work but they make no real 
 effort to explain how deep the settings of this game go. The game seems to foul a lot and the penalty 
 shots are overly difficult to hit. Once you get going you'll find yourself juking and dunking on 
 your opponents which is the best part of any basketball game. Don't forget those from way outside 
 three-pointers that make you smile.
  
  The basics of the game are easy enough for a beginner such as my wife to play against me. I have 
 to ease up a bit here and there but virtually anybody can play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dino316
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I have played both NBA 2k7, and NBA live 07 and i the basketball game of the year goes to NBA's 
 2k series again. Every year 2k sports always adds on so many new things and makes a much more deep 
 game, and thats why it is better than nba live 07. It still sticks to the fundamental gameplay 
 as it did last year, but the graphics have had a huge boost, and it really feels like your playing 
 on the court with the nba superstars.
  
  The game looks amazing on the 360 and is probably in the top 3 for Xbox 360 release titles so far. 
 Some may argue that it doesn't look as good as NBA 07, but it does. The gameplay isnt choppy and 
 doesnt tend to freeze, while nba 07 has a habit of doing. The sound is very good, and the crowd 
 and the enviornments were done really well. The gameplay is truly amazing, there are a wide range 
 of moves for every different player on each team, and there is a lot of emotion and character to 
 this game. Something the game lacked last year.
  
  This game is a definte must own, it has fantastic gamepaly, nice graphics and is great for any 
 basketball fan, or for that matter any sports fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirpimps
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 23, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Gameplay was a breathe of fresh air after being an exclusive NBA Live player. A few bugs 
 but can easily be fixed with the sliders. Easily the best simulation your going to get for the 
 360.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are really nice, especially when they zoom in cut scene style. Even while playing 
 on a SDTV I was loving it. Animations are the best I have ever seen in my life. Almost every player 
 has his shooting form. AWESOME!!!!
  
  Sound: Sound is great in my opinion. Commentary is great, and has great chemistry. Songs in the 
 menu screens are good, but seem like to few.
  
  Value: This game is more valuable than 20 diamonds in a gold bucket. Has so many modes makes you 
 shiver. Online is done properly with leagues and quick games. Street ball mode is great idea, but 
 needs some tweaking. Association is very fun and easy to get into.
  
  Overall: 2K Sports should be very happy with this game, and fans should be stuck to this game until 
 the next installment comes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 21, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  2k has dominatedthe hoop game for a couple years now, and this year is noooo different.
  The gameplay is very good as always. Despite what EA fan boys might post, it is very hard to just 
 drive to the rim and dunk on someone. Defense is very much improved from last year. Although they 
 took away the option of creating a team, you can live without it.
  The graphics are a little improved from last year. Reflections from the arena are on the floors 
 as you dribble down court. The creators actually took pictures of all over the arenas to get the 
 most realistic look.
  The soundtrack is alright this year, but definetly could be better. The announcers repeat things 
 at times, but not too much to bother you.
  The X-Box Live play goes off without a hitch. No kicking you from the game, and it's very smooth.
 
  Overall 2k7 dominates Live again, even though my boy T-Mac is on the cover of it. Pick 2k7 for 
 sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire555
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 20, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Positives: cool introduction screen. New street ball option pretty cool to try out. 24/7 mode improved 
 form last year. Excellent job creating different form for every player.
  
  Negatives: GAme changed way too much from 2k6. Improved on things that were already fine, and made 
 them worse. Free throws are really hard to make. Weak defensive play. I don't see Luther Head dunking 
 in the NBA over Shaq. Incredibly easy to make three pointers.
  
  NBA 2k6 was an awesoem basketball game, but NBA 2k7 took all the things that were great in 2k6, 
 and totally messed them up. I would totally recomment collage hoops over this game. It is a way 
 more REALISTIC experience then this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynasty3patriot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  2K is back for another year with NBA 2K7. The game is basically the same as 2K6. The first thing 
 you will notice is that you need to start an exibition game before you do anything. The new menus 
 this year are difficult to navagate because you are required to use the right analog stick to move 
 around. I don't know if they where trying to have there menues operate like maddens, but if they 
 were they failed. The gameplay is basically the same. The AI is now definetly harder under the 
 basket. You can't walk right in and take a lay up easily any more. The game moves prettly smoothly. 
 The only bad thing about the gameplay this year is that you will miss most of the 3 point t shots 
 that you take. No matter where you are even if you have the wide open 3 you will miss it more thatn 
 half of the time. It gets very frusturating at times. The graphics are excelent this year and have 
 improved greatly over 2K6. The arenas all look nice to. The biggest mode this year the 24:7 mode 
 and it is great. The voice acting is done superbly. The previous years you would just do challenges 
 and that would be it. This year in 24:7 it is really deep and fun. The new replay screens are cool 
 and they actually want to make me watch the replays. The play by play is great with Marv Allen 
 and Kenny Smith along with Craig Sager. They all do a great job calling the game. This year the 
 game isn't filled with adds like it was last year. If you played 2K6 you will be able to play 2K7 
 easily. If you liked NBA 2K6 or if you just want a good quality basketball game there is no reason 
 why you shouldn't look past NBA 2K7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbrreennddaann
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 4, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  What a piece of junk game that wouldnt sell if not for the poorer performance of nba live. playing 
 hall of fame it gets so annoying when everything they put up goes in, for heavens sake, kenyon 
 martin sank a 3 with a hand in his face with the clock winding down, not to mention the people 
 who can shoot, they shoot absurd fg % day in day out. im sick of this game. im sick of how lazy 
 2k is at bettering the AI. all they did was create a team of larry birds to piss me off... man... 
 so pissed off.. did i mention i put a hand up on all the shots and play d like a madman? once my 
 player's hand even went thru the ball (not changing its momentum or direction) and this dude najera 
 sank the 3 ball.. must be thinking to himself he had a dead brother on the bench like a sixth man 
 watching his back.
  
  pissed off.
  
  
  p. s. gamespot, i chose difficulty as hard, but i had not choice to say stupid, just wondering if 
 by difficulty u meant difficulty on pro, superstar or hall of fame? wat a dumb stat to score 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominican_fines
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 12, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is good if you like the hard pressure defence and it has a good story mode i really 
 liked it.
  
  The only thing that is bad is the graphics, last years graphics were better because you could of 
 seen the players pants go up as they dunk and see them swet alot but this game is pretty good i 
 would recomend it.
  
  The free throw are so hard to make its not even funny lol but i guess thats good if you like the 
 realistic games...
  
  I hope you liked my review and if you have any questions dont be afraid to send me a message and 
 ask me about either nba live 07 or nba 2k7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howard23
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 4, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  As hard as is was for me accept this, NBA 2K7 is better than NBA Live. The game play is great. 
 It has everything that Live lacks. While there are a few quirks in the game, it still produces 
 a superior game of B-Ball. As I am new to the series, I do have some of the complaints about improvement 
 that others may have. What I found is a game that looks and plays great. The low post action is 
 wonderful. The fact that you can box out is an added plus. Maybe that is not a huge deal, but I 
 thinks its pretty cool. My only complaint is that layups tend to rattle out a little too often 
 for me. Maybe there is something I am doing to cause this, but to blow past a defender and miss 
 an easy , uncontested layup is wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  The 2k series brings the simplest thing to the table, which makes it that good since EA can't.
 
  
  gameplay - They give you many options to call plays and execute moves. having custom moves for 
 players make the game that realistic. Having the option to customize your controller would of been 
 nice but they do a good job of the settings being user friendly. aside from that the gameplay didn't 
 change from last year.
  
  graphics - look a lot better in that the players looks like who they are. no bulk players or too 
 skinny players either (madden) the transition from making shoots to replay is smooth and during 
 gameplay as well
  
  online - I didn't get to try it out
  
  other modes - the have season, dynasty, street mode which makes with game worth it for any b-ball 
 fan.
  
  achievements - hard. you need to play a while to get these achievements. I say its hard because 
 it takes time. its not like last year you can get all of them in one game.
  
  overall- this is the best basketball game in stock. if your a fan you should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kimonio
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the 2K series since it was release on the dreamcast many years ago. At that 
 stage, the 2K series always seemed one step ahead of basketball games released by EA.
  
  They have done it again this year with the release of NBA 2k7. The gameplay is simply amazing - 
 if you have been following NBA at all for the last 5 years you will love the signature moves that 
 have been integrated into the game - not only have the players shooting styles been captured, but 
 also other movements such as the way they dribble or react after scoring a basket make an entrance 
 into the game. The controls however with the updated shotstick take a little bit of getting use 
 to at first, but after a while it really feels like an extension of yourself. It feels so intuitive, 
 and you end up playing the game they way you would in real life - as if you were watching a game 
 from the sidelines and calling the plays.
  
  The one moot point about the game that hopefully would be improved in next years version would 
 have to be the menu system as well as the players faces. I have tried using the face creating tool 
 in the game, and personally found it cumbersome and difficult to use. I actually gave up trying 
 to create a player as a mirror image of myself and ended up using the randomize feature. I feel 
 alot of the players in the game may have been created using the same tool, and hence the sorry 
 state of affairs when it comes to the players faces. In this regard, I have to give credit to EA 
 - this is one area they have done a better job.
  
  Likewise the menu system in the game using the NAV stick is a frustrating experience. Even after 
 getting use to the mechanics of the new menu system, it does not feel intuitive and you are left 
 thinking the principle of KISS was not considered in this instance.
  
  The only reason I can pick on these 2 aspects of the game however, is due to the fact that everything 
 else is so unbelievably good. At the end of the day, the gameplay is so close to being perfect 
 simulation of the sport that I have to slap myself to remind me that I am not watching a real game! 
 In the end, gameplay is what it is all about.
  
  If you are looking for a basketball game on the Xbox 360, look no further than NBA 2k7 - until 
 next year of course! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: symba
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 1, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  First, I can't say enough about the visuals. This game simply looks amazing. The eye candy is all 
 there. A crowd that DOESN'T react in unison, realistic looking sweat, realistic jersey movement, 
 cheerleaders and mascots. The court is alive and from the first time playing, I felt immersed in 
 it. However, the first few hours of play was some frustrating times. The controls were difficult 
 for me to get used to as it was the first time I've played a 2k basketball game. Once you get the 
 hang of it though, you will enjoy this game. The sounds were also amazing in my opinion. The sound 
 of the backboard after a dunk and the overall sounds of the shots were all right on with the action. 
 The crowd really got you pumped when you were at home sticking it to the visitors. It really wanted 
 me to play harder to get the crowd on their feet. And yes you can tell they are getting to their 
 feet. I have only played against the computer in the dynasty mode and frankly have simulated past 
 most of the off-season activities. This is one special game. I have rented it twice and blockbuster 
 has called me twice. And it it weren't for me wanting to give College Hoops a shot, I'd be buying 
 this game today. I want the better of the 2 but this will be a tough act to follow. Oh yeah, and 
 don't believe the hype on the free throws. I find it the best addition to ANY Bball game. It requires 
 you to study the player's true shot and time it just right. HMMM, anyone who truly plays knows 
 that consistency in your shot is your greatest asset. I love the free throw feature in this game. 
 Those who are having problems are missing one or more of the following: 1. Not finding the sweet 
 spot in the players form when shooting. 2. Not practicing during the week (dynasty mode) 3. player 
 fatigue may be high. Sounds like a great simulation to real life to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heaven326
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is sorta similiar to 2k6
  
  The graphicsI would say is better and also the crossovers is better.
  Instead of like in 2k6 
 in wihch you can crossover with almost everyone not big, in this game players can trip and fall 
 which I think is pretty funny.
  Most of the things are the same accept the free throws are harder to make and when it comes to 
 players who are bad at free throws, like shaq, it is almost impossible to make making the freethrows 
 more realistic.
  
  If you have 2k6 and liked it you should buy this game even though it is'nt much different it still 
 has enough differences to be bought.
  
  Also Heat is not the best team =D. Which is good because the Heat are oldddddd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THETRUEXBOXMAN
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is easily the best basketball game on the market. However, it is missing the big reason 
 I took long on purchasing this game. NO All-Star Weekend Competitions. ACTUAL GAME: This game is 
 9.9 worthy only because it sometimes takes very long for the referees to hand you the ball on inbounds, 
 and still has the naked bug (player's clothing is partially missing for brief period of time, see 
 upper body but lower body completely gone (THANK YOU!) . One problem many newcomers &amp; veterans 
 will have are the free-throws. A different timing for all players makes it hard to get lots of 
 3- &amp; 4-point plays.
  
  Franchise mode: A good upgrade since last year. Contracts for some aren't real (e. g. Eddie Jones 
 has a larger contract in game versus real life.) You can edit players in the mode, do *!* 3 Team 
 Trades *!* and look at box scores for previous games. Overall: Xbox Live is great on this game 
 . Street same as always (points-based not timed) , an amazing game overall.
  
  DEFINITELY BETTER THAN NBA LIVE 07!
  
  MUST OWN FOR SPORTS FAN! GET IT NOW!
  
  TRULY IS 
 THE NEXT GENERATION CHAMPION! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonlou
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  First off I have to say it, Nba 2k7 is better than Live. I'm sorry but that is the truth and even 
 though Live has some better things than 2k7 it still fail in some department that 2k7 got. When 
 I first played 2k7 I notice a difference from it from last year. It played a little more solid 
 but still missing some key points. The sound was almost there but not quite you see. Commentary 
 wasnt that great although it could of been better. Signature move was great.
  The 24/7 mode is fun if your really into it. Street moves are also in street mode which means that 
 a good thing considering the fact that you nba players arent nba players in street but playing 
 street. Anyways everything seems good but some minor issue that nba2k will get soon in two to three 
 years at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is the new installment in the NBA 2K series. It hasn't changed very much from the past 2K 
 Basketball games, same 24/7 mode where you get create your very own player and rise to the top and 
 (hopefully) get drafted to a real NBA team. Or you can go to Dynasty mode where you choose your 
 favorite team and either go to the Championchip or gett knocked out by the Heat (Grrrr...) of course 
 not everyone gets knocked out by the Heat unless your me. There is also online play which hasn't 
 changed one bit from 2K6 you choose either Begginer, Advanced or Street lobby depending on your 
 rank, so if you were 7-0 you'd be put in the Advanced lobby until you finally get your butt kicked 
 by some 39 year old guy. Controls are simple and haven't changed from 2K6's. It's a pretty good game 
 that is recommended to all baketball lovers. There's lots of basketball games out there like NBA 
 07, NBA 2007 featuring the Life and many more ,but the one at the top of that (basketball game) list 
 is NBA 2K7. Overall the game is pretty good with some minor changes you'll notice while playing 
 and before I wrap up the review I want to comment on the visuals which are looking more amazing 
 than ever! They may not look like the real NBA players faces ,but who cares they look better and 
 shinier!! That's why I give NBA 2K7, 8.5 pools of sweat showing out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n-c
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Well, nba 2k7 returns, and its just like last year. The gameplay is not different. the same old 
 same old, except for the new modes. you have practice and street, which should be familiar to nba 
 street v3 players since the moves in street mode are the exact same as the ones from that game. 
 The ability to do those moves and then dunk or j your opponent makes you want to say ohhhhh , in 
 my case. the graphics are really improved from last year, and with hd, you'll see how realistic 
 the graphics. the sweat coming down from the players shows you how realistic it is. the player 
 models are also nice, but in some cases, youll think, does dwayne wade actually look like that 
 in real life? the sound is one of the stronger points, with a great soundtrack and a great commentating, 
 although the commentating gets repetitive. i recommend this game to sport fans and people who like 
 the nba and video games. if you dont, just stay away then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LCF_Lucifer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  As its first review states its not a perfect game, but its certainly worth its price. The GOOD- 
 Graphics are top of the line with a wide verity of player models and moves. Game play is addictive 
 and fun, while still remaining a decent enough challenge to keep you hungry for more action. with 
 on the spot action calling the commentary keeps in par with the rest of the sports games out there. 
 The characters models are unique and fairly close to the actual players, quit honestly was amazed 
 by it. The BAD- first and for most, the penalty shots are on a ridiculous learning curve, i couldn't 
 make crap with anyone. The controls on it give you no guidance on how to really improve. I was 
 expecting something more like the punting meeter in madden but you get nothing ut guess work, lame. 
 Next big issue is the menu interaction. I understand they wanted to go for something new but that 
 only makes things more complicated in an area thats not needing adjustments.
  
  But as stated earlier i would definitely recommend this game to basketball fans and sports fans 
 alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomerado
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 15, 2006 5:13 am PT
Review:  I have been a baasketball fan ever since my early teens and found it a delight to play the 2k series 
 of ball games after never really getting a grip with the NBA live series brought out. I dont know 
 what it was but these never really grasped the realism of basketball. it was like they basked the 
 movement on players on ice... it just wasnt right. ---- anyway im getting sidetracked (the nightmares 
 are still there) ---- this version of nba2k7 has gone even further to make this feel and more look 
 realistic than ever. The most impressive point that i first picked up on is the the realism in 
 the shots of each player and also how bloody good the comentry was. its as though you are listening 
 to a real match, there is no repeating, no stutters or delayed comments. Its just spot on and i 
 cannot see how this can be improved any further. The gamplay in all is just spot on. the ball goes 
 exactly to where you want it to go (not like nba live) and the players move around the court as 
 you would expect. The leagues and tournaments are fantastic and althought i havent played the 24/7 
 single player story mode as yet all the guys online have rated it very highly. The online play 
 is great apart from the occasional freezes that you do sometime experience during half time show. 
 I have played a lot on games online now and havent yet experienced any lag whatsoever. Its just 
 a great game and for &pound;30 from ASDA can you really afford not to buy this ? i didnt think 
 so. Its now open 24hours a day so no matter what time you read this review you have no excuse not 
 to go and buy it ! :-)
  
  Boomer
  
  www. boomersweb. co. uk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abomounir
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 8, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K7... nice work 2K keep up the good work... i like this game.. it too much live than NBA live 
 07.... game play are amazing... graphics are very good but i think you can use all the Ram of xbox 
 360... sound need some Polish ...
  
  Gameplay: Just amazing
  
  Graphics: Very good
  
  Sound: Need a Polish 
  
  Value: woth the 60$ for a Basketball game..
  
  it's really 
 a next generation game...
  
  I hope NBA 2K8 will be better &amp; better thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
 
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
 
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K
  thank you 2K 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 6, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  Though 2KSports dropped an egg with MLB 2K6, they hit a home run with NBA 2K7. Unlike what EA Sports 
 is known for, 2KSports really took this game apart and added some real upgrades to this game. The 
 game looks amazing, and plays even better then it did last year, and I was very impressed with 
 it last year.
  The graphics are all improved, the animation have been added to and upgraded, the sound is also 
 upgrade, but not as much as the rest of the game.
  Defense is much improved; they really did a great job showing the power of a good defensive team. 
 With a good zone its almost impossible to get to the basket, like it should be. The only real 
 problem I have with this game, are the menus system. They are hard to use, and unnecessarily clumsy 
 to use. For some reason 2KSports dont like the back button I guess. As far as the music, I turn 
 that off as soon as I get the game, so I cant comment about that.
  This game is becoming more and more a basketball simulator every year, they have really captured 
 this sport market from EA, I think very few people put the NBA Live series in the same league of 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrian7hall
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  I am a huge sports fan.
  
  Love Football (thats soccer in USA) , Love Basketball... so when games like Fifa 07, Pro Evo 6 and 
 NBA 2K7 were announced this year on the Xbox 360, I salivated at the prospect. Out of the three, 
 this was the one I was looking forward to. Why you ask? The reason being is because of the consistency 
 of 2K games, I knew before this even came out that it would be a cracker, but would this be the 
 true basketball experience?
  
  In many respects - yes it is.
  
  The layout of the game is very smart visually, and bursts into action right from the off with some 
 fairly decent visual effects. The soundtrack is as catchy as ever, and it really feels like a new 
 experience. In the past 2K hasnt really had flashy menu's, just gameplay - but I feel this year 
 that they have made a positive step in regards to this. My one nag, is that it can be quite difficult 
 to operate the menu system and navigate through it. You kinda just have to wiggle the controller 
 about, hit a few buttons, close your eyes and hope that you pick the right option! Sounds crazy, 
 it is crazy!
  
  First of all I though I would test out the signature shots, since this was the main focus point 
 of the game. Stunning, absolutely stunning. I was completely stunned by the amount of work which 
 must have been put in by the creative staff for this, and I spent a good half an hour just picking 
 different teams and taking practise shots. My favourite shot of all time - Karl Malone's, it in 
 the game! Totally enjoyed shooting some 20 footers with the Mailman!
  
  Next I tried the 24/7 next feature. My first thoughts were wow , as it was like a first person 
 experience as you watched Shaq taking free throws. Then it pans to your own eyes as you take your 
 own free throws - very exciting. After this though, its just like last years game really. Just 
 the same games over and over until you win about 5 or 6. Every now and then you play someone good, 
 beat them and they teach you a streetball move. Apart from the free throw experience, and a 3 point 
 shootout with Peja. Having said that - the actual Legends Charity Tournament is very exciting. 
 The association mode seems very entertaining, I havent however got into this fully yet. Its jam 
 packed with features and extras, the ability to do just about anything you want with an NBA team. 
 You even have the option to draft your 24/7 Next character to a team of your choice, enhancing 
 the NBA experience. More to follow on this when I get my teeth into it - first impressions are 
 good though.
  
  Now the gameplay... the most important thing in the game. For the most, I think its great, but 
 I do have a few gripes with it. My opinion is that this is the closest a computer game has gotten 
 to perfection, and this is supported by the enhanced AI on defence, and by the dramatic reduction 
 on shot blocks during a game. Also, the teams play more like teams, and do not repeat the same 
 play over and over again. My main problem, is that defending man to man is too difficult. For some 
 unknown reason, the right stick has been altered on the manual defence side. It used to be point 
 it one way, you put your arms up, point it another, you crouch down... now, you dont know which 
 way to point the stick - it changes your actions every time - hence its pretty much rendered useless. 
 Also - you as the player dont seem to get a lot of help on defence from your AI, no where near 
 the amount you would like at least. Also with the gameplay, there are instances whereby on fastbreaks 
 it seems to stop, or slow down unneccessarily. Its not as common as people suggest, but it can 
 annoy you from time to time. My only other gripe is the computer making ridiculous shots, like 
 with a poor shooter occassionally hitting a 3 pointer, with a man right in their face. Its not 
 overly common, but its annoying when this happens, then you get a wide open Ray Allen at the other 
 end with a perfect release and it clanks off the rim. Nothing that the game sliders cant get rid 
 of!
  
  A big positive however is the passing, and with a quick succession of hitting the pass button, 
 you can swing the pass round with seemingly touch passes. Set up the right man, get him open, and 
 slam dunk - it feels awesome when you slam the ball home, because on higher levels of difficulty 
 it happens less often.
  
  The visuals around the game are also stunning, with a cool halftime report, and very cool replays.
 
  
  Final mention - well done 2K for a fabolous selection of legends, this is the best I have seen 
 yet. However - no Scottie Pippen, Charles Barkley, Patrick Ewing, John Stockton, Shawn Kemp - perhaps 
 a re-think needed next year with these?
  
  Well done 2K - outstanding effort this year. Another smile on my face this time around, and a definate 
 recomendation to any basketball fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngmurk911
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This is the best basketball game to date..... THE BEST. You will not find gameplay like this unless 
 you own this game for the 360 console. I feel it was a blessing in disquise that EA bought the 
 NFL rights, so that left 2K with hockey and basketball, which gives them more time to work on basketball 
 and hockey. Everyone has they're own shot and plays like they're real life counterparts so you 
 actually have to know basketball to be anygood at this game. You have to use players strenths, 
 you can't just run and gun or just dunk constantly, you have to use some strategy. The association 
 mode is deeper, more better, you can pull of 3 team trades now, I feel that was a great edition 
 to the game. The 247 mode is pretty fun, it could get boring at times, but I see where they was 
 taking it, so I appreciate what they did with the 247 mode. To make a long review short, this by 
 far is the BEST basketball game on the shelves and if you love basketball and own a 360 this is 
 a must own title for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zep311
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 22, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  This review is a bit overdue, but I'll put it up anyway. I'm trying to give you an honest review, 
 and not just sit here and praise the game the whole time. There are some flaws that can get annoying 
 in the game that don't ruin the game, but you wish they could tweek a bit. So here goes...
  
  GAMEPLAY: If you've played 2k6 and enjoyed it, then you will probably enjoy 2k7. The gamplay 
 in both are pretty much the same, but 2k7 adds a lot of little things that can make the game more 
 exciting. The addition of signature shots can really change the game a lot. I have trouble using 
 Marion in this game and other players like Morrison, Barry, and Nocioni because I can't get their 
 timing down as well as other shooters. This could help or hurt a team when you're playing. Sometimes 
 I may be down by 2 or 3 with 1 second left to go, and my only three point shooter is someone like 
 Mo Williams. If you've played with williams, you know his shot is longer than some other shots, 
 which either makes it hard to get off in that one second, or allows someone to block you easier 
 since you take so long to shoot.
  
  One thing I do not really enjoy in the game is the ability to steal easily. Just yesterday I was 
 playing against my friend who loves to use gerald wallace. My friend likes to sit and press the 
 X button like a maniac, and most of the time (even with a good PG) I will end up doing some pass 
 to some guy and I'll bounce pass it and Wallace will jump over and it will hit his shoe (which 
 i believe is a kick ball) and then my friend will get the steal. When I don't do a bounce pass, 
 the ball usually hits wallace in the nipple and he steals it anyway. I was also playing with KG 
 and got 8 steals against my friend, and most of them came from stripping Nash. It just seemed to 
 easy to have someone like KG who isn't really a guy who would strip the ball from Nash too often. 
 The stealing ability does promote good passing though. I played another game where my friend only 
 for 2 or 3 steals in one game because I did smart passing, so technically the stealing is realistic 
 with smoe flaws.
  
  The quick coaching screens (or whatever they are called) are great in this game. I love how you 
 can do things while still playing. One of my friends would always sub all the time and stop the 
 game by pausing it, and it got really annoying. The coaching system with the D-Pad really promotes 
 using defense and offensive plays more because they are simple to use and you have 8 plays to choose 
 from on both offense and defense. This is also good because it give yuo a players fatigue, and 
 u can easily sub a tired player out during a free throw or durign a time out.
  
  Overall, I'd give the gameplay somewhere around a 9/10.
  
  GRAPHICS: Well, the player models 
 are pretty much the same. Some play models really don't look like the player, while other look 
 great. I remember reading a review where it says about 10% of the players look like just random 
 people. My biggest example is Chris Kaman. If you play the game, you will know what I'm talking 
 about. But there was a graphics boost in the coaches, the fans, and the court itself. Pretty much, 
 everything looks great in this game. If you played 2k6 and enjoyed those graphics, you will love 
 the 2k7 graphics. If you loved NBA Live and it's graphics, then I don't know really how to compare 
 them. Both have their own styles, so it's just a preference to which one you like more.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  Sound:
  This is goign to be really quick. If you like the announcing and 
 sound in 2k6, then it's just about the same. I don't really pay as much attention to the sound, 
 so if you really want to know, I guess you could play the demo.
  
  Overall: 8.5/10 (though I'm putting an 8 on the scoring thing)
  
  Value:
  This game is really 
 worth the 60 dollars. You get a lot out of the association mode. I love how my friends and I can 
 play up to 8 people in association mode. Association mode does have a lot of depth, and it does 
 focus on a lot of things that NBA Live 07 was hyped up to have, like team chemistry things. You 
 can do weekly practices to give your players a boost, but you can't over-work them because their 
 is progressive fatigue, which is when your player will progressively have a lower fatigue level 
 in teh games if you over-use him the whole season. the 24/7 mode is a cool little add on, and the 
 online mode is great. I love how you can do leagues with fantasy draft. It makes leagues so much 
 better.
  
  Overall: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uphaze
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  first of all i am the last person to say that i love a basketball game, because to tell the truth 
 i hate basketball i could never play in in real life so i never cared for it. however my boy put 
 me on to this game. he said ( i know u dont like basket ball but try it) . i was like aiight i 
 played it and by the time i look at the clock 4 hours have gone by. wowwww. this game is great 
 . its like u really watching a basketball game. (not that i ll be watcing one) bottom like this 
 baketball game is the best i have played by far. o yea i tried nba live for the hell of it. trashhhhhh.. 
 they all look brain dead no lie.. nba 2k7 if u like basketball this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jc982
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, this is the definite basketball game to buy. The game is actually flawed in many 
 noticeable ways but no game has managed to capture the feeling of a real basketball game as nicely 
 as 2k7 has managed to do. As advertised, the greatest thing they have changed this year is the 
 animation, including the Signature Shots. It's nice to see Carter's lift one leg quick-release 
 shot or Morrison's near impossible to guard jump shot. Not only is that cool to see visually, it 
 also has an impact on your gameplay. You now have to time the jumper based on how he shoots instead 
 of one generic shot for everyone. The post game has been improved so that the same animation of 
 posting up, then muscling your way in, and then dunking it in. The shot stick gives you many choices 
 on how to play your post game. Another cool thing that they've overhauled this year is the dunk 
 system. Unlike 2k6, you can't just start from a near stationary position to a windmill. The dunks 
 this year look much more fluid and life like. Even simple dunks bring out a feeling of satisfaction. 
 It not uncommon when I'm playing with my friends for one of us to say something similar to, Look 
 look, did you see that? I just pulled a freaking facial on Dirk with freaking Nate Robinson . However, 
 the dunk system is falls prey to the same mistake as last year. Though the dunks look that much 
 more life-like, after a while you will start that see that they're just a set base of dunks with 
 the better dunkers having more dunks. As I already mentioned, the game plays out surprisingly like 
 a real life game (to a certain degree) . Probably the most noticeable is that the number of turnovers 
 has been toned up a bit. Passes WILL go astray if you make a pass to someone who is being carefully 
 guarded. Hail Marys will likely be cut off. There are other things that have already been mentioned 
 such as the fact that you will see the players get ready for the substitution or that timeouts 
 prompt the cheerleaders and the mascot to come on the court and do their routines. The game occasionally 
 flashes onto the player of the coach when he is satisfied with the call. The game however, still 
 contains some glaring flaws. For one thing, the commentary is the most annoying thing ever. I don't 
 need a, Carter inbounds the ball to Kidd . I especially don't need He's SO athletic Kenny. He sure 
 is. Another flaw of the game that I noticed is that the game on default will call blocking fouls 
 for no reason. It gets really annoying to the point where you have to turn it off yet because of 
 this, you won't be able to get the call when the CPU blatantly commits one. One of the most annoying 
 things in this game is that the CPU always give the scoring responsibility to one player. It doesn't 
 matter if he's their star player. They shoot and they score. I don't know if this is true for Hall 
 of Fame difficulty but it holds true for Pro. In terms of graphics, all I have to say is to get 
 the faces right in the next game. 2k7 manages a lot of the faces right but the rest are downright 
 nasty. Overall this game has to be the best basketball simulation to hit the market. I though with 
 the whole revamped Live 07, that 2k7 would finally face some serious competition. No contest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohican227
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is an okay game. The graphics are pretty weak. I think the controls are pretty easy to 
 get to know. Although i had at the screen when it comes up at the beginning of the game because 
 i didnt know what button to press. The games camera angles are terrible. That is probably the worst 
 part about this game. On some angles its too hard to see the basketball when you shoot it and on 
 others it just looks a little fuzzy. I would recommend this game to others because I play basketball. 
 But if ur not a big fan of basketball then i dont suggest getting this game. (also u can cheat 
 a whole lot in this game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrimsonSaga
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 18, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  Sports titles have become the definitive game of chose to own for a console for a lot of gamers. 
 Mainly because it's one of the most popular categories amongst gamers be it simulation types, arcade, 
 or extreme sports. Well when it comes to the big 4 Football, Basketball, Baseball, &amp; Hockey 
 they are on an annual clock. Which means developers actually have less than 12 months to develop 
 our favorite sports game of chose. Now Visual Concepts &amp; Kush Games may have not been as innovative 
 with NBA 2K7 as we've come to expect of them with great memories of NFL2K , NFL 2K1, or NBA 2K1 
 on the Dreamcast to ESPN NFL 2K5 on the PS2. However during this time of transition to the next 
 generation of consoles they still brought forth a good game of simulation basketball and in my 
 opinion the only one worth your hard earned $60.00 dollars. Now NBA 2K7 is not a perfect game by 
 a long shot however the minor improvements that have been made are steps in the right direction 
 for the series on the next gen consoles to bring them back to that greatness of their previous 
 highly rated games in the same category. Gameplay-No major changes here to a formula that's already 
 working come on the rules of the game of basketball haven't changed so why reinvent the wheel here 
 for the mechanics of playing the game on your console. What I'd like to see here is improving on 
 those mechanics such as with the isomotion, passing controls, &amp; the AI for which have been 
 made with still room for improvement.
  
  Graphics-Eyecandy is nice for the moment I mean it's the first thing you see that grabs your attention 
 however if the gameplay and the other components that make a game great in my book fall short, 
 then I would rather developers cutback on the graphics. I'll be the first to agree the graphics 
 engine is showing it's true age right about now but with such great animations, presentation, &amp; 
 improved AI you can overlook the games mixed bag of visuals.
  
  Sound-So far I haven't noted any improvements to the audio in NBA 2K7 it does it's job nothing 
 more nothing less however I would like to see a next gen improvement in the audio department on 
 the next version of the game due to it was 2K that brought the great audio to our attention with 
 the likes of NFL2K1 &amp; NBA 2k1 &amp; ESPN NFL2K5.
  
  Value-Is this version worth $60 dollars? I would have to give that answer a resounding yes, if 
 you were unhappy with the straight port of NBA 2K6 of last year the improvements made here are 
 worth the purchase for the hardcore. If your not someone who buys the latest and greatest in a 
 sports series every year then it's definitely worth a rental. If you must have a good basketball 
 game in your collection you can't go wrong with NBA 2K7 especially when compared to it's much advertised 
 and overhyped competition Live 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallagher06
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 2, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is a basketball fans bread and butter, believe when i say this is the best basketball 
 game out to date, possibly even the best sports game
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay is great, its the closest to a real basketball game as your goin to get. The sliders 
 are awsome, if u dont feel like your playing a real basketball game u can adjust them to whatever 
 your playing style and make it as real as u want. The 24/7 next mode could've been a little better 
 but when u get a basketball game a good storyline is the last thing on your mind so its not that 
 big of a deal. For me the greatest part of the gameplay has to be the signature style, it really 
 puts the game on a whole new level of that of previous basketball games and its rival NBA Live
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The Graphics are crazy the players sweat, the jersey sway, and the court is just phenominol, every 
 split in the wood shows when the lights pass over. The player faces are the only thing that need 
 work, although they did a great job makin them look close to the real thing, they could've done 
 a little better in my humble opinion. Overall though they did a great job.
  
  SOUND:
  The sound is good, only thing i had a small problem with, i really dont weigh my games on how good 
 they did makin everything sound as close to life like as they can so this isnt that big of a deal 
 for me personally. The sound was good though, i must admit, when the announcers first said my name 
 i was blown away.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  THE GOOD:
  Best basketball game u can buy to date and could honestly be the last basketball game u may ever 
 want, It has everything from good sound to great gameplay. When u dont feel like playin basketball 
 for real, this may b the craving u need.
  
  THE BAD: not really too much to say players couldve looked a little better, along with a few small 
 things along the way, other than that its a complete basketball game.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  This game is awsome, and deserves kennys stamp for basketball fans latest and greatest must buy 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cadore
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 17, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  This is my first next gen basketball game and I love it! The game play is realistic and the graphics 
 are top notch. I love how the players move and their jersys move with them. The only thing that 
 I don't really care for at the moment is that if you are a NBA LIVE guy or gal the controls will 
 take some time to get use to. I keep throwing up shots with the right analog stick when I am trying 
 to juke. The sound is terrific. If you ever watch basketball on TNT you'll love this announcing 
 team. One little thing that I like, almost a guilty pleasure, is that at the half they review the 
 players performances and while they do this they show highlights of the players best plays. It 
 makes a nice little touch to an area that I usually skip forward. All in all if you like basketball 
 games you can't go wrong with this game. The value is great, with a ton of game modes to choose 
 from. I would recommend this game to any basketball fan, but there are areas of improvement for 
 2k8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskillz23
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 16, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  this game is great, they have changed the dunks, and the created player mode.
  Its way better then live 07. They should have put the whole allstar weekend in there then it would 
 be the best! but it still is the best basketball game for xbox 360. The graphics are alot better 
 I mean kobe shoots like kobe, lebron shoots like lebron the game is awesome. And in the created player 
 mode you can choose your own shooting style, you can not do that in the game for playstation 2 
 or xbox. They should put some air jordan shoes in and some more nikes.
  
  This game is awesome!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aromon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 15, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K6 was good. It ws better than Live 06 in almost every area. And that's about it. Those are 
 the accomplishments of last year's highest rated NBA game. This year they have truly raised the 
 bar. I don't know if it was becauase they thought Live was going to be tough competition (because 
 they were dead wrong: Live 07 blows) or they just wanted to give the fans a better game that would 
 showcase the 360 and supply some new gameplay ideas. Either way, 2K7 is the game to buy if you 
 want good quality basketball on the 360. It's finally tapping into the 360's graphical power, which 
 is delightful, and it has a totally redesigned shot stick. Other than that, you have pop-up play 
 calling (instead of only 4 available) , flashier moves, and custom shot patterns that look almost 
 EXACTLY LIKE the superstar's moves. Kobe look's like Kobe when he nails a fadeaway in the defender's 
 face. Shawn Marion shoots like a Panzy from the waste, and Tim Duncan looks like his talented, 
 tall monkey self with his hooks. The truth is, 2K knows how to make sports games, and NBA 2K7 is 
 probably their best contribution yet. Happy Gaming
  Aromon (Harvesting Souls Xbox Live) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun4292
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 15, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k7 is just a copy of 06 with streetball and an updated create a player and menu. NBA 2k7 is 
 most def the best NBA game on the market. I always liked th 2k games better then EA but this year 
 I was dissapointed by all partys. Live sucked again but NBA 2k7 was just all right. Create a player 
 was alot fun and streetball was my favorite. How could yoou not enjoy playing as Flavor flave. 
 The graphics are the same as last year and were not at all updated. Th game was great last year 
 but bringing out the same game with phew twists is just not the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 15, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I got both nba games this year and I have to sya that 2k7 is better. The player movement and gameplay 
 is bettter than live 07. However the grahpics snd presentation are better in live. The players 
 look alot better in 07. But trhat doesnt matter. Its all about gameplay, and thats what makes a 
 great game. I rated live o7 an 8.8 but this one is depinatly higher becasue of the gameplay. Live 
 wins in presentaion but fails in gameplay. The better game is NBA 2k7! I feel that it falls short 
 of a nine because of the presentaiation and the graphics and the menu is complete crap but, its 
 still a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadPrezidents
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 15, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Game-play is so much smoother than Live 07, and the players move like they do in real life. Franchise 
 is deep and the Right stick shot controls are game changing. Changing the difficulty really does 
 help so if it is too easy, bump it up. and vice versa. The presentation (graphics) are not amazing 
 but it does not bring down the game-play. While the game-play in Live do bring down EVERYTHING! 
 this is my favorite sports game to date on the 360. Also, the practice mode every month really 
 helps your team, and I think that the team chemistry seems to make a difference. I am a fan of 
 the fantasy draft and 2K7 has a good draft so they won me over with that.
  -sol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigSuz77
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 15, 2006 2:13 am PT
Review:  Wow what can i say that has not already been said. This game is the best basketball ever and maybe 
 the best sports game of all time. All the detail is incredible and the game play is so comsuming 
 i could play it forever. The player specific shoots are great for all player (exept Tim Duncan) 
 and the player reactions make the atmosphere very life like. Very deep and very good. Imagine NFL 
 2K7. Madden needs to get its NFLPA revoked its a joke. I thought we lived in a county of no monopolys? 
 Right. Well a must own for all video game fans, top notch the champ on Next gen, FInally we get 
 one when we thought all the titles were still vacant. AWSOME GAME BUY IT NOW!! No BS, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogerWilcoROCKS
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This is an unbelievably fun and realistic basketball simulation. I recommend fooling around with 
 the sliders a litle bit, because the offense is unrealistically difficult if you leave them all 
 at 50.
  
  This is the best basketball game that I have ever played.
  
  My biggest problem: When you do certain shots, like turn around shots etc. etc., the game will 
 not let you pass out of them, which is quite annoying. That is the only problem/issue that I've 
 encountered so far, and it is certainly not enough to keep me from recommending this game to anyone 
 fond of basketball video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigQ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2006 12:07 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 has to be one of the best games i've ever played. It has anything you've ever wanted in 
 a basketball game. You can even download a reel maker, it allows you to merge all of your replays 
 into one reel. Again, Shaq is on the cover. This is the 2nd best basketball game i've ever played. 
 This year's installment adds more realism to the gameplay. If you are open, you don't make every 
 shot, just like what happens it real life. If you are sucky players, they will drop the ball. If 
 you are Mike Miller, you make almost every 3-Pointer. The final score in a 5-minute quarters game 
 would probably be in the 40's. This has to be the most realistic basketball game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acemoney1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 12, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  The game is awesome. the gameplay, the graphics, everything, so freacking real man. I love it. 
 ive been a fan of the 2k series since it was espn so now finally the rest of the world has come 
 to their sences too and left that flimsey live alone, Welcome world to the best basketbal similuation 
 ever. if u havent played it yet find someone who has it and play it. The game is awesome. the gameplay, 
 the graphics, everything, so freacking real man. I love it. ive been a fan of the 2k series since 
 it was espn so now finally the rest of the world has come to their sences too and left that flimsey 
 live alone, Welcome world to the best basketbal similuation ever. if u havent played it yet find 
 someone who has it and play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clownofpoetry
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 12, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 leads the charge in basketball once again with it's amazingly addictive gameplay that will 
 keep you playing for months to come. The presentation is a lot smoother this year and a lot of 
 features are toned to perfection. I could play Association for many hours alone and it is one of 
 the best features in the game. If it's playing games you want, look no further, the models are 
 twice as realistic as last year and sweat looks much better as well. Each star has his own strengths 
 and weaknesses that you will be able to notice off the bat. Shaq still can't hit free throws and 
 that's how it should be. Also note that there is many achievements, unlockables and everything 
 else in this game is spectacular. From the gameplay to the many features, if you want a great basketball; 
 look no further than NBA 2K7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shark75
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 11, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I bought Live 07 and rented 2K 07. Needless to say, I am 100% satisfied I made the right choice. 
 Both games are fun to play, but I just cant get past the horrible graphics in 2K 07. And the sound 
 leaves much to be desired. Also, could they have possibly made the menus more difficult to navigate 
 through? If you think the graphics are good in 2K, then you obviously did not play Live.
  
  LIve 07 looks absolutely stunning. Its what you'd expect from a next gen game system. The sound 
 is on another level as well compared to 2K. I am really confused with the ratings I have read. 
 If you want to be blown away with a great looking game thats really fun to play... get Live 07. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigblunt537
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 10, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  ok this game is good dont get me wrong. Its sure as hell is alottt better then nba live, although 
 i like 2k6 better then this game. I love ths signature moves the movement of the players was done 
 really well although soemtime they run right through the ball ebcause the eprson didnt put his 
 arms down to pick it up although thats great physics thats horrible Ai. I really only have 1 problem 
 with this game to be honest. How come vince carter ray allen kobe bryant tmac etc... (all good shooters) 
 in practice i cant make not 1 shot. it says perfect realease! perfect release! Pleas dont call 
 me a noob im not the best but i play on the difficulty level below hall of fame and i just had 
 a like 72 and 10 season or 9 i forgot how many in nba season.
  Im vince carter fast break and a small person such as jason williams is standing in the paint and 
 he pulls up for jumper just to rim out???
  Also i miss wide wide wide open 3 pointers with vince carter while in my season Richard jefferson 
 is leading league in 3pt %?
  Also people like Jason Kidd shouldnt be able to dunk on shaq. i dont think ive ever seen jason 
 kidd dunk wide open yet i jammed it on shaq 3 times in 1 game off of steals?
  Great gameplay good intentions but minor flaws hold game back a bit but also a ncie 24/7 mode which 
 was different from the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 10, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is not a huge improvement from 2K6, but it is better in multiple ways and overall is smoother. 
 The superstars have their own jumpshots, wich looks great. The playbook is alot better and making 
 substitutions and changing the tempo on the fly is great. The graphics look good and the online 
 is decent. Sadly, the original ratings are not totally accurate, such as ben wallace not being 
 a 99 in blocks or kobe bryant not being a 99 overall. This is a great game though and is the best 
 basketball game on the market. Do not buy NBA Live. Do not buy NBA The Life, for fear of killing 
 yourself after playing such a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormiestBUCK
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 10, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  2K sports has defiantly put out a massive nba game this year. They blew NBA Live 07 out of the 
 water this year with the increased graphics and the signature moves. The graphics in this game 
 are awesome; the players do their moves just like they would in real life which is very cool. This 
 game really puts you in the game with actual player moves and abilities this game offers a lot. 
 In the 24/7 next you can start your character in the street and work your way up to the pros. This 
 years 24/7 is much better than last years. The only thing i don' t like about this years game is 
 that you can't see how some one has improved very easily; meaning that unless you remembered what 
 a player's rating was before a game or before you work on his skills you don't know if has improved 
 or not. The only other thing that I think they should add would be something like EA did in madden 
 with the all star mode; i think if they were to add something like that it would be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillings24
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 9, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  There are so many things done right with NBA 2K7. Visual Concepts and Kush Games do such a great 
 job working on the small things in the game of basketball. The player animations, likenesses, free 
 throw routines, and mannerisms are done very well to a degree. The developers only missed a few 
 things when it came down to it. It is too bad that they were very important aspects of basketball.
 
  
  NBA 2K7 has beautiful player models, most big name players look very similar to their real-life 
 counterparts. Down to their tattoos the big name players have the right details. Many players have 
 their very own shooting style, free throw approach, and some with their very own post moves to 
 top it off. There are some glaring problems with the execution of many of the player's moves. On 
 many occasion, a player has been standing still outside the paint with two and sometimes three 
 defenders blocking him from the basket. Simply pressing the X button sends the player into a sprint 
 and dunk attempt, ending many times in a missed dunk and two free throws. There are moves which 
 are just plain ridiculous. Shaquille O'Neal has made Vince Carter type dunks in traffic. If the 
 developers can create all of those intimate details on player likenesses and motion capture nearly 
 all of the players that get minutes at the NBA level, why can't they allow the players to perform 
 to their athletic abilities?
  
  Players on a fastbreak receiving a lead pass from a teammate will stop or slow down to catch the 
 pass, when in all actuality a real player would handle that pass with ease by knocking it in front 
 of them and continuing on with the fastbreak, instead of killing that fastbreak. Not one of the 
 players in this game defends passes realistically. During inbounds it is the most frustrating. 
 I could be standing directly in between the point guard and inbounder with Allen Iverson, press 
 the steal button while the pass is being made, and I would not be able to steal the ball. This 
 has got to stop. If you increase the difficulty to the highest level you cannot make dumb passes, 
 but the sad truth is that you cannot control the angle or type of pass (bounce, chest, overhead, 
 etc.) on every instance. Players in the game are not smart, more specifically, fouling. When a 
 player shoots a 3, put a hand in his face or block it after the release, don't try to knock five 
 rows deep or tackle him. Players just need to be smarter, or at least have basketball knowledge.
 
  
  Other than the pass defending, pass selection, fastbreak glitch, and player knowledge, there is 
 an extremely solid basketball game here, and is the best around. Maybe next year it will feel like 
 basketball, and not a basketball videogame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steveosandwich
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  i really like the new defence mode its way better than 2k6. the new move for the players look great 
 awsome the games really good. but the only thing i dont like about the game that theres still no 
 slam dunk contest. i really thank that 2k is by for the best NBA game out there for any console 
 out there. but then again imight just be wrong what i said. this game sure is vary good in the 
 long run so i really do like this game because of the online mode is so cooler than the last game 
 for the 2k games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekey
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 9, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I remebered when I hooked up my Dreamcast and put in NBA 2K for the first time my jaw hit the floor, 
 never in my life had I ever seen an NBA game that was so playable, so realistic, so smoth and stylish. 
 I remember countless hours of playing this phenominel hoops game. When I had played NBA live 2000, 
 jaw also hit the floor but for very different reasons. I couldn't believe that this was labled 
 an NBA game it just was done all wrong. With that said I was in tears from laughter after seeing 
 the next 5 editions of NBA live 2K sports has always out performed EA in every way. And 2K sports 
 has done it again with NBA 2K7.
  This is by far the BEST NBA game I've ever played! Period! They did every thing right, the crowd 
 the mascots, the refs, everything. The players look so realistic espeically with the signature 
 play feature that was incorporated this year. It's true that some of the Players don't look exactly 
 like there real counter parts, but with this feature you get the sense that its them. So it makes 
 up for this fact. There is so much detail in this game it is unreal!
  
  Lets just hope of the NBA cracks and gives out an exclusive license lets hope they don't do it 
 for EA.
  
  Gameplay: Fabulious there is very little fault with this game. The controls should be a sinch if 
 you played last year's NBA 2K6 (for the 360) The presentation blows away last years, with the highlight 
 real editor, to Kenny Smith's stamp of approval. 
  
  Graphics: great! There is just so much detail from the players jerseys animating along with there 
 shorts, to crowd members getting up out of there seats and walking out of the arena and comming 
 back to there seats, to the Player's signature play, to unique dunks per player's style. Its all 
 there, it's in the game unlike EA's mauto. Some of the players look a little off but because of 
 the signature play feature you still know who's who.
  
  Sound : is the game's weakest point. Althought it sounds realistic, it does have some issues of 
 clipping every now and then. (But its not too bad) the soundtrack is even better the NBA live 07's 
 this year. featuring REAL hip hop artists, that have showcased mainstream sounds. (Also in addition 
 to new songs all the classic 2k sound tracl songs are there from the past games.
  
  Value: there's lot of unlockables as well as challenging trophies to earn. Oh and don't forget 
 acheivments!
  
  Tilt: I give this terrifiic NBA sim a 9.1 for these reasons listed above I look forward to many 
 game senerios, and next years NBA 2K8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janeczka11
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 9, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Many of Basketball fans have PC's and they are very disapointed about NBA live **** 07, i think 
 that what i saw on XBOX 360 it was the BEST BBALL game EVER!!! PLZZZZ make the conversion to the 
 PC!!!!!
  All you need is to have a seat and convert form xbox 360 to pc :) We are beliveing in Ya..... and 
 we are crossing our fingaz for it.
  2k Series ROXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXxxx Many of Basketball fans have PC's and they are very disapointed 
 about NBA live **** 07, i think that what i saw on XBOX 360 it was the BEST BBALL game EVER!!! 
 PLZZZZ make the conversion to the PC!!!!!
  All you need is to have a seat and convert form xbox 360 to pc :) We are beliveing in Ya..... and 
 we are crossing our fingaz for it.
  2k Series ROXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXxxx
  
  
  i Wrote it twice because i belive that will be more visible ;P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jahuadams
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  Not gonna lie, this is a very good game if you just want to see some nba action. Tyhe visuals and 
 animations are very nice to watch, only thing that bugs me is the player models. 2K need to revamp 
 how they make the players faces because almost every guy has a similar looking face and half there 
 heads are too big.... they just don't look realistic enough and the ball looks faded. What was great 
 about the visuals were the individual shots look really goood, at a glance you'll think your watching 
 a real nba game. The dificulty levels don't mean much in this game, rookie is very simple and anything 
 above that the defence is very hard to beat. Even playing the worst defensive teams in thet league 
 can stop you from getting in the paint 90% of the time. I just think you should be able to break 
 down the defender once in a while and go in for the dunk more than twice a game. Other than that 
 its fun to play, players move smoothly on the court and gameplay looks much more realistic compared 
 to Live. Buyt it, play it, try not to count the days for next years game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rangr
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 8, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  NBA 2k7 returns this year feeling much more like a next gen title than the previous edition. Lots 
 of subtle touches such as the new animations as well as a more animated sideline add flavor to 
 the experience. The controls are pretty responsive, though personally the isomotion features are 
 tough to get a full grasp on. Graphics are very well done. The game runs smoothly most of the time, 
 only showing hints of slowdown in certain viewing angles. Sound is top notch as well, with a decent 
 soundtrack and good to excellent ingame sound. Definitely recommended to hoops fans and casual 
 sports gamers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrebuiltKiller
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 8, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  This has its goods and its bads but more good than bads. First iam going to start by the goods first 
 what i like that is good is the graphics they are really good i think that is amazing. The next 
 is that the gameplay is super good i actually think because of the gameplay on the demo that i 
 i saw made me buy the game the way that you take the shots and the other things. And the value of 
 the game is really good. The bad parts about the game is that when you look at the replay you see 
 them not holding the ball but that is ok because every sports game has a glitch. And really that 
 is it about the game but it is really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breckcowboy25
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 7, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k k kkkk k k k 
 k k kk k kk u u u u u u y y y y y y yf f f f r r r r r r s s s s s xc c c c c c v v v v v b bbb 
 b b d d d d d d s s ss s a aa a w w w w w e e e e r r r r r r r f f f f d d d d re e e ee e e ee 
 e e e e e 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M00N-CAT
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 6, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  To start I had to say that last November when the Xbox 360 was announced and i saw that game it 
 looked very realistic and well balanced so they had a full year too put detail and other stuff 
 in the game and well this leads me to this conclusion if you're going to make a game then first 
 see what the gamer's think and take out some stuff of what they hate! The game play doesn't really 
 say much but there is still some interesting stuff in dynasty mode which is really fun like when 
 you can hire some new coaches or fire them and you can change the rosters and some other stuff.
 
  The graphics are pretty good and are pretty impressive but there isn't really any good faces creation 
 if it's only probably shaq that has a the most realistic face out of all of them of course he's 
 on the cover that's pretty weird!
  The value of this game is well the best for the hardcore basketball fans either than them nobody 
 would find this appealing.
  well im going to rate it a 7.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qipper21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 6, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  while live has stepped up ... 2k is jus a better basketball simulation. the graphics and player 
 models look great.. I can finally choose to lob or bounce pass.... or bank a shot in.... but i 
 want more all-star weekend..... and more player appriciation. 24/7 mode is ok ... but... eghhh.... 
 the only problem i have with the game is the menue screen.... not player friendly! easy control 
 ... and it HAS ALMOST EVERY PLAYERS SHOOTING MOTION ! WOW. new post move... and now you can finally 
 choose your shot. live is ok for my seven year old brother but i think i grew out of that when 
 i found out Ben wallace could cross over Allen Iverson.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 6, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  Although I haven't played NBA Live 07 yet, I did play the 2006 version and it was no contest against 
 the NBA 2K6 version, and I'd expect it to be the same. NBA 2K7 has good graphics, good online, 
 and great all-around game play features. One big improvement in this year's version is the acheievments. 
 On the last game you could rack up all 1000 acheievment points in a single game, but that won't 
 be happening this year. They are spread through the game and are way more challenging as they should 
 be. Although the graphics are great, I can't say that I see any difference compared to the 2006 
 game. If you are looking for a NBA game you only have two to choose from, and again although I 
 have yet to try out NBA Live 2007, I know EA hasn't proved itself when it comes to Next Gen sports 
 games and 2K has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krlos_castillo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 5, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Al jugarlo por primera vez me quedaron 2 impresiones, una es que lamentablemente aquellos errores 
 presentes en la demo no fueron corregidos en la version final, bugs como el de la vestimenta, ralentizaciones 
 en las transiciones, clavadas con las mu&ntilde; ecas, etc, sumados a la falta de detalle de las 
 texturas de las mayorias de los jugadores y a la apariencia pobre de los arbitros, alejan a este 
 titulo de ser el juego de basketball definitivo para las consolas, pese a todo esto no deja d eser 
 un excelente juego ampliamente recomendable para todos aquellos que gocen con el basketball. Otro 
 punto quizas no considerado es la corta lista de canciones presentes en este titulo, lo cual para 
 mi es el punto mas bajo de este, canciones de grupos y cantantes desconocidos se repiten de forma 
 continua haciendo las transiciones entre las pantallas de los menus aun mas latera de lo posible 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tempest91
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 5, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game ever since I purchased 2k6. When I was playing last years rendition, 
 I kept thinking that with some tweaks and additions this would be far and away the best basketball 
 game ever made. And now, bickety bam!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! This is the best basketball game ever 
 made. The gameplay is as smooth and inuitive as i can imagine. The controls have been tweaked and 
 take a minute to adjust to, but once you've played 5-10 games it will feel like a dream. The signature 
 shots, passes and moves are seriously unbelievable. Its gives the gameplay so much more depth. 
 Teams play so much differently from one another. Players are very different as well and you must 
 master every player's timing. Different shots have a very different variety of timing on the shot 
 stick. The one very noticeable change to 2k7 is the game loading speed. This game loads instantly. 
 The menu system zips from game mode to main menu in an instant. This is what i've come to expect 
 from good hard working developers on a next generation system. The graphics and sound are very 
 similar to 2k6 which isn't necessarily a bad thing, but next years version will probably uprgade 
 this tremendously as well as adding even more signature shots and moves.
  
  The AI in 2k sports games is always one of the controversial points. People complain that the game 
 is hard and unrealistic and that the computer drops 50 points from players like Steve Nash in 5 
 minute quarters. This may be unrealistic and it may be true, BUT AI like this forces one thing 
 though. It forces you to become good at the game, and this takes time and it takes a solid effort 
 in learning the ins and outs of the fantastic gameplay. In the end when you can use this effectively 
 the gameplay seems ultra realistic not allowing amazing plays on every outing but when everything 
 clicks and you get a monster dunk, its much more enjoyable because just like in real life, this 
 doesn't happen on every play. One downfall of NBA 2k7 is the soundtrack. Man if you don't like 
 basketball related hip-hop get ready to stream a custom soundtrack like I did. There's only so 
 much of these ridiculous lyrics I can listen to. Also in some places the graphics could have used 
 some polish but overall the positives much outweigh the negatives and make way for hours of enjoyable 
 gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g8torsbizktai20
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 5, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- The best basketball game i have ever played in my life. Absolutly amazing in gameplay. 
 You have all the little things right here. Turnovers, the ball not going through people, just everything 
 that you dont see in Live is in this game.
  
  Graphics- In motion its amazing. The jerseys move with the player. Up close though the players 
 faces dont look all that great. They still look good and the sweat is amazingly realistic.
  
  Sound- Great as always, commentary is really well done. Love the halftime show with Kennys 
 Stamp of Approval 
  
  Value- There will be a new one next year so only an 8.
  
  Tilt- Really fun game, having a blast with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leprechaunv
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 5, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  I really tried both games, NBA Live 06 and NBA 2K6, admitting that I'm a EA sports fan. First impression 
 with NBA live 06, It sucks , I changed it the next day. First impression with 2K6, Yeah baby, I 
 love this game , Now I know what I need to feel like home, feeling that excitement moment when 
 my team is losing by 1 or 2 pts, with all the pressure against myself, trying to get those points, 
 with all the crowd asking for defense and pushing my players to win the game... Oh man, If a game 
 can make you feel like you're inside the game, what you really think is gonna happen with this 
 new Next-Gen game. NBA 2K7 brings that, and much more, with a new and more sophisticated game play, 
 2K7 brings more fun to your home, giving the people a new taste of what I love this game stands 
 for.
  
  Either a basketball fan or an occasional player, NBA 2K7 is a must have in your collection to challenge 
 you're friends or just have fun.
  
  Don't get me wrong, NBA Live 07 is still a great game, but not quite enough to really kick 2K7's 
 ass. Sorry EA, but 2K is making me think twice before buy a sport game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shobe_360
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 4, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k7 is simply the best basketball game on the market! It feels like how a real NBA game should 
 feel. Game-play is top notch, the graphics are great on HD, and this game has the enjoyment of 
 playing offline and Live Online with long lasting value.
  
  Game-play:
  
  It brings you total control over how a player should play, you have a lot of moves you can perform 
 in the game, including different dribble moves, different lay-ups/dunks, and the shot stick which 
 ALL are controlled by YOU. Simply this game plays like a simulation game, as realistic as a basketball 
 game has gotten so far. Free throws are tough at first, I could not even beat Shaq in a free throw 
 contest in 24/7 mode! You have to really play this game to appreciate its value.
  
  Graphics: are great as well, though it is really destined for the HDTVs to get the full feel out 
 of it. Animations are top notch, players look like basketball player, but player facial are on 
 par. Some players look like their counterparts while others look like they are way off. Presentation: 
 Main menu screen looks great, my only problem is not having the ability to go to previous screen 
 by simply pressing B instead of having to go all the way back and repeating the process, navigation 
 is ok but can improve. In game-play, the commentators are great but at times they get a bit repetitive 
 such as the opportunity to go 2 for 1 in the last 40 seconds of each quarter.
  
  Others:
  
  Signature shots are really good, they look exactly like their counterparts, Association 
 mode is really fun to play giving you the ability to plan, develop, and play with your team the 
 way you want. Season mode is enjoyable, 24/7 is someone to have fun with on the side though its 
 not as good as association or season. Online is amazing, giving you the ability to play with other 
 in simple 1 on 1 game, to tournaments and in leagues. More sports games need to implement this 
 type of online system. You also have the ability to watch replays at the end, of all the buckets 
 you scored in the game. With reel-maker, this game should bring a lot of entertainment.
  
  Overall this game is great and worth it for your X360 collection. Especially if youre a basketball 
 game fan, this is a must! What are you waiting for? Go Try It Yourself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AznGamerz92
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 21, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Ok I once was an EA Sports fan and I loved the nba live series. My favorite live games were live 
 2004 and 2005. 2004 had incredible defense orientated into it which really impressed me. ( although 
 the graphics they have kinda suck now) 2005 brought in the all star weekend which was simply a 
 great idea. But LIVE 2006....... was disgraceful. FREESTYLE SUPERSTARS! that made the game too easy. 
 I was earl boykins and i could lay up over yao ming. Thats crazy. There was absolutely no defense 
 in that game. OK NOW TO 2K7
  
  GOOD- Next Gen Graphics- nice and sweat is pretty good
  Player Animations-Everyone's got a nice shot realistic too
  Free throws-Hey its hard..... but 
 its a pretty cool feature
  In game subbing and other on court feathures-hey it helps
  Half time show and play of the game show- That makes the game fun
  Defense- Not as defense orientated 
 as i would like it ( i can still drive easily) but still good
  
  BAD-
  24/7 mode- Yeah it sucks... you can play as yourself only when you do 4 on4 and stuff...... why dont 
 u just guard me why dont you?
  Accessing Stuff- The right stick thing is gay.... you cant go back top stuff
  
  in the end
 
  
  this game is pretty sweet
  
  HIGHLY SUGGEST IT TO ANYONE =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lg7x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  First let's get the obvious out of the way. The game looks amazing. It moves like a dream -- thanks 
 to the individual shot animations. The game pace is very close to a real NBA game. That's a plus 
 if you like simulation sports games, or a negative is you like arcade-like games. But then again, 
 if you wanted an arcade basketball game you would be looking at the NBA Street series. You won't 
 be making many outside shots with a defender in you face. And if you blow past a defender, his 
 teammates will rotate to cover you. It just feels like real basketball. I usually go through a 
 whole season of 82 games (with 10-minute quarters because I don't waste shot-clock time) to see 
 how the stats come out. It is not far from the real thing. The immersion factor is a 10 out of 
 10.
  
  Where it does not feel like real basketball is on certain animations receiving passes. Many opportunities 
 are lost when the receiver of a pass stops to receive a pass, even on lead passes. It is sometimes 
 frustrating. But not nearly as frustrating as the nearly-impossible-to-make free throws. It's not 
 that hard (though not easy) with players that shoot right away (like Lebron) , but I've had games 
 where I missed more than 10 straight free throws with players that need a long time to release 
 the ball (like Shaq) . The menu navigation system is frustrating, too. I don't know why they changed 
 it for this version. And the number of blocks you get per game do not match what a real life game 
 would produce. I'm currently playing a franchise (The Association) , and that particular stat is 
 getting on my nerves.
  
  The game deserves a 8.5 overall because the positives far out-weight the negatives. It is a fine 
 game, but there is room for improvement for next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zman1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 3, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this series since the start. I remember the first 2K game was great for its time. 
 And every year since then it has gotten better and better. Although it is not perfect, it is as 
 close as you're going to get for right now. Start with the graphics. Although they are pretty much 
 the same as last years version, they are still far better than any of the so called competition 
 that's out there. The stadiums look great, the player models are still great, even the coaches, 
 cheerleaders, mascots, and media look great. Next is the game play. I have to admit when i first 
 used the iso motion thing i hated it. Now that they have drastically improved it, i cant see myself 
 playing a basketball game without it. The moves are sweet and the animations are very fluid. The 
 signature style thing is kinda needs a little work though. If you're shooting with someone like 
 Kobe or Ray Allen it's great, but if you go with a Shaun Marion it can get pretty frustrating. 
 Overall it was a great idea and welcome addition. I can sit here and talk about all the good things 
 associated with this game, but it would do no good if you didn't actually play it. So go pick it 
 up, spend some time with it, and you won't be disappointed. AND FOR THE LOVE OF GOD DO NOT GET 
 NBA LIVE 07!!!! YOU'VE F@#KED UP ONCE AGAIN EA!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antorusvi
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Being a long time fan of the Live series switching over to NBA 2K7 has been a difficult transition 
 for me. But with Live getting worse and worse it was definitely time for something new. There is 
 a lot to love about 2K7. Great animations, realistic looking players and courts and so on. Many 
 have written about so I want to concentrate on controls of the game. I am not sure I like the use 
 of the shot stick all that much, and I definitely don't like letting the computer do all the dribbling. 
 The moves become very repetitive very quickly especially in a low post, and you will be able to 
 find a couple that work all the time rather quickly. When you look at someone else play the game 
 it looks amazing, you see all those realistic moves and gestures, but when you actually start playing 
 it you almost get disappointed because you realize how little you can actually do in the game, 
 and how muck of it is computer showing off. I feel that buttons could be used a lot better and 
 I think that the right analog stick should have something to do with dribbling and/or faking in 
 the triple threat position. I am also not quite sold on the shot stick either. Maybe it's because 
 I am fairly new to the series, but I think this is the only area of the game that needs the real 
 improvement. Other than this the game is very satisfying. 24-7 mode needs some work too, but for 
 additional mode it's not too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionthescorpio
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 3, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  I have been an EA guy ever since the Genesis days. I bought 2K6 for the PS2 and was really disappointed 
 even though there was a lot of hype to the game. I just bought a 360 not to long ago and read the 
 reviews comparing '07 and 2K7. Needless to say I am glad I made the right choice! This game is 
 Great! I love the smoothness of the game, free throws are fine once you get used to it and the 
 street ball mode is real fun. Anytime you can jam with Dr. J in game it has to be good! Competition 
 does the industry good, and exclusivity doesn't help games progress and strive to get better. EA 
 needs to go back to the chalkboard for next year, they have a lot of catching up to do with the 
 competition this game gives them!! To bad the Madden series doesn't have this competition, who 
 knows what they could have done with that game! Great Work, Visual Concepts &amp; 2K Sports! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgillmaine01
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 3, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  Well the NBA games are here. Not like with Football where we only have one choice. So youre wondering. 
 Which one is better? Live looks good. But has EA really changed the game to play more say like.... the 
 NBA? Well no they didn't and that's why Im here writing a review for NBA 2k7.
  
  Game play: This is a Sim NBA game. No running and gunning. The game plays like the real NBA. From 
 plays to the way teams run there offense and defense. You will see the Suns playing there fast 
 game. While the Heat's Defense is hard to move around on. There so many options to play this game 
 with. Which ever team you play with. You can set them up with options on the fly. If you think 
 you need to crash the boards more. Hit the left stick and make the change. No more pausing the 
 game to bring in a player form the bench. You can make the change with the Left stick. This makes 
 the game play a lot smoother. The computer puts up a good fight also. If you up the difficulty 
 then you will get realistic style play. Only things that I maybe can have a problem with at times 
 are the animations. I have got a little rusty with the NBA in the last few years (hopefully that 
 will change) . And some players I don't know as well as others. And there styles of play. So sometimes 
 you find your self learning a players jump stop and free throw. Because without knowing that. 
 Youre going to shot inaccurate (But overall it makes the game real, so you can't get that mad) .
 
  
  Graphics: Well like always if you have HD then youre getting the best out of the game. For people 
 without that. The game is not the best looking. The words can be hard to read and the menu system 
 takes a while to get use to. No more pressing b to get back to a menu. You have to start all back 
 over again. Its new, but with those things. Dont fix it, if it ant broke . And for the most part 
 2k stuck with that in the graphic dept. Sound: Nothing new if your use to the NBA world and way 
 of life. Mostly a Hip-hop soundtrack. And it does a good job of bringing that NBA feel to the game. 
 The in game sounds are great. And if you won't playing the game and just listing. Then you couldn't 
 tell the difference from the real thing. You find yourself getting lost in the game and forgetting 
 it's a game .
  
  Value: It might not have the All-star weekend . But it makes up for it in overall replay value. 
 The 24/7 mode is back with a story. And the game plays more like street ball . So you won't get 
 the feeling of playing a one on one NBA style game. Association mode is where the meat of the game 
 is. Its so deep that most of your time will be put in that. You control everything. From trades 
 to Practice. This mode really shines. Then there's the season mode and xbox live. Where you can 
 play online in a season or street ball.
  
  NBA 2k7 is a must buy for anybody trying to play a real to life NBA basketball game. Theres many 
 game modes to fit your choice of play. And xbox live should keep the game fresh till the end of 
 the season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmrcnIdiot85
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 3, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  After playing 2K6 I was a bit hesistant to pick up 2K7. After doing my research between 2K7 and 
 Live, the answer was pretty clear- and my research proved to have worked out in my favor. 2K7 is 
 simply sick!!! The game lives up to everything you see in the commercials. This game has every 
 single player's trademark move wheter it is a sloppy jump shot to crossing over 50 times before 
 you reach half court. The graphics are crazy- 60 FPS and some of the smothest gameplay I have ever 
 experienced. PLUS for franchise dorks like myself there is three team trading! I can't wait to 
 see what they add for next year. Forget NBA Live...2K7 is the NBA game to pick up this year!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 2, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I have to point out that I was passing this game up for Live... Very bad decision! I just traded 
 Live in today for 2K7 and I am VERY happy I did. The graphics aren't as good but, the gameplay 
 is MUCH better than Live this year (which to me, wasn't the case last year) .
  
  Gameplay: Nice gameplay. They stepped it up a knotch from last year and it shows.
  
  Graphics: 
 Not even close to Live 07's but still good. The hair still looks lame and the faces are odd. The 
 bodies are very detailed and look good but when you see the heads, you realize they should have 
 spent a biit more time on that.
  
  Audio: Love the commentary! I also like the halftime report with the stamp of approval. That's 
 sweet!
  
  Overall: It's a great game of BBall. I love the online leagues and how you can customize just about 
 everything. If you are looking for some 360 BBall, pass up Live quickly and grab 2K7! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotlavaman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  From the fully rendered crowd to the signature moves for every player, NBA 2K7 is a great basketball 
 game whether you like basketball or not. For a long time there have been basketball games that, 
 just didn't semm to add up to my standards. I never played the professional games, the only basketball 
 game i ever played was NBA Street. then, one day my parents asked me to pick a game that would 
 be good for multiplayer since my cousins were coming over. i decided on this game. At first there 
 didn't seem to be anything special about the game. After playing first person shooters for so long 
 the button scheme for this game became difficult fast but, after a small amount of persistence 
 i managed to get the game working. i faced off against one of my cousins and lost.... bad (though 
 i attribute this to them using NASH for 3 pointers non-stop soo cheap!) . After playing it for a 
 while i started owning anyone i faced, the animatics was so fluid it became addictive ti watch 
 even the lamest shots and dunks. I left that game a champion, and i suggest that anyone who wants 
 to face off against noobs and beat them is welcome to pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JayMezzy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 2, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  To start, I have played NBA Live for a very long time, until the Dreamcast came around and opened 
 my eyes to a world that very few appreciated. They came out with some of the best and most memorable 
 games ever, in my opinion (Powerstone, Sonic Adventure, NBA, NFL2K series, Ready2Rumble boxing 
 lol... etc) . NBA 2K has always in my mind been better than the Live series, but thats not to say 
 that it was perfect. Live has alwayz been the choice for Basketball fans, I truly think that exist 
 because #1 Its been out longer, #2 Everyone knows about it, #3 and its track record as far as sells 
 go. (Just like Madden) .
  
  However... there is a game out that resembles true basketball at its best. For me, ever since playin 
 the demo a couple of weeks ago, NBA2K7 is the best bball game to get thats out as of now! Im not 
 a fanboy Im a realist!! If ppl cant see the qualities in this game they are simply cRaZY!! I speak 
 of the 360 Version! My freakin roommate has been playin Live since it first came out... we played 
 different games under the same roof lol. He refused to give 2K any positive outlook until he played 
 the demo on Marketplace... now he owns the game and plays it all the time, I kid u not... if we didnt 
 have school, he'd probably be playin it right now lol! no lie. Im loving it too.
  
  The presentation is stepped up but they need to look what the NFL series did via ESPN, but just 
 implement something similiar since they dont have the ESPN license (highlights and etc.. breakdown 
 of both teams offensively and defensively) I like the cityscape idea, but if it looked more realistic, 
 then i'd like it a heck of alot more.
  
  The gameplay is darn-near perfect just some tweaks needed here and there with the passing, footing, 
 ball and hand interaction, hand to rim... the usual suspects. I like the 24/7 mode, i think it fun, 
 I appreciate the story integrated into it this yr. Improve on the story or somethin else creative 
 and I think alot of ppl would enjoy it, put some female characters in it! That'll be tight!
  
  The sound is almost there... they do need a freestyle approach to the commentary let kenny and 
 harlan do some improv or something and the crowd needs to react more to big plays and other simple 
 things. The soundtrack is off tha chain as usual, keep the underground artist on there, no 50CENT 
 or other mainstream ppl. The graphics, they are not bad at all, but it doesnt look as good as Live's. 
 But hey I'd rather have mediocre graphics and tight gameplay any day or nothing. However since 
 this is the next-gen, the graphics need to be bumped up a notch. Players look like who they need 
 to be, but they need to look a bit more photo realistic. The animations of this game really makes 
 the game look like real life. From bringing the ball up court, to Nash licking his fingers, and 
 Lebron taunting after doing his signature dunks is amazing. The overall game is a keeper, this 
 is the best feeling game of basketball I've ever played in my yrs of videogaming. This is the first 
 time I've played a game of bball and didnt get bored after a few hours, they did a phenomenal job 
 with this game. Although 60 bucks is kinda steep, I'd still get it if I had a 360, but for now 
 I'll be playing it on my roommates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alocacoc
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 2, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  Look, it's pretty simple. You're either of three people. Person A routinely buys sports games. 
 Person B rents sid sports games. And finally person C just doesn't give a &amp;8 (# about sports 
 games. We'll forget about the latter for the rest of this review.
  
  Person A and B should be aware that if money is going to be spent on a B-Ball Sim title this year, 
 whether it be at EB or at Blockbuster, one should note that 2K7 is WAY better than Live 07. Whats 
 better you ask? Well five thnigs stood out to me (I rented both) : Graphics, Defense mechanics, 
 Modes, Control, and Fun Factor. You may be asking yourself isn't D-mechanics the same as control, 
 and the answer is NO. What I mean by D-Mech is that the ability the game gives the player on defense 
 seems more fluid and natural than it did in live. As I mentioned before if you are either an A 
 or B person, and are going to choose a baller this year anyways, pick up 2K7. As for all those 
 C people out there - remember that unless you catch EVERY Pokemon you're not a true Fan, remember 
 that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triznane
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  The game has one major flaw and thats the passing. by hitting the regular pass button and pushing 
 a direction the ballhandler may not pass to the closest person in that direction but across the 
 court. Also the catching animation slows players down too much on a fast break. That being said, 
 this is the most realistic and down right fun sports game to hit a console. No matter what level 
 of gamer you are, if sports in general is something that you might like this is the game for you. 
 For lovers of the game, there is no equal. Whether you want to do fundamental bounce passes to 
 behind the back, left handed layups to 180s, even the online play is solid. Plain and simple this 
 is the best SPORTS game i could ask for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beefalo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:43 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of NBA Live 2004, and I actually originally bought Live 07 since I never really 
 liked the 2k series. Boy did I make a mistake, and now I own both. NBA 2k7 is the way a basketball 
 game should play. It may not have the graphics or the sound of live but it is hell of a lot more 
 fun to play. Not to mention it feels like real basketball. I say for 2k8 take the same gameplay, 
 fix the minor clipping bugs and erratic player movements and take the graphics, sound and presentation 
 up a couple notches and you will have the best basketball game ever. Gameplay is top notch, graphics 
 look current-gen, music is okay, commentry is a little dull, online is great, and the game is one 
 of the best basketball games to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holesinswiss
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  I'll preface this review by saying I'm a casual NBA fan, but a relatively big sports videogame 
 fan. NBA 2K7 is definitely a nice step up from NBA 2K6. In one sense, it continues the quality 
 you expect from Visual Concepts and 2K Sports, but in other senses, it feels like a completely 
 different game.
  
  The game has received a nice facelift over last year's relatively bland entry on the 360. Menu 
 graphics and game presentation have been upgraded to what I consider good quality, but not great. 
 After NFL 2K5's amazing presentation, Visual Concepts has a high bar to reach for and unfortunately 
 they still haven't come very close to that level since then.
  
  The game intermission highlights and analysis is still pretty weak unfortunately. However, what 
 they did with the menu system should be considered a crime against any kind of human interface 
 standards that exist. Having to use the right-stick to bring out the menu only to have it disappear 
 whenever I do anything is one of the most frustating game interfaces I've ever experienced.
  
  The game environment is very much alive now. As you've probably read in the previews and other 
 reviews, the stadium is alive with activity both during gameplay and intermissions. During gameplay, 
 you can see spectators moving around in the stands, your coach pacing the floor, and your teammates 
 reacting to the game action. During intermissions, mascots and cheerleaders hit the floor to perform 
 their acts and antics.
  
  Adding to the environment as well is another significant new addition - signature style animations. 
 Visual Concepts capture the unique moves and habits of many, if not most of the NBAs players from 
 the bigs stars down to many of the lesser players in the league. This results in games that show 
 the unique styles of both the players and the teams leading to a much more varied experience in 
 each game you play.
  
  Moving on to the gameplay itself, this is where the game has changed the most dramatically. Not 
 only is the game far, far more realistic than it's prior editions, it is significantly more difficult 
 as well. Where 5-6 minute quarters could yield realistic scores in 2K6, you aren't likely to score 
 anywhere near the same amount of points in 2K7 with the same quarter lengths.
  
  The game requires you to play more carefully and methodically to set up good shots. Because of 
 this, you can't simply pass inside and dunk all game anymore. For most, this is probably considered 
 a very good thing. It is actually very satisfying to set up an open jumper and watch it go through 
 this year. Sometimes, however, the defense seems like it puts up an invisible wall that causes 
 your player to go into its staggering back animation a litle too often even when it looks like 
 a lane is open.
  
  Online play is solid as one would expect from a 2K sports game. Online leagues and tournaments 
 continue to be a leading feature that even EA doesn't seem to be able to touch or even show much 
 interest in trying to compete against.
  
  Any serious basketball fan, sports videogame fan, and especially a combination of those two will 
 absolutely want this game. Casual players that want a fast-paced, action-oriented basketball game 
 should rent 2K7 first to be sure it fits their gameplay style preference.
  
  All-in-all, 2K7 is a nice step forward from 2K6, but I'm expecting much better for 2K8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juancarlos012
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  All I have to say is that the Gamespot guy who reviewed this game really dropped the ball. This 
 game is deep. You will find yourself playing this one for a long time. Provides great value. Too 
 bad the game will not be out for the playstation 3. a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robnliz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 1, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Thank goodness for 2k sports or else we wouldnt have a good basketball game this year. 2k7 really 
 hit it head on the realism of the game is really top notch the graphics could be better but you 
 cant have everything signature shots realism great gameplay this could be one of the best basketball 
 games i have ever played. 24/7 is ok but nothing special association is awesome. I cant speak on 
 the online features because i dont play games online and i dont have xbox live sorry. if you want 
 a great b-ball sim pick this up now. GO BULLS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  It's pity how Live 07 got the worst reviews and bad word of mouth. But that's the way the world 
 is. Kids discover something new and the word spreads. Welcome to 2k7. The most overrated 2k game 
 of all time. Gee, where were all these people back in the day. Anyway, I've been a 2k gamer since 
 the Dreamcast days and like always 2k delivers. Year after year I've seen how the game improved, 
 how the gameplay got smoother and smoother and how the animations got better. So once again I proudly 
 say, 2k7 is the champ. Everyone knows how fantastic this year's version is and how the gameplay 
 stepped up once again. As a 2k loyalist however, I'm am dissapointed with the graphics. Why didn't 
 2k scratch the old graphics engine and opt for a new next gen look is beyond me. Don't get me wrong, 
 it looks slightly better than the current gen, with the cloth physics and sweat, but it's still 
 looks current gen. New animations and smoother gameplay converted alot of new people from last 
 year to this game, and it's all good. Online is the best there is and the 24/7 and street mode 
 is still good. Dozens of camera angles make the experience that much thrilling, including the rest 
 of the modes. My other gripe besides the graphics is the presentation. What happened to the player 
 intro? and why do we still have the same legends from the past 7 years? There are legends like 
 Adrian Dantley that could replace Michael Ray Richardson. The sound fx hasn't been changed either, 
 including that annoying whistle I've been hearing since 2k1. But these are stupid gripes comming 
 from me. In summary 2k7 is typical 2k. It's great, it's better than last year, and it's a total 
 blast to play. My score will probably confuse people, but it's because I'm a 2k vet and nothing 
 has really innovated for me to be impressed. There's nothing revolutionary, but 2k7 will convert 
 alot more kids and grownups alike to it's suberb gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evergreenJR20
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 1, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who think the game is the same from last year, you are wrong. This game feels 
 so different from NBA 2K6. The developers did a good job on stopping the cheezers from dunking. 
 Also the signature shots look great. (totally beats NBA Live.) :) Read on to find out more about 
 this game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in NBA 2K7 give me mixed reactions. Some players look like the real thing, 
 but players like Chris Kaman look wierd. The crowds have been a great improvement from last year. 
 Its more detailed that you can see players going to the scorer's table, the crowd moving in and 
 out of their seat, and the bench reacting to a big play. How ever, ther are some problems to the 
 graphics. For example, When a player imbounds the ball, the player imbounding will look blurry. 
 Also when you call a time out, thre players in the huddle look different from when their on the 
 court.
  
  Sound: The sound is the same from last year. There were just a few add-ons and phrases. The sountrack 
 is okay too. The sound on the court is amazing! The rim sounds real when you brick a shot and when 
 you swish. The crowd got a little bit better, but they neeed to be more like Live when it comes 
 to sound.
  
  Gameplay: The signature style in the game makes NBA 2K7 run more smoothly. The defense in the game 
 really improved. Now you have to actually run plays and move the ball around to get an open shot. 
 The on the fly coaching thing is cool too. I find it better than Live's because you don't have 
 to call a timeout just to use it. Don't believe what everyone is saying about the freethrows because 
 its easy. The camer angles have an abundant variety. there is this one camera where it is shooting 
 from the backboard! But the gameplay isn't perfect. Some times the computer will keep pushing you 
 back and you will get called for a back court violation. Or when you lob the ball to the post, 
 he goes all the way back to the three point line to get it. But in the end , the game play is the 
 best when it comes to basketball.
  
  Overall: Overall NBA 2K7 is the best basketball game ever. 2k just keeps finding a way to improve 
 the game. I don't know how they are going to top this one. So when you are at a store and you decide 
 Live or 2K? Just remember, Live 07 is nothing compared to 2K7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Prey
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  yes, this is the best yet!!! the graphics in this is perfect, very real!!!! The gameplay is awesome, 
 all the moves handle perfect. The players have there own signature styles as there are in real 
 life!!! The motion capture of players are awsome. The 24/7 next mode is a good addition to the 
 game. I highly recommend getting this game, instead of Nba live 07!!!! The guys that work on the 
 2k series is doing a great work at making the most playful, and better sport games than EA!!!!! 
 People should start playing the 2k series than the Nba live series!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjl51869
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  Ever since EA Sports got the licensing for the NFL... all we have seen is the madden franchise get 
 worse and worse every year. Its a good thing that they didnt get the NBA licensing exclusively 
 otherwise great games like NBA 2k7 wouldnt be a around. 2k Sports gets it done right the first 
 time. An excellent baskeball simulation that closely mirrors the real game of basketball. Thats 
 right a SIMULATION of basketball... not just a GAME of basketball like NBA Live. BBall is not just 
 a game of dunks and crossovers... its also a game of defense and strategy and when to pass and shoot... and 
 when you play the game... you really have to make these decisions.
  
  Gameplay is pretty darn good and all I hear from the Live hacks is that its too hard to make dunks 
 and great moves against a pretty tough defense thats built into the AI. Look... if you want an easier 
 game or a high flashier game.... mess with the sliders too taylor the game to your own tastes. Make 
 it as easy or as hard as you want... but 2k lets you play the game your way. Animations are smooth 
 and clean and the responsiveness from your controller to the game is clear cut. The only little 
 glitch I saw was a problem with directional passing. Very rarely you pass in one direction but 
 the ball goes somewhere else. Only happend once in ten games ive played but then again... could 
 have been me.
  
  Graphics are outstanding. I have a 37inch HDTV LCD and on 1080i you cant tell if its a game or 
 if its real. A few uniform graphics glitches, and they had that problem in 2k6, but its a nitpick. 
 Courts are well done and the crowd is amazing. You actually see people get up out of their seats 
 during gameplay, and walk up the stairs of the arena... nice touch 2k.
  
  The sound of the game is above average. The crowd reacts to the whats happening on the court like 
 most games do... the comentating is basically the same as last years but it still does the job right. 
 I happen to like 2k beats' music. It seems to match the color of NBA basketball to a very strong 
 point. The value of the game is very high. With all the modes to do, 24/7, the association, season, 
 tournament, you could spend five NBA seasons playing this game and never get tired. My only gripe 
 is that even though they raised the multiplayer options in the association and season modes to 
 eight teams, why cant they let you play all 30 teams in a season like do in NHL2k7. Basically if 
 you just want to play one season mode for the year, your handcuffed to the team or teams you pick. 
 So if none of your teams reach the NBA finals for the season, all you can do is simulate the end 
 of the year. Its a bit of nitpick,, but there are people who just want to play one season and play 
 ANY game during the year not just their favorite team's schedule. However... if you just want to 
 play just your team in Association mode... you wont find a deeper NBA experience ANYWHERE. With 
 all the options and things to do in the Association, you might be spending more time hiring and 
 firing, scheduling practices and shopping for players than actually playing basketball games. I 
 like that. The 24/7 Next Mode is cute but they could have left that out and could have put more 
 meat into the game like more uniforms, more teams and maybe and all star weekend or something. 
 Small nitpick!
  
  Overall...2k Sports knows basketball and this game is gonna be a lotta fun for the year. I bet 
 NBA2k8 is going to be even better next year and as far as EA Sports is concerned, they better start 
 paying attention otherwise their empire is just going to be brick off the rim. NBA 2k7 makes the 
 free throw and wins the game and the NBA championship for 2006-07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: massdagod
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  Yes, I'm keeping it short and sweet. The 2k series is the best out there but you probably already 
 knew that. Live 07 is good, but why have good when the best is available. One of my complaints 
 about 2k7 is that players stop when receiving outlet passes on the fast break which pretty much 
 kills the fast breaks. The other is that the free throw shooting this year can be frustrating as 
 hell since you have to adjust to each players individual shooting style at the line. Other than 
 that , the game is solid. The players shoot like their real life counterparts and they have more 
 animations that make the game look real. EA is lucky 2K7 can't make NFL football games anymore. 
 Hopefully the graphics have more of a leap forward in future iterations of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mysterious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I will try to keep this short and to the point.
  
  NBA 2k7, is the best NBA Basketball game ever made. From the gameplay to the atmosphere. Its the 
 NBA, right from the moment the camera zooms into the stadium. You feel like your there. Almost 
 seems like your watching TNT. I will admit that the commentary needs a third man, and definitely 
 some new and improved material... They did add alot of new lines, but they are very limited and 
 repetitive.
  
  Graphic wise, I'm glad to see that they final boosting the models up. The skin tone textures are 
 amazing. You really have to tweak your HD TV's to really enjoy the visuals. Sometimes its just 
 too real, especially with the facial expression and player reactions.
  
  Signature moves and shots, just brought it all to a whole new level. Making this game a visual 
 fest. Now I know people think NBA Live 07, has better graphics. But when playing Live it looks 
 like I'm playing a video game. All Live player models look animated and like they are made out 
 of clay. When playing 2k7, it seems like I'm watching a broadcast game. Players skin, teeth, mouths, 
 eyes all react and move like real people.
  
  I don't really like 24/7 mode, I wish they would remove it, its a waste of memory. Also the online 
 play has some issues, seems they tweaked the gameplay to move faster and man does it move faster..
 
  
  Overall this is the best nba basketball ever made. And 2ksports are going to have to do alot to 
 top this. Rebuild the engine for next-gen, increase the polygons per player and definitely the 
 coaches, get rid of the animated look on coaches, give them the same detail as the players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omegacis
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  I've got to say that I'm very impressed by the work done by the folks over at Visual Concepts. 
 This game is amazing. No other NBA game has ever captured the true NBA feel that this game has. 
 Simply put, buy this game if you like basketball, even at the slightest level.
  
  The free throw system is great. It took me a short while to get used to it. At first it was seemingly 
 difficult to make buckets from the line. Luckily the developers were smart enough to allow you 
 to practice shooting free throws from the practice menu. If you're having problems making those 
 extra points from the line, make sure you visit the practice/free throw option. The results are 
 priceless.
  
  The graphics are acceptable. Indeed, I believe these are probably the best graphics applied to 
 any NBA game to date; however, I think the folks at Visual Concepts can do a better job defining 
 the player model scales for next year's game. This is not a bitter complaint though. The game looks 
 great (and I've yet to play it in HD!) . I recommend using the TV Broadcast view while playing. 
 In my opinion, this view offers the best and most authentic feel of watching an NBA game. I wish 
 they would have made it the default perspective.
  
  The only thing about this game I'm still a little skeptical about is the one on one defensive controls. 
 I enjoy the fact that you can now get in player's faces with your hands up in the air. And I like 
 the cut-off options as well. But in a way, I kind of miss the precision of ball swiping from last 
 year's game. Last year it felt a bit easier to swipe for the ball with your desired hand using 
 the right stick. This year the stick is dedicated to different mechanics. Perhaps, I just need 
 to practice a bit more with this system.
  
  Nevertheless, this game is awesome and I'm looking forward to spending countless hours abusing 
 my friends and family in it. Let's go New York, Let's go! *stomp-stomp* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regpeg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  NBA 2k7 has put everything in a basketball game that belongs in the game from Kobe's fade game 
 ending theatrics, to Shawn Marions horrible jump shoot. This is coming from a fan of EA and NBA 
 Live since Live 95. This just leaves me with the question of which football game would i like the 
 most if NFL2K was still making games? But I know that this is not possible so i will settle for 
 Madden for now.
  
  But anyways 2K7 has the most in depth menus not to mention to involved player creations. with the 
 signature moves players play so much like their nba clones, that it's just as exciting as watching 
 a nba game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giz22
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I'm keeping it short and sweet. The 2k series is the best out there but you probably already knew 
 that. Live 07 is good, but why have good when the best is available. One of my complaints about 
 2k7 is that players stop when receiving outlet passes on the fast break which pretty much kills 
 the fast breaks. The other is that the free throw shooting this year can be frustrating as hell 
 since you have to adjust to each players individual shooting style at the line. Other than that 
 , the game is solid. The players shoot like their real life counterparts and they have more animations 
 that make the game look real. EA is lucky 2K7 can't make NFL football games anymore. Hopefully 
 the graphics have more of a leap forward in future iterations of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 23inchesspinnin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  How about this one. G. O. A. T I was not overly excited after my first game of plaing the 2k7. I almost 
 wanted my 2k6 back but now that I am really learning the game and I rented live to really give 
 me an appreciation for the greatness that is in 2k7, I am loving it and I will see you online as 
 soon as I am beefed up. If you hae not played live 07, go rent it. I really think that you should 
 rent live becuase you will really learn to appreciate what 2k6 gave us this year. Don't doubt the 
 2k staff ever. They are listening to us and they are making changes slowely but surely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbarnello
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 29, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  This game captures everything about an nba game perfectly. No other sports title wows you everytime 
 you play it like 2k7 manages to do. Not only does each player have their own jumpshot animation 
 but they have a full animation for all of their movements. Each team plays the exact style of ball 
 as its real life counter part. Playing the Pistons is completly different from playing the Mavs. 
 The only flaw with 2k7 is that some of the player models look a little off. In motion the game 
 is beautiful. At first glance spectators will think you are watching a nba game. If you really 
 watch basketball and want to play a game that represents it, get 2k7. If you want to play a 60 
 minute slam dunk contest get Nba Live 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 10, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I am an avid EA fan. I think the NFL2k titles were the most overratted games 
 to ever grace video games because they were nothing but copycat games of what Madden laid down 
 for them for so many years. The AI on the NFL and NBA 2k games is very weak and the sound was never 
 realistic enough. I liked NBA live on the current gen systems after Live 04 than I did 2k. 2k seemed 
 to be locked into one place for so long. I was not impressed with either release on the 360 last 
 year. 2k had much improved gameplay but the graphic upgrade was minimal. NBA Live was horrid in 
 all aspects outside of graphics.
  
  With that being said, NBA 2k7 is a significant upgrade over last years. What I am most impressed 
 with is the sound. Everything sounds so real when compared to watching a game on ESPN or TNT. The 
 personality is great. Lebron biting his nails is just hilarious. I love seeing someone like Josh 
 Childress shoot and it actually looks like Josh childress shooting. KG is on point. They improved 
 24/7 mode ten fold. Everything through the menu is an upgrade, and Ill leave it at that.
  
  People complain about the free throw shooting because it's difficult at times, but unlike NBA Live 
 last year, its also realistic. Just watch the shooters hands and wrists and you'll get it.
  
  The improved gameplay will capture you. Especially isolation and post plays.
  
  The negatives-
 
  
  While its cool to see the crowd members get up from their seat and move around, the crowd seems 
 lifeless. The players still possess the 2k player movements which looks like the players are gliding 
 across the ground rather than running. Bad players can go lights out on you when you know certain 
 players could never do that in real life.
  
  Also, the AI is good for the most part, but from time to time it is outright awful. On fast breaks, 
 players should be hit in stride, not made to stop, catch the pass and start running again. Also, 
 fouls are called way too often on you when you play the computer. But the computer is able to pound 
 you all day long. The officiating is inconsistant. Almost too inconsistant. The complaints are 
 minimal, but they still keep this game from being a 9.5 or higher. Still a major major improvement 
 over last year and a must have for sports gamers... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drac59_basic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  to be far let me say in this review that i have not played live 07. so iam not comparing but going 
 off of what i have played which is 2k7. frist the reason why i bought this game is simple. the 
 people behind this game as they did with the football really work on there product in the offseason 
 which makes people want to buy and look foward to it when it comes out. no game will be without 
 a flaw or two and this is no different but when i look at the track record of madden and live and 
 the fact that over the last 10-12 years have gone by with little to no change this is a easy buy. 
 for years the excuse was
  with the previous systems there were always not enough memory or it was not powerful enough etc. 
 well now we have everything we need in the next gen systems to do things that have never been done. 
 with that said i think 2k7 is headed in the right direction. on the surface it appears to be the 
 same game but when u play it u soon find the gem underneath. so this is not to put down ea or any 
 other company but the challange now is to step up
  and really take it to the next lv. the sweat and all is a nice touch and starting to put personality 
 to the players is nice but it, s the gameplay that will sell a sports game. now i don, t mean a game 
 where all the players look and play the same. some players can, t dunk and some can, t shoot a three, 
 and it, s this kind of play that we the players look for. madden was better than last year but not 
 much and in my opion ea has not produced a football game better than 2k5 yet. so my hats off to 
 visual concepts this year for this game is fun, a great challange on and off line plenty to do 
 and worth of sixty dollars. i can only hope the rest of the programmers follow suit and give us 
 a product like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bb19349
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 29, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game the shooting stick is great, the realistic jumpshots are great and the overall 
 gameplay is so realistic. ANother complaint is the create-a-player. Everything is cool except the 
 ugly faces. This game breaks all barriers and is probably killing LIVE. Live you suck when it comes 
 to gameplay. THis is not SEGA GENISIS. 2K is the best basketball game ever. It turned me into a 
 live fan into a 2k fan.  
 If you EA punks couldn't read that it says live sucks I love 2k 2k 2k 2k 2k 2k 2k 2k 2k 2k 2k 2k 
 2k 2k 2k 2k k2k 2k k2 k2k k2k 2k k2 k k2k 2k k2k2k2k2k2k2k2k 2k2k2k2 k2k2k2k 2k2k2k . KEep up the 
 good work. Change the graphics just a little bit I'm still not buying it being NExt gen graphics 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistajayd02
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 29, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  If you could see my face. It live up to my expectations. This game is the best bball game ever. 
 It has some things that are glitchy, but its a game not real life. even though it is hard to tell. 
 If you are going to spend 60$, this purchased will be well worth it. If you are new to the game, 
 it will take a while to get use to. I was in the Higher 200 on 2k6 after only playing for about 
 a month online, and it took me about 2 hours to get things down. Live 07, hasn't even came out 
 with a review, but from reading my fellow gamer reviews and looking at the gameplay video EA came 
 out with, I can tell its not going to be worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EastsideMafia
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 29, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  As someone who has played this series since its Dreamcast inception, I've enjoyed the yearly leaps 
 and bounds that has been demonstrated in this game's development over the years. With that being 
 said, this years version, while still coming up short in subtle areas, is by far the best basketball 
 simulation created to date. The key word to keep in mind is simulation , as the days of sim/arcade 
 basketball seem to be gone, and thankfully so. 2k7 demonstrates a difficulty level that takes some 
 time getting used to, but is extremely rewarding when you get the hang of it. The game forces you 
 to understand the fundamentals of basketball; no longer can you simply run a dunkfest and take 
 advantage of suspect cpu AI anymore. No longer do picks floor the guy guarding you, along with 
 no more instances of players performing beyond their abilities. Elite pg's like Nash and Kidd run 
 their teams efficiently, the Spurs clamp down on defense, while the Suns run their usual track-meet. 
 Role players play like role players (no more having your team abused by a guy with avg attributes) , 
 while superstars carry their teams when it's necessary. I played a game against the Wizards with 
 the Cavs, and Gilbert Arenas put the team on his back and led a furious comeback. His final statline 
 was 38 pts, 4 assists, 3 rebounds, and 3 steals. I lost the game by one point, but that's the beauty 
 of this game: losing no longer feels cheap or orchestrated.... you simply know that you got outplayed. 
 Also, get used to seeing more realistic statlines: no more games with 3 players on your squad avg 
 over 25 ppg (unless you manipulate the sliders and qtr mins. to do so) . Everybody performs, moves, 
 and mimics their real life counterparts down to the most minute detail. As for the bells and whistles, 
 the graphics are what you would expect for a 360 game, the music is so-so, although still better 
 than avg. The menu is a pain in the a$$ initialy, but you get the hang of it quickly. The real 
 star of this game is the gameplay: it is as close to authentic basketball as you can imagine. The 
 individual shooting mechanics have to be seen to be believed, and instead of just being canned 
 animations, actually have a direct impact on your shooting, as each player has his own shot timing, 
 even with free throws. All in all, this is a great game. The flaws are much too minor to even mention. 
 This game is a worthwhile investment that will give you many hours of enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mepaphoros
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 29, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  Understandably from the review, after playing online initially the game feels a little lacking. 
 However, after a few games one begins to notice the efforts put forth by VC to improve the gameplay 
 and eliminate exploits. No more driving into 4 players and dunking, or sitting in a zone and picking 
 off passes. The game engine has been masterfully perfected and now requires some actual though, 
 patience and skill.
  
  This game is unmatched amongst its peers, and should be required gaming for all basketball fans. 
 While the other games boast graphical improvements or All-Star games, this game focuses on the 
 meat of the package and lets it speak for itself. You must be patient with it because you won't 
 find the same exploits available in this game, but if you are you'll be rewarded with a true-to-life 
 basketball experience.
  
  Simply the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pup55
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  Well first off to me it seems the player models don't look as crisp as the players in 2k6 but when 
 you add all the other graphical details of the game as far as the crowd, arena, and people around 
 the court it makes up for it. The Game play has been tweeked and is a little harder than last years 
 version of the game. It actually helps to run plays to get the open man to take the shot. Now if 
 you are a person who likes to jump from team to team to play games this is not the game for you. 
 With all the different shot animations it leads to different points of release for each shot so 
 it helps to know your players and how they shoot before you start playing. Free throws are only 
 difficult it you do not know how your player shoot free throws. Different players have different 
 freethrow animations which means you release the shot at different points. I play with the rockets 
 and T-mac has a normal freethrow shot versus Alston who has a shot thats a little quicker and Yao 
 who almost 5 seconds before you release on his shot so practice is key. Defense has be tighten 
 up for the computer no more shake and bake get to the hole and dunk there is way too much body 
 contact to do that you have to plan run plays and pick and roll to get to the hole and maybe you 
 can get a dunk in. Fastbreaks on this game could use a little work though. Most of the time when 
 you start a break and throw to the open man down court he goes through an animation to catch the 
 ball that slows him down enough to stop the break. Well sorry for being so long with this review 
 but its much more to talk about this game these are just a few I touched on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eeghead
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Best Basketball Sim Ever Made. The gameplay is fluid and very realistic. Its not just the gameplay, 
 its the feel of the game. From the mascots to cheerleaders to the glare of the light on the court. 
 The players signature styles are terrific, from Lebron's fad - away shot to Steve Nash licking 
 his fingers. This game is the complete package. There's no lack of features. This game is loaded 
 with all the features you need. By far the best basketball game this season. This game truly shows 
 next generation of basketball. 2K just keeps putting the best basketball game out to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SyPh3r
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 29, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I come from playing nba live since 99, but since the great dissapointment of live 06, i tried to 
 look for another option. I just couldnt stand players crossing the whole team over and dunking 
 over anybody; super fake. So after 1 year of retiring from basketball videogames, i decided to 
 buy 2k7
  
  The Good:
  *The animations and movements are really fluid and smooth
  *The crowd looks really nice
  *The computer swiches players on picks
  *No framedrops during 
 any part of the game
  *Has minigames (air hockey, darts)
  *Stealing the ball is more controlable (when anticipating a pass)
  *Impossible to win by a big 
 margin ( dont know if its a good or a bad thing)
  *Has a Street mode where you can play a 5 on 5, 4 on 4, 3 on 3, 2 on 2 or 1 vs 1
  *In the Street 
 mode, theres some celibrities like Flavor flav, Common, Questlove
  *A lot of the players do move just like they do in real life
  *The online is perfect, you can 
 play a normal game, street ball, or 1 on 1 (The best part of the game)
  
  The Negative:
  *The buzzer doesnt sound sometimes
  *Open wide shots dont go in a lot of times (kinda frustrating)
 
  *Free throws are kinda hard online
  *Some stats are clearly off. Bobby Simmons cant be better than Ray Allen in 3pt
  *Some players 
 faces are way off ( the less known players and some known players)
  *Hard to drive in, without setting a play
  *In rare occassions, the jerseys dissapear and they 
 look like they had no jersey
  *In rare occassions, the camera locks you out of view when in inbound passes.
  *Posting up is 
 a lil too automatic
  
  Not having a gamespot review for live07 after the release date seems like a dirty tactic by EA, 
 IMO. Bear in mind I havent played nba live 07 on one short occassion, once i do for a good amount 
 of time, ill make a review for it and make any corrections to this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dejam4
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 28, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  I used to love every sports title that came from ea sports until espn 2k5 came out with spots center 
 in it and nba 2k5 -7 came out and has dominated the basketball court. Man it just seems like nba 
 live just keeps producing things we dont care about in the games and acrade liek controls year 
 after year after year. im so tired of buying a ea sports game and nonthing changes but the music 
 and maybe 1 new featue that we dont even use. ea is sitting on a espn contact and not even incorperating 
 it in the game like we liked it in the 2k games, i dont want pod cast i have epsn hd alrready just 
 make the the game better take a look at the master pieces that 2k sports have done i doent make 
 any since why ea sports games sucks right know when they used to be the best at making sports games 
 (in the 90's) if your going to own lisenses ea incorperate it alot in the game like 2k sports did 
 just look at the espn football game with t. o on the cover that was the best football game i ever 
 played, it had hightlights and the whole shabang well anyway if your a true basketball fan and 
 you love a series that gets better and better get NBA2k7 its worth every dime! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beatman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 28, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this game is vastly improved over last years game, despite what some 
 reviewers may lead you to believe. The improvements are not as apparent as in previous iterations 
 though. Subtle improvements include player specific shot animations for every player (not just 
 the stars) , improved performance for the stars (they now stand out as STARS) , &amp; improved animations 
 for for all player moves! Even the mascot is well done, making its prescence known in an entertaining 
 way. The courts have all been improved with better lighting and reflection effects than found on 
 last years version. But the game is not just subtleties. Its improved AI and frame rates. This 
 game addresses most of the complaints from last years counterpart. If you could not tell by my 
 review, this game does a lot of things right. Why did I not give it a perfect score? Because the 
 game is not perfect, of course! The AI does stumble a bit especially when defending the lane. It 
 is a bit too aggressive at times, failing to REALISTICALLY space the floor. The collision detection 
 could use some work as players tend to get hung up on invisible walls at times. And finally, the 
 menu system totally sucks (it has taken 7 steps backward) . Despite these few minor gripes it still 
 is the best game of video basketball around (still 2 generations ahead of NBA Live) ! This year 
 is Superb, hopefully next years version is Perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjpiphus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 28, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Best Game out!!!!! If u want a b-ball game it's gotta be 2k7. NBA Live 07 what a joke EA give it 
 up please! (A. I. All Day Baby)
  
  Hello world just had to make sure I gave a great review for 2k because of this great game and also 
 to forwarn anybody who was fooled into thinking on NBA Live 07 this year might actually be good 
 hey maybe they wont slide around the court like previous years. WRONG!!!!!!!!!! this years live 
 might be worst then the first one. I brought both games on the release date what a waste of 60 
 bucks I was back at the store with live with in 45 mins of playing it EA should give everyone refunds 
 that paid for that crap thinking they've changed it. But back to 2k what a great game almost everybody 
 has their own shot and it actually looks like their real shot something EA sucked on O my bad back 
 to 2k I like my boy A. I.'s shot the most 2k did a pretty good job with his jumper. Now to game 
 play it's almost perfect the computer can actually guard u this year u have to work to get a good 
 shot of course if you play on hall of fame now the only things I really dont like are the fouls 
 u can barely contest anyshot with out fouling them and also they made it a little too easy to draw 
 fouls with they patent kobe pump fake wait for u to jump then lean in and draw the foul way too 
 easy to do. But Overall Great Game!!!!!!! Good Sh** 2K!!!!!!!!!! ALLEN IVERSON ALL DAY BABY!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: escocashflow
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 28, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  First off let me start of by saying that if you are a basketball fan then you need to get this 
 game asap or your an ass and not a fan. This game is sim ply unbelieveable. Take this from a former 
 Live fan, this game rapes it lol. Gamplay- Is crazy. The sig shot would make you feel like your 
 about to have a orgy lol. This game really improved because in 2K6 it was easy for people to get 
 into the lane and dunk all day ; instead of playing the damn 2-3 zone every freaking play the game 
 makes it harder foe opponent or computer to dunk. The game play is reall smooth. Also let me not 
 forget about the fact that you can make subs, call players and mess with your coaching option without 
 pressing start on going on the menu.
  
  Graphics- WOW, do I really have to say more............. huh lol naw but seriously the graphics 
 are beautiful, even if you dont have a HD-TV.
  
  Sound- It is crazy. The commentators are good (Kenny the jet Smith, Kevin Harlan and Craig Sagier 
 with all his shinny ass suits look like a Puff Daddy extra) . The music is also good on here too.
 
  
  Online- Great. I have a good time playing this game online and you should too if you get your lazy 
 behind off of the couch and but the game. Less Cheesers baby. The leagues are cool because you 
 really feel like you are a GM and Coach in this game. Value- This is a great buy. This game is 
 so freaking good that this should not even be sold for $60 it should be sold for like $100 lol. 
 But seriously if you love playing basketball the right way, fun way and not the EA way (ohhh) then 
 this is the game for you. This could be the best buy in your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giflow
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 29, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is so realistic and the gameplay is very similiar to NBA games.
  
  Graphics are good ,the player models arent bad or average, but not as sharp as live's are. But they 
 sure do animate a lot more realistically and not only that but you'll see a ton of signature shots 
 and moves and will easily recognize what players are who, excellent job 2k sports yall always take 
 it too another level as far as realism.
  
  Sound is ok nothing to write about though ,could improve commentating more realism needed.
  
 
  Gameplay is as real as it gets almost ,you need to run plays to score ,good spacing, smart decisions, unpredictable 
 move selections ( against cpu) what makes a great one player game, A. i. is smart but still needs 
 some work, like the Cpu's clock management and recognizing player matchups a little better, this 
 game just has so much too offer, if you see it in the nba its in this game also ,im so impressed 
 with this game, collision detection could be improved, its very difficult to drive, but i like that 
 ,it forces you to run plays and take advantage of your team's strengths and play smarter instead 
 of just cross over your opponent and dunking all the time, good job 2k sports.
  I dont normally give game's high scores but this game might deserve it, this is a lot better than 
 2k6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjmutang
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 28, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  If your a NBA FAN at ALL you must buy this game! I been playin since I was basketball videogames 
 since double dribble, I have always been waiting for a really realistic game to capture true basketball 
 and thanks to 2k sports and visual concepts its FINALLY here. 2k7 is the most realistic hoops game 
 ever created period. Each player tendencies are perfectly recreated! As a basketball player I can't 
 give this game enough praise for the attention to detail it presents. Only draw backs i've witnessed 
 were players jersey's animations get really scrunched up but other than that its simply mind blowing... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 28, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Everytime a Sport is introduced from different developers... whether it's Basketball, Hockey or 
 even Soccer, everyone has to put their 2 cents in as far as which deveoper has the better or worst 
 game.
  
  Aren't these reviews for THIS GAME . If you have the scratch to afford both franchises, you would 
 purchase them both like i did and ENJOY them both, because they are both great games... they just 
 play differently, ISN'T THAT WHAT MAKES LIFE INTERTESTING? For the people that are constantly slamming 
 NBA EA, get over it, it's a good game, you know deep down that it is a good game, but why do you 
 feel you need to justify your 2k purchase by slamming it's competitor.
  
  Bottom Line:
  
  2K: mind blowing fun
  
  I will play both games equally and enjoy them equally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrycee
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  WoW !!! Graphics is hot but some of the player models are not. I never liked how the players looked 
 in none of the series , And I also seen how the basketball is not in there hand during the follow 
 through of the shot and the dunk , it kinda looks fake. But other then that its a very good Game 
 , Better then last years by a mile. And I personally think gamespot gave them the wrong score but 
 alls forgiven. EA cant even come close to any sports game that 2ksports make . lets hope collage 
 basketball and baseball of next year be good and worth the money for 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stafonb
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 28, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, I really had high expectations for 2K7. And to some degree I was a bit disappointed 
 due to the fact that some of the controls were and still are hard to readily execute (mainly speaking 
 of the series of drop step moves) . The player animations that are unique to individual players 
 are definitely a treat to see and makes you want to play with every superstar to see what is next. 
 I initially had this game connected to my 72 inch rear projector television, but to no avail were 
 the graphics as clear and crisp as expected. I immediately connect to my 42 inch Sony LCD flat 
 screen HDTV and WOW what a difference. If you are not playing your XBox next gen video games on 
 HDTV, then it's really a waste (well not a complete waste) buying the XBox 360. Compared to last 
 year, the 2K series really out performed EA Sports in basketball. Truthfully, the 2K series in 
 basketball and football out performed EA Sports by a land slide. It's a shame that EA Sports locked 
 up the NFL contract; blocking NFL 2K. And now, for the past two years, true gamers have been left 
 with the weak Madden series. I would like to congradulate the developers at 2K for making the sports 
 gaming market competitive without taking the easy way out in monopolizing the market like EA Sports 
 did with Madden and the exclusive rights deal with the NFL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronnkel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 28, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  2K sports has done it again with another game. .................... The features realism and fun 
 factor is high. Its just like the real NBA with the gestures and movements ..../////// /////// 
 // /////// //// // the players act like there real life counterparts form the shots .. to Gary 
 Payton arguing with ref after a bad call... it gets my vote. Go out and get it today ... dont waste 
 your money on that NBA lame 07.... i have played both and it does not even come close.. I thought 
 last years 2K7 was good .... but this one is even better...... ...... .... ... .. ..... ... ... 
 .. .. . . ..... ... ... ... .. . . ....... . . . . . .. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dt2k
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 28, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  Finally true NBA fans can rejoice! This game truly captures the NBA experience in great fashion. 
 The flashy moves, the different styles, the unique pacing of each team - it's all here. For years, 
 2k has been trying to perfect its craft, and while it seemed to have the edge over its arch rival 
 (NBA Live) , it didn't really capture the NBA game like a true fan would hope. But with 2k7, it 
 seems like they have gotten really close to perfecting it. By giving each player an individualized 
 alternative, they now can capture each teams true pacing.
  
  The animations are just simply incredible. Most of the players in the game resemble their real 
 life counterparts with their movements and tendencies. Shawn Marion has his odd release, Tony Parker 
 will attack the basket relentlessly and Kobe will simply kill you if hes on fire. The only problem 
 Ive noticed is that when a player is receiving a pass on the fast break, he sometimes almost stops 
 completely, but in this years game, its A LOT easier to push the ball and run effective fast 
 breaks, but you have to work for it. The players, for the most part, behave coherently on the court. 
 At first glance, youll think they just stand around on offense, but thats because the game wants 
 the player to strategize by moving the ball around and calling plays. You must set picks, post 
 your big man when a mismatch arises and find the open shooter. If you simply decide to run and 
 gun with just about any team, you will lose badly specially from the All-Star difficult and up.
 
  
  This brings me to the A. I., which is just excellent. A. I. players will guard you relentlessly on 
 the hardest difficulties, and will steal your passes if you decide to pass over too many defenders. 
 They will also deflect balls that are reachable, which holds true to life. They will challenge 
 shots, they will chase offensive rebounds and on offense, they will search for the open man and 
 take advantage of any holes on your defense. If you want to win, you must be on top of your game 
 at all times. But there are times when the computer will make questionable decisions (like at the 
 end of games) , but this isnt constant. In most of my experiences, they have fouled when it seems 
 suitable and they have made an hurried up effort to make a bucket, but sometimes, they get lazy 
 when youre up by more than 6 and with less than a minute left, so they could work on this even 
 further in the future.
  
  One problem that plagued previous basketball games was that while playing full 12 minute quarters, 
 you could rack up a ridiculous amount of points in any game, which isnt very real. This year, 
 the scores resemble a more real approach, and gone are the days of averaging 120 points in season 
 and franchise mode (if you played enough games, that is.) . I personally prefer playing 11 minute 
 quarters, since scrapping those 4 minutes off from the standard 48 seems to level scores even more, 
 but even on 48 minutes, the game has very reasonable scores for the most part.
  
  The graphics on this game are excellent, and I dont own an HD TV yet. The players textures and 
 bodies look really life like. But for some reason, 2k just completely messed up a lot of faces 
 this year. A lot of players faces look completely different, and some look outright scary. And 
 with the Create a Player mode, its kind of hard to make a player that actually looks like a real 
 person, but with patience, they can look great.
  On the sound side, the commentary is a bit stale if you are a fan of the series, but its not as 
 repetitive as previous years, although they still make some mistakes, like calling the name of 
 a player whos supposed to be receiving the ball even when its deflected against another player 
 but the same team remains with the ball. The sound effects are alright, but the crowd could use 
 a little work into cheering more contextually. I enjoy this years soundtrack, as Ive enjoyed 
 previously, since it doesnt feature a lot of overplayed MTV hits. Its purely hip hop, but it 
 has some nice tunes.
  
  If you have any doubts about the pricing for a sports title, then look no further than the online 
 mode, as it makes this game worth the full price of purchase and more. The fantasy draft for online 
 leagues just simply gives it an incredible amount of replay over a game that doesnt need any. 
 The lobby is equally is easy to browse through and the online leagues have a better scheduling 
 process, by simulating games where one (or both) players arent present. There is also not much 
 lag to be found.
  
  Overall, NBA 2k7 is a vast improvement over previous installments, and every other game that has 
 come before it. At first glance, the game will seem like its just another year, but when you get 
 deep into playing the game itself, you will realize that it brings the best NBA simulation experience 
 ever. To be blunter, this is the greatest basketball sim ever created. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMakaCreative
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 28, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  You can see the team that put this together spent their time well. The attention to detail is rediculously 
 evident here. No more cardboard cut out fans &amp; attendants at courtside. The photographer is 
 moving &amp; taking pictures. The fans are moving &amp; going to the bathroom (or buying a snack 
 at the concession stand) . The arena is alive... ALIVE I TELL YOU!! The mascots &amp; cheerleaders 
 put on a show every time out &amp; halftime. This is the NBA basketball atmosphere that was missing 
 in 2k6. To me the player graphics didn't improve much over last years game &amp; in some players, 
 took a step back. But overall it's still crisp. Tons of new animation have been added. Aside from 
 what the fans &amp; the staff at the arena do, players also do more NBAish things, like go to the 
 scoring table when they are about to check in the game. Bench seems more alive as well. The whole 
 overall feel just feels so much fluid. The game isn't perfect. It has a few bugs but nothing that 
 will ruin your experience. If you dealt with the bugs in 2k6, you can deal with them here.
  
  You need to get used to the interface, maneuvering through the menu at first can be annoying. 
 You'll get use to it though. It's a great game &amp; probably the best NBA game ever. You need 
 to give this game a try if you're even remotely a basketball fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vleboy26
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 28, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  After playing this game for about 3 days straighti found huge bags under my eyes and i cant function 
 at work because im sleeping in the office. This game is by far the best basketball game i've ever 
 played in my life. The game play is EXCELLENT i never thought the computer would have a high basketball 
 IQ untill i played this. This game is hard on pro the graphics are not better then live but everything 
 else is perfect. The crowd movement players getting off the bench and nealing by the scorers table 
 waiting to get in the game the cheer leading running onto the court when you call a time out. the 
 sound is very real i hooked thats all i have to say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nabiscoboy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  yes yes man nba 2k7 has done it again, another great basketball game man. nba 2k6 was great good 
 graphics realistic gameplay great presentation and many things to do. in 2k7 they keep a majority 
 of the stuff that made nba 2k6 a great game which was a good choice! i mean i dont know who came 
 up with the idea first to have signiture shots nba live or nba 2k but iono 2k just seemed to put 
 waaaaaaaaaaaay more time into their game and it paid off. SOOO many friggin animations too it beutiful 
 and they all flow into one another, its not all robotic like. Adding character to the players was 
 an excellent choice. Street mode is awsome too with all the crossovers you can do. the only downfall 
 i giv it is maybe just the 24/7 i mean dont get me wrong its fun! but the story line.... eh doesnt 
 seem necassary. but hey thats what I think. overall buy nba 2k7 and leave nba live 07 on the shelf 
 at the game store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZaitzDA
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Spend a lot of time with game. .... learn how to use all the controls..... ESPECIALLY THE PASSING. 
 ...... and the game is amazing...... i feel like whatever i want to happen happens. ..... Everything 
 that 2k6 was... just put into MUCH more realistic circumstances making the best and most true to 
 real life bbal game ive ever played. ...... The game will last you a loooooooonnnnngggg time with 
 everything to do it. ........ sound and graphics could be a bit better. ... but thats just icing 
 on the cake.... .multi player is AWESOME ......
  
  Spend lots of time learning the game.... not for ur average bbal fan...... i cant stress it anymore...... 
 DONT BASH THE GAME UNLESS YOUVE REALLY LEARNED TO PLAY IT..... get around the learning curve then 
 talk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDon326
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 27, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Picked up both games...... live and 2k. Going from playin 2k7 to playing Live is like having a 
 great dream of a beautiful girl to having cold water dumped on your head. 2k is amazing simple 
 as that. Great graphics.. not as good as lives or the soundtrack. 24/7 mode is actually not that 
 bad. Its not boring like the first one was. A story mode like for the real NBA would be nice but 
 then agian you cant complain. 2k's stadium looks amazing from the stands to the floor..... But when 
 it comes down to strait up gameplay where it really counts...2k7 absolutely DESTROYS live. Tough 
 break live fanboys........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Full89
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 27, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot is the go to place for me when I want to see a review for a game. But this time, I don't 
 agree with their review for NBA 2K7. This game is amazing. They improved it much more than last 
 year. The shot animations in this game are amazing and the gameplay is the most realistic I have 
 ever seen. The player models are very good as well. It's the best basketball simulation I have 
 ever played. The graphics are amazing and the gameplay is at its best. There is much more one can 
 do with this game than the pervious ones. When you play, you actually feel like your watching a 
 real NBA game. This game by far beats NBA Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarioD04
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I am writing this review after playing about 4 or 5 hours of the game itself. I haven't tried everything 
 out (such as online play) , so not everything may be as accurate as you expect.
  
  I have to admit, I am impressed with effort that was put into this game with not only creating 
 all of the single player signature shots, but also the added animation effects, and a new 24/7 
 mode.
  
  There are some of those annoying bugs that can repeat themselves at times, that just make you remember 
 some of the hell you had to face in 2k6. (Includes graphical, gameplay and other minor areas) .
 
  
  Overall though, this game is worth playing. Here are the reasons for my review.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Reasons: Look... even with the annoying defensive issues (that can easily be 
 adjusted by perfecting the sliders) , this game is absolutely incredible. There are realistic stats 
 throughout most of the games at almost any length quarters. Signature shots look great for most 
 players, and not so good for others (i. e: Chris Bosh) . They have put a lot of effort into perfecting 
 the movement, plays and overall feel of the NBA basketball sequence. The only thing that haunts 
 this game, are previous bugs that just have not been resolved. Some of these include:
  - Shorts/ Jerseys ripping off (tiniest bug)
  - Players running into team-mates and defenders 
 while moving up the court
  - Unreliable passes ( at times.. which could probably be resolved by lowering defensive sliders. 
 I already know this, so I will experiment even though I have lowered some already)
  - Hands not grabbing onto the ball, or grabbing onto the rim after a dunk
  - At certain times, 
 legs are known to glitch while running
  - Players stepping to the in-bound after a Icon pass is executed near the 3pt line, or mid-range 
 area
  
  As you can see, those are very minor bugs... which can possibly be solved (i. e the passing interceptions) 
 by sliders. They really don't affect the game overall, because the new dunk animations (monstrous) , 
 layup animations (beautiful) and signature shots (near perfect.. or described as amazing for a first 
 time attempt at that alone) , some of the plays you can create, and some of the one touch passes 
 that lead to monstrous throwdowns or regular good looking finishes.
  
  The gameplay aspect of this game is something revolutionary to many of us regular basketball players, 
 and overall NBA fans.
  
  Everyone has been anticipating the 24/7 mode.. but from what I have experienced so far, it's nothing 
 to really use your time for in this game. Sure it may be improved, and it may have an okay storyline.... but 
 the voice acting, silent NBA players, along with the same idea of past 24/7 modes (play NBA players 
 in games to build repuatation so you can take on legends, or participate in a special event) , just 
 really ruin it overall. Some great features of this mode are the awesome street ball moves that 
 you can pull off, along with the fact that you learn them all from beating specific NBA players. 
 That is the main reason I am doing this in the first place, so you can explain your own reasons 
 once you rent/buy the game
  Note: You can customize your shot to compare it to many NBA Players' shooting forms. You can also 
 determine what kind of a post player you are. Whether it's being an athletic 6'4 SG, to being a 
 6'7 strong finisher inside. It all depends on what you want to be.
  
  While playing, certain players are clutch, and certain players are not. You can choose who to take 
 the shot with, and when to do it. One important thing that you always have to remember before buying 
 this is... don't ever get frustrated. It will take maybe an hour to learn how to play the game, 
 but it will take months and months to perfect your skill in it. You should also look into playing 
 in higher difficulty levels, as the Artificial intelligence can lack sufficiency at lower levels.
 
  
  
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Reasons: While MANY player models look way off, or downright ridiculous, you can't help but to 
 respect the overall look of the game. The fans getting out of their seats to buy drinks, the arenas 
 with attention to detail (not in all arenas) , the players coming to the scorers table when about 
 to sub-in.. and even some of the amazing looking player models with their realisic jersey/sweat 
 physics. They may not all be the greatest, but it is definitely something to see.
  
  Unfortunately, an 8 is the highest I can rate this game in terms of graphics. There is no way it 
 deserves a 9 or a 10 as it is some-what of a letdown... Lets be thankful that the gameplay really 
 evens things out, and stands above anything else in this game.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  Reasons: The commentating of this game has been almost completely recycled from last year's version. 
 Kevin Harlan and Kenny Smith are what kills the feel of this game realisticaly (when paying attention 
 to what they're saying) . They repeat phrases too much, and it seems as if they just place certain 
 players' names into one of those phrases when they do something specific.
  
  It was disappointing to find out they would be doing the NBA 2k7 presentations, because I was expecting 
 more from this new game overall. They will definitely have to hire new commentators for the next 
 game, because these guys were never very unique, and their analysis in the game is terrible.
  
  Some of the notable things that are great about the sound though, are the vibrations of the 
 rim after shots that you clank off of it, or the sound after a player throws down a monstrous jam. 
 The grunting noises are repetitive in the street ball modes, but the crowd reactions seem to have 
 been juiced up a bit this year. This all plays into effect of the rating of this game, because 
 without these certain small things, I would've given the sound rating a 6... or maybe even a rating 
 as low as 5. Value: 9/10
  Reasons: There are so many things that make this NBA game valuable. First off, there is a new 24/7: 
 Next mode, which features a certain plot that the 2k sports creators have made-up.. which leads 
 to a basketball Legends game, and then an entrance into the NBA itself.
  
  There are also modes such as:
  - The Association- Where you choose a team, and play as the General 
 Manager/ Coach. There are new features from the former versions which include progressive fatigue 
 as you move along throughout the months and three team trades.
  - Street Ball Mode- A streetball mode where you choose a certain area to play, and then use your 
 skills to beat different opponents. You can now use actual streetball moves, and can choose when 
 or where to do them.
  - 32 Player Online Association- An association mode where you can play actual seasons with buddys, 
 or random online people, where you do everything you would normally do in an Association mode, 
 with the exception of it being completely online.
  - Season- Play out an NBA season with a certain team, at a certain point that you schedule.
  
 
  and more (too bad I'm too lazy to list them all) .
  
  If you're an NBA basketball fan, you will also probably spend many hours online playing against 
 friends, or competetive foes. Another great addition is the new VIP feature, which allows you to 
 scout your upcoming opponents online, and gives notes relating their style of play (at least that's 
 how I think it goes.. I will have to check it out) .
  
  As you can see, there is so many things that you could do in this game, that there is no reason 
 it should be rated under a 9 at all.
  
  If you're buying the game for the regular Xbox on the other hand, it may not be as worthwhile.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 9/10
  Reasons: NBA 2k7 has over 30 different camera angles that are available to you. I for instance, 
 probably won't use half of them at all. They have worked very hard to give you the best view that 
 you could possibly get in an NBA video game. It's quite surprising actually, and enjoyable as well.
 
  
  This is one of the strongpoints of the game. The camera angles are always important.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall: 8.7-NBA 2k7 is a GREAT game with many improvements over it's past predecessor. It has 
 many things that will make you say Wow , but sadly, many things that will make you say DAMN... what 
 the heck . If 2k Sports can perfect many of the annoying bugs in this game, hire new commentators 
 to make more in-depth analysis of the plays (who are also enthusiastic instead of being dull as 
 the ones now) , improve the graphics while tweaking the gameplay... the game will be incredible. 
 It would definitely impress many people if in the future they added things such as fights , or 
 realistic hard fouls ... but you have to understand that if they did have these features, the future 
 game (s) would no longer be rated E for everyone.
  
  Until they add some new things (hopefully next year) , this game will always be great... but it will 
 never be superb. If I had spent more time, I could've made a more in-depth review. For now, this 
 is what I think of NBA 2k7 Overall. I reccommend that you buy the game. There is no need to rent 
 it, because if you're a fan of basketball, or enjoy the game of basketball, you will probably want 
 the game badly. If you've enjoyed some of the past versions of the game, you will love it.
  
  Enjoy... and hope to see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greydragon17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Last time around NBA 2K6 impressed a good number of people with its graphics, and its highly addictive 
 gameplay. Making people believe that the game was the best Basketball game out there for the time 
 being and in some respects it was the best basketball game out there. Sure it was great game but 
 not without its few flaws. And this year the same could be said, but whatever people may feel about 
 this edition of NBA 2K they must admit that there is signs of great improvement. With few minor 
 flaws. In NBA 2K7 you will find that the graphic have been done over to give a better likeness 
 to what the NBA Roster and arena's actually look like. And Camera angles make you fill as if your 
 actually watching the game at home with the camera man shooting the action from sideline. Between 
 timeout the cheerleaders and mascot throw it down to entertain the crowds while the players and 
 coach discuss gameplans. All of this score high with me as most can tell they was really shooting 
 for realism on this puppy. Gameplay got a push as well. Featuring some nice mechanics that give 
 you more control to what is happening on the court and with your players. Now you cand try to perform 
 different kinds of moves by choice instead of the computer always making that decision for you. 
 You want to do a lay up instead of a dunk? You've got it! Want to crossover and then make a drive 
 for the whole combo? You've got it. You want to make a flashy high flying dunk instead of a more 
 simple put it in the hole dunk? Then get in there and do it. Also another neat trick is the coach 
 on the fly option because now you no longer have to pause the game to go to the sub option and 
 switch players... you can now do it during game using the directional pad. May sound silly but its 
 actually very useful and time saving. As for flaws this year kinda makes you think of that old 
 saying sometimes where if it ain't broke don't fix it, because now with the main menu and the free 
 throw your going to be cursing at the scene asking why god is punishing you. The main menu is now 
 a quick play display where you use the right analog to pull up other options of games modes and 
 etc. The problem here is whenever you try to do something like create a player, change options 
 around and other stuff if you finish doing it or just want to take single step back in the options 
 your going to have to start all over at the main menu. Might sound like a so what but after a while 
 it gets on your nerves!!! And you better hope Shaq isn't at the free throw line for the winning 
 point cause it ain't going to happen unless your just some free throw junky. Not sure what they 
 did but now with even the best averaged free throw shooter your going to have a tough time making 
 a basket. Now don't get me wrong cause in 2K6 I hated the easyness of shooting a free throw. It 
 was too simple! But now it feels too hard. But you be the judge on that cause actually now after 
 a good soild 10 hours of gameplay I got the hang of it I think. Overall this game is great and 
 many people are going to have a blast with it. Improvements are there and make the game experience 
 even better then previous NBA games. Right now this is the best out there and I thank 2K Sports 
 for the work they put into it. Keep up the good work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is not to shabby compared to other games that are out there. I have to say it is a fun 
 and great experience... but there are a few things that keep this away from a perfect score. If 
 you are looking for a good updated version of basketball at the professional level this is getting 
 closer and closer to better and better. I have to say this holds the right to a SOLID 8.... I wish 
 I could say this is a 9 or better a 10... but there are a few things like the visuals of some players 
 are not that real.... and downright alienated :- (
  
  The sharp looking courts and on the most part the good visuals of most players team to team in 
 HD look really good. The close-ups of a few players and the advertisements kinda ask me... why are 
 these game considered $59.99 plus tax to actually own this. I really don't appreciate the NBA for 
 watching but to play a game this is one of the best I have ran across. This and the NBA LIVE series.... and 
 the LIVE 07 in my opinion is a good game.... but the 2K NBA is a more solid experience. I have racked 
 up alot of time the last day in looking for all defects in gameplay and visuals... I have to say 
 it is a pure NEXT-GEN experience.... but the game is good... don't get me wrong. I am enjoying the 
 game... and the presentation is really nice. Over-all this is a very solid title... and there are 
 improvements over last years basketball games. The achievements have its ups and downs..... Like 
 playing some players you don't perfer using to unlock a single achievement.... My other gripe is... if 
 you are going to have achievements.... make this fun... as in playing a season and getting one for 
 winning the title?? The online is set-up very, very nice... and goes off the winning ways from previous 
 years... If you have not tried the 2K6 version and jump into this... you will find yourself having 
 plenty of fun with this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigfred19882000
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  NBA 2k7 is the realist Sports game on the market. It still has its problem like any game. This 
 game is not very hard to catch on to but it will take you hours if not days to even find a new 
 things you did not know how to. 2k7 has Good graphics at best but it can get pretty clustered up. 
 This game has good solid gameplay every button performs that function as it should but they did 
 make the players to loose. (they tend to just get taken over by the computer on defense) The sound 
 is not up to par as far as next Gen is concerned but it will do. You will spend hours upon hours 
 trying to unlock everything, playing association, 24/7 and lets not talk about the weeks maybe even 
 months you can spend on xbox live. 2K7 is a great value now for both casual and hardcore basketball 
 fans a change from last year and last Gen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbnuts
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this game is not about running around and dunking everytime down the 
 court. Gone are the days of 88% FG shooting and I think I actually like it. The gameplay in 2k7 
 is by far the closest to real bball gameplay I have ever experienced. Having said that there is 
 a learning curve associated with this game. Last year it took me about a week to get used to 2k6. 
 In fact, at first I really did not like 2k6 because the controls are bit challenging. Same goes 
 for 2k7. I am still figuring out how to run the offense and play defense. Mastering the iso-motion 
 is the key and I can assure you, once you do - you will not be able to put down the controller.
 
  
  As advertised, the players in this game really do play like their real life counterparts. AI was 
 taking Eric Snow to the rack, and there was little I could do about. Shaq is a beast. He really 
 cleans the glass and is a load to handle down low. Ben Gordan - shoots the way he really does in 
 real life! Its really amazing.
  
  Running the offense is a challenge. Typical FG% are between 40-50% as in a real game. There are 
 about 4-5 dunks a game on avg. This prob is reflective of real life. When I get the ball with Shaq 
 around the rim in 2k6 it was almost always a dunk. Now he will more often take a jump hook or pull 
 some sort of cool post move. This is real. Also, you can no longer drive to rim at will by executing 
 a cross-over. Although, I was ABUSING Kyle Korver with King James last night! All in all very realistic.
 
  
  Lastly, I think the Kenny Smith Half time show is amazing and l like the touch of in-game substitutions.
 
  
  Now to the bad. The sound sucks. The crowd doesnt even get loud. Also, I feel the movement of the 
 players is a bit off. Sometimes they react weird to the controller. Also, I hate how when you kick 
 the ball out on the break there is always an animation where the player slows down to catch the 
 ball. Also, I am not sure if this is true, but my first impression is that the graphics are bit 
 worse from 2k6. This is on a HDTV w/ Xbox 360. I cant reall complain too much about that becuase 
 the graphics are amazing.
  
  In summary, this is the best bball game I have ever played. I really appreciate the realism in 
 the gameplay. The graphics are really good, and the individualism displayed by each player is amazing. 
 I am strait up addicted and will temporarily putting down Madden 07 which by the way is the best 
 football game ever created!
  
  -Nut 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jay2thaIzzO
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 27, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 rules hands down, i was a proud NBA Live fan for many years until 2003. Ever since then 
 2k sports has owned the hardwood and if you thought this year they would fall off..... WRONG!!! 
 This game is amazing and beautifully well done from the arenas, player animations, different moves 
 you can do and the list goes on and on. Don't get me wrong the game is definitly not a 10 but it 
 deserves a higher score than 8.2, something like 9.9 to be exact need i say more! Look i dont have 
 time to write this review for ya'll, you see what it is, come holla peace! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metaljeff
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 27, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  C; mon Gamespot, this game blows away Madden which got a 7.9. I like madden, but this game is a whole 
 year (at least) ahead of that game. This is a deep game that takes time to learn, but hey, that is 
 what realism should be about. I cannot wait for the highlight reel download to be released. This 
 is going to make my sportscenter commentator fantasies come true. Having the option to record entire 
 games would be nice, but this is a good start. The VIP system in this game alone puts it so far 
 ahead of Jive, I'd be embarrased to be one of the programmers over at EA's basketball division. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyAl
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  I normally write long, detailed reviews and hopefully, a few people have read my reviews and it 
 helped them make the all important choice of whether to buy or not. This is to my fellow gamers 
 who need to know about this game and whether or not to purchase... I am going to put it plain and 
 simple to anyone who feels my pain in video games-especially sports... My Review: This is the first 
 and only basketball game that I was able to play and enjoy a full game with 12 minute quarters.... 
 The street mode IS better than nba street.... 24/7 mode... No stats to increase... The more you 
 play, the better your man gets... Thats all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cesarylolis
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 27, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  This game is all that you would want in a b- ball game , because it has a great post game, awesome 
 dunks, signature moves to identify the players and even the players look like the real thing !! 
 I; ve played nba live 07 , the same day right before I bought nba 2k7, to see if maybe , just maybe.. 
 nba live was good enough to buy over nba2k7, I tell you what.... all I did was waste precious time 
 I could have been putting my nba 2k7 in my xbox 360 and dunking on some people !! just like the 
 commercial says !! ... I love this game !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bucfan47
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  The game has it all simply put. I'm not going to spend a whole lot of time writing this article 
 b/c the game is awesome. I've tried to set and think about the negatives and honestly can't find 
 one. If you liked last year's game and you are into real life basketball this games for you. No 
 question!
  
  I'll give it 9.3 to be as realistic as possible, but it probably deserves higher.
  
  Honestly 
 gamespot, please admit the guy you had review this game knew nothing at all about basketball games, 
 there is no excuse to miss this review by that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROMITHEMAN
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  This game is so go, it make you sweat when your playing because you really playing some man 2 man 
 DEFENSE, and trying to create an opening to spark a flurry of shots, a man has to work for dunks, 
 and then if they get a dunk, means that you need to switch your defensive play, you have all of 
 the buttons on your controller now to call plays instead of only 4, you can also do pretty much 
 all you need during the game in real-time which is beautiful, so 4 my opinion I think 2ksports 
 did an outstanding job, even graphically the game looks stunning, the crowd boos loudly when the 
 ref make a stupid call the player really reacts to a bad call, the animations R great, and the 
 free throws have a real ball player or fan like wow you really have to know how a player actually 
 shoots to get the free throws down which means they're not guaranteed makes anymore, so that's 
 why I gave this game a 10, because I love it 100%!!!!
  
  Live who? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason2386
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  2K7 at its best!! Looks like 2K Sports did it again!! The game is a imporvement from last year's 
 2K6. All round the best basketball game you can get!! EA Sports can't stick with this great game 
 anymore!! Wonderful job 2K!!! You won't be dissapointed. Graphics are un-explainable on how well 
 defined they are. It's just like you've been placed on the actual court for the whole game from 
 the realism it brings to your screen. Sound is spectular like always on the commentary, can't get 
 anything better than that.! It will definitely take sometime to get used to on the controls like 
 for shooting on the right analog stick, and i think in my opionion that its a little more challenging 
 this time, which makes it a lot more fun for you to work for your wins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 27, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  I've always liked the 2k version of basketball over NBA Live and I have played both. But this version 
 is better in some ways and more difficult in a few.
  
  The Bad:
  Free throws use to be cinch in the past ---FUGGEDABOUTIT -- in this version.
  
  3-pointers use 
 to be a piece of cake ---now you'll have to work for it.
  
  Trying to figure out why your guy just flopped on the floor and is nowhere near the ball?? Yeah... me 
 too.
  
  Remember all those high scores example 145-100 from past versions -- well..... that's all gone.
 
  You'll be lucky to get to 85 points and that's if YOU have your game on!
  
  The Good:
  More realistic NBA  Smith at half-time telling you how to improve 
 your game while cracking on your gameplay.
  
  Graphics: well it can't get any better than actually seeing the sweat dripping off the chin of Carmelo 
 Anthony at the free throw.
  
  Basically if you use the analog stick with very little pressure you can hit the 3-pointers but 
 it has to be with a player for example: Carmelo Anthony.
  
  You can't use Wallace to make'em if that's not his strong point.
  
  If you use the button, try 
 to use it with very little mashing .
  My advise learn to master the analog stick and you'll be good-to-go!!!
  
  P. S,
  Won't hurt 
 to use the sliders for your gameplay.
  Makes the 3-pointer alot easier... won't help with the free throws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoberfill
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 26, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  This year's reviewer is different from last year's and his grade is totally misrepresentive of 
 the quality of the game.
  
  Last year's game:
  
  Graphics-8
  Sound-7
  Gameplay-9
  Tilt-8
  
  This year's game:
  
  Graphics-9
  Sound-9
  Gameplay-10
  Tilt-8
  
  Overall, 
 there are so many improvements. The passes are better, the shots THEMSELVES are amazing, the net 
 graphics are much improved, the player models are an upgrade, the play calling with set plays is 
 sound. The rebounding is more realistic, and you have realistic driving capability, it's not like 
 you can blow past the computer everytime.
  
  It plays like you're WATCHING TV. Just the fact they got the player shots to match most of the 
 players is so unbelievable, I thought it wouldn't make a difference but NO it's huge. That itself 
 is so fun because you have to master your favorite player shot timings-so realistic.
  
  There are so many new animations, drives are more realistic, dribbling is more realistic, I could 
 go on and on...
  
  Great game, even an upgrade is worth it if you have 2k6 .
  
  On the 360 the graphics are truly stunning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdub8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, I read the reviews on gamespot , other sites, and user reviews. I was still skeptical, 
 however I think it was a good buy overall. I'm starting to think that the reviews from gamespot 
 are a little shady. How do you call a game better than it's predecessor, and then rate lower than 
 it is beyond me. I do agree that the potential for this game is threw the roof. 2k8 could get a 
 perfect 10 if they fixed minor things. However punishing a game rating that much for potential 
 is uncalled for. I also get annoyed with the people that think every good game is perfect, in no 
 way is this game a 10. To the game. Big step up from last year, it's a sim players dream. If you've 
 played last year, runnin and gunnin your going to have to change your style. The defensive AI is 
 allot smarter and get back allot quicker, the offensive AI is still dumb as hell but you get use 
 to it. The subtle details have improved greatly from last year, from people actually getting up 
 from the bench and sitting at the scorers table to check in to tipping balls to yourself for rebounds. 
 The shooting touches are nice, but take allot of getting use to from player to player. You can't 
 just pick up a random team anymore and play well with them without knowing them. In my first game, 
 I tried Adam Morrison out, and for the life of me I couldn't get his over the head shot to be a 
 perfect release. Free throws to me are still easy, I don't see people complaints to be valid. You 
 can't rely on set timing, but if you were good knowing when to release in 2k6, you should be good 
 in 2k7 keeping in mind that each player will have their own rhythm. Haven't played The Association 
 yet, and I'm assuming that 24/7 is still crap on a stick. Overall if you want an NBA game, this 
 is it. This is the best NBA game 2k or EA has ever put out to date.. I say we should all protest 
 Madden, so the NFL can break the contract so we can have a 2k NFL game.. I hate Madden NFL, and 
 I had Shaun Alexander on my fantasy football team, so I hate them even more now... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prioritymail
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Im a long time 2k sports fanboy but you have to believe me that this game is the best basketball 
 game out there. I have to warn you that it is so close to real life that only die hard nba fans 
 can get a hold of the deep gameplay aspects....
  But don't let that stop you, damn near every aspect of the game can be altered with sliders and 
 options to fit your skill level and still give you the extreme satisfaction of taking your team 
 to the finals over and over again with the association mode. (It isn't that easy but you can set 
 the difficulty between 5 different levels)
  The extreme lifelikeness this game brings is reason enough to buy this game.
  
  The most satisfying 
 thing you can ever hear while you are playing this game is when someone behind you says: what game 
 are you watching? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrDyabolik
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  There isn''t much to say about this game...... EXCEPT to GET IT, NOW! 2K Sports has done it AGAIN! 
 The graphics and gameplay are great. 2K focused this year on adjusting the errors of yester year, 
 and added a couple of things in the game modes. Personalize shots is something special, especially 
 on the foul line (everyone shoots differently. From Ben Wallace's quick release to Yao's hesitation 
 shot) . So, timing is key.
  
  The movement is very fluid.... Being able to control every move/step you make is something I've 
 always wanted (i. e. from hop steps, hesitation dribbles, to shaking opponents with pivot (foot) 
 spins) .... HELL, being able to shake your opponent out their shoes (once and a while) is CRAZY. 
 Some people may say it's slow, but I say it's simulation. Every player (i. e. Eric Dampier) can't 
 move at the speed of Allen Iverson (which has happened in other games) .
  
  NBA 2K&amp; is a GO GET ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43disaster
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  First of all I used to play atari basketball back in the day with the little stick men and the 
 teams consisted of 1 player on each team .. that game was fun as hell then .. so seeing what this 
 game can do it's really unbelievable .... I mean anyone who complains is down right foolish ... 
 what more do you want from a game I mean seriously ? Do you want real people who can talk to you 
 ? Maybe something where you can actually get into the television and play yourself ... what could 
 you possibly want .... and whatever it is lets see you go make it .. Great game Period 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is here and I dont think Ive seen the sports gaming community anticipate a game this 
 much since NFL 2K5. This has to do with a number of things. First, last years version was one 
 the best reviewed and rated titles of 2005. Second, for the first time ever, 2K Sports decided 
 to go all out with their promotion. The number of videos and screenshots for NBA 2K7 was staggering. 
 Finally, all of the videos looked incredible and that along with the promised additions made me 
 extremely excited to get this game. So much so that I drove three hours just to get the game a 
 few days early. Yes, I know I have a problem.
  
  Ive played every basketball game ever released in the United States. Ive also played every great 
 sports title ever released in this country and I say the following statement without hesitation: 
 The animations in NBA 2K7 are the best I have ever seen. Last year, when I saw that NBA LIVE 06 
 had signature jumpshots and realized that NBA 2K6 did not, I thought that the NBA 2K team would 
 maybe add ten to twenty jumpshot animations this year just to keep up with the Joneses. Then 
 at E3, when I was told that there would be hundreds of new animations in this years game, I listened 
 but in the back of my mind I was doubtful. I cant even count the number of times a game company 
 has promised a new animation engine or Hundreds of New Animations! only to realize when the game 
 was released that the hundreds of new animations turned into about ten.
  
  Not only does the game have individual jumpshot animations for every major NBA star (and plenty 
 of minor stars and bench players) but individual dribbling and celebration animations. I knew before 
 playing this game that Kobe Bryants jumpshot was in the game but I didnt know his celebratory 
 fist pump was also in the game. Same thing goes for Lebron James and his Rocafella pose after 
 a big basket. Also, the animations arent over done. The last thing I want to see is Kobe fist 
 pumping after every made basket. In NBA 2K7, the players save the big celebrations for big moments 
 and big shots.
  
  The day of cutscenes is officially over. In past basketball video games, coach, bench and some 
 crowd reactions were always shown in canned repetitive cutscenes. NBA 2K7 features no cutscenes 
 meaning that every action is shown within the flow of the game. Now when I say every actionI mean 
 every action. During substitutions, subs walk to the scorers table and players being subbed for 
 walk straight to the bench. During the game, you will notice that the coaches respond to the on 
 court action. Coaches also seem to have their own personality. For example, Doc Rivers was way 
 more active on the sidelines than Phil Jackson. Another small thing that adds so much to the game 
 is the bench interaction. If you are in the last two minutes of a close game, you will notice that 
 everyone on your bench is standing and reacting to everything that happens on the court.
  
  Since the inclusion of sliders in sports games there has always been a group of gamers that feel 
 that sliders have actually made the game worse. The group claims that developers have become lazy 
 and will rely on the user to make the game play realistically through sliders. While I never agreed 
 with that opinion, I think that NBA 2K7 disproves the theory. Here is a game that features more 
 sliders than Ive ever seen in a game but plays a fun and realistic game straight out of the box. 
 For obsessive sim ballers like myself, there are not only user and CPU sliders but individual team 
 sliders. If you think Phoenix isnt looking to run the break enough, a couple clicks to the left 
 will change that.
  
  The number of camera angles is absolutely mind-boggling. There are thirty standard cameras and 
 most of them can be adjusted a number of ways. I cant believe there will be one person who will 
 have a camera angle problem. The number of camera angles does lead to a small problem though. Im 
 a stickler for authentic arenas and while 2K Sports did add a few more authentic arenas this year 
 like Madison Square Garden and the Staples Center, there are plenty that still have the generic 
 treatment. Many arenas are cookie cutter buildings with the exception of the scoreboard (NBA 2K7 
 is pretty accurate when it comes to the scoreboards) and tunnel placement so this shouldnt be 
 a big problem. However, there are some glaring errors with some of the arenas. The Verizon Center 
 (the Washington Wizards home court) is missing an entire section of seats behind both backboards. 
 Now this isnt something that anyone would notice from the default camera angle but anyone playing 
 from a high angle will notice and huge empty space behind each backboard. Its not a major issue 
 but definitely something that should have been caught before release.
  
  Lets get down to the gameplay, OK? I could make this section very short by just summarizing the 
 following paragraph with one sentence: After well over thirty games, NBA 2K7 has the best gameplay 
 Ive ever seen in a basketball game, maybe in any sports game. Thats not enough? OK, Ill go a 
 little deeper. People can see from my past basketball reviews that Im a lot more anal about basketball 
 games than I am about other sports titles. I dont get excited if the AI does stuff its supposed 
 to do. I dont think its a great achievement if the CPU is smart enough to go to Tim Duncan if 
 its controlling the Spurs. Ive always felt thats what the AI is supposed to do. The smaller 
 things always impress me. For example, the thing that impressed me most in this game wasnt Shawn 
 Marions awkward jumpshot or Antione Walkers shimmy up court. It was Tony Parker absolutely ripping 
 my team apart and playing exactly as he does in real life. I tried every thing and I could not 
 stop Parker from driving and finishing or driving and kicking out to an open Bowen or Ginobili. 
 The best thing about it was that it didnt feel cheap. Parker wasnt driving and dunking over my 
 center or making miracle passes to open men. He was just making the plays he was supposed to.
 
  
  Its also little things like the CPU knowing when to call timeouts. Case in point: Im controlling 
 the Magic against the Knicks and Channing Frye is running me out of the Garden. Im down by sixteen 
 until J. J. Redick gets red hot and starts making every shot and cuts the lead to seven. Now the 
 CPU on most basketball games would wait until I took the lead before it called a timeout, if it 
 did at all. In NBA 2K7, the CPU called a timeout when I cut the lead to 7 and it pretty much killed 
 my momentum. I lost the game but I loved that the CPU realized it was in trouble and was smart 
 enough to call a timeout and regroup.
  
  Last years game was an absolute mess online. It was an unadulterated dunk fest and didnt resemble 
 NBA basketball in anyway. The 2K team took serious strides to make the online experience more realistic 
 and it seems to be a success. With that said, if you dont play solid defense and make strategic 
 adjustments, some online games can turn into dunk contests. However, if you play against someone 
 who plays sim basketball, you should have realistic and fun games.
  
  Association mode is definitely deeper and Im glad to see that the NBA 2K7 team took my advice. 
 They decided to add progressive fatigue to franchise mode. OK, maybe they didnt get the idea from 
 me but I suggested it in previous reviews and forum posts and Im glad 2K decided to add it. You 
 can no longer play your superstar forty eight minutes a game and expect it to affect his play in 
 subsequent games. I also love that back to back games affect players in this game the same way 
 they do in real life. Also new to the series are pre-draft scouting workouts and multi-user franchise 
 mode. Im a little disappointed that the mode only allows you to control up to 8 teams but it is 
 a step in the right direction.
  
  CPU Trade AI is much improved but it does have a few faults. In my franchise, there were some trades 
 that made sense (Tinsley for Posey) and others that made no sense at all (Larry Hughes for Joe 
 Johnson, Damon Stoudamire for Devin Harris and Marko Jaric for Sam Cassell) . Now I understand that 
 the point of a franchise is to create your own reality but shouldnt it recognize the past a little? 
 For example, there is no way that the Mavs or the Hawks would trade two young players (Harris and 
 Johnson) for two aging and expensive players like Stoudamire and Hughes. The problem seems to be 
 that the trade engine does not take in consideration the age and team importance of a player when 
 making a trade between two CPU teams. The good news is that there is a trade override option and 
 you can always reverse any bad trade. This is still a disappointment and undoing CPU trades does 
 effect the ability to immerse yourself in the season.
  
  Let me be clear: the game isnt perfect. The sound is probably the worst aspect of NBA 2K7. The 
 crowd isnt as responsive as I would like it to be. For example, Ive seen instances where the 
 home team hit a big shot that tied or took the lead in a game and the home crowd will give a lukewarm 
 reaction to the play. Ive also seen the crowd go crazy for a lay-up that gave the home team a 
 4-0 lead. It just seems to be sort of random. Also, on certain occasions the crowd will cheer for 
 the away team when they score a basket. It doesnt happen often but it does happen.
  
  Kevin Harlan and Kenny Smith are once again doing play by play and Im very disappointed in their 
 work. Its a shame because they are two of my favorite television personalities but their commentary 
 is extremely repetitive. There were several occasions where I heard the same line three or four 
 times in the same game. Players such as Sarunus Jasikevicius are still called by their number even 
 though they have been in the league for more than a year. The PA announcer is sometimes silent 
 after a score or will get halfway through a players name and stop before finishing.
  
  Graphically, there are still a few issues too. The player faces still need serious work. Some of 
 the major players like Dwyane Wade and Kobe look like their real life counterparts however, many 
 arent even close. Most of the rookies look horrible and some of them dont even have the right 
 skin tone (See: Rodney Carney and Quincy Douby) . Collision detection and some clipping issues are 
 present but they arent perfect. Ive played almost thirty games and I have seen two dunks where 
 the player went through another player. Still two times out of thirty games isnt that bad. The 
 clothing malfunction bug found in NBA 2K6 is still present in NBA 2K7 as you will see players 
 jerseys and shorts rip and tear for a few plays. This bug happens much less in this years version. 
 Finally, there are some small ball physics and sliding issues. The ball doesn't seem to touch a 
 players hand when shooting. It floats a few centimeters above his hand. Also, sliding is still 
 present but its no where near the NBA Live amount of sliding.
  
  Player spacing is another issue that crops up in NBA 2K7. Occasionally, you will see players get 
 in each others way and while it doesnt happen with much regularity it can be annoying. The biggest 
 on court issue is the defensive ability of big men. One thing this game is great at is mismatches. 
 If you have Gilbert Arenas guarding Shaq in the post off of a switch, its easy to back Arenas 
 down and score an easy bucket. The AI is also smart enough to quickly double team if there is a 
 mismatch. The issue arises when a quick guard like Arenas is guarded by a big man like Shaq on 
 the perimeter. In real life, Arenas should blast past Shaq with no problem but in NBA 2K7 thats 
 not the case. It takes several dribble moves to get past a player like Erick Dampier and that should 
 not be the case. Im sure that this is something that can be fixed with sliders but out of the 
 box this part of the game is really frustrating.
  
  Finally, I think its time to put the 24/7 mode to rest. This is 2Ks third try at making this mode 
 an interesting part of this game and its the third year they have failed. This year, your goal 
 is to raise your rep and get an opportunity to play in the Legends Charity Tournament at Rucker 
 Park. Its structured similar to previous years as you play with and against NBA players in order 
 to build your reputation. The main difference is there are now cutscenes that document the storyline 
 and instead of being mostly a mode focused on one on one play, this years mode focuses on five 
 on five play. Its still a big waste of time and as much work has been done on the NBA aspect of 
 this game, Im sure they could use the resources spent on this mode for something else like authentic 
 arenas or an All Star Weekend.
  
  Im going to make this really simple: this is the greatest basketball game Ive ever played. This 
 is also the greatest one year leap Ive ever seen in a series. I wasnt as crazy about NBA 2K6 
 as many of the fans and other reviewers were. I felt it was a decent but flawed game and it looked 
 great when compared to the competition but average on its own. NBA 2K7, however, fixed almost every 
 single flaw in last years game and add an unbelievable amount of animations and features. Due 
 to this, Im awarding this game my first ever 10 out of 10. Now before some of you go crazy and 
 yell How can you give this game a 10 out of 10 when you acknowledge it has flaws?! understand 
 what a 10 out of 10 really means. According to the Operation Sports ratings system a 10 out of 
 10 is a A rare and singular achievement in sports gaming. A 'must-buy' for any serious gamer. 
 I cant think of a better way to describe NBA 2K7.
  
  Note to the development team: You cant go back from this. The fans of this series (especially 
 the ones who frequent this site) will not accept future versions of this series that arent as 
 deep or as enjoyable as this years version. I would hate to see an NBA 2K8 or future version that 
 had less animations or not as deep as this years game. For now, Ill just enjoy the best basketball 
 game Ive ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartanx23
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 25, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Just when you think a series has reached the mountain top, your knocked firmly on youre a**! The 
 incredible amount of detail put into this game is astounding. The animations, collision detection, 
 graphics, immersion, game play, sound, presentation, player creation and NBA atmosphere are all 
 here. When they said the animations and NBA moves were created for each specific player, they weren't 
 kidding. Everybody from D. Wade to Eric Snow move and act as they're supposed to. The shooting 
 is the coolest by far, because every player has their actual shot release. All the players specific 
 shots are here! With free throws its funny, because you have to release Shaqs shot so late. Thankfully, 
 free throws have finally become more difficult. Gone are the days where you lined up two lines 
 and made 100%, how realistic is that? Visual Concepts should be commended for giving us a challenge. 
 Basically when youre playing, if youre shooting with the Matrix, then you had better do a quick 
 release. A lot of the players even move and dribble how their actual NBA counterpart does. This 
 makes the create a player feature incredibly deep. For example, I created Michael Jordan and used 
 Kobes shot for my attributes. Kobe Bryants shot is as close to MJs, so it was the logical choice. 
 Basically he looks and plays like Mike. Ive always wanted to be like Mike, and now I can. You 
 really feel as though youre controlling D. Wade, Chauncey Billups, Jason Kid, Steve Nash or Shaq, 
 and yet, it goes so much further than that. Kobes fist pump! Lebron biting his fingers nails. 
 Yeah, its safe to say that Visual Concepts have reached an unhealthy level with attention to detail, 
 but thank goodness they did. The expressions and emotions the players have are great. Everything 
 from a guy checking his shoe laces to the hilarious protests as they drop to there knee. The smiles 
 and frustrations are all there. The emotions aren't just limited to the players. The crowd seems 
 more alive and varied. Making substitutions on the fly while setting up a play is very cool. You 
 see the players report to the scorer's table, the crowd moving about in the stands, the camera 
 men taking photos, and meanwhile your flying through the air and throwing one down with the Flash! 
 It really is a lot to take in, and it creates this incredible atmosphere that's finally coming 
 together for this sport. The graphics are unbelievable to say the least. They didn't have to create 
 better player models, but they went ahead and did it anyway. Better shadows and reflections grace 
 both the players and their jerseys. The lighting reflects off the floor and onto the jerseys, its 
 that detailed! As great as the graphics look though, they could benefit from a little improvement, 
 but not much. I can't say it eough, but the jerseys really do look fantastic, as they move and 
 sway. The sweat also made an improvement. It just looks more natural now, where as before it seemed 
 a little overdone. The graphics are great and all, but the game play kills last years, because 
 of the new physics and animation. The controls are tight and the flow is right. You really feel 
 as though youre playing the game of basketball. The dunking is highly addictive and a whole lot 
 of fun if your D. Wade, Lebron, Kobe, Vince, or T-Mac. Boy let me tell you, it is so much better. 
 The whole package helps the dunks out, because they look, feel, and sound emphatic! Some of them 
 pack a lot of thunder and are fun to pull off. The first time you drive the lane with D-Wade, and 
 throw down a bounce off the floor jam, youll be left with amazement! They are definitely a nice 
 improvement over last year. I won't even talk about the post game, because I could go on all year 
 about all the cool shots I pulled off with it. However It's so deep I feel as though I have to 
 talk about it a little. Youll have so much fun mixing the post up moves with the drop step, and 
 then having the ability to use the shot stick. Its sick amounts of fun. I will say though, that 
 the shot stick has improved 10 fold and that is a huge reason why. Spins, floaters, and up and 
 unders are all here. The great shots have a lot of variety. If you mix the variety of shots with 
 the actual player taking the shot, your left with seemingly thousands of great looking shots. The 
 ball feels more natural as well, and the ball physics are also top notch. I've seen some pretty 
 cool shots drop, roll, and bounce there way in. One of them seriously bounced and swirled around 
 the rim for about 6 seconds, after an incredible shot I took with T-Mac. The steal button is very 
 cool, because depending on your players proximity and skill he will dive, swipe, jump, side step, 
 or put his arms up. Its great to knock a ball loose and watch a couple guys dive to the floor. 
 While the player is sitting on the floor he can't get up or it becomes a travel. Its great fun 
 to jump in the way of his pass or bat it out of his hands while he tries to get rid of it. I recommend 
 using the default X button to steal and dive, instead of the right analog stick. The stick is a 
 little to context sensitive, and you may find yourself out of position. Trust me, don't use it, 
 and just get down on defense with the left trigger. Its all about the animation it seems, and 
 It truly has opened up the game play. The 24/7 mode has improved and is a lot of fun, but still 
 only a diversion to the great NBA simulation, that is NBA 2K7. The menus have all received a great 
 update. They are sharp, crisp, and easy to navigate. Its nice to be able to make substitutions 
 while youre in the middle of a game, and be able to watch as the player reports to the scorers 
 table. The online tournaments and insanely deep leagues will keep you playing strong all the way 
 till NBA 2K8. The customization will even let you use your game play sliders, and change player 
 attributes. I love the fact that I can tone down Monu Ginobili, and Bruce Bowen, because Visual 
 Concepts sometimes gives guys like them a little too much credit. The sliders are great because 
 you can make the game anything you want to. I would recommend pushing the shooting, and blocking 
 sliders up a little, as well as the computers defensive/offensive awareness. Basically you can 
 make the game NBA Jam if you want to, or a tough as nails defensive affair with super low scoring. 
 This feature really sets NBA 2Ks series apart from the competition, meaning it has none. Speaking 
 of fast breaks, they are awesome. When you run the floor there are tons of options. You can do 
 a regular pass or bounce pass to your man on the wing, and hell do the appropriate stop animation 
 in order to get the shot off. You can also do a lead pass, and choose whether or not you want to 
 use a bounce pass within that lead pass. With the lead pass, youre player will run toward the 
 basket and continue the fast break instead of slowing down. Very cool indeed! So many options to 
 pull within such great environments. During the interview with 2K games, the developers said that 
 last year they weren't able to model every stadium, but now each stadium will have there own unique 
 look and feel. 2K6's arenas were basically last generation graphics mixed with new generation player 
 models, so when I finally got to see the Miamis, Detroits, and Chicagos arenas I came away very 
 impressed. They all have a different atmosphere, which is aided by a better lighting system and 
 fully modeled venues. After all, the 2K team said ticket holders would be able to pick out their 
 seats. All these great features wouldn't add up to a hill of beans that is EA's Live without some 
 cool sound. The crowd reacts great to all the situations, and seem to follow the action more closely. 
 More importantly, the players follow and react to the game. The sound of the ball, and I'm not 
 kidding here, is highly realistic. Whether its from your dunks, dribbles, bounces, swishes, or 
 you rattle that last second shot, they sound amazing. That's about it kids. I couldn't recommend 
 this game enough over the years, but Visual Concepts has touched on something very special here 
 with this game. I have been playing Visual Concepts NBA and NFL 2K series since they debuted on 
 the Dreamcast in 1999. It saddens me to no end that we could be playing NFL 2K7 this year with 
 this same attention to detail. EAs NBA Live series will never be as good as NBA 2Ks. For those 
 who want to say EAs game isn't out yet, I have this to say. If you have a Xbox 360, then go play 
 the NBA 06 demo out right now, and you'll have a pretty good idea of what to look forward to. I 
 would have thought NBA 2K7 would score in the 9's, here on Gamespot. I cant believe it didnt, 
 and how it scored lower than last year, Ill never know. NBA 2K7 is almost a completely different 
 game than NBA 2K6, and it was made better in every way. The bottom line is that NBA 2K7 has no 
 competition. Not from NBA Live. Not from Anybody! As amazing as NBA 2K7 is, I can't imagine things 
 getting any better. I honestly can't. If NBA Live scores higher than 8.2, then reviewers have not 
 done their job properly. In my opinion the Gamespot review was rushed and uninformative. To say 
 the game hasn't changed much was basically a flat out lie. Go get NBA 2K7 and soke in all it's 
 glory as the best basketball simulation ever made. I'll go so far as to say that this is not only 
 the best sports game ever made, but one of the best games ever created! NFL 2K5 is the other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Splinter36
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  You picture a game, that is just a slight upgrade from what last year had to offer. But the next 
 gen version of this game, is like no other.
  
  This game, is just far beyond reach. With every starter having their own signature jumpshot, plus 
 many bench players, this game is more realistic than any GAME I have EVER played, EVER. Let alone 
 200 PASSING animations only. But hey, that's nothing. Hear this.
  
  Not only do the key players have their signature jumpshots, but they have signature layups, dunks, 
 crossovers, and celebrations. They've got it all folks. From Steve Nash licking his fingers, LeBron 
 James biting his nails, to Gilbert Arenas throwing his jersey off into the crowd after each and 
 every game. This has to to be the best basketball simulation to ever reach the face of the earth.
 
  
  The developers said you could go through 3 whole seasons without seeing all of the animations implanted 
 into this game. And I believe it. It's simply astonoshing.
  
  So, to sum it all up.
  
  10/10. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
