-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA 2K9
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/nba2k9/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gameplay is excellent.
 Fewer missed layups this year.
 Living rosters provide up-to-the-minute statistical changes.
 Announcers do a nice job calling and analyzing the action.
 Signature player animations look great .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very few noteworthy additions.
 Free throws are still harder than they should be.
 Controls are too complex.
 Play-calling and ads sometimes obscure gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  8, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.3, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 904 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Visual Concepts
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Oct 7, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NBA 2K9's game is strong, but most of its new features won't be appreciated by the average Joe. 
 

  NBA 2K6 was great, NBA 2K7 was great, NBA 2K8 was great, and -- you guessed it -- NBA 2K9 is great 
 as well. Key additions such as more frequent roster updates and the ability to play five-on-five 
 online are relatively minor and will probably appeal mainly to hardcore hoopsters, but thanks to 
 time-tested gameplay and a mind-boggling number of play modes, NBA 2K9 is rock solid yet again. 

           One year 2K Sports is going to get free throws just right. Maybe next year.      

 
  Let's start with what's new... or kind of new. Living rosters are frequent updates you can download 
 throughout the season to make sure your rosters are up to date. All decisions on rosters and ratings 
 are made by a single person known as the 2K Insider. At the time of this review only one roster 
 update had been released, and it consisted solely of roster moves. But if things go as planned, 
 roster moves are just one way living rosters will affect the game. If a player is on a hot streak, 
 for instance, the Insider will bump up his ratings accordingly until he cools off; if a rookie 
 turns out to be a ridiculous dunker, the living rosters will be updated to reflect his prowess. 
 Nobody's ever going to say that up-to-date rosters aren't a good thing, but as far as being touted 
 as the game's biggest feature, living rosters are underwhelming.  

  This year's gameplay remains top-notch. It's uncanny how closely the video game mirrors the real 
 NBA at times. Players will fight through screens, dive for loose balls, come flying out of nowhere 
 to tip in a rebound, and show emotion after a big play. Provided you're not moving around too much, 
 your teammates will move around and do a decent job of making themselves open. However, if you're 
 dribbling quickly around the court, your players tend to stand and watch. If your teammates arent 
 running the floor properly, you can call out a specific play with just a few button presses. You'll 
 want to call plays to get your teammates involved, because it's tough to score on your own and 
 the defense adapts quickly to cheesy tactics such as going to the rim and passing in midair. In 
 fact, the AI is quite adept at recognizing patterns and shutting them down. You might not notice 
 this when playing lousy teams such as the Heat or the Thunder, but it's very apparent when you're 
 playing a team like the Celtics.  

  Casual players may have difficulty figuring out how the gameplay has changed since last year. There 
 are, in fact, a number of improvements, though their effect on gameplay is generally modest. Fewer 
 shots are taken from behind the backboard, and you're less likely to step out of bounds, too. Missed 
 layups, while still a bit of an issue, occur significantly less often than before. It would be 
 nice if taller players exercised more authority down low and dunked rather than putting up two-foot 
 bank shots, but at least they don't miss too many gimme shots this year. Lock-on D was overpowered 
 in 2K8 -- Shaq could guard Chris Paul with ease -- and that's not the case in 2K9. Locking on to a 
 defender and then sticking to him with the right analog stick is effective without being cheap. 

           There are more signature player animations than ever.      

  While improved, 2K9's gameplay still could have been better. The controls are overly complicated 
 and the manual doesn't provide enough guidance. It's better than last year's, but when the instruction 
 manual refers you to a more detailed online manual (which is currently only available for the Xbox 
 360) , it's safe to say the controls have gotten a bit too complex. Passes often don't go to the 
 highlighted player, so using icon passing is a must if you want to reduce turnovers. Manually snagging 
 rebounds is inconsistent as well, even if you've clearly established position. Free throws -- a problem 
 for years now -- are still too difficult to make thanks to the different timing of each player's 
 unique shooting animation. The AI is generally quite good on defense, but it's a different story 
 on offense, especially at the end of the game. CPU-controlled teams that are losing will often 
 stand around and dribble precious time away at the end of the game, but when they're winning they'll 
 sometimes take quick shots rather than running the clock out. Your teammates typically do a solid 
 job without your interference, but it can be frustrating when they fail to rotate on defense or 
 when you call a pick-and-roll only to have them pick and forget to roll.  

  Once again, there are a boatload of game modes. And once again, the menus are poorly designed (though 
 they are new) . Association mode, where you take the reins of an NBA franchise, is back and has 
 seen a few improvements, especially with trades and contracts. No longer are you given a visual 
 indication of whether or not a team or player is pleased with your offer before you make it; you're 
 only told whether or not it's a valid offer with regard to the salary cap. The "Larry Bird" rule 
 as well as three-team trades have also been implemented -- though it's incredibly difficult to pull 
 off a three-team deal. Blacktop mode is back and mostly unchanged, although the dunk contest is 
 a bit easier -- and, therefore, better -- this time around. You can still create your own highlight 
 reels with the game's intuitive video editor and share them online, which is a pretty cool feature. 
 The biggest addition to the already robust online play is the ability to play five-on-five with 
 as few as one person per console. There's no player progression, but it's a step in the right direction -- or 
 at least it would be if not for the crippling lag and camera angles that made it difficult to follow 
 the action that plagued each and every game. Two curious omissions may upset series veterans: There's 
 no baseline 2K cam option online, and online lobbies have been eliminated. However, given the leagues, 
 the ability to share rosters, and the tons of other options, you couldn't ask for much more from 
 NBA 2K9's online capabilities.  

  Signature player shots and outstanding animation are series staples, but it's the little things 
 2K9 does that make its presentation better than ever. The arenas look amazing thanks to raucous 
 crowds, packed sidelines, mascots, coaches, and ball boys. On their own these things may seem insignificant, 
 but as a whole they do a great job of replicating the atmosphere of a real NBA game. In fact, from 
 the default gameplay camera view, there aren't a whole lot of faults to notice -- it looks like you're 
 watching a live game. Only during replays and free throws do the few visual flaws -- a choppy frame 
 rate and player models that are starting to look a bit dated -- become apparent. Neither of these 
 affects the gameplay, but the inconsistent frame rate does make it difficult to enjoy the otherwise 
 impressive replays when the announcers (accurately) break down the game between quarters. Two things 
 that do affect gameplay, however, are the Gatorade logos at the beginning of the half and the play-calling 
 menus. Both obscure a large portion of the screen, often making it impossible to see the ball handler. 
 This is inexcusable.  

           The crowds, sidelines, and arenas look fantastic.      

  2K9 sounds as good as ever. The crowds are loud, the PA announcer is solid, and like in a real 
 NBA game there's plenty of music in the background. Kevin Harlan returns, and he's joined by two 
 new personalities: Cheryl Miller, who reports from the sidelines, and Clark Kellogg, who helps 
 call the action. Their play-by-play and commentary is generally spot-on, though they tend to repeat 
 themselves, sometimes on the same possession.  

  It's disappointing that there aren't more noteworthy additions to this year's game. Living rosters 
 and five-on-five play are nice, but their appeal is limited. That said, there's very little not 
 to like about NBA 2K9. Player animations are outstanding, Association mode is deep, online options 
 are plentiful, and the gameplay is terrific. If you're a baller, this is the game for you.     
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (74 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Newpancakeman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 8:55 am PT
Review:  I have always prefered sports games on consoles and this game made me absolutely sure about it!
 
  The first good point was KG on the cover, who was playing very well last season. When I first 
 played the game, I have had no idea how to control it, because I haven't played 2K sports before. 
 In that moment I've tought that the Live 09 is much better. But I was wrong. The NBA2K9 is better 
 almost in everything, exept the graphics. The games are more exciting, the introduction of the 
 games is perfect. The ratings of the player is great too ( in the Live 09 the ratings were too 
 low) . The daily roster refreshing works well, the game mods are good too. The new gamemode is the 
 NBA Blacktop, where you can play three point-shootout, slam dunk contest, the game of 21, or 1 
 on 1. The two season mode works well either, the application and the season.
  All in all, if you like basketball or sports games, I guarantee you, that this is the best choice! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rmoss81
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This game suprised me at first. I have always been a NBA Live fan. But i figured it was time to 
 switch to 2k. This game has great graphics, the sounds are amazing, and the moves and smoothness 
 of the players are breathtaking. It also has alot of features like: create a player, create a team, 
 game sliders, association mode, NBA blacktop (freaking sweet) , quick play, xbox live (fairly good) , 
 and many more. 
  
  Pros: NBA Blacktop: If you like dunks and pickup streetball... you will love this. It is dunk contests 
 streetball and three point contests 2k9 style. 
  
  Controls: Easy to use and the dribble moves (cross over) buttons are awesome. 
  
  Graphics 
 and sounds: Im in awe...
  
  Realism: I always think the best thing in a video game is making you feel like its real. This game 
 does that. I get so excited and pumped when im online with a tie game in the 4th and lebron throws 
 down a windmill dunk over KG. Just turn up the volume on your television and have fun.
  
  Cons: Online: The online is really good as in like the games modes and systems. But the waiting 
 time to load the freaking thing is very annoying. Every time you finish an online game you have 
 to wait a minute or so to load all these profile things. 
  
  A few glitches: The only glitches i have seen are when players run and dunk through people. It 
 happens very rarely. 
  
  Overall this game is a must buy for any basketball fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ikeman0777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 8:27 am PT
Review:  2k sports have made ea sports look ugly with this game. This is so real. It even has Lebron james 
 biting his fingernails. But what is has is more realistic gameplay with the lock on d and thats 
 what makes defensive play better than NBA live. I have played nba live since 2003 but one thing 
 i have waited for since 03 is the feature to create a team and that's what 2k sports have done. 
 But the weakness for 2k sports is FREE THROW SHOOTING it is son difficult you have to get your 
 timing write and as soon as you have it down with one player the other player has a different release. 
 Another feature is the nba blacktop which has a dunk contest, a game of 21, and a 3 point shootout. 
 All of these are fairly difficult the dunk contest is hard just to complete a dunk. 
  The signature moves are really great. I personally love playing with kobe because once he gets 
 hot he starts driving the lane and throwing down and the same with Lebron 
::::::

::::::
UserName: on_no
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  
  What can you expect from 2k sports? Great gameplay. Although it really hasn't changed to much from 
 last year, it's still excellent. This is a real basketball sim, you will need to box out, run plays, 
 etc... to get points, it's not as easy as pressing a button. Free Throws are hard, but you get 
 used to it, and there is a Real FT% mode. The game gets a while to get used to, but once you do 
 you might want to crack the difficulty up to All Star. While we're on the topic of AI, the AI here 
 makes a large bump. Pro mode is really easy, but All Star is challenging. Nothing is guaranteed, 
 which I like, because it's like that in real basketball.
  
  Game Modes:
  
  There is a variety on Game Modes in 2K9, but nothing new. Association is by far the best Franchise 
 sim in the history of video games. The mode is extremely realistic, everything connects. Think 
 about it this way, if you have a superstar playing guard for you, and put your regular starter 
 on the bench as a 6th man, the person in the bench will become upset, and will start playing worse 
 and worse, and fall from 6-20 overall points. Season mode and NBA Blacktop are also back, but the 
 real king here is Association.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  The co-op multiplayer is solid, unless your friend is a douche and presses the home button anytime 
 you go to shoot free throws. The live multiplayer is solid as well, nothing special, but it does 
 the job. Rosters are automatically updated when a transaction occurs, and users can create their 
 own rosters and upload them online. There is also player DNA, and no it's not the thing you buy 
 for $10 in NBA Live 09, Player DNA is when you create a player, and upload it to live. There are 
 also new highlight reels, where you film yourself doing "G" stuff, then upload that to live.
  
  Overall:
  
  Pros- Great gameplay, updated rosters, deepest franchise ever, and new user 
 generated content.
  
  Cons- Didn't I play this before? Oh yeah, last year, and the year before that, and before that, 
 and before that, and before that, and...
  
  Grade- 8.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BENZINO4677
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2009 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Just bought this game using the 2k $10 off coupon.
  2k9 is a good game that is two steps too slow. What I mean is the controls are very sloppy. Its 
 to bad because for me its the only thing holding back this game from being great. Besides that 
 the game play is topnotch. You have to work for every possession. I wouldn't say the game is cheap 
 but, until you get a hang of the controls you can't fully enjoy the game. There way too many blocks, 
 because of how long it takes for shooting animations. Like I said if they fix the controls this 
 would not be an issue. If you like real basketball [read: sim] this is the game for you. As far 
 as new additions go you have to love 2k share, especially if you want some great downloads of user 
 created stuff like game play sliders, achievement sliders, etc. Online & multi-player is where I 
 think this game shines the most. For you achievement whores out there they're the same as last 
 year game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatorballer
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2009 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Love the graphics. Love the player animations and rituals. Hate the gameplay. 2k8 was alot better 
 than this year's game. If you didnt know any better, you would think this game has a little man 
 inside the xbox360 laughing his butt off that he can make this game get to you so bad. I have never 
 been so frustrated with a game as i have with this one. I would like to think of myself as a hardcore 
 NBA 2k gamer. Im not saying Im the best, but most of the time I wipe the floor with my opponents (friends 
 that come over to play) . Having said that, playing a season (much less one game) in this year's 
 game is just asking for a broke controller. Where do I begin? First of all, it doesnt matter who 
 youre playing, if the computer doesnt want to lose, its not gonna lose. Im talkin everything from, 
 having your players miss wide open lay ups, to the computer player coming right down on offense 
 and making a 35 foot-fading to the side three pointer with a defender in his face. While this would 
 almost be acceptable once a game, it happens almost every qtr. Especially when you think youre 
 playing great defense, and about to cause the computer to have a shot clock violation, they throw 
 up a 3 with a defender right on him to hit it. Ive found that this happens almost 9-10 times that 
 the shot clock almost expires. This is only really half the frustration. Very seldom, in real life 
 NBA games (or any real basketball game) , should an offensive team get the rebound on a missed FT 
 attempt. It happens ALL THE TIME on this game.... if a player gets a chance at a three point play, 
 theres a very good chance it could turn into a 4 point play. Rebounding is very frustrating as 
 well. You could have 3 guys in the paint on a shot attempt and the computer player will have 1 
 and somehow either come away with the rebound, or the tip in. I dont have a problem with backdoor 
 baskets or alley oops being thrown down in my face everyonce in a while, but once again, it happens 
 so frequently. Your defenders sometimes just stand there and watch the player theyre guarding go 
 right by them for a backdoor cut. Playing good defense is pretty tough to do in real life, but 
 on this game, its nearly impossible. You can be all in a guys face on the shot and it still finds 
 the hole. When an opposing player is backing your guy down in the post, you might as well just 
 select your guy defending and pull him off and start running down to play offense, cuz of the BS 
 hook shot hes about to put on you is unstoppable. Now, I bet youre thinking "Uhhh, the hook shot 
 IS pretty much unstoppable". Yeah, depending on the player thats shooting it. Not knocking anyones' 
 teams' player. But if I see Yi go 10-10 on hook shots in a game against me again, im gonna puke. 
 Free throws arent impossible, but darn near close. I know how to use the "pull the analog stick 
 back and let go on release", but sometimes its so off that it even says "Bad Release" even if it 
 was right on with the players release. To have a good FT shooter at the line and miss both is definately 
 no uncommon on 2k9. And what's up with your player doing some wildly-insane shot under the basket, 
 when he should just go straight up and put it in..... this causes my shot to get blocked almost 
 every time. Why would any player, IN THE NBA, throw up some of the garbage your own players throw 
 up in certain situations like they do in this game? Sometimes its like watching a bunch of 12 year 
 olds playing city league basketball on this game. The passing is ok but definately not even close 
 to what it should be. Im still trying to figure out how if Im trying to pass it to a guy on the 
 right wing, he will manage to pass it to the opposite side of the court instead, resulting sometimes 
 in a turn over? Alot of times the pass wont even make it to a player cuz of a stupid pass at the 
 feet of the guy guarding your player. Loose balls are almost always picked up by your opponent 
 and double teams never work.... so dont ever try to trap or full court press.
  
  This game could be so much better if theyd leave the things that work alone, and keep adding signature 
 moves and shots to the game like they have. NBA, or even basketball in general, is a game of runs, 
 but this game just gives you the runs considering it feels like the game just cheats you out of 
 wins. While, Im not completely pissed enough to put this game down, it probably wont be long til 
 i use this game as a frisbee. The look of the game is crisp and sometimes is very fun for a short 
 while, only to let you down in the end. I think thats what causes me to keep playing, for that 
 one shining momment I get that signature win that was not only earned or deserved, but owed. Anyway, 
 2k..... ya let me down this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevans
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 9:20 am PT
Review:  All series go through their ups and downs. I was a fan of NBA Live on the original Xbox. Then came 
 November 15, 2005: The launch date of the Xbox 360 and of EA Sports NBA Live 06. Not only was playing 
 that game a bad enough experience to warrant returning it to the retailer that same day, but has 
 also forced me to avoid basketball games like the plague for the 3+ years since. Sure it's not 
 fair of me to paint 2K's roundball vids with the same muddled brush strokes as EA's inept next-gen 
 launch title, but that's the way it went. As a huge sports game fan, I've casually watched and 
 played demos of successive NBA games with distain. All heartbreak that passes with time and this 
 year I've opened myself to getting back into console basketball.
  
  The NBA benefits from a rare anomaly by today's sports gaming practices, and that is true competition. 
 I do believe this open market for development has lead to what is now arguably the tightest race 
 of the major sports on consoles. This review is as much an argument for competition as it is an 
 assessment for the game that single-handedly put basketball back on my radar, and given hope to 
 the future of presentation in sports videogames. This is NBA 2K9.
  
  Gameplay: Its amazing to see just how far basketball controls have come in a few short years. Basketball 
 by tradition is a fast moving, perpetually evolving team sport filled with subtle gestures, quick 
 cuts and player specific motion. The controls in NBA 2K9 are really a 2 headed monster. One on 
 hand they are brilliantly mapped out and cover virtually any and all actions you'd want to perform 
 on the court. The dual analogue control scheme that revolutionized EA's NHL series has found its 
 way to the NBA. The left stick moves your player around, while the right controls your shots. This 
 is not a brand new concept for hoops videogames, but the years of tweaking and development have 
 finally produced a superior playing product. The combination of the 2 sticks and left and right 
 triggers provide an incredibly deep and comprehensive gameplay experience. The other head of the 
 monster is that these controls  while simple for very basic movement  become daunting when attempting 
 advanced maneuvers. There is a very steep learning curve to NBA 2K9. Unless you are a seasoned 
 veteran of the series, it will take hours to nail down the amazing ISO-Motion player moves you'll 
 need to win games. The list of moves and corresponding controls is so long that their complete 
 explanation exists only on 2K's website. If you have access to the internet I highly advise watching 
 the training videos to learn the ISO-Motion controls. Everything from crossovers, hesitations, 
 spins, fades, behind the back passes, step backs, fakes, back downs, hopsteps, screens, pick and 
 rolls and the like are just scratching the surface of what your players can do. Take your time 
 to master the buttons and sticks if you want to experience all that 2K9 has to offer. Moving the 
 ball around and finding space is only half the game. Going to the hoop is an entirely different 
 set of controls. Dunking the ball is extremely rewarding if and when the situation is right. NBA 
 2K9 will force you to seek out that lane to drive to the basket. A combination of right trigger 
 and right stick direction will execute some impressive player-specific dunking animations. Shot 
 Stick "2.0" is a graduated feature this year that allows your player to make quick re-adjustments 
 in mid-air to evade blocks while trying to flush the ball. Timing is everything. If performed correctly, 
 your last second up and under can inspire you to publish your own personal highlight on 2K's website.
 
  As difficult as it may be to jedize your skills, 2K has put in more sliders than and theme park 
 for you to adjust the difficulty and behavior for both your players and the CPU. 2K also offers 
 a fantastic online community in which to play games, track stats and share sliders, rosters and 
 settings with other gamers. 
  2K9 is filled with great game modes as well. These supplements really provide the variety necessary 
 to give the game some lasting appeal. Standard quick game, season, practice, situation and online 
 modes are available. On top of these, the 2 standout modes in NBA 2K9 are The Association (franchise 
 mode) which has some very deep statistic tracking and story elements, and the highly enjoyable 
 Blacktop mode. This is where you take the game of hoops from spectacle of the hardwood to the friendly 
 inner-city confines of an urban park. Here you can play pickup games, shoot 21, horse and work 
 your magic in dunk school to take to the Sprite sponsored Dunk Challenge. 
  The gameplay just feels right. However, passing to the intended recipient can be difficult at times. 
 There are moments where a number of players will be moving and crowding together that make it difficult 
 to select the teammate you want to dish the rock to. There is a helpful icon-passing system that 
 works well, but will require practice to pull of quickly and fluently. Defense is also very tight. 
 Lock down defense is a simple pull of the left trigger. Once locked on you will be able to "shade" 
 your opponent by flicking the right stick in any one of nine directions to either apply pressure 
 or sit back to cut off passing lanes. Being locked on does make you susceptible to a pick and roll. 
 It seems like every style of play has some kind of counter that keeps the gameplay balanced. You 
 will be encouraged to keep evolving your strategy to win games. The computer AI is excellent and 
 will adjust to what you are doing. 
  Basketball is a game of runs and momentum. This has been exemplified in NBA 2K9 where the game 
 can feel unrealistically hot and cold at times. Players will magically start to miss easy open 
 jumpers, or your opponent will being hitting 3's with painfully sharp accuracy. This can make for 
 a very frustrating gaming experience if you're on the losing end, but it does work both ways. The 
 "clutch factor" is unrealistic, but luckily can be turned off in the game's menu.
  Online play and support are incredible. 5 on 5 multiplayer is smooth for the most part. The official 
 NBA 2K9 website offers gamers a chance to see how they are performing in their leagues, upload 
 and view highlights and to see what your competitors are doing. It's a shame this profound online 
 support didn't find its way on the console itself. It would have been nice to be able to see all 
 the benefits of the website in the game.
  Gameplay = 9/10.
  
  Graphics: NBA 2K9's graphics are a bowl of mixed nuts. From a purely technical standpoint 80% of 
 the game is top notch while the rest of its content is in need of more work. This does not mean 
 2K9 is not a beautiful looking game by any means. Separating graphics and presentation in this 
 game is like trying to un-mix salt and sugar. It's hard to judge where one begins and the other 
 ends. Food metaphors aside this is one of the best looking sports games ever made. Most of the 
 player models are nicely done and easily distinguishable. 2K has made some great progress in its 
 work on rendering lifelike faces, flowing jerseys and signature moves in recent years. A few players 
 have clearly been given more time than others, where some plastic looking ballers show their ugly 
 models during zoomed in shots. There are also some jaggy edges to the sleeves of players uniforms 
 that don't animate so well around nicely rendered player's shoulders. Commentators look wooden 
 and expressionless as they introduce the game. The Dunk Contest host, who sounds great, looks like 
 he is performing a ventriloquist act. These blemishes only appear on close-ups camera cuts. 
  NBA 2K9 absolutely shines from gameplay camera angles. Much of these strengths will be covered 
 in the Presentation section of this review, but by in large you will be challenged to determine 
 whether or not you are watching an actual NBA televised broadcast. The players move extremely lifelike 
 and smooth. Animations are plentiful both on and off the ball. AI behavior and player movement 
 is so dynamic that you will never see the same play execute exactly the same twice. Each possession 
 feels unique and fresh. Kudos to 2K for mapping some incredible graphics to superior gameplay. 
 The experience of playing and/or watching is the most realistic videogame rendition of the sport.
 
  The developers have clearly gone through painstaking work to showcase an atmosphere that rivals 
 attending a real venue. The crowds are phenomenal from afar. They move and behave like real people 
  standing to applaud, walking to and from the exits and sitting on their hands during blowouts. 
 The hard-court looks great too. From the shine of lights off the polyurethane floor to the highly 
 animated player benches, virtually every element has been given the care it deserves. It all adds 
 up to one of the best looking sports games ever made. Some more work is needed on player models 
 to bring the graphics up to par with EA's NBA Live franchise, but this is really only an issue 
 on a select few players during close-cropped replays.
  Not much else can be said about the player animations except that they are incredibly dynamic. 
 The seemingly limitless variety of signature shot types, while challenging to perform without hours 
 of practice, look phenomenal when executed properly. Jumpers, hook shots, post up moves, fadeaways 
 and dunks all look realistic. 
  There is a tiny issue with players feet "skating" a little on quick cuts and stops. Panoramic shots 
 of the arenas suffer from choppy frame rate issues. Also you'll notice players stuttering ever 
 so slightly when transitioning from one after-gameplay animation to another during close-ups. These 
 "problems" are minor and do not affect the 90% of the game that takes place between the whistles. 
 Even with these technical issues, this is easily the best looking basketball simulation ever made.
 
  Graphics = 8.5/10
  
  Sound: NBA 2K9 is a great sounding game. One of the first things you notice in any modern day sports 
 title is the commentary, and 2K Sports has clearly made that a primary focus. Kevin Harlan is a 
 good play by play caller whose timely comments will blend seamlessly with the authentic visuals. 
 He applies just enough emotion and variation to keep games fresh and exciting. Clark Kellogg is 
 this season's color commentator. He sounds great too, but you will start to notice a few extremely 
 repetitive expressions peppering his analysis. One annoying call is his quip on a player making 
 a bad decision after turning the ball over. Enough already.
  The crowd sounds almost sounds as good as it looks. Your fans will ride the waves of emotion that 
 rise and fall throughout the game. When home teams are on a nice run the crowd cheers loudly. Consequently 
 your fans will boo their team if opponents start to dominate. Perhaps the best audible addition 
 to NBA 2K9 is the team-specific chanting. "Lets Go Rap-tors!" sounds amazing and puts gamers right 
 in the action by offering an additional level of authenticity. 
  The sound effects on the hardwood take a backseat most of the time, unless you select to play the 
 game with the "On The Court" audio setting. This brings up a great strength that leads into the 
 Presentation aspect of NBA 2K9, and that is the incredible level of visual and audible customization. 
 This will be covered more in the Presentation section of this review. The squeaking of sneakers, 
 the swoosh of a flush and the chatter of team mates are those small elements that take this game 
 above and beyond a generic videogame. Layering all of these sounds together: commentary, hip-hop 
 music, PA announcing and crowd noise make NBA 2K9 sound as close to real life as you can imagine. 
 More play calling variety is needed to really make each game of an 82 game season feel unique. 
 
  Sound = 8/10.
  
  Presentation: Wow. This was the first non-EA sports game I've played in 2 years (MLB was the last) . 
 NBA 2K9's presentation is arguably its greatest strength. Here is where developers take all the 
 hard work done by the graphic and sound departments and homogenize them to output a truly dynamic 
 broadcast quality aesthetic. 
  Virtually everything that I am going to discuss here has one thing in common: customizability. 
 Lets start with the cameras. The default gameplay camera is a perfect replication of a televised 
 broadcast angle. Framing the game properly is a fundamental start. It's possible not only to tweak 
 the zoom and height of each camera, but to switch it out for an arsenal of other playable angles. 
 So if "broadcast" isn't for you, then sideline, pressbox, nose-bleeds, action, panoramic, wire 
 and the fan-favorite "2K" cam are just a tip of the visual iceberg. The cinematic direction that 
 includes cutting to responsive player close-ups and applying transitions are done extremely well. 
 These emotive dynamic cuts ensure that you are never taken out of the experience. 
  Instant replays take full advantage of the camera system. Each highlight is shown with changing 
 broadcast-true angles. The accompanying commentary is fairly generic and could use some more play 
 specific analysis. The halftime and post game wrap-ups are good. Highlight reels are great looking, 
 but could also benefit from dynamic play by play perspective commentary. The Top 3 plays, Game 
 Recap and Player of the Game highlights are brilliant. All of these components are miles above 
 what the competition is doing, but still not quite up to par with what 2K did with NFL2K5 years 
 back. 
  Franchise mode (The Association) and Season mode are backed up with some deep stat tracking and 
 storylines. 2K Sports is doing great things in putting games in perspective. There are daily headlines 
 that summarize the action from around the NBA as well as speculating on trade rumors and the impact 
 of league events. This is an incredibly immersive feature that makes playing a franchise in NBA 
 2K9 feel like much more than a solitary basketball game. This is an extremely deep simulation that 
 uses supplementary modes and tools to showcase its solid graphics and tight gameplay. 
  The live ticker that shows real life sports scores is a great feature. It would be nice to be able 
 to see scores and highlights of other 2K9 franchise/season games as they happen. 
  The biggest problem with NBA 2K9 is its navigation system. For as difficult as it is to master 
 the controls of your players on the court, the menus are equally as challenging. Being able to 
 find and access all of the modes, sliders and options is far too difficult. There are way too many 
 different menus that contain confusing terminology and questionable hierarchy. Navigating through 
 this system can feel like being lost in a maze. This will most certainly frustrate gamers who don't 
 know specifically where to find what they are looking for. 2K Sports really needs to simplify and 
 streamline its features properly next season. There are so many incredible modes and customizable 
 features that are just too hard to find.
  Presentation = 9/10
  
  Overall: NBA 2K9 is a wonderful sports game. The controls are well mapped to the controller with 
 somewhat intuitive analogue stick combinations. Casual gamers will find this game difficult. It 
 will take most players a few hours to get the basics down pat and even more time to take advantage 
 of the advanced moves. Given enough time, NBA 2K9 becomes the most realistic basketball simulation 
 on the market. The graphics are good. Technically they are a mixed bag, where some player models 
 still require further development. For the most part everything looks just like it should. The 
 game looks and performs best from all of its gameplay cameras, where player movement and crowd 
 atmosphere will rival that of a real televised game. The presentation is absolutely top shelf. 
 Rival developers can learn a lot from the effort 2K Sports has put into this aspect of their NBA 
 franchise. It goes to show just how far a superior presentation can take a sports title from a 
 solid single-play game to an immersive ever-changing broadcast quality experience. The menus are 
 a big pain and the commentary needs some more variety. Ultimately, if you put in the time to learn 
 the advanced gameplay controls NBA 2K9 will reward you with one of the best virtual renditions 
 of a prime time sport.
  Final Rating = 8.8/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xliang
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2009 7:48 am PT
Review:  the game looks good and is definitely better then 2k8. It is but too easy to score in the paint 
 which make me feel frustrated sometime . I sometimes felt like throwing my controller ( -.- ) cause 
 sometimes even a point guard can score over a centre effortlessly and i mean it. But the living 
 roster made it worth the wait and the graphics and sound effect are good. The charging and blocking 
 foul are adjusted much better then 2k8 and can be said the most realistic basketball sim i have 
 played. The association2.0 mode and other game mode are much improved and the players stats are 
 quite similar. so after much blabbering, the game is almost there but not quite. Set plays like 
 pick and roll are much more realistic and better but sometimes the player doesnt react to a play 
 like some kind of bug? and they often DT players like shaq and leaves the outside shooter open, 
 i mean i rather let a opponent score a 2 rather that a 3 pointer right?? (lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Yes I said the best sports game out there, if you look at the ratings, 2KSports Basketball has 
 bee the best rated sports game out there. Not Madden, not Baseball god not NHL Hockey, it's been 
 the 2KSports series basketball game. There aren't a lot of changes in this year's version but the 
 changes made really makes this game more realistic then ever.
  Playing defense is more realistic and a bit more harder this year, now that you can shadow the 
 player with the ball left to right, so if he is a right handed player you can shadow him to that 
 said making him go to his off side. That is a cool feature that gives you a bit more of an option 
 on how to play your man. You have more of a option on calling plays on the fly and you can make 
 coaching changing from the play screen allow you to make adjustments more of the fly then last 
 year.
  The graphics hasn't changed much though there are more animation this year, but with the added 
 animation, specially on the fans in the stand side, the game can get a bit laggy at times. The 
 sound of the game is still very well done; you can hear the players talk and the coaches calling 
 plays on the side. The announcers are a bit better this year, though they say the same things over 
 and over, after awhile its better to just turn them off and listen to the court talk. I turn off 
 the music as soon as I get the game, so I can't tell you anything about the sound tracks in the 
 game; they are usually pretty worthless to me.
  Overall there isn't much to complain about in this game I think the game made some changes, and 
 some improvements but overall the game is getting a bit dated, and maybe not as much fun as last 
 year, but still by far the best sports game out there.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMaddess
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This is the best basketball game I ever played in my gaming history. The graphics are stunning, 
 the gameplay is as real as it get. It feels like you are really in the game because of the realistic 
 body contact. The game has so much detail, I do not even understand how they put so much detail 
 on 1 CD, but that is not my job. My job is to have fun and that is what I am doing with this game. 
 Every player plays like the real human player, to dribbling, to dunking, to free throws, and just 
 walking about. If you are a NBA fan, you will become a fan of NBA 2k9!!!! There is also a Dunk 
 Contest but I haven't got to that as of yet because I am so into my season, but I am sure it is 
 great also. I did play Street game play, and the gameplay changes dramatically in a Good Way. It 
 really feels you are playing a pickup game. You can do as many tricks as the real park players.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpmp777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This Game Cant Get Any Better As Far As Being Addictive. Since The Game Is Very Addictive, It Will 
 Give You Plenty Of Hours Playing. The Assosiation 2.0 Is Featured In The Game. It Is Like A Career 
 Mode For Basketball. Select A Team And Get Started. You Can Do Alot Like Trade, Sign Players For The 
 Draft, Sign Players For Free Agents, View Stats, And Of Course Play The NBA Games. X-Box Live Is Good 
 On It Too. Play Against Your Friends. Dont Forget This Game Has Other Features As Far As Playing 
 The Slam Dunk Contest And The Three Point Shootout.. This Is Definetly A Interesting, Fun, And Super 
 Highly Addictive Game. You Will Always Come Back For More When You First Play This Game. Its Very 
 Addictive And Worth The Buy. Its Also Way Better Than NBA Live 09. As In 2K9 You Can Create Your 
 Own Player And Assign Him To A Team. There Is Alot More Features In Nba 2K9 Than NBA Live 09 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidudeone27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  I'm not so much a basketball fan but have enjoyed playing the basketball games. 2K9 is well put 
 together and after playing NBA Live I'm happy I chose 2K. 2K games never seem to disapoint. I just 
 wish they would get the nfl license back because every other sport game they make is golden.
  
  Of course there are some flaws as sometimes I feel the call when the ball goes out of bounds 
 is wrong and shots that should miss somehow find their way through the net. These problems aren't 
 big enough to cause disruption to your game but may frustrate you from time to time.
  
  The graphics are good and the gameplay is just right. The commentary and extras also add to the 
 game. The online for the most part seems lag free except once in awhile. I recommend this game 
 to any fan of the gaming sport genre. You will get your moneys worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaavee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  love the living roster thats cool as #### the game is very good but there are a few glitches that 
 get annoying but the thing that annoyed me the most was the isomotion changes, there was no need 
 for it because it was perfect as it was in 2k8 (which was excellent 9/10) i mean i am now a convert 
 as i will never go back to nba live no matter what happens the 2k series is too good and an excellent 
 simulator but hopefully they will fix the isomotion with a patch or something then i would raise 
 my rating for the game to 9.0. the lead passing is excellent the online games are can be good but 
 one poor connection within a game can lead to some seriously stupid gameplay trust me if your in 
 a laggy game DO NOT TAKE A JUMP SHOT EVER, EVER!!!
  
  if you like basketball then get this its better than live and if you havent played 2k8 then get 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggler8460
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K9 is by far the best basketball sim on the market. While it has its flaws the amazing visuals, 
 right on the money animation, and in depth game play modes more than make up for the few technical 
 flaws that I could see. NBA 2K9's superb animation make the HD gaming experience almost too realistic 
 to believe. Add in a few personalized movements and you have a game that makes you feel as if you 
 are controlling a real NBA game. The Association in most likely the most in depth gaming mode in 
 sports and makes an 82 game season go by in a flash. One of the parts of this game that I particularly 
 enjoyed was the long list of plays that you can pick from. Going in to practice mode allows you 
 to run the plays with or without defenders and against a variety of defensive sets. The practice 
 mode also exhibits the games shrewd AI. Any one play will be quickly shut down by the computer 
 and the game adjusts to your style of play in general (outside, inside, pick and roll ect.) One 
 the negative side the game can be insanely frustrating. A mind boggling amount of players go soft 
 to the rim and consequently get blocked all to often. Controls are tight until you pass it into 
 the post where the selection of shots and moves are extensive but you will find yourself all too 
 impressed if you actually pull of the move you want. On the defensive end the AI will inexplicably 
 switch his D leaving his man open for the easy basket. Careful player movement can solve this problem 
 but one false move in a close game will send your controller across the room. While NBA 2K9 have 
 a few flaws the overall game experience is unparalleled in the basketball video game genera. I 
 highly recommend.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OGLocc123
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  There are a lot of things that are important to have a basketball game that both looks good and 
 plays well. First off, it has to move fluidly, at all speeds. There has to be a sensible transition 
 from locked-in, defensive position, into a steal, into a fast break, into a wide open dunk. NBA 
 2k9 does this better than any other basketball game I've played. 
  
  Second, the game has to have plays that are balanced... not impossible to stop for the defense, 
 and not worthless to the offense. For example, in NBA 2k8, their was a major issue with the pick 
 and roll. Specifically, the defender of the screener became a zombie and didn't cover either of 
 the offensive players for a second, and you have to choose between giving up an open 3 or an open 
 dunk. This has been corrected in 2k9. Now the defender will automatically switch out, and you have 
 to switch down to the screener. This makes both basketball and video game sense. Overall, the plays 
 work well if run correctly on both offense and defense.
  
  Third, the players have to look good. You can't have Kobe Bryant look like a pixelated mess, no 
 matter how good the gameplay is. The faces on this game look great. The only issue with graphics 
 is that the knee-high socks look like... well... a pc sports game, even on the xbox360 (No offense 
 to you PC sports gamers, it's just that sports are way more fun on a gaming console) . But it's 
 not just Kobe, LeBron, Garnett, etc that look amazing... all the way down to the role players, 
 they look good. Sometimes a guy who barely plays will be at the line and they close-up on his face 
 and it's amazing how close they look to the real deal. But I won't be saying that in 10 years (I 
 say that because I broke out nba live 99 for the n64 the other day and it hurts my eyes trying 
 to watch the players move around... but at the time those graphics were off the chain) . 
  
  Fourth, the players' isolation moves have to be realistic and effective. Last year, Iverson's crossover 
 was useless. Instead of crossing over and then blowing by a defender like in real life, he would 
 stop to almost a stand-still, and do the slowest, ugliest video game crossover ever invented. Now, 
 that same crossover propels him forward past the defender. The isolation moves are key to people 
 who play this game online, especially "cheesers" (aka people who use the Cleveland LeBrons or the 
 LA Kobes) who set up the isolation play and then try to score 100 points with one player. That 
 reminds me - fortunately team defense is a lot better in this game. The computer controlled defenders 
 will come over to help instead of standing there Zombified for whatever reason (probably don't 
 want to end up on a poster. i didn't think that sort of AI was available yet) . Anyway, no more 
 81 points for Kobe. Still, if you want to cheese, you can. It's possible... but no fun.
  
  The biggest problem with 2k8 is that there was really no pace control. If you wanted to slow down 
 the game, you couldn't it usually resulted in a bad shot, and the other person wants to run-and-gun 
 so bad that by the end of the first half you're pulling up for 3s 5 seconds into the shot clock 
 unless you can get a dunk. Well, 2k9 is a lot better in terms of pace if you do want to slow it 
 down. Run plays, settle down, then get a good shot. It's that simple. For what feels like the first 
 time in an NBA sim, you can force other players to play the slow down style if you want. 
  
  There are a few issues - like the players half-assing it down the court on a fast break when 
 you're not controlling them, or how they always run straight to the corner instead of to the rim. 
 Also, the jump-pass is overpowered to the extreme. There's no way Chris "The Birdman" Andersen 
 should be going up for a dunk then all of a sudden dump off a pass to Nene standing 10 feet away. 
 Also, there are some cut screens after time-outs and to start quarters that you cannot skip, and 
 they look choppy at times. I might as well mention how you can't even see the jerseys when picking 
 them. You just kind of pick "alternate" or "retro 1" without really knowing what they look like 
 unless you already know... One last thing... I'm sick of most of the things the announcers say. 
 They repeat themselves ALL THE TIME... and most of the things they say is from the last game. Plus, 
 this new dude they have in here who replaced Kenny "The Jet" Smith is mad boring. I swear, this 
 dude makes Larry King seem exciting. I mean, The Jet is an idiot for sure, but at least he didn't 
 sound so forced with everything he said. Plus, they got rid of Craig Sager AND his wardrobe. They 
 replaced him with with Cheryll Miller, who is cool and everything, but I just want to see Craig 
 Sager's dope suits! 
  
  http://deadspin. com/assets/resources/2008/04/craigsager. jpg 
  Just look at those marvelous sequins!
  
  Anyway, overall, this game is for real. I really think 
 it's not only the best basketball game I've ever played, but probably the best sports game. Fun, 
 addictive, doesn't get old, great modes of play... 
  
  OH and that reminds me, the Association Mode is real good if you liked the older ones. It's pretty 
 much the same thing... except for Steven "The 2K Insider" A. Smith. Nice addition I suppose, but 
 at least this one doesn't yell while he talks like the real Steven A. I think the only thing that 
 would have made this mode better were something like SportsCenter once a week (season time) . Hey... 
 NFL 2k5 had it. That was actually a really cool feature, now that I think about it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aLexanderrness
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  People are too unappreciative to nba 2k9 and they seem to forget their roots. Look back to when 
 you played nba live 04, think back when you had that ps2/xbox/gamecube, or even the nintendo 64 
 and such... people are not seeing how much basketball games have revolutionized. Look at the game, 
 the graphics are beautiful, the gameplay exceeds any other nba game. People are just too ignorant 
 and blinded by their demanding expectations to see the true value of nba 2k9.
  
  This game is great mainly due to it's widely known simulation gameplay. This game is as sim as 
 you can get. Sure there are some minor issues with the CPU shooting 60+%, but they are fixable 
 with slider changes. I have been playing 2k since 2k6, and it has only gone up. 
  
  There are some issues in this game, the most important being the animations. Sometimes the animations 
 get stuck, where you have no control over them, leading to you going out of bounds or committing 
 a turnover, but i can deal with it. 
  
  The association mode is simple, which is fine with me. Making trades, signing FA's, and playing 
 games.
  
  The online is whack, but I don't play much online due to the extreme abusing people do to win, 
 which is extremely annoying. I'd rather play the CPU or a friend co op. Another complaint I have 
 is the freezing, there are freezing issues. 2k just needs to eliminate the bugs, and this game 
 will be amazing-ER. create a player is messed up since you can't customize your player's eyebrows! 
 so every playe looks like charlie villanueva =/. 
  
  Overall this game is a must buy if you're a basketball fan. Please do not get this game if you 
 know nothing of bball, gain a lil knowledge first, I don't want to play online with someone who 
 doesn't know jack about basketball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxReklawxX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  The game has to be the best one ive played
  starting with best Ball controls flashy dunks nice jukes and first and for most
  the graphics 
 are to insane to believe i mean it seems so real that it forces you to be into the game you cant 
 just kick back and relax and play it, no!! you have to be actually into the game thats why its 
 so great to play with friends cause you will always have a competitive game between you guys
  and oh man the signature dunks are amazing especially with the new defense system. Plus with the 
 association all the stats are tracked and instantlly put into the game. And oh yeah not only did 
 i mention the 5 v 5 online
  i mean thats cool but except when everyone is a ball hog and just has no team work at all. But 
 overall i definatly give the game a 9.5 and i really love basketball go D-Wade!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyekey
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 22, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  This game is not even close to being a finished product. 2K has even asked users to post issues 
 on their message board! Isn't that what beta testers do? I paid 59.99 for this joke of a game!
 
  
  Issues - 1) No ranked lobbies!
  2) Very limited cameras online!
  3) All big men are created equal in the lane (no one misses!)
  4) Frame rate problems with 2k 
 Camera offline!
  5) 2K online interface is at least 6 years outdated!
  
  The first time i saw a console game patched, I feared that we would start to become beta testers. 
 That day is here. Shame on you 2K Sports!
  
  I was an avid advocate of your products. NBA 2K7 was one of the best basketball games ever made! 
 NFL 2K5 was a masterpiece!
  
  You purchased an exclusive license for MLB games for the Xbox 360, yet you put out mediocre at 
 best baseball games year after year! Now, you break your calling card, basketball. NBA 2K9, beta 
 version... in stores now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leonsa85
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  Great, as always the best in the series. The defensive mode is improved, the post plays, signature 
 moves and he pace gives the game the label "Amazing", but as everything in the world 2K9 has its 
 disatvantages. The controls (especially dribling) is tough, automatic playcalling lack some reality, 
 passing needs some improvement. As i said in overall the game is great.
  
  The dinasty mode is very much the same, but has major improvements mostly in the field of automatisation 
 of the modes that you are not interested in (like training camps and etc.)
  
  Tha visual and audio side is absolutely amazing, the characters, crowd, moves, animation, lighting 
 is great.
  
  
  
  
  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 - = ` ~ ! @ # $ % ^ & * ( ) _ + |   ? , . / :| ; ' \ 
  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
 9 0 - = ` ~ ! @ # $ % ^ & * ( ) _ + |   ? , . / :| ; ' \ 
  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 - = ` ~ ! @ # $ % ^ & * ( ) _ + |   ? , . / :| ; ' \ 
  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
 9 0 - = ` ~ ! @ # $ % ^ & * ( ) _ + |   ? , . / :| ; ' \ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dante1st
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  At the time of this writing, there has not been any patches to correct the issues plaguing the 
 game that the creators were too incompetent to see beforehand or prepare for. Even with these issues, 
 which I'll talk about specifically in a moment, this is still the best basketball game I've ever 
 played.
  
  
  No matter what happens in the future to correct this game, this will forever be remembered for 
 its absolutely and completely broken online game. A lot of people use hyperboles and exaggerated 
 adjectives to describe an aspect of a game that fails to live up to standards to emphasize their 
 point, but I mean this quite literally when I say it's unplayable. Here's the chronology of how 
 things will play out if you attempt to play an online game: for an Unranked Team Up game, out of 
 10 tries, you'll fail to connect 7-8 times, when you do eventually connect, the game will either 
 disconnect upon entering, or sometime within the 1st quarter. If you're lucky enough to not experience 
 any of this, even then, your BEST CASE scenario is to play a completely lag filled game for 4 quarters. 
 If it weren't for the lag, I wouldn't be as angry about the disconnects, because at least then, 
 I can still enjoy a quality basketball game online, for however long it lasts (because the gameplay 
 is almost perfect, which I'll get into) . It's not much better with Ranked Team Up, your connection 
 success rate is a lot higher, but it doesn't matter since you still either get disconnected midway 
 through the game, or you're treated to a slow-motion, herky-jerky, lag filled game.
  
  
  Some other points:
  
  
  --The 2K Camera view LAGS in offline single player mode. How is this 
 happening. How can you knowingly release a game knowing that two main elements of your game are 
 severely flawed. I can almost buy the online excuse that they didn't expect this many players to 
 bog down their servers, but how do you not see that the camera view you've used for the last NINE 
 years lags. Well, this is supposedly being patched, we'll see, no patch as of now, 11/5/2008, 11:30pm 
 EST waiting for my shift to end..
  
  
  --There's way too many blocked shots around the basket that END UP GOING IN ANYWAY. If the impact 
 of the block was loud enough to be heard clearly, then surely the trajectory of the ball should 
 change enough to NOT go in the hoop. Every now and then sure, but it happens too often.
  
  
  --Lot of people complain about the right stick menu navigation, but my problem is with the 
 pause system (what's up with me and pause menus?) In most games when you pause, you have the separate 
 menu options to choose, and there's usually a menu option that you can click for something like 
 "resume game," or "return to game," or if you're a normal human being, you'll simply press the 
 equivalent of whatever the B button is on your controller, no matter what console or game it is 
 (or you'll press Start again, thereby returning you back to the game) . Well guess what, you can't 
 do that here. You have to specifically choose the menu option that says "resume game." It may seem 
 like nitpicking, but I despise bad, unintuitive controls. It just shows thoughtlessness from the 
 designers. It's like putting the ignition to a car six more inches to the right, sure, it doesn't 
 affect your ability to start your car, but why not make it as comfortable as possible?
  
  
  --The only reason I play this game is because of the included option of playing as ONE player 
 on the court. This feature has had many monikers over the years, but always been poorly implemented 
 due to the fact that it's only superficial. Previously if you controlled one player, most of your 
 teammates would just stand around waiting for you to call for the ball, doing absolutely nothing. 
 The last game I played that had this feature properly implemented was Slam 'N Jam '95 for 3DO. 
 2K9 finally does it properly because even while you control a single player, your teammates are 
 still reacting to what's going on on the court, hitting the open man, taking open shots, cutting, 
 passing YOU the ball if you're open. It's a fun challenge to see how well I can carry out my assigned 
 duties and play within the offense, and thanks to the on screen diagrams, you know where you have 
 to be at what time, and what you're supposed to do, whether it be to curl, set a screen, etc. My 
 only complaint is the location of how to access this feature. They've got this thing hidden in 
 the button configuration menu, and even then you have to access the advanced subpage of it, where 
 you designate whether you want to play PG, SG, etc. Why isn't this under the GAMEPLAY menu??? I 
 just wonder how many people even realized this feature existed..
  
  
  --When you're double teaming someone, once you are in that double team animation, it's impossible 
 to break out of it. If I want to harass a post player, once I'm locked into my animation, I have 
 no way to run back out to the now wide open player at the 3 point line. I don't care if they go 
 5/5 from the 3 point line, at least give me the option to run at them and put a hand up. This, 
 and the camera issue is the only gameplay flaws that made me give it less than a perfect 10 score 
 (the broken online doesn't factor in) Problem is, although the camera problem is supposedly going 
 to be patched, I can guarantee you this gameplay flaw will most definitely NOT be patched. They 
 may correct it for next year by chance, but they won't waste their time patching it this year, 
 they probably don't even realize it's an issue.
  
  
  --Speaking of doubleteams, when you doubleteam someone, if you don't pass the ball out fast enough, 
 it ends up as a jumpball. Well here's where the problem is, you end up with 2-3 jumpballs a game. 
 Instead of the end result of not passing it resulting in a jumpball EVERY time, how about simply 
 a TURNOVER. That'd be much more realistic, and wouldn't ruin the flow of the game so much. In the 
 NBA, a player who gets caught in a trap or doubleteamed in the post rarely gets in a jumpball situation, 
 they usually end up getting the ball stripped. The jumpballs happen when someone's going for a 
 layup or a dunk. Hopefully they realize this for next year and have the jumpballs be a result of 
 a defender getting a hand on the ball as you're taking it up, and not because you were doubleteamed 
 (again, those should result in a turnover) .
  
  
  
  Apart from all that, I've never played a basketball game that was this realistic and this close 
 to perfection. The gameplay is unbelievable. I can't believe the number of nuances and details 
 they have in this game:
  
  
  --I really like the driving mechanic on this game. This game has a perfect sense and understanding 
 for feel of *space and *momentum. It breaks down in a couple ways: depending on your relative positioning 
 to your defender, you either have the space and/or the player quickness to get by that defender 
 or you don't; and if you don't, you can then dynamically switch directions, or come to a quick 
 stop, and your defender will realistically be off balance for a split second, giving you the time 
 and spacial advantage to bury a quick jumper, or drive AGAIN and this time get by them, since you 
 now have a step on them. I really like the sense of being able to fully control your dribbling 
 player and school the defender.
  
  
  
  --It's perfect the way they captured the essence of *getting by someone. Once you have a little 
 bit of space and you get that first step on them, your player lowers his shoulder as you barely 
 get by them.
  
  
  --The triple threat option is done perfectly. You can do all kinds of footjabs and ball fakes and 
 your defender reacts so realistically and perfectly as he desperately shifts his body weight keep 
 up with you. The AI won't react the say way every time either, you can jab step to your right, 
 and they may not bite, then you pump fake, and quickly jab step a second time, and this time the 
 defender might shift in that direction thinking this was your real move, as you take off towards 
 the left side towards the basket. The same thing goes for a live ball, just like I said earlier, 
 you really have a sense of rocking the defender as they respond to your every dribbling move to 
 keep up with you, and depending on their reaction, if you're quick enough and savvy enough, you 
 can pull off some really cool appropriate counter moves (I say 'appropriate', because sure, maybe 
 you can react and do the same exact counter move every time on the opponent, but for the true NBA 
 fans, you'll want to try to do the most realistic move given the situation, and you have a lot 
 to choose from) .
  
  
  --How's this for authenticity, on one occasion I jumped into the air trying to anticipate a CPU 
 player that I assumed was about to shoot the ball so I could block it, but before he jumped to 
 shoot, a foul was called on someone else off the ball, so in order to get two shots at the line, 
 the CPU player actually JUMPED INTO ME while I was in the air to initiate the contact. And yes, 
 it looked exactly how you would imagine. Show me one other basketball game that does that.
  
  
  --The motions and movement of people's bodies in this game in general is amazing, particularly 
 on the defensive end. Defenders are keenly aware of the man they're guarding, relative to where 
 the ball is. So he'll kinda put his arm out, to keep contact and feel his man, as he tries to also 
 watch the ball on the other side of the court.
  
  
  --The faces of players may not look perfect, but the details of their bodies are crazy. Sure, we 
 all know about T-Mac's protruding vein on his right arm/shoulder, and obviously Sheed's white patch 
 on the back of his head. This is nothing new, but who else noticed that they actually included 
 Kobe's NECK FAT? I watch enough basketball to pick up on small details like this, and Kobe has 
 this layer of fat on the back of his neck. Any game that's detailed enough to draw someone's neck 
 fat definitely has my respect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dancing-Bear
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  This game introduces some great game-play additions to the series. Unfortunately, you'll only find 
 NBA Jam-like games online this year. With no way to see your opponents feedback before the game, 
 you're liable to find a great number of players who simply abuse the game's exploits. If you're 
 just getting the game for single-player, then you may still enjoy it... but for online addicts like 
 myself, this game is incredibly disappointing. Players will only select one of only a handful of 
 teams (Lakers, Celtics.. etc.) , and keeping the game close with a low-ranked team is way too hard. 
 
  
  Hopefully 2K will tweak the online sliders for this game, but as of right now I've given up trying 
 to play "sim" online. They also removed the 2K rating system, which allowed players to grade their 
 opponents play-style and tendency to quit early. Obviously, this function was originally meant 
 to provide players with optimal matchups, but somehow this was an afterthought this year when designing 
 the online format (no lobbies either?) . 2K9 is a HUGE let-down for me this year... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MONTEZFRENCH
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  The only problems I've found in this game was with Intentional Fouls not being called when they're 
 committed. The game just continues with the controlled player dropping the ball as if a foul was 
 called and the opposing team picking up the ball (recorded as a steal) and scoring a basket bringing 
 the score closer and closer as this happened on every inbound play when a close game is coming 
 to an end. BIG PROBLEM if your in a close game with your buddies and your playing for money. This 
 glitch allows players to get away with fouls. The low post game in 2k9 is not where it should be. 
 I still wish the special moves had a little more depth. or at least make a special move button 
 for a spin to the basket. Some of the player do not have a spin move, they only have a drop step. 
 But other than those few things the game is great. Great game play (most important) , great facial 
 expressions, great reactions, great graphics (considering EA's outstanding graphics) , love the 
 signature styles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobKeem
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is just mind boggling the graphics are just amazing this game rocks. The realism in the 
 players and the moves. No more of the ball going right through players this game is well worth 
 the 19.99 I would have payed much more for it. Only compliant is they should have made the living 
 rosters for the PC also and the manual is for the XBOX not the PC? Not sure what that's all about? 
 But those are very minimal complaints. Hopefully there will be a way to manually update the rosters.
 
  If you like Basketball games you have to give this one a try in my opinion this is 10 times better 
 than EA's version.
  Now that EA has discontinued the PC versions of their sports games this is sure to be very popular. 
 Hopefully 2k sports will continue releasing PC versions of their games. The graphic engine they 
 use is awesome. This game plays awesome on Vista. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seker456
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I was over my friends house and i was playing this game with him 4 a while. every time i go over 
 his house i play it. why? because it is beast. the graphics are amazing and so is the game play. 
 They have a dunking and shooting contest in this game also. the dunking contest is so frekin hard 
 but fun. u need 2 use the joystick to do the moves and u get to use props also. the shooting contest 
 u use the joy stick also and it is pretty challenging. there is also the real game and the street 
 ball. they are the best. it is really fun. u also get to do some fun dunks here also. I highly 
 recommend this game if u wanna have a great time! You can also learn how to play the game really 
 fast also. I personally think the best feature in this game is the street ball. so i say buy this 
 game now and u will not regret it!
  
  Negative stuff: the only negative thing about this is that i think that it doesn't update the people 
 like NBA live does because i haven't played XBOX live on this. but i still say buy it that is a 
 small reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chitownjedi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Nba live 2k9 is not a great game. Its a very good game, but what kills it is the insane amount 
 of tweaking that must take place to get the game to play realistically.
  
  In no game ever, other than streetball, should a team throw and complete 20 + alley oops and not 
 a single one fail, but on superstar Level vs the Knicks, I had alley oops on me at a clip of 5 
 plus a quarter, and not one of them failed despite many times 1-2 defenders jumping up and contesting 
 the pass and actual conversion.
  
  This game with some tweaking is more realistic however, but i still feel they need to revamp the 
 isomotion decision and work out help defense recovery speed because this game doesn't punish people 
 enough for being flat out Free safety noobs while running around the court and being able to recover 
 instantly to the guy they left in the opposite corner.
  
  Definite buy... really good basketball game, but its just not going to be a classic you remember 
 years down the road for stepping up the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattastic8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  the best gamplay ever
  looks and feels realistic (unlike Live 09)
  easy and fast navigation screens (unlike Live 09)
  easy season mode setup (unlike Live 09)
 
  2k share system rocks
  Living Rosters is handy
  player customization and editing is quick and easy (unlike Live 09)
  great online play (unlike 
 Live 09)
  
  The Bad:
  not that many game modes
  
  overall this game is the best NBA game ever
  forget NBA Live and buy this.
  
  
  
  NBA 
 Live 09 sucks
  NBA Live 09 sucks
  NBA Live 09 sucks
  NBA Live 09 sucks
  NBA Live 09 sucks
  NBA Live 09 sucks
  NBA Live 09 sucks
  NBA Live 09 sucks
  NBA Live 09 
 sucks
  NBA Live 09 sucks
  NBA Live 09 sucks
  NBA Live 09 sucks
  NBA Live 09 sucks
  NBA Live 09 sucks
  NBA Live 09 sucks
  NBA Live 09 sucks
  NBA Live 09 sucks
  NBA Live 09 
 sucks
  NBA Live 09 sucks
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArsonNapalm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  every single person that wrote this is a great game is a great lie, it has so many flaws it's insane. 
 the game play is so frustrating i almost threw my joystick at the tv lol. players stand around 
 on your side on defense and the computer blocks so much it's pathetic. When I say it rain 3 pointers 
 in the game it like a hurricane. The computer shoots and hits 3's like lay-ups, while you miss 
 lay-ups and u find yourself down 20 plus points very easy by the teams thats ranked 50's or 60's 
 and you have an 80's plus team!! If you even attempt to double team their player they find the 
 open man EVERY SINGLE TIME!! And he hits the shot EVERY SINGLE TIME!! no matter if its the worst 
 team or not. Point guards blaze past defenders in the post to do un-stoppable lay-ups while if 
 you try the same thing you get blocked, and speaking of blocking, they make you hold the ball extra 
 long or do some crazy shot that allows the computer to block the ball. and loose balls 8 times 
 out of 10 the loose ball warps to the computer while your players just stand around. they dive 
 at balls and pops it directly to they man. I turned the 3's down on the slider and the computer 
 was still taking and making alot of 3's, i turned the slider up for lay-ups and close shoots and 
 i was still missing easy ass shots with good players. computer takes flying wild 3's and still 
 makes it WTF. and I hate to bring up passing and rebounding, its horrible. the passing is pure 
 un-acceptable the way they throw it at defenders feets for turn overs or wont toss it over they 
 heads. and its mega hard to get a rebound even if you have the position to get it they reach over 
 your head 7 times out of 10. free throws are pathetic even if its on real percentage. THEY WONT 
 RUN THE PLAYS U CALL half the time I have to repeat pick and roll cuz the computer forgets to do 
 the roll part. All in all to me this is the most fustrating 2k game to boot. The alley-oop for 
 computer is almost unstoppable to say the least, u might stop it 2 times out of 10 shots. I know 
 we asked for challenging a. i. but this is un-excusible the way they make you play. and any that 
 dont agree dont know how real basketball suppose to be played!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: threeblackdudes
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This is the standard in which sports games should be held. Every facet of the game is amazing from 
 the graphics, gameplay, and down to the way they keep stats. There are also tons of modes to keep 
 you busy for months, this is $60 that could very well go for the entire year until the next one 
 comes out.
  
  Let's start with the graphics, the players all more or less look like their real-life counter-parts. 
 And it's not just the main stars of the NBA. Even a bench-ornament like Eddy Curry from the Knicks 
 looks like himself in the game (actually he looks pretty disgusting when he's sweaty and behind 
 a freethrow line... good job 2K sports!!!) The arenas look fantastic and so does the crowd. If you 
 look closely you will notice people walking in and out of the arena, which only adds to the realism. 
 My only gripe about the crowd is that they seem to always be on their feet and cheering like it's 
 the seventh game of the NBA finals. But overall the graphics are wonderful.
  
  If you're a b-ball purist and are in it for a SIM then this game is for you. The franchise mode 
 or the "Association 2.0" is the best in any sports games (yes that includes Madden) It has tons 
 of things to keep you busy when you're not playing the actual game. On the GM side you have to 
 set your rosters, make deals, scout players that you may draft or pick up in free agency. The nice 
 thing about the GM side of the house is that you're not the only one trying to make deals, the 
 AI is constantly trying to make deals whether it be with one another or with your team. Adding 
 to the realism is the addition of the "Bird Rule" and "No trade clauses" which deserves a big welcome. 
 On the coaching standpoint you can train, develop, and also set your rotations. There's so much 
 depth here that quite honestly I'm a little tired of talking about the Association 2.0 just trust 
 me when I say that there's a whole lot to do!!! 
  
  On the flip side if you only have 15 minutes to play and just want to get a quick game in there's 
 "Blacktop" mode. There's pick-up games, three-point shootout, and even a dunk contest. Trying to 
 jump over a car while making a windmill dunk is one of the cooler things that I've seen in a while. 
 Overall the Blacktop mode like Eva Longoria is short and sweet.
  
  The online portion of the game let's you play, share files, and even provide up to the minute roster 
 updates (Which much hasnt happened since the season hasn't started yet) Getting back to the sharing, 
 you can once again use the 2K Reelmaker, make your own highlights and share them with everybody 
 else on the network. I've seen some of the highlights and they look like the real thing even though 
 it's probably some 14 year old in his parents basement putting it together. You can really participate 
 in the 2K9 community and it's not just by playing games. 
  
  Overall this game is one of the if not THE best sport sims out there. It may be a little hard at 
 first but a true gamer will realize that the more they play the better it gets!!! GO GET THE GAME!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cs110
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  This game at first seemed rather disappointing, as there can be a few annoying little things that 
 would reduce the score.
  
  First, the graphics, they're very good, with accurate sweat effect as your players get fatigued 
 throughout the match. This game does a great job of presenting the action but, nba. com can be hard 
 to navigate as you play through association.
  
  Second, the gameplay, it was very good at first, but lacked a few things that would make it great. 
 Some players just don't pack as much punch as you would expect, and you could struggle to score 
 with them whereas others feel almost overpowered. But, apart from this, the gameplay feels very 
 solid when you get used to it. There is also the great living rosters feature, which updates the 
 players' stats due to how they perform in real life. This will come into effect when the season 
 starts. The gameplay is overall solid.
  
  Overall, i rate this game highly, but take away marks for some small things that annoy at first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedgreen2-1-5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  First off the graphics are great, the sweat effects and the jersey movement are very nice, as the 
 game goes on you can see that your jersey gets damp of sweat and it pours down your players face. 
 Almost every player has a very detailed face. The crowd is very active along with the mascot and 
 dancers. The sounds is greta but i have encountered a few bugs, like when you start the second 
 half the commentator will say "Anthe the second half will con..............." nothing. But besides 
 that the graphics are a 10 and the sound a 9.5
  
  and now for the bad stuff.
  The redicoulous fg% of about 60-70 a game, the cpu drops way too many threes on you and I have 
 even have jason kidd come off of a spin and just throw up a shot and he cuffed it! the cpu hardly 
 misses and guys that should make a difference in a game make too many of a difference, passing 
 is horrible, to many tipped passes turning into turnovers in which the cpu will definatley capitolize 
 on.
  
  my first game i played was against the thunder just to get a feel for the game but it was too competitive 
 because i was the lakers. the final score 76-80 and i won, but really, the thunder hang with the 
 lakers?
  there are too many dunks in the lane and the free throw mechanics is very stupid because different 
 players shoot differently and you have to guess when to release.
  Reelmaker is a good idea but not needed.
  
  your team offense will not move around much and 
 they do not try for rebounds
  
  theyre on the right track but the game needs a little more work
  
  i give it a 7.5
  Go 76ers! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashkan_pyro
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 3:20 am PT
Review:  if you want to win in this game you must know the plays that is what i find out after 4 hr of playing 
 in previous 2k games that was not necessary but in this there is no easy wins against hall of fame 
 you should go to practice mode and practice the plays just like the real basketball players does. 
 so if you playing ball yourself (not street ball) ya gonna love this. and you can even play your own 
 plays with every detail. one of my favorite things is faking you're move you can fake going to left 
 and then go to right. as you saw this yr 2k was more working on plays and sim things but of course 
 there is another thing like NBA insider and faces this yr's faces are a lot better than last yr 
 but no difference in moves and other things. so if you are basketball fan or specially a ball player 
 this is the right game fo you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Ill start this by saying WOW!! I have not really been a 2K fan of any kind, but this year Im impressed. 
 From the realism to the presentation 2K9 is a hard game not to like. 
  
  I played this game first out of the two major titles. I was taken aback by how this games eriely 
 close to being a broadcast tellicast. From the time it comes on to the time you finish you feel 
 nothing less than you just played a real game of basketball. 
  
  When you fire up a game it seems as though you have tuned in to a real game from the music to the 
 commentators to the players getting ready. The presentation is exsquisite. When a quarter ends 
 it seems as though there is a commercial coming on while clips of the just played quarter play 
 to some great music. The commentators are dead on while the clips play too. Saying very relivant 
 things to boot. While playing the games players inteact with realistic emotions to what happen 
 on the court. When they dunk they come down court with emotion, When the ref calls a foul they 
 either take it or dispute it with lifelike intensity. All without looking like a cutscene too.
 
  Bottom line its hard to argue this game doesnt look real.
  
  The gameplay howerver kind of left me sore. As you have to dribble with the same stick you move 
 with which gets frustrating. I also dont like shooting with the right anolog stick as I dont feel 
 it can make an accurate shot happen. Lets not talk the horrible free throw system. Lives Free throws 
 are too easy whereas 2K's are too hard. Another thing is the navigation..... its just plain horrible! 
 I couldnt find anything at all. I couldnt even find out who had how many points. I was lost. 
 
  
  At the end of a game its too cool. You get to see the top 3 plays, player specific highlights, 
 and player of the game highlights which are all good and unbelieveable to watch. Makes for more 
 realism. The graphics are great too not quite as good as live but they more than get the job done. 
 The faces could use improvement. Kevin Garnett looks dead on but other players fall short. Other 
 than that you can see all type of wild action going on on the side lines as big playes unfold. 
 The mascots put on a show and the crowds make the already hard freethrows worst to make. In short 
 it delivers like you wouldnt believe. 
  
  Id have to say this is the first 2k game I wouldnt mind buying..... it fires on all cylinders and 
 should be well recieved by all B Ball Fans!!! and that is nothing but the truth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6411
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a very innovative and realistic basketball sim for any basketball ethusist. No other title 
 compares to the all around great basketball physics and realistic play displayed throughout the 
 course of the game. Players and teams play almost 100% like their real life counter parts which 
 makes every game played a different experience. Though this is not even a comparison in my eyes, 
 but Live 09 lacks this very attribute that is so important. Every game played in Live 09 to me 
 felt pretty much the same. Every player and team pretty much have the same style and skill sets, 
 its just a matter of who can do it the best based on ratings. 2K9 however incorperates play style, 
 ratings & personality of the players and teams with its amazing animations and cut scenes. By far 
 this is the best basketball game you can buy. JUST PLAIN FUN!!
  The Bad: Online and Freezing problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackmavs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  - The dribbling is fantastic (once you get used to it) and the player animations are even better 
 then last year. The graphics are spectacular. 
  
  - The A. I. is smart but sometimes it feels like the developers don't want you to win as players 
 always seem to hit clutch shots no matter how close you guard the player.
  
  - Although the post offense is good, post defense is unusually difficult.
  
  - As of right 
 now, 2K has absolutely HORRENDOUS servers and it is almost impossible to play online without a 
 fair amount of lag.
  
  - Making highlight reels is fun and pretty simple to do.
  
  - The real thing I don't like about the game is the defense. Overall, there is virtually none no 
 matter what skill level you play at, as you will often put 120 to 130 points, as will the opponent. 
 Basically, it is very hard to get stops in this game.
  
  - The rebounding is awkward and requires almost perfect timing.
  
  In conclusion, while there 
 may be more negatives then positives in this game, the good outweighs the bad. I recommend this 
 to either fans of the franchise or people who are stat heads; otherwise, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fudger2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K9, what can I say. This is a really fun game and its actually hard. I can truely say that 
 Ive been beaten by the computer. Its not pretty but it happens. The game is basically the same, 
 better than live, basketball its been for years but one thing about this game is so horrible that 
 i might have to trade it in. The online play is so bad the maybe AVGN should write a review for 
 it. Let me say the stupidest thing ive ever seen a franchise do is eliminate a strong point of 
 the game. In 2K9s case its the lobbies. The removal of lobbies leads to unfair matches. Im not 
 good at 2K but Im not bad if I played 100 games Id probably win 60 but wow. I was ranked 5490 and 
 i got matched up with the 16th ranked and i got r8pd! They say its so people cant boost but have 
 some consideration for those who want a competitive match, not go down 40 in the first quarter. 
 Everything is great but online. After about 15 minutes of looking you find a game then youre connecting 
 but wait oh crap theres a network issue and we have to restart the search. Im disappointed, id 
 expect this from live but not you 2K (ha lol) . It was sposed to be patched up sunday and i though 
 it worked but no it didnt. It worked so great for one game. Found a game quick, no lag and i won 
 twice. But even if they fix it this will always be disappointing to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetsweeperz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  the post play is still a little unpredictable, sometimes, i try a up and under and it takes a fade 
 away. also when you are playing d and you try to block a shot it is hit and miss. youll block the 
 shot you shouldn't and miss the one you should. i like that you can defend the pick & roll but 
 there are still some missed layups that nba guys don; t miss. playing post defense is also tuff 
 because the pc anyways, can just back down and dunk it. but those are minor, but what is not is 
 the online (360) problems with getting a game with the 5on5. but overall it is the best game but 
 it could use a few patches. like stopping the morphing of blocks and post ups, the on-line. but 
 i like the add of (atleast the concept ) weekly updating rosters but we will have to wait for that, 
 i also like the way the players look this year. Fix these minor but troublesome problems and 2k 
 might have a 10 on thier hands 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airnique25
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  This is a very innovative and realistic basketball sim for any basketball ethusist. No other title 
 compares to the all around great basketball physics and realistic play displayed throughout the 
 course of the game. Players and teams play almost 100% like their real life counter parts which 
 makes every game played a different experience. Though this is not even a comparison in my eyes, 
 but Live 09 lacks this very attribute that is so important. Every game played in Live 09 to me 
 felt pretty much the same. Every player and team pretty much have the same style and skill sets, 
 its just a matter of who can do it the best based on ratings. 2K9 however incorperates play style, 
 ratings & personality of the players and teams with its amazing animations and cut scenes. By far 
 this is the best basketball game you can buy. JUST PLAIN FUN!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I thought last year's game was solid but this one steps it up a knotch. The animations are just 
 sweet and there are plenty of those OH!!! moments. Here is the breakdown.
  
  Graphics: Finally the faces look like the players! It's nice to look at a player and know who it 
 is by face instead of just by name! And can I say anything bad about the crowd? NO! It looks amazing! 
 You really get into the game with how awesome the crowd reacts. More games need this type of atmosphere!
 
  
  Gameplay: It's 2K bball, it's solid in most aspects and the dunk contest is easier than it was 
 before (it was HARD!!!) . The animations help the gameplay flow well which is a plus.
  
  Audio: The fans sound AMAZING!!! The announcers are fine and do their job for the most part. Not 
 much else on that front.
  
  Overall this game is very fun and it has enough upgrades to make it not just a "roster update" 
 like so many people would try and label it. Get this game if you like bball at all!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sqeg24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  Very few additions? If you mean BS gimmick crap, then yes. I agree & thank god for it. 
  
  Free throws harder than should be....? Who the hell wants easy free throws??? Once you get used 
 to the system, you'll be hitting 90%. All it takes is getting used to the timing, of course you're 
 gonna suck at it at first... AND there is a free throw difficulty SLIDER you can adjust. Learn it, 
 use it.
  
  This is hands down, the best NBA game on the market, why are they gonna change it (referring to 
 the Same as Last Year tag) ? Even so, it's an improvement over last year's title.
  
  Blatant advertising?... EVERY sports game does this... get rid of that stupid tag because it should 
 mean nothing. Big deal if it has ads, it's called IMMERSION. Gives it more of an authentic feel.
 
  
  C'mon really... get a knowledgeable writer w/knowledge of the sport to write a review for sports 
 games instead of this blatant crap of a review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nwogbe91
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  This game is the most realistic basketball game that i have played in years i cant believe i have 
 been buying NBA Live for the past ten years. Hats off to 2K Sports i didnt believe the hype but 
 now im hooked. This is basketball at its finest. Its not even the big things so much but the little 
 details that 2k made sure not to leave out. The player animations are second to none and the graphics 
 are unbelievable. Maybe not as pretty as NBA Live but an extremely strong competitor. Gameplay 
 and realism factor compared to NBA Live leaves me wondering how live still sells any copies at 
 all. I guess there are still die hard ea fans like myself who need a wake up call! The play by 
 play announcing is perfect and really gets you into the game. This is one basketball game that 
 really puts you on the floor and makes you feel like you are playing in a real game of basketball 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  The latest addition to the 2K sports franchise succeeds both visually and as a very fun basketball 
 game. All of the aspects of the game look beautiful; from the players on the court, to the long 
 list of arenas, to all of the people in the audience. The animations look flawless as well, aside 
 from the players' jerseys, which look a bit clunky up close.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, NBA 2K9 is pretty much your average basketball game. There is nothing 
 that is really a stand-out feature, or anything really remarkably origional, but it is still very 
 fun nonetheless. The various difficulties in the game are distributed very nicely, but the higher 
 ones seem to be way too hard. Almost to a point where it's unfair and very frustrating.
  
  Bottom line; if you want some non-stop sports gaming satisfaction and you are a hardcore basketball 
 fan that can appreciate the extra (and otherwise pointless) features and want a game that is incredibly 
 polished and realistically animated with only the occasional, and very minor flaws, this is the 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyballaknicks
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  The game has been amazing for years and it's still getting better. Everything about is awesome 
 except for the Skip to My Lou stuff they do on a fast break when someone gets close but other than 
 that I cant complain. 2k has been bringing the best BBall games to the table since 2k1. The graphics 
 are unreal, couldn't be better. The dunks, passes, reverse layups, and the jays are just sick. 
 Also the way they incorporated NBA. com in Association mode is a good touch. The presentation is 
 untouchable with the in between quarter highlights, the halftime show (could of had some people 
 at the desk) . The top plays of the game option is still a hit or miss like last year. Also The 
 controls do take a little while to get used to but if you have been playing 2k ball games it shouldn't 
 be a problem to those who havn't, it might take some time but once you get it down the games even 
 that much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lbcjrballa
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  its actually pretty similar to last year's game except the animations are different n certain things 
 u could pull off easily in 2k8 are a bit harder in 2k9 basically as realistic as it gets just like 
 watching a real NBA game IMO excellent game if your a basketball fan, good for any1 else other 
 than that only new things are rosters and ratings, association with NBA. com, and about the only 
 thing i didnt like that much were the constant in-game highlights which i can't seem to be able 
 to turn off oh and free throws are a bit harder as for the online i havent checked it out myself 
 but it shouldnt be too bad, most features are back too like NBA Blacktop (which has dunk contest, 
 pickup games, 3-point shootout, etc) Association mode and its real great trades work excellent 
 and so does the improvement of players being able to add signature moves and stuff to their arsenal 
 and as for the graphics they are amazing tons of new animations and players look amazing bottom 
 line Nba 2k9 is the game 2 get if u want real basketball, live09 and NBA09 are mediocre compared 
 to this
  
  Final Rating-8.9 (for now) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-razor1
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Look this game is absolutely beautiful to watch. The players look real. The animations and signature 
 moves are distinctive and it looks cool.
  
  BUT..... all of that is somewhat ruined because of the frustrating control system. Isomotion? What 
 Isomotion? It's pretty bad. Sometimes the player has a mind of his own and you end up going out 
 of bounds or you may score but you realize that you may not have wanted your player to go left 
 when you meant to go right. 
  
  Honestly if 2k had live's control scheme this game would be an 8.5 at the least. The control scheme 
 needs a complete facelift. Also to those that give the argument well "you just need to practice 
 the controls" doesn't always apply because the controls don't always work for every situation. 
 It's very inconsistent at best.
  
  Like I said the game is beautiful and even the crowd and sound effects are engaging but it's all 
 ruined because of the control scheme. I really wanted to like this game but alas there is just 
 too much frustration here.
  
  I get frustrated enough with work and people at my job. No thanks. Until the control scheme is 
 revamped I really don't think I will buy another 2k basketball game unless I get it dirt cheap 
 or as a gift. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omnifas
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K series has always been known as the more Simulated Basketball game in the market but recently 
 they have been adding features/tweaking setting that takes the Simulation aspect away. Ridiculous 
 Shot Percentages, Cheap AI, Lock on Defense only to name a few. Though I like the changes to the 
 Lock on Defense done in this version, makes it a little more Manual. Shots that usually miss in 
 NBA Situations are going in at high percentages, shots like Leaning 3s, 3 defender 3s, Dunks in 
 Traffic. This is the first of the 2K series that I've had to tweak sliders so neither team scores 
 70% FG%. Stats are Funky as well, though these change over the season, but for now Jason Kidd is 
 not known as a good 3 point shooter, hes a 75 at best, but hes been making 100% of them.
  
  2K view is full of slow downs, overall the camera system is funky, Views that I like to use like 
 High are now unable to Auto Flip...
  
  Overall NBA 2k9 is a great basketball game but in order for me to enjoy it, its not on default 
 Settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbnuts
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  At first this game was driving me nuts. For some reason the AI is programmed to keep the game close. 
 Once you turn that off - this is the best game ever.
  
  Turn off clutch factor and the go into sliders and turn off the clutch factor for user and CPU.
 
  
  2k comes through solid as usual. LeBron is so good its ridiculous.
  
  they say you need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they say you 
 need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they 
 say you need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they say you need 
 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they 
 say you need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they say you need 
 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they 
 say you need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they say you need 
 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they 
 say you need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. they say you need 100 words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamescrenshaw
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  This game was the worst thing to happen in the series. The reason is because I dont think there 
 is anywhere to go from here. 
  
  ANIMATIONS are perfect from sig styles, to free throws, to celebrations to splitting the defender. 
 EVERYTHING is in there and its perfect.
  
  GRAPHICS once again, I dont think it could possibly look better on the court. The coaches look 
 great too. The only addition would be to add Spike Lee and celebs to the sidelines
  
  GAMEPLAY - The players play like themselves. Controls are intuitive. There is depth but you can 
 also pick up and play as well. It feels VERY realistic.
  
  EXTRAS - Slam dunk contest, 21, streetball. The only thing it lacks is a 24/7 mode.
  
  ASSOCIATION 
 - They always at the best franchise mode in sports imo. Its still the best. Its just more refined
 
  
  The only knock I have on the game are its menus and the way they are accessed.
  
  Yes it is not a HUGE leap from last year. But imo they did not have much room to leap. However, 
 its a significant leap and it polished ALL problems I saw with last years game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SouperTrooper
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty awesome... mostly because it feels like a real nba game. all the animations, 
 player collisions, dunks, and finally great defense make this game look as though you are watching 
 a real nba game on tv. this game is challenging for hardcore sim players (playing on hall of fame) 
 and can be fun for those who arent as experienced (rookie, pro, all-star) . i love the challenge 
 and i cant stop playing this game... ive only won 2 games on hall of fame and it is a lot more rewarding 
 to pick up a win. i am finally adjusting to the game and becoming really good at it. playing the 
 cpu on hall of fame prepares you for the most realistic simulation basketball game and prepares 
 you for online opponents. after mastering proper skills to beat the cpu on hall of fame, when i 
 go online now i can pretty much destroy my opponents lol. all of the bugs/glitches are way overrated... i 
 havent experienced any of them, and online play hasnt been a problem for me. 5v5 is a great addition 
 to the game and works smoother every day as 2k fixes the server problems. other problems mentioned 
 seem to relate to editing players, but will most likely be fixed soon and does not diminish the 
 experience of playing unless u are anal about changing player shoes/headbands/accessories. most 
 of these problems can be fixed simply by deleting the settings. great game, if u want a good simulation 
 basketball game get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tattoo04
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  i still can't get over how good this game looks i thought madden 09 look good but this takes the 
 cake from the accurate tattoos, the sweat on players, the hair texture, facial texture is unreal i 
 would have gave this game a perfect 10 except the free throw shooting is kinda hard but get better 
 as you get the hang of each players shooting motion the gameplay is very solid, the sound is excellent 
 as always, the announcing is good also, you can spend all day and night playing this game cause it's 
 so much fun but the graphics are the biggest improvement in this game i admit nba2k8 look awful 
 it was a let down for me didn't even play it that much but wow nba2k9 is a masterpiece it's the 
 best basketball game ever made too me nba live is crap and always has been so don't waste your 
 money on it if you love basketball you gots to have this game period!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  if they bring back nfl2k series it would kill madden i bet i hope they do next year can somebody 
 say nfl 2k10!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingDre410
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 8:37 am PT
Review:  Introduction: ive been playing the live series since i was 9, i used to love their games, until 
 06' when they brought the "freestyle superstar" crap, it was way too unrealistic. so this year 
 i made the switch to 2K, i think i made the right decision
  
  ok, for starters, this game is hard, lol, no really, this game is hard as heck, u know, im used 
 to playing nba live, in which i would blow out my opponents by 50 pts, on the highest difficulty. 
 ive played about 5 games so far, and am 2-3, i won my last two games.
  
  the AI in this game is astounding, even on your own team, i was so suprised at my guys team work, 
 both on offense and defense, this game just feels right. the jumpshots look beautiful, and they 
 actually go into the basket, im used to nba live 08, in which i had no control if i make a shot 
 or not. but this game, i just press the X button, for like a sec or so, and make most of my shots.
 
  
  THE ASSOCIATION: i really like this mode, its where i spend most of my time. the trade logic is 
 great, i love being able to trade future picks and such, and the fact that no-trade clauses play 
 a huge role in this game. the NBA. COM look works really well, except for a few framerate issues, 
 while switching pages, even the music would stop for a sec.
  
  PHISICS: the physics in this game work really well, i was suprised at the great collision detection.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: the graphics are pretty good, sure lebron looks weird, STAT looks old, Q-Rick's lips 
 look really weird, but for the most part most of the players look pretty good, especially shaq, 
 and oden.
  
  GOOD:
  gameplay
  
  end of game scores
  
  realism
  
  another plus is that its not NBA LIVE
  
  um... defense is great
  
  blacktop mode is very 
 fun, its like real street ball
  
  BAD:
  
  2k nav was a little weird at first
  
  control scheme, well atleast until i found a way to put dribbling to the right thumb stick
  
 
  EXTREME DIFFICULTY ON SUPERSTAR AND HALL OF FAME MODES, like most 2k sports games, including MLB 
 2K8.
  
  OVERALL: great game, feels right, fun to play, tons of signature shots, and even freethrows. way 
 better than nba live, well a paper ball and a garbage can is better than nba live now that i think 
 about it.
  
  
  remember, im KINGDRE410 *****, i donk care about the spelling!
  
  this game is great, play on all star if ur just starting out, have fun
  
  hit me up  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmackWhitey
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is off the hook man play this is like watching a game on TV, real life movements without 
 natural motion game engine. Live 09 is great to but 2k just delivers greatness every year. The 
 Association mode is great and with the NBA. com interface it makes it that much better. They bought 
 Black Top made back which is cool but it would have been better if it would have been part of Association 
 mode. 2K Insider is a plus it competes with Live DNA although live feature is alot more revolutionary. 
 However being able to add signature move throughout the course of the season is a great touch on 
 a copy cat feature. Online mode is vastly different no more lobbies make it difficult to find a 
 match but you kinda get use to it after a while. All in all the best b-ball game I've ever played 
 9.0, I've been playing this game non stop since I got it and I still haven't seen the same animation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huddy187
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Its really 2k8 with more animations moves and updated graphics and presentation but is still a 
 good game if your a 2k fan. I thought i would get more but maybe next year. I really like the the 
 Living rosters and the assiocation mode lay outs. My only problem with the gameplay is the shooting 
 and the isomotion
  
  good
  Bodies and some faces
  Presentation
  Association mode
  smooth animations
  finally some ok music fo nba2k
  create a player better
  liveing rosters 
 is cool
  smart Ai
  in game presentaion is awesome
  
  
  bad
  online cheezers
  Isomotion really off this years : ( (what happened 2k its so unresponsive)
  some faces and player 
 skin colors
  no really new modes
  shot stick is not that good anymore
  couple of glitches
  there is no one sitting at the T-Mobile Halftime desk?
  the courts are 
 still blurry 
  every one has dark jerseys textures 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memgrizzlies
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game trying to decide on which game to get: NBA 2K9 or NBA Live 09. I don't even 
 have to rent NBA Live 09 to know which I'm going to get. Renting this game, I already knew the 
 gameplay was going to be at least good because NBA 2K8's gameplay was great. But NBA 2K9's gameplay 
 is amazing. NBA 2K8 was lacking some presentation features. NBA 2K9 just took care of that. Very 
 great commentary and feels like your watching an actual NBA game on TV. I haven't even played every 
 single game mode, or checked out all the new features, but I'm blown away already. The new Association 
 mode has this feature like NBA. com. All the headlines are on there, which makes it feel like real 
 life. The player signature moves are great. NBA 2K8's graphics were alright, but I thought NBA 
 Live 08 beat them there, but NBA 2K9's graphics are much improved. I haven't tried played this 
 game online yet, but I'm sure it will be great as well. So if you're stuck between NBA 2K9 and 
 NBA Live 09, get NBA 2K9! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonnyboy4031
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K9 Xbox 360 Review
  Written by Christopher Lee
  
  User score;
  Game play = 9.4
  Sound = 9.6
  Graphics = 9.5
  Overall score = 9.5
  
  From being a gamer that has not picked 
 up a basketball game in years but has played them, this is one basketball game that I am in shock 
 with. NBA 2k9 starts out with a bang, and when the buzzer goes off you want more. Most sport games 
 a gamer plays are fun, you play maybe one to two games a day then you're off to another shooter. 
 2KSports changed that attitude this year. From the game play to the graphics this is a must have 
 ball game for the NBA fan. 
  The game play in this game is like watching a real NBA game. When the ball is about to go out, 
 I saw the players go after it with a dive, much like back in the good days of basketball before 
 people would cry over a broken nose. From going up to rim you see a 7"00 ft center about to block 
 your ball you can change your shot in mid air, or pass the ball to point guard on the outer edge 
 for the three. The way the players react in this game makes it feel like a sim. 
  Another great aspect to this game is the black top. The black top has modes such as 3 point shooter, 
 pickup game, 21, and for all basketball fans the slam dunk challenge. So not only does the game 
 play have modes from season, to the black top but it offers a rich in game experience. Thou it's 
 not all roses on the court there are flaws. 
  As I mentioned the game has great plays from switching shots to the dunks, but with that comes 
 complex controls. Figuring out the controls is hard and doing them right can be even harder. While 
 the controls tend to be a bit hard, if you practice and learn them just like any other game you 
 can master it and have a blast. 
  From a basketball fan point of view the sound on this game is fantastic. The commentators make 
 great calls, funny comments and so on. You can hear the sound of the game being played, the fans 
 counting down on the shot cloc0k, much like a real game. 
  The only flaw I see right now is I can't hear the player or coaches. I'm not the fan in the game, 
 I'm the player I want to feel and hear like I'm there. For the most part I am, but the game is 
 still missing that one ingredient. 
  
  The best thing besides game play is the graphics. The players look life like, and the lighting 
 on the court is so close to that of a real basketball game. I was very pleased with graphics on 
 this game. Hard to explain in words but you will not be disappointed. 
  
  The game deserves a 9.5 with only a few minor flaws this is the best basketball game to date. So 
 go ahead and spend the money and play for hours on end with a new experience each time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kozzy1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  If you are a basketball junky like me, who loves realism in an nab videogame and who enjoys using 
 alot of strategy while playing.
  
  First off let me say i was a HUGE Nba Live fan from the year they started out until 1999. But it 
 seems in the 20th century the NBA LIVE games have turned into nothing but brainless, offensive 
 showdowns, that most the time just end up being ridicolous dunk fests. Sure that might be fun once 
 inawhile, playing it with a friend who doesnt know much about basketball and wants a more arcadey/pick 
 up and play friendly basketball game.
  
  Well 2k sports really did a fantastic job this year with NBA 2k9. Its more realisitic then ever 
 and has the deepest gameplay/controls that have ever graced a nba videogame.
  
  The pressentation is also a step up from last year, as are the graphics. It really does almost 
 look like you are watching a live broadcast when playing this. The Assocation mode is also improved 
 alot aswell.
  
  Some of the quirks from last year where fixed thankfully (mainly they took out the ability to guard 
 iverson with shaq, etc..) . The online play is also very good and the new feature for live updates 
 on players states and attributes sounds great!
  
  I love how you have to learn EACH players shot release and get good with each one before you will 
 dominate in this game.
  
  Also the timeouts are now done really well, and there are so many options are far as plays go on 
 defense and offense. The gameplay is slightly faster now but the defense is even better. You also 
 wont miss easy layups with superstars this year which is great (;
  
  Not only is NBA 2k9 the best basketball game ever, but its one of the top 10 sports games of all 
 time imo.
  If you love basketball like me and enjoy a more realistic basketball game then pick this up!!
 
  
  Maybe see ya online!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maaly81
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 9, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  I dont know about anyone else out there but personally this game is too complicated and hard. All 
 the new stuff in the basic menus and in the gameplay are cool. BUT, some of the new animations 
 seems overly trying to be realistic without giving the gamer the control needed to want or pull 
 some things off without being force into an animation.
  
  I am also sad that this game is soooooo hard!!!!! I been playing 2k for years!!! how in the world 
 can the computer shoot 87% from the field consistently!?!?!?!? I have put the sliders low and the 
 difficulty level to all star, but nothing seems to curb the unstoppable computer. I can never get 
 my players to do anything in the game consistently regardless of my settings. I have missed sooooo 
 many layups, and the controls seem to lag A LOT!!! I am on breakways/fastbreaks and when I use 
 the shot stick and turbo I might dunk, or stop on a dime and do a pump fake. Killing my offense 
 completely.
  
  2k could have done better than this mess. I just got off the game playing with all star diff. and 
 I got blown out by 30 by the 3rd quarter. I mean...... this game has me seriously frustrated. AND 
 LAST BUT NEVER LEAST...... the 2k camera is jacked!!!! they made hits game specifically to be played 
 by side view, which SUCKS!!!! You cannot use the 2k camera because it lags like you are playing 
 an online game with a person with a bad connection. DANG IT, I am starting to hate this game. I 
 would say its better than live but 2k took a big step down with me on this one. I am a 2k diehard 
 veteran and I literally suck bad at this game. This game needs sooo many patches right now its 
 sickening.
  
  
  OHH wait!!! quickly the online 2k servers are the most horrible, diabolical, slowest, worst online 
 gameplay situation I have ever partaken of. I literally wanted to throw my controller at my TV!! 
 The 5 on 5 online thing was a good idea, but the 10 matches I was one all were lagged soooo bad 
 the game couldnt be started. And ranked online isnt much better. Matter of fact, dont get this 
 game unless you play with friends a lot. The CPU cheats badly, and you know it does when mike conley 
 jr, and open PF, C's who have no jump shot look like perennial all stars in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougw56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  If you've played the NBA 2k series before, the biggest thing you will notice is improved player 
 models and on-court animations/movements. No skating seen so far. The game-play itself is great 
 as always. The uploading of created players for others to download is a good idea also! 
  
  As always, The Association franchise mode is there. I am not much of a multi-player aficionado 
 with regards to this series, so I will leave that to others to speak on.
  
  For some players, the inability to create your own uniform colors/styles in the create-a-team mode 
 will be a small aggravation. The menus are slightly harder to get used to then they should have 
 been.
  
  OLD HOOT NOTE: for those of you that remember "Pistol" Pete Maravich, I highly recommend trying 
 him on the 70's all-stars team. I felt (for a moment) like Pete had come back to us 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shortcutt10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  2k9 was suppose to be the best basketball simulation game ever. First we will talk about the good. 
 Player movements are alot smother and signature shots are better. I can tell that they really put 
 alot of work into making this game look more realistic. When someone gets fouled your gonna know 
 they were fouled. for example if you were going to the hoop and get fouled you might fall down 
 and have ur teamates help pick you back up. 
  
  Now for the bad. So far i have played this game for about 7 hours, mostly online play. Online for 
 some reason is increadibly slow. Dont expect to start an online game for 10 minutes after you turn 
 on you system. THe online 5 on 5 is alot of fun but its always slow and lagging. Another think 
 is about the inside game. Every shot is made under the basket. If your 5 feet or closer to the 
 basket its an easy bucket. There is no way the defender can stop you. Even if you put 3 men down 
 near the basket to defend they will still shoot a short layup and make it. This is something that 
 got me real mad espeacially in online play. 
  
  So far this game has not been impressive but i hope that maybe the reason why online is is slow 
 is becuase 2k is having networking problems. Im still gonna play this game because i am huge fan 
 of NBA 2k9 but i might not get addicted to it like i did last year. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicagolegends
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  NBA 2k9 is the real deal. This video game is everything NBA basketball was meant to be. Game Play 
 Great, Animation Super, Experience Highly addictive.
  The are some very small things like correct licensing of Authentic shoewear like Reebok, And1, 
 and Converse just to name a few and a few player models could use a touch up but these things are 
 small and reaching very far just to find something wrong but with that sad those things alone dose 
 nothing to deminish how awesone the game really is!
  
  I think what could have put the game over that top is a more intuitive ball handling system, Rebound 
 and box, better commentary maybe bring Stephen A Smith do game clore commentary. College 2k9 gone 
 so there will be no college class imports for this year. It's shame 2K still dose not have an all 
 star weekend in as a game mode or part of the Season and Association. Even still none of this stops 
 this game from totally being sweat and very addictive. If you are a hoop or just love hoops and 
 like Authentic NBA hoops this is a must have game.
  
  When and if you purchase this game make sure your schedule is clear because if it is not you are 
 going have a lot disappointed people because your time will be devoted to this game days, weeks 
 maybe even months.
  
  Highest being 10 I will give it 9.0! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amra01
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  This is the best basketball game ever made period. I don't know why casual reviewers can't get 
 the greatness of the game 8.0 is a very low rating according to what this game gives us.
  graphics: are great you need months to count the real life animations gameplay: is amazing you 
 can do anything you want from a basketball game pick & roll pick & pop, drive change hands in the 
 air post your opponent etc etc... it's like real basketball even better, AI is like terminator 
 the movie AI there is help D weak side D etc etc. NBA players don't play that good and don't have 
 such understanding of the game great work VC.
  online functionality is good nice additiong the 5 versus 5. we can finally trade legends to any 
 team we want so we can have lakers with magic play the point and Pippen adding some style and D 
 to the Bulls or add Patrick Ewing to the pathetic 2008 Knicks and play a franchise... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neebz33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K 
 surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K 
 surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K 
 surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K 
 surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K 
 surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K 
 surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K 
 surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game
  NBA 2K surpasses NBA Live. Best NBA game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tncc24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  It's uncannily provides the experience outside of getting drafted yourself. All parts built around 
 realism instead of gimmicks give you the sense that the team on the floor will do exactly what 
 their real-life counterparts would and do. Moving the gameplay level up will result in having to 
 adjust sliders to retain the realism. The dunk contest is awesome, though a story mode would help 
 encourage you to play more than just one game of blacktop streetball. The lack of courts is ridiculous; 
 lets hope that it will be a download-able extra along with new shoes and motion capture. This season 
 mode is extremely satisfying and realistic. All-around best game for the money and towers over 
 the competition, bar none! The create-a-player is much better yet still not effective enough to 
 create a realistic version of yourself, especially if you happen to have a pair of eyebrows, because 
 they don't provide any for you. Haircuts you see on other players in the game should be a options 
 in the creating of your player, if anyone from 2k sports is reading this! Other than that, consider 
 your investment for the next year a solid one with it going to the best creators of basketball; 
 all sports sims! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizz1e
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  What the f... gamespot.... A 8.0 just because the games features "wont be appreciated by the average 
 joe".... This game has a bazillllllllllion new animations that are smooth as silk, much improved 
 graphics, and way better game play then any NBA game on the market has to offer, which I think 
 "any average joe" could appreciate...... Who ever reviewed this game obviously didn't play NBA 
 Live because they would have realized how NBA2k dominates year after year and not to mention how 
 much they improved on last years 2k8.....
  
  This game feels awesome, NBA live is no competition. 2k pulls through again ontop and shows what 
 a real basketball game should be made of. This is one of those games that is worth the 60 bucks 
 you spend on it. Me and my friends always would play 2k8 all the time and it was the most played 
 Xbox game I had. This game has ridiculous replay value and is worth every penny.
  
  When I played the demo I was worried but I got the full game and it is aweeeeeeeeeeesome..... I 
 think it is much better then 2k8 and definitely worth buying rather then just playing older seasons 
 or NBA live..... If anyone is trying to decide between Live and NBA2k then without a doubt I would 
 recommend NBA 2k9!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Walker34
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Madden is cool, but enough already EA. 2K no longer makes college hoops another great series. They've 
 completely lost it with their baseball title. Same with football. 2k used to be the king in all 
 these series. All we have left is nba 2k9. This just shows what a developer can do. 2K created 
 a living breathing basketball game here. Its so authentic and so true to life you'll swear you 
 are playing the real thing. But this game isnt without its flaws. It seems rushed and like 2k didnt 
 have the time or resources to iron out a lot of its issues. Its thrown together in areas. The framerates 
 are pretty bad sometimes and certain camera angles can't seem to handle the amazing graphics. Online 
 is laggy and disconnects. The ocntrol can be hard to get used to. But its all there. With the bad 
 this game is a classic. The player models and signature animations push the 360's hardware to its 
 limits. Its truly something to behold. The ai is so smart and there are so many little things this 
 game does that will amaze you. Some games you dont even notice these things aren't in the game, 
 but if its in the game, it's in this game. Tons of playmodes, and practice modes and online and 
 franchise modes. The control is hard to get used to but there are so many things you can do. It's 
 all here. IT all feels great once you get used to it. 2k put out an ambitious basketball game. 
 Hopefully they will patch it and correct some of the technical flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jweb24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game plays more like the NBA than live does. NBA Live is very good but for true B-Ball fans 
 2k9 is better. I enjoy the gameplay. Players play like they should and react the way they should. 
 Gameplay is fluid, but every pass is not a given because players react very well to passes. I even 
 created great players and defenses adjust to those players depending on what they're doing in the 
 game! Great players can still dominate because that's what they're suppose to do but a good defense 
 can slow them down. Presentation is better than before but can be improved. Graphics are great 
 and (despite an occasional graphical hiccup here and there) the commentating is good. The more 
 you play the game the more you'll find the improvements, big and small in the game. I don't know 
 how living roster is going to be that's why I didn't give this game a 10. I've played both games 
 and if you have to pick one game to play and if you enjoy the game of basketball, pick NBA 2K9.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dct
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  IT'S A RAW GAME.
  Plan and simple, it's real basketball with a controller.
  The only downfall is no DEDICATED SERVERS!!!!!
  
  If you understand the game of basketball, 
 then you understand that this game, if it is flawed in any way by not being true to the game, then 
 I'm a genius. NBA 2K9 is what 10 years of innovation and swift fluid animations were nurtured and 
 developed with QUALITY IN MIND FIRST. Marketing is one thing, but when your work can not only speak 
 for itself but get up and walk opening a new door. That's when you know for yourself that you've 
 accomplished greatness. You don't buy RESPECT, you Earn respect. Play any other pro basketball 
 game and you'll know who the Difference is.
  
  Lock-On-D: It's realistic, if you're guarding CP3 with Chucky Atkins using lock-on-d, Paul has 
 enough skills that you can't guard him because, you not on his level defensively as a on ball defender. 
 It would be dumb if you could hold the left trigger all day and the offensive player wouldn't have 
 anywhere to go. I'm glad the lock-on-d fails for certain players. That's called balance. Defense: 
 If you pride yourself in being a good defender, which we all know WINS championships. If a team 
 scores 160 points, how are you gonna stop the other team from scoring 180 points. Defense is here, 
 don't run down the lane if 3 defenders are there, you will get called for a charge, get injured 
 or make an NBA Superstar look like the scrub that you are.
  
  Offense: If you have a knack for scoring like Allen Iverson or Carmelo Anthony. Two guys that have 
 been appointed by they're coach to score in bunches night in and night out. You will then understand 
 certain team unity and continuity, by gaining knowledge of your skilled players. Bring Ai off a 
 screen and pull it all day if you have to because that's what he does on the real court. Be a tank 
 with Melo if his MiD-SHOT isn't on at the time. You will have to out think your opponent every 
 play by maybe faking a pass or Jab Step-Bounce-Step Back-Jump Shot (Fade Away) . If you need full 
 CROSS OVER control, change the shot stick to ISO Motion, or Passing. NBA 2K9 is 90% true to the 
 real game, that other 10% is because, it's still a video game.
  Go watch a replay, somebody might show you how to play basketball the way it's played.
  
  Only 
 real ballers GamerTag: DCT124 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blink182man4lfe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  I've never really been huge on sports games. I've always enjoyed madden games and the old 2k football 
 games. I have played live 06 for the 360 but have always liked the 2k basketball games better so 
 I've always stuck with them and being from south shore MA it was a no brainer which one to go with.
 
  Turning on the game I wasn't the biggest fan of the menu layout or that they set you up right 
 away for an exhibition. After finally getting use to that I moved on to start my season. That was 
 easy enough. The season options and news with the games to be played at the bottom could have been 
 done nicer.
  Actually playing the game is a lot of fun. The controls aren't difficult and you have a lot of 
 options as far as controlling all the aspects of the game.
  All in all a fun game to play. My only complaint is the menus and there layout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outkast1978
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  Let just put it this way I bought NBA Live last Year Over this and it was the Biggest Game mistake 
 I made all year... But like every great Buyer I learn from it... Yesterday I made a great Move 
 by buying this awesome game... The graphics and Presentation are second to None... If you are a 
 fan of basketball you won't hesitate to get this game... The game play is sick the moves the shooting 
 Man I love this game........
  
  Graphics 9 
  Game play 9
  That's all you need to know... creating a player is also very fun and great you can select how 
 he shoots and signature moves... I know that NBA live might have better graphics but that's were 
 they stay... Their game play is so stiff and unresponsive is not fare to a NBA fan........... so 
 if you love playing an awesome basketball game you need to get this............ I'm done here...
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilasteve
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k9 seems to be the best game out there right now i think 2k sports have done it this year. 
 the realistic graphics of the player so cool they look almost real in HD. the new association 2.0 
 mode seems really nice with NBA. com featuring is so amazing to me. the new signature shot so awesome 
 i love the way the players play this is the best NBA game out there. by the way i hate NBA live 
 09 and NBA 09the inside they both suck especially NBA 09 for ps 3 just sucks really bad. im really 
 liking NBA 2k9 so far with new 5 on 5 online is sweet. i think the game is sweet if i had to pick 
 two k sports is the best nba game out there. the free throw shoot by the players looks like how 
 they shoot free throws in real life. this game is the **** i love 2k sports i think they did a 
 really good job this year especially with nba 2k9 best game out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scottyyeahbaby
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Totally unbelievable! Makes you swear your watching a real game, but instead you get to control 
 the players and game. Instant Classic! Amazing graphics, and flawless replays that take your breath 
 away. I can't get enough of this fun and amazing game. Even without having a team this year (Sonics) 
 this game gets me into basketball again. I just hope that Clay Bennett has a heart attack and dies 
 when he sees how gross his new team looks in this game.
  
  Details are amazing with tats, sweat, moving eyes, high fives with fingering moving, pick players 
 up off the ground, and everything...
  
  Slam dunk contest is really hard to get to work. I tried for like 10 minutes and couldn't get a 
 dunk. They need to redo it and make it "pick up and play" mood. 
  
  One bad thing... no real cheerleaders.. come on guys give me something to drool over during half 
 time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngballa823
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is as sick as the man on the cover, it's just what I expected. I love the new graphics, 
 and the motion is seamless. I know Live 09 is all flash but this is as real as it gets, when your 
 playing good players and people that actually know basketball... you actually have to think to 
 win. When people say this game is easy and that there's no substance..... they can't play the game, 
 and they play on PRO or ROOKIE. 2K has finally stepped it up a notch, last year was the prototype 
 and this years is the finished product. I can't wait to see how the living rosters help the game 
 progress and get better as the year goes on. The way the game is set up you have to be a good player 
 to win with bad teams its tough (Just like real life) ! I just have to add this in here, but I didn't 
 even know that the Oklahoma City THUNDER had come up with a name yet. I'm glad to see them in the 
 game, but they are horrible as would be expected of the former Super Sonics. It's game time and 
 I'm ready to BALL! All in all this puts LIVE 09 to shame! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigSuz77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply well done, The graphics I think are really realistic game models move perfectly, 
 Online is amazing, Probably the best playing online game I ever played, in fact it is, VERY REALISTIC, 
 Association 2. o is very solid, Everything is so much like real life, Also you can edit the INCOMING 
 draft class, Live is good but this game is excellent, From all of you that know me know that I 
 look at things fairly. This game is superb I recommend that every basketball fan get this game, 
 It is a treat!! You can also take control of 8 teams in the associtation mode which alot of people 
 like and wish that all the teams were control able but 8 is better that one, The NBA. com feature 
 is looking good and promises alot for the future. Overall this game is on fire,! I suggest that 
 people pick it up, props to 2k sports on this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -starzNstripes-
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  revamped graphics and player models are not always the best thing for a game whenever you lose 
 the main focus which is the gameplay.. last years gameplay in my opinion was close to perfection 
 and it has taken a step back this year.. there is way to much animation going on when you try to 
 make simple cross overs, low post moves, and even just grab rebounds and it slows down the gameplay.. 
 icon passing is weak if you see your player cuts to the basket your better off just hitting the 
 A button instead because you'll end up throwing it right to the defender or getting it tipped some 
 how.. fast breaks dont seem very fast with the new driving animation that they put in the game, 
 whitch also makes it to complicated to drive past your opponite.. the shooting mechanics are different 
 and makes it difficult to master someones shot, which you will see yourself missing more than making 
 jumpers,, if their not going to implement the shot meter like live 09 did this year they should 
 at least be consistent with how you shoot with players.. before if you shot at the top of a players 
 jumper 9 times out of 10 if your open he hits it,, not the case this year.. the game makes it seam 
 like nba players dont make shots when people are guarding them,, very frustrating.. this was also 
 after playing on hall of fame,, no weak difficulty setting.. i dont have a HD tv but on my tv the 
 camera transition lags the game and makes fast breaks more difficult than they already are.. i 
 still like the game and i bought it because i know that nba live is garbage but i definetly say 
 that this years 2k9 has dissapointed me.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VinRony
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  The game is too arcade, easy to dominate with one players on the paint. do not like the camera when 
 you make a shoot. the face of the players are real but i don't like their budy, let's take Kobe 
 for exemple when you played the game you don't really fell that the player you are playing with 
 is Kobe Brayant (exept for the dunks) it's really easy to run throught the court and start to make 
 the defense look a fool. When you are in the offence the other your teammate don't really make themselves 
 available in order to be free for a shoot or don't but with this poor defense on the game it's 
 actually easy to pass to your center or your PF in order for them to make an easy standing dunks. The 
 defense is good in average. In overall, the game is good it's easier to steal the ball from your 
 opponent. When your are on the fastbreak it's nice how the defense cover ro blk you dunk. The broadcast 
 style that 2k have is nice espacially on this game. In average the game is ok 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
