-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA 2K8
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/nba2k8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New signature style moves look amazing.
 CPU plays smart and is challenging but fair.
 Slam dunk contest is a fun addition.
 Lots of online options.
 Tons of ways to stay busy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too many missed layups.
 Awful instructions make it tough to learn new moves.
 Menus are still a chore to navigate.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.4, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,753 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Visual Concepts
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Oct 2, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite a few nagging issues, NBA 2K8 is a fantastic basketball game packed to the brim with features 
 and game modes. 

  Developers are often criticized for seemingly doing as little as possible from one year to the 
 next with their sports games. That is not the case with NBA 2K8. It's superior to last year's game 
 in almost every way; there's loads of new content and the gameplay is better than ever. Issues, 
 such as missed shots close to the basket and atrocious documentation, hurt the overall package. 
 But this is still a game that's sure to please both casual and hardcore hoops fans.  

           The signature style moves are well implemented and add a lot to the game.      

  There's 
 no shortage of ways to stay busy in 2K8. The series has had a street ball component to it for a 
 number of years and it's back again. It's called NBA Blacktop here, but it has been revamped and 
 improved upon in a number of ways. You can participate in a three-point shootout or play street 
 ball using real NBA players. The goofy story from last year is gone -- you just play ball. The big 
 addition to the mode is the dunk contest. Up to four players can choose from current stars and 
 legends, such as Clyde Drexler, Dr. J, or Dominique Wilkins, for a three-round dunk contest that 
 takes place in the streets of Las Vegas.  

  There are three parts to each dunk: the gather, in-air style, and the finish. A gather is how you 
 start the dunk. You can bounce the ball to yourself, hop off of one foot, toss the ball in the 
 air, and more depending on what direction you move or rotate the right analog stick. In-air style 
 is determined the same way. Here, you can pump fake, spin, windmill, spread your legs  la the 
 Jordan logo, and a host of other actions. To finish the dunk, you press R2 or the right trigger 
 in the highlighted area of the meter. The closer you are to the center, the better your finish. 
 You can also place props, such as ball racks and benches, to add a bit of flair to your dunks. 
 It takes a little bit of practice and the game does a poor job of letting you know what you need 
 to do (though it does tell you what you did wrong after the fact) , but once you've spent some time 
 experimenting, you can pull off some amazing-looking dunks. Because the judges are all over the 
 place with their scoring, this mode is best played against friends offline or online when you can 
 trash-talk your opponent and argue over scores. Losing to computer-controlled opponents on a weak 
 dunk is no fun at all.  

  NBA Blacktop is nice, but it's more of a bonus -- the association is the bread and butter of the 
 series. It's still the deepest basketball sim out there, but not a whole lot has changed and it's 
 starting to feel a bit stale. The menus have been redone, but they are still a chore to navigate. 
 A lot of the tasks aren't much fun either, like scheduling practices and scouting future draft 
 picks. The way you negotiate contacts is more realistic than ever and you now have the ability 
 to include no-trade clauses. Hooray! Now you can be saddled with a bunch of horrible contracts -- just 
 like Isiah Thomas! You'll also need to assign roles (starter, star, sixth man) to your players 
 in an effort to keep their morale up -- unlike Isiah. All of these options may make it seem like 
 going through a season of the association is a lot of work, but the effect they have on your team 
 is minimal. It's possible to use the default roles, never schedule any practices, and scout very 
 little yet still do just fine. But you get what you put into the mode. If you really immerse yourself 
 in the life of an NBA GM and coach, there's a lot to enjoy here. Should you want to only worry 
 about the rigors of a single season, you can do that in the aptly named season mode.  

  Once again, the NBA 2K series sets the standard for online play. There's something for everyone 
 to enjoy here. Hardcore fans can participate in an entire season, complete with online draft. You 
 can create tournaments, as well as play ranked and unranked matches. The game never really bothers 
 to explain how to do it, but if you go to the online lobby page and scroll down, you'll find that 
 you can participate in all of the NBA Blacktop modes too. Up to eight players can play together 
 on the Xbox 360 and up to 10 players can team up on the PlayStation 3. All of your stats and progress 
 are tracked on your player card, making it easy for you to scout prospective opponents. 2K8 takes 
 a proactive approach to getting player feedback, not only asking you if you want to give Xbox Live 
 feedback on a player after a game, but also giving you its own series of questions to help ensure 
 people know what kind of player they're going up against in the future. None of this would mean 
 a thing if the game didn't run well. Outside of free throws being a little more difficult and the 
 referee sometimes not wanting to put the ball in play, our online experience was quite good.  

 
           It isn't perfect, but the new dunk contest is lots of fun.      

  2K8 boasts some impressive options, but how the game plays is most impressive. The signature jump 
 shots in last year's game were nice, but this year, Visual Concepts has raised the bar with signature 
 style animations. There are countless new layups, dribble moves, passes, and dunks. These new animations 
 complement the already great-looking jump shots. You'll be amazed at how realistically the game 
 plays and moves. The CPU does a great job of taking advantage of all these signature moves by making 
 the players play just as they would in real life. Even though we were on the wrong end of the beating, 
 we were dazzled as Steve Nash threw no-look passes, squeezed bounce passes through tiny openings, 
 and drove the lane with reckless abandon. Other players are just as lethal in the game as they 
 are in real life. Shaq's an absolute terror near the basket, throwing down vicious dunks over anyone 
 who stands between him and the hoop; Kobe will take over a game, owning entire quarters at a time; 
 while LeBron will beat you with his passing and scoring. It's one of those things you've got to 
 see in action to truly appreciate how everything comes together.     

   

  You wouldn't know it from the game's horrible instruction manual (save for some load screens, there's 
 no in-game instruction either) , but there are a number of new gameplay features this year. We didn't 
 find this particularly useful, but you can use the right stick to raise or lower your defender's 
 hands. You can also control other players at any time, get them open, call for the ball, and then 
 drain a shot. Another addition that will help you get open shots is a diagram that shows you where 
 players need to go when you run a play. This is a great way to learn the proper way to run plays 
 and should encourage you to do more than drive the line or toss up endless three pointers by making 
 it easy to run an offense like the pros. You'll also need to run plays because your players don't 
 do much on their own to get open. They'll shuffle around out near the three-point line, but they 
 don't work hard down low nor do they cut to the basket much on their own. The big change to the 
 way the game controls is that you now perform crossovers and other dribble moves strictly with 
 the left analog stick. If you're playing from the sideline camera, it can be a tough to get the 
 players to do what you want them to do. The system is much more responsive from the baseline view 
 because your actions more accurately mimic what the players are doing. It's a good change because 
 the controls were getting overly complex, but Visual Concepts needs to just swallow its pride and 
 copy NBA Live's use of the right trigger.  

           Unsure how to run a play? Let the game show you how.      

  These changes and additions 
 are not huge on their own, but how everything comes together is what makes 2K8 such an amazing 
 game. Once you get a handle on the controls, you have a wide array of moves at your fingertips. 
 The artificial intelligence is great -- it's more challenging than last year, but it never feels 
 cheap. Even free throws, which were frustrating last year, have been made more forgiving this time 
 around. If you toss in the fantastic signature style moves and the way they're implemented, you've 
 got a great game on your hands.  

  It's too bad, then, that there are some nagging issues that keep the game from being truly remarkable. 
 Once again, there are too many blown layups. Whether you use the shoot button or the shot stick 
 (it's a little less of an issue with the stick) , players will miss wide-open dunks and layups. 
 They'll turn around midair and throw up a circus shot for no reason. They also seem to have an 
 aversion to going strong to the hole. This seems to be the developer's way of keeping overall shooting 
 percentages realistic, but it comes at the expense of completely unrealistic percentages from in 
 the paint. It's such an obvious problem that even the game's announcers see what's going on, chiding 
 players for missing such easy shots. There are also some smaller flaws that bring things down a 
 bit. When double-teamed, ball handlers are too quick to pick up their dribble and often turn the 
 ball over as a result of being tied up. Defenders charge into the ball handler to push him over 
 midcourt for a backcourt violation, the AI does a poor job of helping you rotate defenders to cover 
 the open man, and there are a lot of questionable foul calls. None of these issues ruin the game, 
 but imagine how great it would be if they weren't there...  

  2K8 doesn't look a whole lot different from last year, but the addition of all the new signature 
 style moves does wonders for making the game appear more realistic. Many sports games have great 
 animations, but none of them react so realistically to what's happening, apply physics, and then 
 transition from one move to the next so seamlessly. Player models are generally quite good, though 
 many of the Caucasian players look downright horrifying, as do most of the coaches. The weird bug 
 where the shorts the players are wearing tear and vanish still rears its ugly head once in a while 
 too. Arenas look fantastic, thanks to great-looking courts, cheerleaders, dancing mascots, players 
 on the bench reacting to the action on the court, and (ugly but active) individual crowd members. 
 The frame rate is generally steady, but it does choke a bit during free throws and replays. The 
 announcers do a nice job of calling the action and mix in a fair amount of game analysis as well. 
 They do occasionally miss some big plays and there are a few situations where you'll repeatedly 
 hear the same call, but they're generally quite good.  

            Yeah, you got dunked on. At least it was a nice-looking dunk.      

  It is rare to 
 find a sports game where you're in awe of the moves you see onscreen, but it's something that happens 
 routinely with 2K8. Rather than get upset about how the CPU is picking you apart, you'll find yourself 
 admiring how it happened and then resolving to return the favor the next time down the court. It's 
 just too bad that such problems as missed layups, poor instructions, and a somewhat stale association 
 mode are present because even with these problems, NBA 2K8 is one of the greatest basketball games 
 in recent memory. Whether you're a casual basketball fan or a total hoops nut, this is the game 
 for you.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (121 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tmac3456
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Since this is only my second review and i'm not really huge on game reviews yet. i'll keep this 
 very short and sweet. 
  
  NBA 2K8 is one of the best basketball games i've played. I've always been an EA NBA Live fan but 
 my cousin convinced me to play 2K8 and i completely fell in love. now lets talk about the game 
 itself. the graphics are good, but NBA live graphics are better, the players faces in 2K8 are not 
 as detailed as they are on NBA live, however gameplay is simply amazing, from play calling to going 
 on a hot streak to running completely cold. however the atomosphere in 2K8 is quite dead. when 
 a player is moved to the bench he becomes completely still, the only time there is action from 
 the bench area is coach cut scences. unlike nba live, where the bench is alive all the time. Creating 
 a player option is pretty good in both games. The celebirty commentary is equally funny and smart 
 in bother games. But overall all the gameplay in NBA 2K8 is amazing its easy its fun and its very 
 very addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 8
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 9
  
  NBA 2K8 is another addition to the #1 rated NBA simulation. The gameplay is fast paced with challenging 
 AI. This year there are signature style moves where the players shot is exactly the same as real 
 life. Also, there is a mode called NBA Blacktop, which includes, a game of 21, pick up games (1 
 on 1, 2 on 2, etc.) , and the newly added 3 point shoot out and Sprite slam dunk contest. Yet, mostly 
 every game has a downfall, and in 2K8 the downfall is the create a player/team. Create a team has 
 the same exact team icons as previous years and in create a player it is extremely difficult or 
 even impossible to make a black player. When trying to make Michael Jordan, the face was horrible 
 and the darkest I was able to get his skin was light brown. Furthermore, the highlight of NBA 2K8 
 that will make it worth the money and that will keep you busy for a long time is the amazing online 
 modes. You can play a regular exhibition match or any of the blacktop modes without any lag. Overall, 
 NBA 2K8 is a great addition to the long running series and is definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jango-Man
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  The game sucks. Plain and simple. For around 40 hours I've been wondering why I can't hit open 
 lay-ups, drive to the rim, block shots without getting fouled, while all the while the computer 
 has built up a 15 point lead. The CPU RARELY misses any shots, they intercept a good 40% of your 
 passes, block you cleanly (all the time I might add) and contest you on almost every shot. I can't 
 seem to get a guy open for a midrange jump shot, and even if I do, perfect release and all, I will 
 miss. The game is broken. There are some aspects that will get me to go out and buy the new one, 
 like Association, which is by far 2K8's strong points. There are so many broken features like Jason 
 Kapono missing an open 3-pointer from his sweet spot or Kobe Bryant missing an open layup, or even 
 Rasheed Wallace deciding to fade-away instead of driving for a dunk. I won't be playing this game 
 again based on the fact that I literally just snapped the disc in half because of frustration. 
 I hope 2K9 is a little more, "less broken." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toosmoothforya
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K8 is back trying to stay 2 steps ahead of Live like the Celtics did LA. Like Kobe's 81. As 
 a whole it does! Live still trying to recover from Econ 101: New Competition. When you don't have 
 it you get use to not having it and you fall behind when it comes full force like 2K8 did.
  
  The Good:
  
  1. Animations:
  a. Having player specific animations are great. Gives you 
 a real feel for the game and player. Shooting styles to quirks to dunks and layups are awesome.
 
  2. Visuals
  a. Stadiums and lighting are good. Players are solid live may actually win this area just depends 
 on the player.
  3. Dribbling
  a. Dribbling styles are nice. Gotta learn how physics works since it is a part of real life and 
 the game.
  4. Kevin Harlan (Sometimes)
  a. Kevin Harlan has a distinct voice that is great in real lifeO Baby that was primetime material" 
 is great on TNT. He has moments of that "OH" in the game which reminds you why you like him in 
 real life.
  5. Dynasty
  a. Still strong as always.
  
  The Bad:
  1. Passing/Steals
  a. It's really.. really.. really hard to run the main play in the NBA, 2-man game w/whoever: Kobe/Pau, 
 Deron/Carlos, Paul/Kevin, Jason, Dirk, Steve, Shaquille/Amere and then have a great cut by the pick 
 setter make a great animation past... to haveit stolen and taken down court for a score. THIS HAS 
 to BE fixed. 
  2. Dribbling
  a. While the animations are great sometimes you get caught and have the same decade old glitch.. 
 you can't dribble by anyone. This is in part to the part forgivness of lockdown defense this year. 
 Even when it's not being used it's can be hard to get by someone
  3. Missed Shots
  a. After about playing 1 half of missing easy lay-ups w/Kobe or Lebron you will curse not on purpose 
 but more by surprise. Unless you want to miss a lot of lay-ups/dunks you will have to adjust your 
 slders plain and simple. Also a lot of missed open jumpshots within the player range too. 
  4. Kevin Harlan/Kenny Smith
  a. While Kevin voice is nice his play by play is the same from 2K7 
 gotta change this. Kenny Smith doesn't even do that type of commentary in real life so you know 
 he will suck on a game.
  5. CPU
  a. The computer will make a lot of shots... a lot. 
  
  Econ 101: Staying ahead of the competition
  
  Unlike football, basketball has competition. Either 
 Live, 2k and just for conversation purposes the life series. This makes for interesting counters 
 on features for the upcoming games. Competition, unless they are working together, spurs progression. 
 We have seen that with both brands. If you like a brand than the other sucks. Plain and simple. 
 You may play Live and 2K to choose which to buy and that is competition. You read professional 
 reviews like Gamespot and gamers like this one and others to mold which one you should get. You 
 check everyday for new gameplay videos or previews to see. Thats great for the games. Either or 
 both Live and 2K (for gamers rights the life series just doesn't count sorry guys, gotta man up!) 
 offer great competition for each other. See Live and 2k are like Roger Federer and Rafal Nadal. 
 Live may win on clay but 2K has ruled everything else! Will Live be the Nadal of this year and 
 break through? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlenskjold
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Lige fra frste tryk p gamepadden bliver du kastet ind i spillet. med en enkel og overkommelig 
 men kastede jeg mig straks over en af de ting som anmelderne har rost meget. NBA Blacktop. Her 
 kan du deltage i de obligatoriske 3-point shootout og den overraskende flotte Slam dunk contest 
 som virkelig imponerede mig grafik messigt samt den lille detalje at man kan f krt en bil ind 
 under kurven og derefter forsge at lave tricks og samtidig hoppe over en bil. Dette er rigtig 
 svrt at kordinere men de store flelser kommer straks frem nr man hrer publikums brl og man 
 ved at man har lavet et perfekt dunk.
  Herefter kastede jeg mig over association som er en slags season mode. Nr man skal vlge hold 
 kan man se konomien osv som for mig ikke rigtig har nogen betydning men som kan vre meget rart 
 hvis man vlger et hold som trnger til nye spillere. S snart du har valgt holdet skal du tildele 
 et hvis antal minutter til de enkelte spillere. Herefter skulle jeg vlge den ugentlige trning 
 og her kan det anbefales at man ikke stter trningen for hjt op i niveau fordi ellers kommer 
 dine spillere til at skyde og spille rigtig drligt. Herefter gjorde jeg mig klar til at spille. 
 Grafikmssigt blev jeg overvldet. Publikum, og spillere der hopper rundt hver gang man laver et 
 dunk eller en flot 3 points scoring. Der er dog nogle minusser ved spillet. Hvis man er bagud og 
 man har lavet et flot dunk. s istedet for at dkke op begynder nogle af spillerne at give hinanden 
 et klap p ryggen istedet for at dkke op. dette er utroligt frustrerende til tider i de helt ttte 
 kampe. Derudover brnder spillerne rigtig mange og nemme lay ups og dette er nok en ting som 2k 
 skal forbedre til nste season. Alt ialt er det et utroligt flot spil men i r ville jeg vlge 
 NBA live 09. med de store opdateringer som Be A Pro og spiller DNA som bliver opdateret dagligt 
 gr at spillet nok aldrig vil blive kedeligt. Men glder mig til at se hvordan at 2K opdaterer 
 sidste rs spil NBA 2k8 som er utroligt flot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdawg2519
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Originally I scored this game a 10, and dropped it to a 9.5 only because the dunk competitions, 
 although, extremely well created and entertaining, was hugely, and exhaustingly difficult 
 due to the control aspect of the player with regards to the right thumbstick and meter controlsJust 
 plain difficult. As for the season, and assos. games modes, these are terrifically written 
 and highly realistic. I have to give serious props to the developers of this superbly authentic 
 game; Well done 2K! 
  
  There's not much more I can say here, except that I hope you run out and get it, because as for 
 basketball games are concerned, this is the best on the market. The controls and direction 
 are very simple and straight forward however to apply them in the game takes somewhat of 
 a learning curve. Enjoy, players. However; I wouldn't go as far as to say that the new 2k9 
 will improve much and you may be better off keeping this one. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I've like the previous two 2K games for the PS2. But is this newest installment to the 2K series 
 as good as I thought it would be? Kind of but not really. What I really didn't like about this 
 game is the graphics. The player models look pretty bad, and don't look like the real life players. 
 There's a lot of clipping and glitches when you play the game, and the frame rate isn't all that 
 great. The gameplay is pretty fun. The controls are easy, but it's hard to make many shots. The 
 online is pretty fun but not as good as NBA Live 08. Is it better than NBA Live? Yes, but barely.
 
  Graphics: 5.7/10 -- pretty bad actually
  
  Gameplay: 7.8/10 -- it's pretty good but too hard to make shots
  
  Enjoyment: 7.3/10
  
  Final 
 Thoughts: A pretty good basketball game that anyone could enjoy, but the visual presentation drags 
 the experience down.
  
  Final Score: 7.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360-reviews
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  I bought this game last week as my first basketball game for the xbox360, and it has impressed 
 me , from the smooth animation to the satisfying dunks. The first thing i noticed when i played 
 my first game, was that the look of the kits and the movement of them was spot on. Also some of 
 the player models were accurate, but there are also some that are just plain horrible and look 
 like the developer hasn't even looked at that player and just done it randomly. Another thing i 
 like is the sprite slam dunk contest, because it can be really fun when playing with mates and 
 you get an amazing dunk and they just mess up. There are also other game modes which are found 
 in the nba blacktop and they are also quite fun. The controls for this game are pretty straight 
 forward but the dunk contest can take a while to get used to. Now i am going to note the things 
 i didn't like so much. The first hoop i scored, I was eager to look at the replay and i did, but 
 i wasn't so pleased, because there were many glitches, such as a hand going through the ball, players 
 going through each other, gliches with kits, and it felt laggy. One other area that dissapointed 
 me was the online, because sometimes i had to wait like a minute for the guy on the sideline to 
 give me the ball so its a not a major fault, but its still anoying. So overall a great polished 
 game with average shiny graphics, gameplay that is a good balance of realism, and fun, and many 
 features. Although it has some small bad points, in the end its positive points outweigh them. 
 If your looking for a basketball game that you can really get your teeth into and that will give 
 you a challenge, then this is the one for you, and i will definetly look into getting nba2k9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost_Warrior
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  So I am a sucker for basketball games, I played the hell out of College Hoops 2k7 to the point 
 that I was almost sick of college basketball. I decided it was time to go pro and buy NBA 2k8. 
 For those who've played a 2k Sports basketball game before, you're going to find it is fairly the 
 same but it adds enough to seperate it from other basketball games.
  
  The game play in NBA 2k8 is very good, the players move up and down the court realistically and 
 the pace of the game is very much like a real NBA game is. One cool feature is the hundreds of 
 different shot styles for different players. Your favorite player shoots exactly like he does in 
 real life, from Kobe's fade away to Shawn Marion's flick style jump shot. This customization doesn't 
 stop at shooting either. Some of the best dunkers in the game now have their own dunk style, such 
 as Vince Carter and Lebron James. Learning to cross over and juke may take some time for those 
 who are unfamiliar with 2k basketball games however once you do get the hang of it the gameplay 
 is a lot of fun. What surprised me about the gameplay is I found no real problem with it. The missed 
 layup problem is much less severe than it was in previous games and aside from the game freezing 
 on me too much (which I blame on overplay of the game) the game play is very good.
  
  Graphically the game is superb. The character models look pretty good and most of the players look 
 very similar to their real-life counterparts. One thing I did not like was the appearance of the 
 created players/drafted players. Most of the drafted players look ridiculous sporting huge afros 
 and faces that resemble those with down syndrome. It would have been nice if 2k had spent more 
 time making created players that resemble normal human beings. As for the arenas themselves, they 
 look fantastic. Each arena really has the atmosphere of an NBA arena.
  
  2k8 has a number of different game modes that provide for a lot of playability. The biggest mode 
 is the Dynasty mode, in which you take control of a team and play through multiple seasons. There 
 are few things more satisfying for me in 2k8 than leading the Charlotte Bobcats to an NBA title. 
 So basically, if you've always wanted to see your favorite NBA team become a dynasty, this is your 
 best bet. Dynasty mode has a lot of depth and you really feel like you have full control over the 
 team. A new mode added this year is the dunk contest. The mode is self-explanatory, and its a nice 
 addition to the game although I think NBA Live's version of the dunk contest is better.
  
  Overall NBA 2k8 is a great basketball game and possibly the best basketball game ever made. If 
 you're a fan of basketball games its a must have. The game is fun and easy to pick up and playing 
 against a friend can be a lot of fun, especially when you dunk on him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiixx3
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K8 is one of the best basketball games I have ever played. It has impressive graphics, amazing 
 gameplay, and terrific content in it. It's always a blast to play with friends or just play on 
 Xbox Live or Playstation Network. It's also a good way to predict outcomes to real games in the 
 real world like most sports games do. This is just one of those games you have to play yourself 
 and find out if you like it, but from my opinion, It's very good and I highly reccommend it to 
 sports fan or to anyone looking to buy a game from your local gamestop. It's just really frikin 
 good. I could just write all day with just how good it is. Actually I will just say good about 
 20 times to just save you the trouble.  
 Well I'm bored writing this review. I'm going to play some more NBA 2K8. See ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanye04
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 29, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K8, not much to say that has not been said last year. Graphics wise the game still continues 
 to impress with every version. The player motions, as well as faces seem to be more accurate than 
 last year's (some are straight terrible) . The crowd effect is great and really captures the essence 
 of true fans with them hyping up foul shots and screaming defense when a three is drained or a 
 dunk is slammed down. 
  
  The gameplay shies away from the rest of the amazing features to the game because of how unimpressive/ 
 and non-fluent the players play out. For instance, the wide open threes that are missed constantly 
 even by 99 rating scorers just disappoint especially when it comes down to that three that can 
 make or break the whole game. It becomes frustrating that even as fluid as you are and how dynamite 
 your scorer should be he still misses open shots even closer than the three point line with no 
 traffic in the way to oppose him. Contrary to this is the effect that the CPU controlled players 
 never seems to waver from making shots even with the best defenders straight in their face.
  
  The unbalance of the gameplay cans definitely pull away casual players from the game. Hardcore 
 fans will probably find this even more frustrating when title games are on the line. Everything 
 you loved from the old games are still here and the season, association and street ball are just 
 as fun as before. The slam dunk contest and 3pt shootout are probably the highlights of the game. 
 The updated defense is very unimpressive because in heat of the game your CPU controlled teammates 
 never seem to get the idea to cover another man when in previous versions they knew to go stick 
 someone else which leaves another man for wide open shots.
  
  Even for casual fans of the genre you can still find a plethora of modes to keep you busy even 
 if one or two of them are not the ones for you. The game is focused on basketball; the issues on 
 the court mostly retract to the rest of the game modes with the exception of the slam dunk and 
 3pt shootout. The signature style moves are copied beautifully and make the game feel more authentic 
 adding to an already solid game. In short the game is no different from the previous versions glitches 
 and problems aside, NBA 2K8 still manages to be a solid game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to love this game. 2k basketball has been so close, in my opinion, to being the 
 best sports simulation of any kind. But there are continuing problems that plague this series each 
 and every year that deflate my enthusiasm every time.
  First off, the good. Great graphics. I mean, you just can't do much better. Players look great, 
 the courts especially are incredible. The arenas come alive with the crowd, the sideline dancers, 
 and more. Presentation is absolutely perfect. The sound is great, and there are plenty of modes 
 to choose from. Oh, and the animation is top notch.
  But when it comes to gameplay, the game just falls apart. You can have your big man in the lane, 
 2 feet from the basket, with noone in front of him, and he can miss the shot. 3 point shooters, 
 with wide open looks at the basket, will clang their shot off the rim. Even if you have a breakaway 
 dunk, there's a chance you will miss it. Maybe this is OK for college hoops, but not for the pros. 
 And it would also be OK if the computer played by the same rules. Unfortunately, on any descent 
 difficulty level. the computer constantly makes circus shots with great D in their face, drain 
 3 point shots with D in their face, and never, never, never, miss an open shot. 
  This ruins what could have been an almost perfect game. Also, I just don't feel the control is 
 as tight as it should be. Too many times I just couldn't do what I wanted to do.
  NBA 2k8 is still a solid game. But it could and should have been great. Someone needs to explain 
 to me why this game's problems are the same every year and never get fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lnehme
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  NBA 2k8. An innovative though good game. Despite a few graphically problems, this game simulates 
 the NBA better than other NBA games. Also it has some features, like the Sprite Slam Dunk and The 
 Association, that makes a lot of fun playing. 
  
  The graphics are not awesome, but it is adequate for a next-gen game. The slam cam is also a good 
 feature of the games, witch show the dunk in other angles. 
  
  The Slam Dunk is a bit difficult because of the controls, but is lot of fun. The Association simulates 
 you in the control of a team, where it has a Draft Pick Up, a trade deadline and other features. 
 There is also the NBA blacktop, wher you can play the # point Shootout, a 1vs1 street game and 
 also the 21 game.
  
  All of this new features makes the NBA 2k8 the best NBA simulation, and a must-own game for the 
 NBA fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrQuest77
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 11, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun and does a lot of things right. The actual motion of shooting is pretty 
 accurate for each player and the shooting timing is realistic. Players will actually shoot according 
 to their range and accurately (for example people who are good 3 point shooters will be accurate 
 from the corner, but not as much from the wings or at the top of the key. The NBA Blacktop mode 
 is a fun mode that is different from a regular NBA game. The dunk contest and 3 point contest are 
 also pretty fun.
  
  Overall this game has a lot going for it, but it also has an exorbitant amount of negatives
  
 
  
  There are way way way way too many blown layups. I wanted to see whether it was a game issue or 
 whether it was my technique, so i experimented by increasing the "layup" slider to 100$%, but i 
 still missed layups during this test. 
  
  
  Along those lines, players will go for crazy up and under layups for no reason - they can receive 
 a pass underneath the basket, and have nobody in front of them, but instead of going towards the 
 basket and attempting a dunk (and possibly getting fouled) they fall away from the basket and shoot 
 a kind of fadeaway layup.
  
  Following from having nobody in front of you, the game will sometimes decide that you arent going 
 to attack the basket and you shoot a pull up jumper, even inside of the painted area.
  
  Playing defense is pretty well done, until you get to the part about contesting shots. The new 
 "lock on defense" mechanic will keep you in front of whoever you are defending and does a pretty 
 good job of it. My only issue with it is that sometimes I try to go around a screen and somehow 
 my player keeps moving away from the ballhandler even when I get past the screen and I am pointing 
 my movement stick towards the ballhandler.
  
  
  Going along the lines of the movement stick, this game makes you create off the dribble using the 
 left stick, which also moves. This is a decent idea, but implemented terribly. Really you can only 
 just crossover as you are standing still, and any other move the game kinda decides to do on its 
 own. For example, you could be moving to your right past the elbow and stop and look to pass, but 
 you sometimes will continue moving that way, but spin towards the basket even without making any 
 remotely spinning motion with the left stick. But then when you want to do a spin move (which is 
 supposedly done by spinning the left stick once) , your player just walks in a circle. This compared 
 to the computers, who will literally spin 4 or 5 times in a row and perform all kinds of ball handling 
 maneuvers that you just wish you could do. 
  
  Also, directional passing is god awful. If you play this game, do not even bother trying to do 
 it, as it will annoy the hell out of you. A player could be cutting to the basket, so you aim at 
 him and pass, but instead the ball will go nowhere close to him and will likely get picked off. 
 Or a player is coming up behind you, so you aim behind you and pass, but instead it goes to your 
 left or right and also likely gets picked off. Use the direct button passing as often as you can.
 
  
  Blocking shots seems to be random in this game as well. If you press the block shot button (y) 
 1 of 3 things happens, and the game doesn't really have any set situation for each like it should. 
 1 is the closeout, which should happen if you are too far away from the shooter, but happens a 
 lot even if you are close. 2 is the jump in the air, which it will sometimes do instead of closing 
 out., and 3 is the block shot attempt, where your player will try to swat the ball. The problem 
 is that whenever you position yourself to block a shot, a lot of the time the defender will not 
 do the appropriate block - when a swat is required they will jump in the air or when a jump in 
 the air is required they will swat and miss the shooter. 
  
  Fouling is pretty loose and there seems to be a lot of shoving happening, such as when you face 
 a full court pressure, when crossing half court you will sometimes get shoved back with a backcourt 
 violation called instead of a foul. 
  
  The only issue with the NBA blacktop occurs in the dunk contest. This version of the dunk contest 
 revolves around the right stick - one flick gives the jump style, a second flick gives the finish 
 style, then you use the right trigger to finish the dunk according to the meter on the screen. 
 Great idea and it works pretty well. However, a lot of the time, the flicks are not properly identified 
 by the game. Some of the flicks for dunks are half or full rotations starting from one side (left 
 clockwise halfway or full way, etc) . For some reason, the game will decide you flicked the stick 
 another way at various points; if you do a left clockwise full gather, followed by a down finish, 
 I have literally seen the game decide that you did an up finish. How it confuses up and down I 
 have no idea, but I have seen it happen multiple times.
  
  
  Despite all of these issues, it still is a pretty fun game, as it gets engrossing (although these 
 issues will piss you off in your engrossment) and the franchise mode is very very very well done. 
 I hope these issues are ironed out in the future 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kronic23
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game would be a great basketball game but found out it was just a good game. This 
 game has better gameplay than NBA Live 08. Like when you do a lay up and get fouled your player 
 actually has a chance of making an and1 play. In NBA live when you shoot a lay up your player has 
 almost no chance to make the lay up when you get fouled. Also this game has good graphics but the 
 character models don't even look like like the players, I can't even recognize them. Like the trick 
 system isn't very good becasue you use the stick you move with to do crossovers. Also the 3 point 
 shootout isn't like NBA Live 08, and The Dunk contest is fun But Not Like NBA Live 08. Overall 
 this game is good but not great. I would recommend you rent it then you should think about buying 
 the game. So I recommend you wait for the next installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarrinPro
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This game really focuses on little details like how players bounce the ball before shooting the 
 free-throw shot, cheerleaders, mascots (although they are not exactly like the real ones) , bench 
 players, crowd (everyone has their own actions WHAT A BREAKTHROUGH!!!) . Most importantly the AI, 
 I have to say it's pretty realistic because as you play, the game studies your style of play and 
 finds ways to counter it. The movements are just smooth and life-like (especially the dribbling 
 and shooting) , players celebrate and perform bragging motions after successfully making incredible 
 shots, dunks, layups, etc. 
  
  Association mode provides great depth, you feel as if you really am the GM, through making trades 
 and signing players (you can now offer no trade clauses!) under the salary cap, assigning roles 
 (star, starter, sixth man, role player, bench warmer) , placing players on the trading block, etc. 
 Each team owner has different personalities (for example the Toronto Raptors GM is focused on making 
 money) . There are a lot of other little things and will take forever to list. Overall NBA 2K8 provides 
 incredible graphics, commentary, depth, and other details, it's definitely a must-play if you are 
 a basketball fan or baller.
  
  Have Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillmatic-
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  Lets get right to it.
  
  Gameplay: They tweeked it up, and added new signature moves, and it runs alot smoother, giving 
 you a better expeirence. The shot variety is amazing, even the unknown players have their real 
 life shot, which is amazing. Overall the gameplay is smoother, with added signature moves, and more 
 realistic as well.
  
  Graphics: Slighty improved although it could have been better. The animations run so realistic 
 it makes the graphics look better.
  
  Audio: Great music variety, from hip hop to rock. The announcing needs to improve, and thats the 
 only problem I have with 2k8.
  
  If your a basketball fan, and would like to pick up a basketball video game, this is the one that 
 will blow your  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xbox800
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k8 is a great game. It is similar to NBA 2k7 and i expected it to be a better. The graphics 
 have improved. It is a fun game to play with your friends. The dunk contest is a little hard but 
 it is really fun once you get the hang of it. The game's 3 pt shootout is boring and not fun so 
 avoid that. This game is great to play against friends but not the computer. Play online and you 
 will fall in love with this game competing in games and dunk contests online. This game is good, 
 but hopefully it will be better next year and be more advanced. I prefer to use the New Orleans 
 Hornets because Chris Paul is amazing and has other great players. Also the Houston Rockets are 
 a great team to use. 2k sports has made many great games and hopefully will for many years to come. 
 BASKETBALL RULES!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docwoo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K8 is one of the better basketball sims to come along in a long time, but it's not without 
 some issues. First off, it is waaaayyy better than last year's version. The graphics are great 
 and the player animations are incredible - the superstars actually move and act like their real-life 
 counterparts. Playing online is usually fun but there are a few exploits that are worth mentioning. 
 First of all, the lock-on D feature begins to feel very cheap after the first half-dozen times 
 you see a 7-footer effectively shut-down a nimble guard like, say, Chris Paul. Also, good perimeter 
 defense doesn't affect shooters as much as it should. You'll often find that online opponents who 
 have taken the time to perfect the release-point on their jump shots can pretty much hit almost 
 ANY shot with ANY player, regardless of how tightly they are defended. Unfortunately, many of the 
 other aspects of the game seem completely arbitrary: star players will inexplicably miss easy layups 
 while routine bench-warmers will go on unconscious hot-streaks. Overall, NBA 2K8 never quite accomplishes 
 the feel of a real NBA game but is still the best Hoops game out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djrmc
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Now this is a realist basketball game with all the captions and movements of the players. The commentary 
 is alright it's still better then nba lives and other basketball games as well. This game is very 
 fun to play online because it is almost lag free and there is alot of players in the lobby areas. 
 I've yet to acheive all of the acheivements but I am working on it. This is one of those games 
 that you can play from start to the next time the new nba 2k9 comes out. I think the difficulty 
 of this game is great when you have it on hall of fame you better bring your A game to the computer 
 or you will get crushed. The only complaint I have with this game is that sometimes it takes a 
 while for the ref to through you the ball when you are inbounding it. That only happens a few times 
 though.
  
  I give it a 9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REMLOC
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  WHERE DO I BEGIN , THE PRETTY GRAPHICS OR THE RIM SHATTERING DUNKS! THIS IS A GREAT BASKETBALL 
 GAME, ITS NOT PERFECT BUT IT DOES A GREAT JOB GETTING CLOSE! THE CONTROLS ARE GREAT WITH THE ADDED 
 FEATURES ON THE DUNK STICK/SHOT STICK YOU CAN TELL THAT 2K REALLY WANTED PLAYERS TO HAVE TO LEARN 
 THE GAME. WHICH IS GREAT FOR SOME AND BAD FOR OTHERS. IF YOUR LOOKING FOR AN ARCADE STYLE B-BALL 
 GAME THAT LETS YOU DUNK OVER WHOEVER YOU WANT WHEN EVER YOU WANT THIS IS NOT THE GAME FOR YOU. 
 EVERY TEAM HAS THERE STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES AND IN 2K8 WHENEVER POSSIBLE THEY WILL USE THEM AT 
 WILL! YOUR STARS WILL BE STARS BUT THEY CAN AND WILL EVENTUALLY GET SHUTDOWN, UNLESS YOUR PLAYING 
 ON THE ROOKIE LEVEL. BUT ONCE YOUR ON SUPERSTAR ITS ANYBODIES GAME! THE CREATE-A-PLAYER IS FANTASTIC 
 AND FRANCHISE IS ALWAYS FUN. BUT THE NEW DUNK CONTEST AND 3-POINT CONTEST EVEN ADDS MORE FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bedram793
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9/10
  Love the lighting in this game. Overall, graphics are great. Only problem is the faces of some 
 of the players. Andrei Kirilenko looks like an alien. Some bigger name people are pretty well done 
 though.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  Great gameplay. Lots of moves and plays you can do. Really nice plays you can set up. You can move 
 players while in control of another. Great gameplay. 
  
  Lasting Appeal: 9.5/10
  The franchise mode is great. I'm still playing this. Really fun to actually play the games and 
 see how you do. Not too sure about online since I don't have LIVE but the franchise mode alone 
 will keep you playing. 
  
  Overall: 9.5/10
  A definite must buy for NBA lovers. Great game. Really fun. Only problem I can think of is sometimes 
 the player's pants and legs disappear (has happened like twice to me) and the faces of some of 
 the players and that is about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubba910
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily the best basketball game out, in my opinion, since the days of live 2003 & 
 4.
  
  
  The game modes are outstanding, especially the dunk contest, playoffs and association mode. The 
 one that dissapoints me is the 3-Point Shootout. 
  
  It is impossible to make shots even with a gun shooter like Ray Allen. Back when I had live 2005, 
 it didn't matter who I had, i could knock down shots, but this one really disappoints me.
  
  The dunk contest this year is the thing that finally puts them up with nba lives modes. With 
 the amazing amount of dunks, you could play it for weeks and still not have seen all the dunks.
 
  
  
  I continue to be amazed with the association mode that this game has. It is the bread and butter 
 of nba 2k games. With this only being my second nba 2k game, my first, 2k6, didn't seem to be deep. 
 2k8 has blown me away. The only thing that i don't like is that you can extend contracts during 
 the season. I don't know whether im doing something wrong, but it frustrates me that other teams 
 offer my players what i want to give them and they leave. It still is the best franchise in a sports 
 game next to owner mode that was on madden 2004.
  
  
  The only thing about the playoff mode that I like is that they scrapped the name tournament mode 
 and FINALLY called it playoff mode. YAY!!!
  
  
  The reason I think this game is overrated is that after 2k7, they say there is a lot more. Sure, 
 they threw in a dunk contest and a terrible 3 point shootout and new graphics, But after playing 
 2k7, I feel it needs more.
  
  
  Overall, this game is fantastic, and I would recommend it to anyone who loves basketball, but the 
 3-Point Shootout really annoys me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diddyj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  If your looking to have some fun with a basketball game, then this is your game..
  If your looking for a good basketball sim, then this is your game..
  
  The graphics are alright.. on 
 a scale of 1-10.. graphics would get about a 7. NBA Live has the better graphics, but the graphics 
 of the animations on NBA Live aren't as smooth as the ones in NBA 2k8; so that kind of makes up 
 for it..
  
  The gameplay is great on the exception of a few glitches here and there.. but what sports game 
 doesnt have glitches?? I think that this game's gameplay is so much better than lives, that it 
 helps you forget about the graphics difference between the two. For the gameplay, on a scale of 
 1-10, i would say it gets an 8.
  
  In the difficulty section of this game, you will find yourself being decent at this game in no 
 time.. So, i'd give the learing curve about 30-60 minutes to get used to this game...
  
  And the one thing this game isnt so great at, well not just this game, but all 2k games... is that 
 the servers are really bad, you will find yourself wanting to play online really bad, then all 
 of a sudden the 2k servers are down.. they are down alot...
  
  So, overall this game for me gets an 8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OOblahMan
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Great game but there are a couple problems... 
  
  1. You can never get offensive rebounds, I play this game almost everyday and I can never get offensive 
 rebounds. It's like they sit there for a second, and then jump up to get the rebounds. But when 
 they jump the other team already has the defensive rebound. I still can't get the achievement.
 
  
  2. I play with the Wizards because they are my favorite team. But when I download the real 07-08 
 roster, it doesn't work. I've asked people for help, but I can't find out how to fix it. Donell 
 Taylor only played in the pre-season and I'm tired of him missing easy shots. Roger Mason and Dominic 
 McGuire are on the real roster but not on the 2K8 roster. Also if real NBA trades happen like Shawn 
 Marion for Shaq etc. The 360 should update and make those changes so I don't have to do it myself.
 
  
  3. YOU GOT RID OF THE 24/7 GAME MODE!!!!! I loved the NBA 2K7 one, but YOU GOT RID OF IT! It was 
 one of the best game modes that made NBA 2K games Game of the Year! I was really upset.
  
  Other than those problems, I thought the game was flawless. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koreanesekid
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  honestly, there are so many things wrong with this game.
  
  1. rebounding. when you try to go for a rebound, the player likes to charge up then jump. by the 
 time that happens, the other team is already going for a fastbreak. plus, you never get offensive 
 rebounds.
  
  2. rotation. when does michael redd ever play center? the AI likes to put players in the wrong 
 position and switch out players when they still have about 93 stamina left.
  
  3. passing. it's impossible to get the ball in the paint without a 60% chance of a turnover. also, 
 there are the most crappiest passes when all the player needs to do it bounce pass it.
  
  4. shooting. it's all about timing. which is true about shooting, but when ray allen behind the 
 arc A LOT or kobe misses a layup, you know there is something wrong with the game. also, instead 
 of going for the dunk, according to the game, kobe likes to gets scared when there is a defender 
 and do a crazy layup that is not stylish, looks like a noob basketball player, and doesn't even 
 hit rim. So, when does KG miss wide open free throws? hardly ever misses them, but NBA 2k8 likes 
 to say he is pretty garbage from there.
  
  5. association. pretty much the same as the previous games. boring and dull.
  
  6. gameplay. 
 the players are so stiff. it's hard to juke the defender or block a shot.
  
  i can't say i'm disappointed because i knew the game was going to be bad. the nba 2k whatever with 
 ben wallace was by far the funniest one i've played. after that it become one of the worst games. 
 it seems like ea sports and 2k sports like to mess up the games so people won't buy it anymore. 
 i can't see how it got an 8.5 from gamespot.
  
  other than the whole game being worthless, the dunk contest is pretty fun. it's unique and fun 
 to play with other people. other than that, it's still a bad game, but it's better than live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ag3ntz3rox0x
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  i recently traded in my nba live and got nba 2k8, and i must say its the best decision ive made 
 since march 6th when i bougfht army of two ( great game ) but anyways, this game is loaded with 
 online draft leagues, nba dunk contest, 3 point ahoot outs, a decent franchise, and great servers 
 which make the online play run very smoothly. the gameplay is practically flawless, pretty much 
 every player in the game has there own signature shot , dribble-crossovers, post moves, passes 
 etc. one thing i really ove is the frequent roster updates, now i dont have to go in and make all 
 of the trades manually to keep the game up to date, that is a great chore considering im a cavs 
 fan and the big trade they just made. lie i said the online draft leagues are deffinatly better 
 then recent years. mostly because of the improved servers, chris paul is the best payer in the 
 game in my opinion. but yah if you have nba live say screw it. trade it in pay the difference and 
 pick this game up. only 40$ what a steal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twopic58
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid game but there are way too many problems with it. NBA 2K7 had a 24/7 mode that 
 was pretty bad and I was expecting them to make something better for 2K8. Well, they didn't. There 
 is no single player mode like 24/7. The slam dunk contest and 3 point shoot out were added and 
 they both disappoint. The dunk contest is too confusing. Plus you can't do either in association 
 mode during the all star weekend. It seems like more players shoot the same this year than they 
 did last year. Players tend to miss too many open shots. They also don't like to take it up strong 
 sometimes and just do some stupid circus shot. The controls are pretty non responsive sometimes. 
 You want the guy to pass one way but he throws it the other. Graphics are good but nothing special. 
 I find it pretty stupid that when you play association mode, and you have a star on your team like 
 Dwight Howard, He will average around 19 pts and 10 boards. But when you play association mode 
 and he is not on your team, he will probably average about 21 pts and 13 boards. This goes for 
 almost every player. The coolest addition to association is the reward points which you gain during 
 the season to improve certain areas of your team the next year. The 2K reel maker is cool but it 
 doesn't allow you to put a lot of clips together. So I think 2K fell short this year because I 
 enjoyed 2K7 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelersDJM
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for a game to play a Season or Dynasty against the computer, this game is awesome. 
 You have to put your time in and work with the sliders, but when its all said and done you can 
 get pretty close to a realistic NBA game. I'm a fanatic so I averaged out field goal percentage, 
 shots made, shots taken, rebounds, 3 pointer, ect.... of real NBA games, and worked with the sliders 
 til I had competitive games with similar statistics. There's enough AI to do it. If you simply 
 want to play against friends or on line this game is also tons of fun. Graphics are good, sound 
 is good, controls are fun. The arena's are great. The crowd is the best I've seen in a sports game. 
 This is definately the best basketball game available for the 360 in my opinion. I've been playing 
 sports video games for 25 years, and this is a good one for the die hard hoops fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMoney0613
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k8 is a fun basketball game a little frustrating at times but fun. It has its good and bad 
 times.
  
  The Good: Has good graphics, AI is smarter, NBA Blacktop, and new online features, realistic shots.
 
  
  The Bad: Looks like someone took the players faces and smashed them onto a head (looks like the 
 players from far back though) , kind of difficult to make some easy shots like lay ups.
  
  The new blacktop mode is fun kind of like the all star weekend on NBA Live but its the sprite competition. It 
 has just about everything like slam dunk contest three point shootout, 21, one on one, and more. 
 It is was a little disappointing not seeing the 24/7 mode but i think that they made something 
 that could compete with it.
  I think that you should rent the game first and if you like it go on ahead and buy i think it is 
 a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WaRRiOr4LifE03
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k8 has taken Basketball simulations to a whole other level Widening the gap between this great 
 game and the NBA Live series. NBA 2k8 is by far the most fun sports game I've played in a while. 
 Very cool Association mode which has several new features like player roles, No Trade Clause, & 
 Player morale. They have the Reelmaker, which allows you to make your own highlight reels from 
 in-game plays. NBA 2k8 has new animations which add a great amount of fun to the game. Every superstar 
 uses moves that you would see them use in real life. The new post moves make it a lot more fun 
 to post up and this can lead to people shooting less threes online which I know annoyed many people 
 in NBA 2k7..... Overall, I say this is the best Basketball sim game ever. Have fun playing this 
 amazing game!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraZySeahorSe
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Wow... so much fun! NBA 2K8 gameplay is just fantastic. There are several different game modes 
 that will keep you playing this game for a long, long time. Just to name a few: Association, Situation, 
 and the Black Top mode. These are all very time consuming and fun. This game is a must have for 
 ANY NBA fan or anybody who enjoys the basketball video game experience. The one downfall is the 
 passing mechanism within the actual basketball game. It can be very sloppy sometimes, as you are 
 forced to use the icon passing button (LB) . Also, playing the computer can get frustrating at some 
 points. Somehow, NBA 2K8's computer system wins when it wants to. If the computer decides at the 
 beginning of the game it wants to win, it will... and there's NOTHING one can do about it. They 
 will pull off the most ridiculous plays while you hit the worst scoring drought the world has ever 
 seen. I know it sounds crazy, but if you play the game long enough you'll know what i meant. The 
 good news is that only happens once in awhile. Outside of those small problems, the gameplay is 
 superb.
  Graphics
  2K8 is the best of the best in the sports graphic world and they do not let down here. Impressive... 
 
  Sound
  Good ole' Marv Albert! He does get annoying sometimes with his, "OH!!! What a pass!" but other 
 than that everything is good. The players on the court make a little noise, grunting, etc. to let 
 you feel the intensity on the court. The crowd is good too, although sometimes when they get loud 
 and stand up isn't always right on time. Overall: solid.
  Value
  As you can tell, this game will keep you playing for a very long time. Especially if you are a 
 fan of the NBA, you'll continue to pop in 2K8 and get lost in its reality. Very good depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XNCgamer
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  For the past couple years, it has been a hit and miss with the basketball games. The LIVE series 
 of games always had better features and more things to do, but the graphics of the 2K series always 
 blew every other game away. This year we finally have a game with a little bit of both.
  
  NBA 2K8 has amazing graphics and the gameplay is silky smooth. There are hundreds of different 
 animations and each player has their own specific movements. You feel as if you are watching a 
 real basketball game. In previous years it was impossible to remember how to run plays in the playbook. 
 Now you have the option of showing the play while you run it which can come in handy.
  
  Finally we have the all-star activities in a 2K game. You can do everything from the 3-pt shootout 
 and the Rookie challenge, to the actual All-star game and slam dunk contest. The Franchise mode 
 is based off of previous year's games, but it has been upgraded. You can now determine the role 
 each player on your team is and the amount of minutes per game they will play. You can also do 
 3-team trades and a few other things.
  
  The only thing that is annoying about this game is that the rosters are rarely updated and you 
 can be stuck playing with your team from months ago. This isn't too big of a deal, but it would 
 be nice if they would have updated rosters for download. If you are thinking about buying a basketball 
 game, than NBA 2K8 should definitely be your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleperez75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because I was looking for an basketball game to play with my friends over Xbox 
 live. I did my research and in all the different pages 2k8 was the one with the higher scores. 
 Well I bought it and my first impression was: "Man, this graphs suck". You see, I own FIFA 08 and 
 that game has the most beautiful graphs so I was expecting the same quality since it was also a 
 sport game. Of course there are different companies and everything but I mean, its next generation 
 no?
  I was disappointed, but as I started to play it more I started to like it more and more. The game 
 is very nice indeed. The flow of the game, the controls, the shooting is very nice. One think I 
 like is that the players don't dunk too much which makes it more realistic, with the exception 
 of Kobi Brian and LeBrown James among a few that are simply crazy dunking from everywhere. That 
 I don't like.
  The multiplayer is very nice, and the game overall is very enjoyable. I strongly think that graphs 
 for 2k9 should improve drastically though.
  I recommend this game for all the basketball gamers, it is really a very good game as long as you 
 don't pay attention to the players' close up which make them look like plastic dolls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPAWNandVENOM_
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  The post-game replay options are ridiculous. Everything else is fairly standard, but solid nonetheless. The 
 new animations are good. Though the details are better than 2K7, there's still a lot wrong this 
 year. The faces, in particular, are gnarly. Solid play-by-play and an intelligent crowd make for 
 a strong experience. More on-the-court jibber-jabber couldn't hurt. There are some really great 
 things this year, but most are countered by new (and old) issues. The Lock-On D function can turn 
 most centers into perimeter defenders and the AI is only good on offenseThe excellent Association 
 mode is complemented with online tournaments and leagues, enough to keep you playing NBA 2K8 through 
 the season. In many ways, NBA 2K8 is an improved game on the court. But there are a lot of minor 
 issues that really drag it down. Over the course of my first dozen games, I was in love. But as 
 the season wore on, the issues began piling up to a point that it became a source of frustration. 
 The Lock-on D gaff is inexcusable and the lackluster defensive AI allows decent players to tear 
 it up on offense. Jason Williams should not be dropping 30 points a game. Yet he won the MVP in 
 year two of my franchise. Still, any hoops fan should give NBA 2K8 a look. It's certainly the best 
 basketball game on any system this year. The Association is a solid franchise mode and, if VC can 
 iron out its AI and gameplay issues, next year's model could be something very special 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigfred19882000
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 21, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  2k8 in my opinion fails to to give the player that fun factor that you want in a game. 
  
  The gameplay is ok, the right analog stick also known as the shot stick does not really work that 
 well you will often find yourself taking the dumbest shots. Heck even without using the right analog 
 your player will take dumb shots. Like for instance, your player will come down the court and dunk 
 it over the opposing teams center but later on when put in the same position you player will try 
 a layup. Shooting has gotten better you no longer have to be a master to know how to shoot the 
 ball. The real problem I have on offense is that there is no balance between how much you go to 
 the lane and shoot, its like the opposing team forces you to shoot. The defensive gameplay is much 
 better as far as on ball defense goes. the only real big problem is that if you are playing against 
 a team like the hornets who in this game like to run a lot of screens for peja they will easily 
 get and hit open shots. The defensive post game is pretty awful simply put you just have to hope 
 the other teams player makes a mistake cause there is no stoping the post game.
  
  No true balance - This game has no balance as far as what the decent players can do as compared 
 to the all-stars. Average people like devin harris will wound up missing some of the easiest layups 
 you have ever seen while people like kg and Lebron probably can give you fourty a night. I understand 
 not everyone is great but after playing this game you wonder why these guys are in the league if 
 they are so bad. Another thing I mean about balance is the hot and cold system, I still dont see 
 how a player can get hot from shooting strictly free throws or how a player can become cold from 
 missing one shot.
  
  Animations - The animations in this game are sick, some of the best I have ever seen the diffrent 
 dribbles, crossovers, dunks, blocks etc, but with that being said the gameplay kind of brings that 
 down.
  
  If you are just getting into next gen and liked 2k on the last gen platforms then I suggest getting 
 this but if you just would like it just to have a b-ball game then wait till next year when 2k 
 works out the kinks.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sunsfan33
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  This game is absouloutly perfect, love it play as the Phoenix Suns (best team in the NBA) every 
 time. Some player ratings are not correct eg. Kaman, Bynum but i guess they have only really developed 
 in this year and NBA 2k8 was made in July 2007. The game delivers on so many levels, like player 
 creation, the realism is amazing and the shots are perfect besides some of teh lay-ups. If i could 
 make 1 improvement it would be to see more into the huddle when timeouts are called and for there 
 to be more sweat and player likeness about them eg. Baron yelling movies rule when he shoots a 
 3 which he says in real life.
  
  Advice:
  
  Play as the Suns, set it to 9 minutes and superstar level and it is one of the best basketball 
 if not the best one ever.
  
  10 out of 10.
  5 out of 5.
  100%.
  A+.
  
  
  
  
  
  Nice Game love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PistolDZ
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  2k sports have really out done them selfs. NBA 2K8 is the No. 1 basketball game on store shelves. 
 Its just amazing. When you just play it, it feels like your watching a game. One thing that's great 
 about NBA 2K8 on the Xbox 360 is that it's always easy to find an online opponent. One thing that 
 I really appreciate is how the ball is not magnetic to the players. The ball can be knocked loose, 
 bounce around, be blocked, it truly has a life of its own. If bouncing towards out of bounds a 
 player will sometimes dive out trying to throw it in. Of course this only works sometimes which 
 is nice to keep it realistic. This makes you cautious with passing on offense, as balls can be 
 tipped away quite easily when trying to weave a bounce pass into the center. 
  
  In terms of realism, you can't find a more realistic NBA game right now. From Kobe's fadeaways 
 to Steve Nash's fancy passes to Tracy McGrady's patented scissor-kick release, virtually every 
 move these players make looks identical to the real thing. And while this won't be mistaken for 
 an actual game of basketball, most of the players look enough alike to their real life counterparts 
 to be easily recognizable. There are exceptions, though, where players will simply look hideous.
 
  
  The game itself plays out in realistic fashion, with the inside game being the anchor for any good 
 offense, while finding the lapse in a defense will properly reward you with a high percentage shot. 
 Simply trying to dominate the game with a single player is much more difficult than in previous 
 games thanks to the combination of lock-on defense and smarter defensive rotations - smarter, but 
 still not quite smart. You'll still find yourself screaming at the screen when defenders watch 
 someone drive right to the hoop and do nothing to stop them. 
  
  Likewise, while certain aspects of the game have taken tremendous leaps towards realism, others 
 have done the exact opposite. Alley-oops, no matter how ludicrous the lob and actual dunk attempt, 
 go in with such great frequency (so long as the passer has a decent pass rating) that you'll be 
 tempted to simply run pick-and-rolls all game long. On the defensive side, double teams are almost 
 a guaranteed take away for the defense (and the ballhandler doesn't even seem to care; he and the 
 defender will just stand there, seemingly exerting no effort at all until the ball ends up in the 
 defender's hands) unless you're lucky enough to see it coming and mash the pass button. 
  
  Shooting percentages are generally in the normal NBA range (if not on the high-end, usually) , but 
 this is only accomplished through what is quite possibly the most frustrating thing I have simply 
 EVER encountered in a videogame: blown layups. Sure, they happen in the NBA from time to time, 
 but the frequency that they occur in NBA 2K8 is just maddening. Fastbreak layups by future Hall 
 of Famers like Kobe Bryant or LeBron James are botched like it's a bodily function, while the same 
 will happen when taking a point blank layup with Tim Duncan or Kevin Garnett. I've actually lost 
 a number of games due entirely to simple layups being missed in the closing seconds. And sadly, 
 without them, the shooting percentages for each and every game would likely be in excess of 70%. 
 
  
  This year, by far, NBA 2K8 is the best NBA basketball game on store shelves. (Xbox 360, PS3) If 
 you love basketball you must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7121984
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  Another installment for the NBA 2k series and it's getting better and better. Basketball fans would 
 definitely love this game!
  
  Graphics: Good quality but can be better. Basketball sims move realistically. They don't just slide 
 across the court! Every person you see there is really there. For example, when you come across 
 a referee, you just don't pass by them like they're a ghost or something, they really bump into 
 them. In other words, great physics.
  
  Sound: The commentations are really good. The lines are not really repetitive and even if they 
 do, it actually follows what is happening on court. They also give trivias which is quite entertaining. 
 Listening to them is like watching NBA instead of playing it. A great job in voice acting.
  
  Gameplay: Very enjoyable. AI is intelligent which makes it challenging but you can adjust the 
 difficulty if you're not used to the game. There are plenty of things to do here so it's worth 
 the bucks you're about to spend.
  
  Story: Huh? There's the season mode and Association mode. If you want to coach a certain team.
 
  
  Replay: The replay value is definitely high. There are plenty of modes to play with and the achievements 
 will keep you busy.
  
  Overall: A worthy game for hardcore basketball fans. It got alot of modes to play with, realistic 
 basketball models, good gameplay and good replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrfaanHafeez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  NBA 2k8 delivers you a great basketball game with good features. The association mode is a great 
 improvement because now its hard to make cheap trades which is good. Also the new training camp 
 and morale system works. The only problem i encountered with this game is that the other teams 
 players will not improve only in morale overall. But that is outweighed with the great features. 
 The new street feature with the dunk contest and 3 point challenge are fun things to do with friends. 
 The streetball mixed with regular basketball matchup is a great mix because you might want to do 
 one thing over the other at a certain time. Playing a traditional style game in NBA 2k8 has not 
 really changed. There are some new moves but its mostly the same, which is still good. The only 
 problem with 2k8 is that the players faces and arena is a little rusty. Compared to NBA Live 2k8 
 needs some changes. Also there are to many missed layups. However the game is an Improvement that 
 is a must but for a Basketball lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryde_rebel93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  Since the down fall of EA's Live series, NBA 2K has risen up in the basketball genre of games from 
 the start of 2K6. As you expect from older NBA 2K games, 2K8 will indeed give you that feel of 
 a real baskeball simulation.
  
  Gameplay is still the same and solid as the previous 2K titles, but in addition 2K8 offers more 
 variety of gameplay. Such as, signature style moves (no-look pass, killer crossover etc) , the Sprite 
 Slam Dunk competition, improved and more advanced defence tactics, the association (like EA's Dynasty 
 mode) . All these features give the dramatic feel of the NBA in the best ways known.
  
  The flaws of NBA 2K8 are very slight and annoying. Such as missed lay-ups, some lay-ups that look 
 easy but the player ends up missing, this is very annoying in some cases. The menu is very confusing 
 at first and you can get lost and confused easily. The slam dunk contest is unique but in some 
 cases very hard to use for new comers. But in addition these flaws can be getting used to in a 
 short amount of time.
  
  The visuals of NBA 2K8 are stunning and bright. Although the LIVE series still dominates in this 
 category.
  
  Sound is very good, one of the best things of the NBA 2K8, it actually makes you feel like your 
 in the stadium. In some cases I have to turn down the volume from my remote because its that good 
 and that loud.
  
  The online of NBA 2K8 is very well done, real online sport games should be exactly like NBA 2K8.
 
  
  In conclusion NBA 2K8 is a very good game, although with some minor flaws and annoying missed lay-ups, 
 2K8 still delivers all the NBA action you need. A great game for NBA fans or casual basketball 
 players.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismarra1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  2k8 is by far the best basketabll game out on the market. graphics are solid, and real life movements 
 make you feel like you are actually watching the pros. foul shots are all different depending on 
 the player. the new dunk contest is great, and its better than lives who has had a dunk contest 
 for a while now. commentary is outstanding, because in intense moments, they say what real broadcasters 
 would say! and on dull moments, like on foul shots, they talk about the background of teams or 
 players, so you will feel like a real game is going on. motions of players again are fantastic, 
 because not ever player has the same fluid motion in a shot. 
  
  The only bad part of this game is the menu aspect of it. it is a chore to navigate throughout the 
 game, and it can cause major chaos if you are not used to it, escpeciially in the beginning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  
  
  1. Games graphics are superb and look really realistic 
  2. players act like real life after making a real good shot 
  3. free throws are very hard to 
 do and the tutorials for it only pop up once which i think is pretty dumb. I like the old ones 
 with the lines go across the backboard.
  4. I guess EA didn't care about the street league part, sure it was bad but they didn't have time 
 to make it better?
  5. too many missed lay ups, some times they will be wide open and when they miss those it makes 
 me realize i am not really playing the game..
  6. the fans are horrible looking 
  7. Music is good , and has Run DMCS' s hit singlesucka MC'S" 
  8. you miss open shots like 
 nothing.
  9. the difficulties are screwed up to the T, rookie does not feel like rookie.
  10. IT would have been nice if you can control the dunks 
  11. Manual does not tell you how to 
 alley oop
  12. crappy controls 
  13. too difficult 
  14. The associations mode has too much pointless crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fudger2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Wow this is a really good basketball game. The players look good, theyres plenty to do BUT the 
 computer is too good. I play the game the first time and its cool but i mean the CPU didnt miss 
 any shots while i was brickin layups. Its ridiculous the little bars meter doesnt seem to work 
 because when its full and youre on fire you brick dunks, air lay-ups and 3's. Besides the missed 
 shots and everything I went online. Well the CPU is harder then everyone i played but i noticed 
 online i got called for everything. Reaches, shooting fouls, charges and my opponent never got 
 called even when we did the same stuff. You can be camping in the floor for a month and waiting 
 and some dude comes and trucks you and youll get called for a blocking foul. PLus the steals go 
 way up. Dont misunderstand me, I love the game but the little damn problems need to be fixed. Like 
 the players dont play like they should. Ray allen misses consecutive 3s, my favorite team (SPURS) 
 seems to suck on this game, Everybody constantly misses layups and dunks. Great defensive players 
 like Tim Duncan always get dunked onby rookies and stuff which will never happen. If this game 
 had better foul calls, less steals, made layups and dunks it would be a 10. Oh yeah, dunk contest 
 is alright but its not as good as EA's the same goes for the 3 point shootout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgfanr
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  I have a major problem with the fact that they CANNOT make lay-ups or be aggressive going up to 
 the hoop. For example you can be on a fastbreak and have nobody between you and the hoop.... and 
 your player will go to the hoop turn around go backwards and attack the basket going "AWAY" from 
 the hoop... now you tell me how is that possible??! Well I'll tell you ... somebody is not doing 
 their job! 
  Guys will turn "AWAY" from the hoop and jump "BACKWARDS" and usually make the basket..... wow! But, 
 when they are facing the hoop don't count on it or expect the shot to be made for this game does 
 not recognize freaking "LAY-UPS" oh and you can forget the very close jumpshots that they shot 
 awkwardly! The players will sometime suddenly turn around or look very jerrrrrkyy! 
  
  HOPEFULLY YOU HAVE INTERNET ACCESS because....
  
  ... IF IT WASN'T FOR THE UPDATES the game 
 would have been crappy as "H. E. double hockey sticks!" Otherwise the game plays well...
  
  The problem with sports games today are,.... they (developers) are so busy putting flash in the 
 game that the game play is sorely lacking. They expect us to pay $64.64 for just cause the box 
 says the next year on it! 
  
  I can tell you this Live looks good and the presentation is way better... BUT, 2K8 will give you 
 WAY MORE fun than Live.... Just don't expect to make "FREAKIN LAY-UPS"! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacewall
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the most realistic sports game i have ever played. It portrays nba superstars 
 as close to their true real life counterparts as possible, my only complaint is that the roles 
 are somewhat odd in association, player such as raja bell on the phoenix suns and bruce bowen on 
 the spurs should be considered role players not the players that are below sixth men off the bench. 
 They did a phenomenal job with style of gameplay, if you try to run and gun with say the knicks 
 against the cpu your done. You have to play realistic and set up an offense to win. It by far the 
 most complete sports game i have ever played. To add to the perfection a maddenesque superstar 
 mode would be nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudedizzle27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  First off, don't waste your time with Live because I did for 5 years. This was my first year going 
 with 2k. Simply Amazing. The 1st year they add in a Dunk Contest and 3pt contest, and it is better 
 than Live's which has been doing it for many years. Also, the game play is amazing. No more sliding 
 all over the court and no more leaping for a layup and coming up behind the backboard out of bounds. 
 Secondly, the roster updates are great. I'd say there is an update every 2-3 weeks. This definitely 
 makes this worth the money. The online is way better than Live's laggy game play. There is tournaments 
 and leagues too. The only downside i ever found to this game was that, sometimes online can be 
 a bit frustrating. There is this option called submit to arbitration. And if you find yourself 
 playing an opponent with a low level connection to you, halfway through the game will end. There 
 will be an option to abort the game or "submit it to arbitration." This can get frustrating if 
 you like to play on the leaderboards or want to get the 5 or 6 online achievements. Also, the cpu 
 can be a great challenge at times, and it has been updated. Now when you leave Gilbert wide open 
 at the 3 pt line he'll actually sink it rather than stand there. Besides a bit of online frustration, 
 this game is worth the buy, especially if you enjoy basketball games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borazindaghtto
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  Great sim game with great graphics combined with great gameplay. Deep association mode that will 
 have you playing for hours. The atmosphere makes you feel like your right in the game whether it's 
 the heart of the Golden State crowd or the Laker fans shouting M V P, while he's at the line, you 
 feel like your in the crowd along with them. The commentary is great as they talk about the Mav's 
 disappointing loss against the red hot Warriors, or a discontent Kobe Bryant, anything and every 
 little detail about teams and excitement from a great pass, facial, or buzzer beater, they are 
 all over it. Do not, I repeat do not judge this game solely on its Demo, at first, I thought it 
 was a bad game, but I am a 2k fanboy so I just had to get it, at first it was still a little off, 
 but once you get used to the controls and everything, it is amazing. If you have been wasting your 
 time with live you have been missing out on so much, go out and buy this game today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pork_Lord
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  While Colin is strapping on his bladed skates and hitting the ice on NHL 2K8, I'm going to lace 
 up and foray into a more vertical sporting outing with 2K's NBA 2K8; aptly named to include it's 
 publishers insignia of course.
  
  It was interesting and somewhat confronting to boot NBA 2K8 and find myself immediately presented 
 with a choice of teams having not selected any game mode or other options. Having not played well, 
 any basketball game for quite some time (dating back to my SEGA Mega Drive) it was a little confusing 
 but succeeded in throwing me straight into some b-ball action. It was in game when I paused and 
 realised that NBA 2K8 doesn't have a real main menu. Every game mode or option is available when 
 pausing a current game. Once you learn the variety of games available this is actually quite nifty. 
 If you're keen to jump around from game types the menu navigation can prove quite expedient and 
 efficient.
  
  While menu navigation may not be the most significant aspect of a basketball game, it's damn handy 
 for NBA 2K8. The amount of game types is more than impressive. Aside from the expected quick match 
 games, there's "NBA Blacktop" hosting a variety of mini games. "The Association" serves as an extensive 
 career play out featuring a massive amount of options and control over your team ranging from your 
 team line-up, to hiring/firing trainers, with every option you do and don't need. Playoffs provide 
 a regular array of matches to determine a definite champion. "T-Mobile Rookie Challenge" seems 
 to serve no purpose other than sticking T-Mobiles name in your face while tributing a popular yet 
 un-necessary series of American games. Practice will let you practice, while Situation can let 
 you see if you can get that winning 3-pointer when faced with the last few seconds of the clock.
 
  
  There's even heaps of stuff to do when NOT playing basketball, ranging from video editing, jukebox 
 (sorry, "2K Beats") music management, team editing, etc. There's certainly no question of content 
 in NBA 2K8.
  
  All these game modes wouldn't do much without an actual game of basketball to play. Once on the 
 court NBA 2K8 proves to be a very polished experience with a solid engine creating a realistic 
 basketball experience. A visual feat, team players are modeled very nicely with fluid movement 
 and a lot of ocular stimuli. Some obvious blurring at times attempts to fade out the lesser-graphical 
 moments (such as a drawn back camera rendering many more models and causing more strain) while 
 up close players look amazing. Player movement is vivid, down to the smooth flowing pants as they 
 sway with motion. Even the animated team mascots are fun to watch dance around the sidelines.
 
  
  Like a lot of attempts at solid realism, NBA 2K8 can be hindered by technical prowess. Frequently 
 my players will tend to re-position themselves and free-move around their environment. It looks 
 great, realistic, but feels detracting from my ultimate control. A team will tend to trick around, 
 dribbling the ball in-between legs and busting moves on the court. Once again, realistic, but this 
 time it feels a bit slow. Basketball can make a great video game, there's a lot of fast paced 
 action in there. On this outing the tempo of court play seems a bit erratic.
  
  NBA 2K8 can make some smart work of the analogue sticks and general controls to provide a fairly 
 interesting experience. While I question the total skill and control of shooting hoops and timing, 
 it would have been nice to have some form of tutorial in game. With a few wacky (that's not to 
 say bad) controls if you're a console NBA virgin you may find it takes a while to learn how the 
 mechanics work.
  
  Audibly NBA 2K8 impresses slightly on another factor you can tend to expect on. Commentary is smooth 
 and convincing but should have been used a lot more. There's a lot of music in there but it's mostly 
 the hip-hop and old 'skool' beats you'd expect. As with the numerous options NBA 2K8 provides it's 
 easy to tweak commentators voice on/off, up/down, music on/off so you'll be hearing exactly how 
 much of what you want to hear.
  
  There's a tight basketball game to be played here. The amount of game types, controls, variables 
 and general content is enough to keep any NBA fan glued for hours. I tend to assume anyone thinking 
 of picking up NBA 2K8 would be a fan of basketball, but if you're not, the game may be a bit slow 
 and fidgety to enjoy for long. Quick play provides some fast fun but can grow tiresome. Most of 
 the real content in game is accessed through sticking with it and learning the ropes, and in doing 
 so, you'll learn that NBA 2K8 is quite a competent basketball experience.
  
  NBA 2K8
  
  80%
  
  The Good -
  
  * Great visuals
  * Convincingly realistic
  * Lots of game modes 
 and content
  
  The Bad -
  
  * Lack of proper training
  * Can be a bit slow
  * Feels like team control isn't 100% there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrishCyanide
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I love sports games. This game by FAR is the best basketball game I have ever played. 
  
  Visually, the game is pretty astounding. The fans are pretty unique and you don't have that annoying 
 same fan sitting in one seat and two seats over. The stadium that they play in looks like the actual 
 basketball courts that you see in the NBA. The players look like the players from afar, but close 
 up, it looks like someone mashed their face with an iron. With all the players in the NBA though, 
 who really cares right? From the main playing angle you can tell which player is which player.
 
  
  Gameplay, it's great though it takes some getting used to. The shooting is probably the hardest 
 thing to master though that might just be because I suck. I've played a few people in multi-player 
 which can make almost every shot and miss a few here and there. The controls of the player is pretty 
 outstanding.
  
  The multiplayer was a bit of a let down. For some reason, players who I normally play with on single 
 player modes play as they should. However, when I bring them into multi-player, some of them start 
 shooting like a High School team. That could be due to lag or perhaps the whole "hot" and "cold" 
 rating on every player. I don't know.
  
  If you like basketball, this game is definetly worth picking up. They have a lot of different modes 
 and the players are very life like. It is the best B-Ball game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsaifie
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K8 is a game that has its faults but all in all is a excellent game. The gameplay is once 
 again phenomenal although the tempo of play seems to be alot slower than that of 2K7 this isnt 
 necessarily a bad thing, it seems to make the gameplay alot more realistic and enjoyable. Another 
 change in gameplay is that moves such as dunks over 7 foot giants isnt as easy as to perform in 
 the game compared to 2K7. Lebron James wont simply cross over his defender and then destroy Kevin 
 Garnett with a monstrous tomahawk, the A. I defence is much better than last years game. Some people 
 wont like this and will find it hard to adjust to but the majority of us will find this a nice 
 challenge.
  
  Lock-on-defence is a new addition to the 2K series instead of having to follow your man everywhere 
 he goes you can use the LT button to lock on to your defender basically shutting him down. This 
 addition can be seen in two lights. On one hand it make defending a hell of alot easier, on the 
 other hand it basically shuts down the AI player you've locked on to from scoring. So if Lou Williams 
 locks on to Lebron James, Lebrons not gunna score. You see the problem.
  
  On the graphical side of things this game holds its ground. While the players faces arent spectacular 
 or as good as NBA Live 08, the gameplay looks very much like a real game on TV. The way the players 
 move, score and defend is very realistic and is definatly the best in the basketball sim category
 
  
  Overall the gameplay is fantastic, plenty of new animations make the game feel new and fresh, the 
 new tempo of gameplay gives the game to a sense realism and the fantastic graphics heightens that 
 feeling of realism.
  
  Association Mode is back and its pretty good. Similar to last year in theway you have to scout 
 out new talent, make trades, develop your players and set up team practices. Theres a new addition 
 called player roles. This makes the associaion mode more realistic as you have to deal with the 
 players wants and needs but those of us that are lazy will hate this addition. How player roles 
 works is fairly simple, you have 5 starters, 1 6th man, 3 role player and the rest either prospects 
 or bench warmers, now depending on the players personality they will react to their certain roles 
 either positively or negatively. For example, Allen Iverson is not gunna be a happy bunny if you 
 decide to ake him a bench warmer therefore his stats will drop along with his morale.... considerably. 
 Whereas if you make Trevor Ariza a Starter his stats are gna fly up along with his morale..... a 
 lot. This takes time but you have to find a good rotation that makes every player happy and prevents 
 their stats and morale from dropping. The 24/7 mode is gone! WHY! The voice acting was awful, the 
 story was shocking but who cares it was abit of good fun. Its like a step backwards for the series 
 as there is no story based mode what so ever instead what we have is NBA Blacktop.
  
  Blacktop is a mode where you can access street pickup games, 3 point contests and the best addition..... The 
 dunk contest. To help players learn how to perform dunks ready for the dunk contest Blacktop has 
 a mode called Dunk School. Its **** Its like telling someone to catch a fly with chopsticks.... except 
 they dont know how to use chopsticks. It barely helps you to perform a dunk and instead just gives 
 you time to watch yourself spend hours figuring out how to dunk. But. When you figure out how to 
 dunk its very rewarding and as you practice even more you'll be seeing Andre Igoudala doing Cartwheel 
 Windmills on your screen. It takes patience and time but its SOOOOO worth it.
  
  The 2K series still holds the title for the best basketball sim available. Although 2K8 could use 
 some work in tiny areas overall its an excellent, fun, rewarding game and any basketball fan should 
 buy it IMMEDIATLY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: provida
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 5, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  this game is horrible nba 2k8 does have graphics no doubt but the gameplay has to be the worst 
 ive ever played. you work hard to get your open shot and more then half the time they will miss 
 its like the a. i decided before the game starts who's gonna win and who dont. the instuctions are 
 the worst ive ever seen there about 5 pages long and only tell u the buttons on ur 360 pad and 
 not a word else. layups are just as bad i mean where did the logic go in this game i dont miss 
 open layups like that so i dont expect an nba star to do so either its like they TRY to make the 
 basket hard. The passing is just the same it'll go anywhere sometimes even though your lookin at 
 the guy and hes open he'lll just pass somewhere else. so its good graphics bad shooting bad layups 
 bad controls bad passing no instuctions to teach you how to do anything e. g spin with the ball 
 or set plays and no logic it you wanna shout and scream at you tv by all means buy this game it 
 has to be the worse one eva
  
  Nba??? more like pre skool basketball for idiots its a disgrace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mandujano87
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game is pretty freakin' awesome. After playing the god-awful mess that was NBA 
 Live 07, I decided to see how the 2k franchise would handle the next installment of pro basketball 
 gaming. They definitely didn't dissappoint. This is as realistic as it could get short of you actually 
 going out and physically playing for the Phoenix Suns. But since most of us aren't that talented 
 this game will be as close to it as we'll probably ever get. Impact players like Kobe Bryant, Steve 
 Nash, Dirk Nowitzki, etc. all play true to their real-life counter-parts; which is to say that 
 they're good, real good. Kobe basically plays his usual lights-out basketball, shooting threes 
 with hands in his face, while Nash will dance around the court and deliver seemingly impossible 
 passes to go-to guy Amare Stoudemire. Missed lay-ups and open jumpers are a problem, as Gamespot 
 notes, but this is actually easily corrected by adjusting the sliders (there are a number of people 
 online who have posted excellent slider adjustments to make the game play smoother and more realistic) . 
 And whether you're trying or not, the players' stats will usually end up as you'd expect them to 
 in real life, with scoring machines like Dwyane Wade leading the team in points and pass-masters 
 like Jason Kidd or D-Will racking up the assists and the occasional double-double. So in terms 
 of gameplay and realism, 2k8 excels, and isn't gameplay really what it's all about in a basketball 
 game anyway?
  
  In the graphics department, 2k8 is obviously not as shiny or polished as NBA Live, but it still 
 does an above average job of accurately depicting each superstar (except Steve Nash... who, for 
 some reason, still has a buzz cut in this game) . When zoomed out during gameplay, however, the 
 graphics are quite beautiful, with players' jersies and shorts swishing around as they hustle up 
 and down the court.
  
  The sound department is my personal favorite of this game. The in-game music is excellent and the 
 commentators deliver some good lines and, for the most part, do a great job of keeping up with 
 the action, criticizing poor shot attempts and gasping in awe when a player stuffs in a powerful 
 jam. My favorite part of the sound in this game, though, is how the announcers will shout out the 
 names of the players when they score. It seems 2k really did their homework here because each announcer 
 for each team will call out the player's name the same way the real-life announcers do. This was 
 especially gratifying for me as a Jazz fan since a quick basket by #5 would inevitably be followed 
 up by a huge roar from the Salt Lake City home crowd and the announcer giving his signature "Carlos... BOOOOZERRRRR!" 
 cheer.
  
  In terms of getting a real bang for your buck, there's not much you could ask for from 2k8 that 
 isn't already here. Blacktop mode with games like 21, a three-point shoot-out, and even a slam 
 dunk contest should keep you busy for a while. Of course, as with all pro sports games, there are 
 season and franchise modes as well and those both should take up a good deal of your time with 
 this game. Basically, NBA 2k8 has once again managed to trump the competition from NBA LIVE and 
 NBA 08 in a spectacular and crowd-pleasing fashion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K8 is a solid basketball game. The animations look much better and the game has a very realistic 
 flow. I also love how in control you feel of your players. Here's my breakdown:
  
  Graphics: Everything looks solid except for the players faces which has been the main complaint 
 I have had about the graphics since the first game on 360. They look fine but some people just 
 look weird.
  
  Gameplay: Smooth and fluid. The game just looks so nice. The only beef I have (which is one that 
 has been there since forever it seems like) is that layups are missed WAY too much! You will make 
 this amazing layup and then come down almost uncontested and blow the lay up... They REALLY need 
 to fix it because I feel like I'm cheating when I move the sliders up. Plus, you still miss too 
 many layups even if you bump up the slider to 63 (which is what I'm at, it's good enough because 
 I miss some that I should but I still miss a lot that I should easily make) .
  
  Audio: The announcers are fine and the crowd is awesome.
  
  Overall, it's a solid bball game 
 and I think it's the best one you can buy as of right now. If you like basketball, you should really 
 enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willsom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  this is a awesome game one of the best of all time. not kidding! this game has awesome graphics 
 that will blow you away and amazing jump shots. i know some people love to see swooshes when a 
 superstar makes a jump shot and this game has perfect swooshes sometimes not but most of the time. 
 it's perfect in that department not kidding! so buy this game not Nba Live 08 because it is better 
 in all categories oh and the sound effects are awesome when they make shots even dunks are awesome 
 and realistic in the sounds and looks must buy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjr2682
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  OK, by my headliner there you might notice I have beef with EA ( lately who doesn't) but I'll save 
 it for my madden review. OK alot of people have complained about the awful shooting %'s. The only 
 thing i can say to this is log on to any teams web site and tell me how many players now a days 
 acually shoot a high % from the feild. NOw i'm gonna catch alot of flak for this cuz everyones 
 gonna be like ( my star player) well wake up son cuz more than likely your fav player n star on 
 you team is gonna be the guy u throw up garbage with. same in real life. i use philly in the game 
 and the OTHER A. I. is the guy i throw up trash with. it happens. mean while the only time i shoot 
 with Korver is when he is wide open. yeah he misses half the time but guess what. NOBODY makes them 
 all ask MJ n he'll tell u he missed more than he made. I'm not some fanboy of anygame by all means 
 i'm just a 25 yr old man who knows b-ball n have experience playing as well. trust me if you run 
 the plays exactly as the game provides you will have more success. my only complaint about the game 
 is the stupid shot stick. in my opinion it's useless and should be replaced by making it ball control 
 stick. post game improves lil by lil each year and crowd looks like a crowd not cardboard. Good 
 game can't stop playing it. Solid effort 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amari360
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  you should buy it cause its pure fun online and the player card shows ur stats its freakin beastly
 
  
  
  1. it has way to many missed layups and wide open jumpers.
  
  
  2. the ref's need to pass the freakin ball in so we can continue
  
  
  3. the player model are 
 prefect execpt arms the are way to small for some people like lebron james
  
  4. online is great the slam dunk contest is hard but practice then take it online and talk some 
 trash.
  
  5. and for hardcore nba 2k players start and online association {sorry cant spell} its 
 
  
  6. styles are great vince ,kobe, nash ,duncan ,lebron and even ther average player have styles its 
 great!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcramirezp
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Well i think 2k7 was the best game in this series i am very disappointed of the 2k8 version the 
 players miss too much easy shots 3 points are almost impossible the graphics looks the same, dunk 
 and 3pt contest are just impossible to do, we like this game because it was fun and easy now is 
 very hard i just go back to my 2k7, season mode i just start it a few weeks ago and i have lpayes 
 10 games i just won 2 the super star difficult is impossible why you do that to this game is was 
 a perfect game, i think for the first time i will try nba live 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k8 the latest installment to the 2k8 family features a well deserving candidate Chris Paul 
 on the cover. NBA 2k8 mixes gameplay and graphics which brings a lot to the table and it is a great 
 overall game and the best pro basketball game on the market. it is better than NBA live 08 mainly 
 beacuse of NBA live 08's lacking gameplay and defensive features overall NBA 2k8 is a very solid 
 game that is worth a prety good score but is not as good a March madness 08 is going to be. I would 
 actually have to say rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kostas360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  First of all, let me start off by sayin that this is my first experience with the NBA 2k series, 
 since i have allways been a hardcore NBA Live fan. But, people, have I seen the light! This is 
 trully an amazing game that blows the Live series out of the water with ease. Now, let me take 
 a more point-by-point approach:
  
  Visuals: The visual presentation is the first thing that you are going to be amazed with. From 
 the courts to the player models, everything looks and feels exacly as it should be. The courts 
 are bursting with life, from the clearly animated crowd to the cheerleaders and maskots on the 
 sidelines. The developing team has really made an effort to make you feel like you are actually 
 watching a game on TV. If you let the the intermissions animation play during half time, you'll 
 see cheerleaders coming on court to do their thing and you'll also be transported to a virtual 
 studio were statistics with appers TV-style. The players move and shoot very much like their real 
 life counterparts. Dribbling animation looks extremely fluid and realistic - if a move cant be 
 done in real life, you wont see it in this game. Passing and dunks will make you go "wow" and if 
 you are good enough to make it all work together, you'll get plenty of chances to make you jump 
 off your seat before you realize you are the one actually doing it. You might get a few minor glithes 
 in the animation, but they seldomly appear and wont really annoy you. A perfect 10 on visuals.
 
  
  Audio: The track selection is pretty much the kind you would expect from a bball game, with plenty 
 of rap tunes to keep you satisfied. In-game commentary adds to the overall experience, with the 
 commentators getting excited about good plays and being critical when you are making a bad offence 
 attempt. Moreover, they wont blather on and on, letting you concentrate on your game. The only 
 smear in an otherwise excellent commentary is that certain comments seem to appear too often: Each 
 time I'm playing with the Cavs, i get to hear the same line about LeBron being an amazing player 
 that is an asset to the entire NBA (or something in those lines) . It wont annoy you much, but it 
 will sound awfully familiar after a while.
  
  Game Modes: You will get todays standard modes to play with. You can set up a quick game, start 
 a season or play in situation games, like the playoffs or games that you start off with specified 
 score deficits and limited game time remaining. You can also get more into a specific team by going 
 for the assosiation mode, which is essensially the Franchice mode on Live. I wont get much into 
 those, since i havent really put any time in them. A nice addition is the The Blacktop Mode, which 
 really is like an All-Star Weekend (dunks, three-point shootouts) . This is the first time that 
 the dunk contest is really exciting, cause if you get familiar with the controls, you can pull 
 off some jaw-dropping monster dunks. You also get to set up some half court games, from 1 on 1 
 to 5 on 5. Its always nice to pick LeBron and see what happens on a 1-on-1 with Kobe. In this kind 
 of games, the x button will allow you to pull off a variety of streetball moves, Hot-Sauce style. 
 Simply awesome.
  
  Difficulty: This is where lots of people will get frustrated with the game. This is a HARD and 
 REALISTIC bball game. If you had no prior experience with the series like i did, you will lose 
 90% of your first 20 games against the CPU on the preset difficulty. Players like Lebron, Kobe 
 or Wade will be able to take on an entire defence and make the basket, but not every time. Shots, 
 lay-ups and passes will be missed if u keep forcing them. Instead, if you take a more realistic 
 approach on your offence and defence, you will be awarded.
  Dribbling, passing and dunking can look spectacular, but you will have to put a lot of effort on 
 learning how to pull them off, since they wont be just triggeted with a push of a button. 
  
  To sum it up, people who are looking for an arcade-style run-and-gun type of game, will be 
 disappointed and probably get frustraded after a while. But if you are a basketball enthusiast 
 like myself that is prepared to put some efford in learning the secrets of this game, it will award 
 you with possibly the best basketball simulation you have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josmith16
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review:  I've played the EA version of Basketball games in the past. But after playing the 2K series, I 
 can barely stomach playing the EA version. I will admit that their are a few things like locking 
 a defensive player on an offensive player that I really miss, but the game play is so much smoother 
 with 2K games despite a few things that EA might have. The graphics is so much better in the 2K 
 games. The games seem much more realistic in the 2K games.
  
  But you probably wondering to yourself right now. Should I by the NBA 2K8 or NBA 08. Well, it's 
 just a personal preference for me with NBA 2K8. I would suggest downloading both demos on XBOX 
 LIVE and giving them a try. But graphics, game play and all the detail that go into making NBA 
 2K8 a great game in my opinion put 2K8 over the top.
  
  Well, if you not wondering to yourself 2K or EA, then you might already be on board with the 2K 
 series and are wondering if 2K8 is worth buying since you already have 2K7. I had 2K7 and traded 
 it in on 2K8. What I found out with more investigating was that 2K8 graphicly is far superior to 
 2K7. Player models are smoother and don't look as boxy as in 2K7. Fans look alot better and react 
 alot better. There is alot more player animation in 2K8. The courts have alot more detail. There's 
 lots of lights from score boards and signs that show up on the court which mach it look really 
 good. There's just alot more detail in 2K8. There is also a dunk contest and 3 point shoot out 
 that add some additional value to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juwanblaze
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  My criticism of the game pertains mainly to the online play, since that's where I play 95% of the 
 time.
  
  1. Double team glitch is too effective. Not sure if people are using the turbo button, but the 
 effectiveness of the double team in some games is absurd. You will get double-teamed on almost 
 every possession, and it's nearly impossible to not have the ball stripped once the double team 
 animation starts. You will get double teamed immediately after bringing the ball up, or immediately 
 after driving into the paint, or immediately after getting a rebound. People will tell you this 
 glitch doesn't exist and that you can simply pass out of it right away or as soon as you see the 
 second defender coming. People who tell you this are likely the ones who abuse the double team 
 button. The savviest offenders will start to double team then cancel it as soon as you pass so 
 they can get the easy steal.
  
  2. Free throw shooting is almost completely random. Of course it is possible to shoot enough with 
 each individual player online so that you have mastered the timing online (FT timing is different 
 when online) and in every possible server condition with every single different player. Wouldn't 
 it be better if it wasn't just random timing though? This is NBA 2K*8* after all. Unreliable free 
 throw shooting leads to unrealistic endings of games with obnoxious intentional fouling.
  
  3. Ridiculous missed layups and open jumpers by megastars. Of course these guys miss from time 
 to time in real life, but superstars don't miss several layups in a row when open or covered by 
 one smaller defender. Worse are the missed jumpers for no reason by highly rated shooters (Ray 
 Allen, Michael Redd) . Maybe it's the timing or lag online, but these guys don't miss open 8 footers 
 in real life. Maybe they do once in a while, but it's not realistic or fun when they miss a bunch 
 right away and get cold for the entire game. It's almost as if VC is encouraging us to shoot nothing 
 but layups and dunks.
  
  4. Game appeals to a particularly OCDish and annoying segment of video game players who have no 
 concept of basketball (and horrific grammar for the most part) . You will encounter various strategies 
 employed by people with no goal other than to irritate you into playing off your game. 
  
  You will play the Lakers with a Kobe who cherry picks on every single play (runs down court immediately 
 after your shot goes up so that he's wide open for a dunk if you miss) . 
  
  You will play against the guy who runs the pick and roll on every single play on offense. Even 
 with a 2-3 zone and concentrated effort to block the pass, the superstar PF/C will catch it and 
 score most of the time.
  
  You will play against the guy who runs the full court defense on every single play. Technically 
 this is completely legal, but it's unrealistic and slows the game down to a maddening tempo. In 
 other words, not fun.
  
  This also applies to the guy who keeps the guy he just scored with back on D to try and intercept 
 your inbounds play, after EVERY SINGLE basket. Does any real organized basketball team EVER do 
 this? Does this actually work for you enough that you need to do it every single play? 
  
  This should never work against anyone because you can press 2 buttons to pass to the other guy. 
 And it's a bad strategy because the offense will start their play with an extra guy. Yet some people 
 will do it every single time, slowing the game down and achieving nothing other than being a pest.
 
  
  Because it's NBA 2K on the 360, you will want to keep playing. It probably is the best NBA game 
 out right now. However because of the flaws above, it will never be fun on XBOX live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMaxinator94
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best NBA game i have ever played! I dont really get the dunk contests though. 
 But all around it is the best NBA game out. This game blows all of the others out there away like 
 nobodys business the crazy passes in the paint are awesome and the sweet bounce dunks are spectacular. 
 If you like NBA games NBA 2k8 is an absolute MUST! NBA live is horrendous the camera angles are 
 horrible and the gameplay is no good at all. NOT TO MENTION THE HORRIBLE GRAPHICS! So if you are 
 a big fan of NBA like i am you should get NBA 2k8 not any of the other games including NBA Live 
 08 or NBA 08 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmyre
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Well this game has it all, great animation, great game play, the best basketball sim in the land. 
 In last years title the players seem to glitch and did not move in a fluid motion, they went back 
 in and fixed it and revamped everything from last year. There are a ton of things to do when you 
 play this game, there is the NBA Blacktop, they also have the three-point shootout and not to mention 
 they also have the dunk contest, and by the way they have some bad @$$ dunks on there. The online 
 play is just incredible and should be the standard for all online games. If you are a basketball 
 fan then i urge to go out and get a copy, you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resist1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  There are too many pluses in this fantastic game. First of its gorgeous, everything and everyone 
 is so super fluid as if you were watching the game. The shots/rebounds/plays/dunks/and passes are 
 superbly excecuted along with the downright offensive and (not always as tight) defensive plays 
 and playemakers. I love how everyone is balances moves fast and just because you can Dunk and drive 
 or shoot, doesnt mean ur going to be crashing the lane at full mammoth speed beacuse you are Garrnett 
 and Lebron. However The defensie A. I while better then the rest of the games is weak comapring 
 it to the offense. Slow reaction, Stupidly dumb plays at times, But doesnt take away from the game 
 itself AT ALL!! The crown and voices are great I love Kenny G at the annoucing. commentary table 
 hes great. While not the best announcing certainly well enough to entertain you thru your leages 
 and games. The associasion is so unreal and close to being so real,... its actually surreal and 
 quite intimidating. The instructiions are no exisitent. (very bad idea there) So its up to you 
 to figure it out. Get this game. NBA08 is complete trash as it has been for years as usual, the 
 degress into the pits and the mid to late 90's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasonEllzey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  I like the game. I played last years game and didn't care to much about it but I enjoy this years 
 game. The only thing I don't like is that the instruction book sucks you. It doesen't tell you 
 how to do the post up moves at all. I haven't gotten to the off season part yet but it looks like 
 it will be ok. I don't know if live is better or not I've been mad at that game since 2000. The 
 arenas look great and the player movement is pretty good too. Over all it is a must buy for people 
 who like real NBA basket ball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melo_211
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, this game is the game to get for all (yes I do mean ALL) basketball fans that 
 want to play an actual basketball sim. Live is just an arcade basketball game, for the hardcore 
 Live fans. 2K didn't make too many changes to 2K8 this year, but they did the little things to 
 make this year's game that much better. The annoying glitches are still around for some odd reason, 
 such as the losing of jersey or shorts and the glitch where the ref will keep throwing the ball 
 at the inbound guy, but the guy won't catch it. Other than that, the game is great this year. Improved, 
 slick menus and presentation. Shortened halftime show is a welcomed addition for me, even though 
 the commentary during the halftime show is kind of stale... it was better then Kenny's Stamps from 
 last year... o god those were so repetitive. The graphics don't match up with Live, but definitely 
 are there. It looks great, and looks like an actual NBA broadcast you would catch on TV. The AI 
 is smarter then ever, so it may get frustrating for beginners. But otherwise everything is the 
 same. 24/7 mode (which I thought was a waste of space) is out, and the Slam Dunk contest is in. 
 It's fun, and is a bigger success then Live's allstar's competition stuff.
  
  But there is something missing, I don't know what or how to describe it. NBA 2K7 brought me back 
 over and over, and I played it and kept it for the entire NBA season before trading it in. But 
 2K8 it's missing something. I can't describe it, but it doesn't bring me back to play it as much 
 as it did last year. But... in conclusion, definitely the buy over the other two NBA games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IamDuhman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  It is hard to follow up on what in my opinion was the best basketball game ever,. This years game 
 includes most of the same features from last year and adds some new ones also. One note is that 
 there is practically no instruction manual, it just says, Do you want to learn how to change your 
 dunks? and then stops. So you're going to have to figure it out on your own. One new addition is 
 similar to last years playerlock system, it lets you control a player who doesn't have the ball, 
 and get him open. The problem is that the player with the ball can pass to anyone, including you 
 if you're not ready. The dunk contest is goo but takes alot opf practice and could use some more 
 thourough instruction. The graphics are better, but some players look like their wearing makeup. 
 On pro difficulty, you'll fiund yourself missing constant shoits, and the other team will make 
 all of them, which is frustrating. But on rookie, the game is much too easy, and you can easily 
 beat your opponent by 50+ points. Also, the blocking system is bad and needs improvemnt. reboundThe 
 refs don't know how to call goaltendind . They will constantly call a revbound goaltending. Overall 
 it ik0s the best you can buy so get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KIDLOVE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  Well that truly depends on the player or buyer. The 2K series has always had great game play; in 
 fact its original debut in 00 for the Sega Dreamcast was the start of a demise of the NBA Live 
 franchise. But this year the developers just didnt go out of the way to make graphical upgrades 
 and updating the roster for the 08 season. The game play has been revamped to a high degree, how 
 high you ask? So high that the game play causes the style of the 2K series to change dramatically, 
 yes folks the 2K series (up until 2K8) were basically the same game but with new features. What 
 Change: Most importantly the game play has changed, slowing the game play down considerably to 
 much like the real life counter parts. Unlike 2K7 were you get the enjoyment of doing some unrealistic 
 juke moves, going from spin to cross over in 0 to 60 in 4.2 seconds. 2K8 has realistic animations 
 where if you happen to do a spin move and next you want to cross over, lets just say its more 
 like 0 to 10 in 120 seconds. Oh, and the dunk fest you experienced in 2K7, well in this years 
 addition youll be lucky to complete a lay-up. Havn Said That: The game play is as solid as ever. 
 With features such as the new player movements  which means most players move like their real 
 life counter parts, as well as shoot like them. This is the most complete Basketball sim out there. 
 On top of that you have Black Top which includes mini games such as 3 point shoot out, dunk contest, 
 21, or street ball in ranges of 1 on 1, 2 on 2 and so on. The graphics are better, the players 
 look more like their counter parts versus the bulk player build in 2K7. But when compared to Live 
 08 in the graphical department 2k8 is a failure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelmuniz1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  this is the best basketball franchise any body knows that even nba live owners know this for some 
 fans of nba live i feel sorry but well when you are a fan you stick with that, any way ,you can 
 see that the game play on this game is so realistic, motion ,moves presentation. graphics, and they 
 always give you more i rent (Nba live 08) just to really see if there was some kind of competition 
 but not even close the only think i liked was the graphics but a lot of players look diferent they 
 didn't look the way they look so either way NBA 2k08 is the best and that is the bottom line if 
 you don't have this game go get it now .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxXeroxX
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 22, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is just ridiculous. The graphics are not even close to good, you can't even tell if they 
 look like the real player, and the game engine is just poor. It's so hard to control your players. 
 With steve nash you think you'd get past almost every guy but nope, he ends up getting blocked 
 and then when and IF you do get past him, the layups you attempt are not even close to getting 
 in. Parker does not miss teardrop shots, the computer eats you up on plays, even on easy, you can't 
 make a shot. The icons on players are for God knows what, the 'manual' in the case is only like 
 4 pages for example: Want to know how to get passed your enemy? Here's how! and it just ends like 
 that. It's pathetic. It makes the game so frustrating when you can't even do anything but get torn 
 up on D and O. DO NOT buy this game. It's piss poor quality. Seems like they rushed the whole thing 
 and basically put graphics on top of every need on the developer's list. Its pathetic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsdhagljkgh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  The 2k series of basketball games have started to break into its own franchise, and it seems like 
 its found its own stride. The gameplay and strategy for each team is unique towards their own style, 
 which brings the realism that i tend to go for. It creates a great mulitplayer game style that 
 will turn every game into a sweaty-palmed, nail biting game. The options each player can use for 
 drives, plays, and manuevers keeps the game from becomming a stagnant, boring old basketball game. 
 With new games like the Sprite Dunk contest, it keeps the game disc inside the xbox longer. The 
 only downside that they didnt try to fix over was the fact that the menus can be hard to go find 
 what you need, and also the seemingly overwhelming replays that can be annoying and also overdone. 
 Overall, if your the type of person who likes to go in depth with a franchise, or just a college 
 kid who loves basketball, this game is right up your alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pantherpepper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  this is i guess the best basketball game that is out of there right now. but i would advise you 
 to just rent this game instead of wasting sixty dollars on a game that you will probaly get tired 
 of it in aboout a week. this game has a lot of good values to it like the grahpics in general. 
 The goals are just like the ones in real life. The rims bend down when somebody lays down a big 
 slam. its really the little details that make the game pretty good. so all in all i would asvise 
 playing this game but not buying it. unles you are super dooper rich! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judasblk01
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is not the perfect basketball game, but neither are the dozens of basketball sims released 
 before it. What 2K has over the competition is a willingness to adjust based on the fans' requests. 
 I remember sending them an email with what fans wanted this years title to have. While they didn't 
 hear every cry, they heard enough to make the game a step up from others. Critics have some valid 
 points to downgrade this game, but most are off point. The graphics engine is well due for a makeover 
 and the physics need a few more tweaks. I still noticed the jittery movement and recycled reactions 
 from last year's release. The biggest improvement will come in the form of gameplay. I'm not a 
 big fan of the lockdown defense [I enjoyed the total control] , but the ability to learn plays and 
 pick the best shot selection is astounding. Fellow A. I. still needs improvement on defense. Teammates 
 still fail to assist when a smaller mate is being backed down by huge guys. Passing is starting 
 to be harder when you want to just dish it to the closest teammate. I don't like the A. I. initiated 
 alley-oops. Next year they could introduce more reactions from the bench as well as the fans. The 
 dunk contest is a nice addition, although it could be improved, obviously. It wouldn't hurt if 
 they included it into the all-star weekend along with the other popular events. And please, give 
 Wade last years facial design. Another problem I have is in the A. I. play calling; on offense it 
 does a decent job, but on defense no matter what the score [or momentum for that reason] the coach 
 almost always calls man to man. Other than a few querks the game is better than the rest and as 
 my title says, Gaining momentum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggdavetay
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  I got tired of hearing all the reviews, so I finally went and bought the game. WOW!, I notice all 
 the little things that make this game the best simulated basketball game out there. I even like 
 the new free-throwing shooting. Your actually shooting w/o being sent to a cut-scene to shoot free 
 throws. Only problem I have is. Why da hell I havent dunked yet?. Maybe, I just need more time?. 
 Funny, thing is the ball. It really feels like it has some weight to it, when u shoot or do a layup. 
 The postgame is really improved. The animations remind me of Madden 08, just fluid with no hiccups!. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonzilla_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  Finally i get to play a basketball for the 360. I am still a new owner of the 360 and i didn't 
 want to get the older basketball so i waited. It was worth the wait. Graphics: The graphics are 
 good. Not even close to the caliber of the EA games. But i will say they are nothing to frown about. 
 Most of the players you can tell who they are. The lighting is good and the arenas are nicely down. 
 I am not a fan of the crowd though. I found it to be put together. Sound: The Sound is awesome!!! 
 There is no better word. If you are at home and you shoot a 3 you can hear the fans chant 3 . It 
 was awesome and doesnt get old. The commentators are great. When there is a huge dunk they both 
 say OHHH really awesome. Though in the 4th quater and its a close game they say it almost at every 
 dunk. Music is alright. No big deal to me though.
  
  
  Gameplay: I will have to say that NBA 2K8 is the best basktball game that i have ever played. I 
 have been playing basketball games for ever. The gameplay i find is Arcadey if you are playing 
 with friends and if your playing against the computer its more like a Sim. for instance i play 
 this game allot with my 6 year old and he always takes the caves for Lebron James. Well he scored 
 96 points with Lebron with 7 minute quaters. It wasn't crappy defense it was that Lebron is insane. 
 When you are playing against the computer its like an actual basketball game. If you leave someone 
 open you will pay for it because the computer will shoot or drive to the hole. The replays and 
 presentations is outstanding. Navigating the menu is no easy task and it can get frustrating. The 
 Dunk contest and the 3 point contest is a great addition to the 2K series. and there are a few 
 more things that you can do. Overall: Overall This game is a great multiplayer game and its allot 
 of fun. As a Sim its outstanding. I do recommend that you get this game. you will not be dissapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  You do have to wonder what do the guys over at 2KSports get up in the morning to eat, that those 
 over at EA Sports do not. They have taken a series and have improved on it every year, with very 
 few bumps in the road. This year is no different. NBA 2K8 is an excellent upgrade from last year; 
 the graphics somehow just gets better and better. The animation have also improved with lot more 
 details and mannerisms. The real improvement is with the way the game plays, and thats the one 
 thing that always have been the difference between this series and NBA Live. EA has concentrated 
 on fancy graphics and wild unrealistic dunks, and 2KSports just keep sticking to making good sound 
 basketball like games. The sounds are there with players making comments and fans cheering and 
 booing at the right times. I dont really listen to any of the sound tracks in the games, since 
 that is the first thing I turn off in any games. The one thing that I wished they would work on 
 is the now dated commentators in the game. They pretty much have said the same thing over the last 
 few years, and its getting a bit tiring. I love the sports ticker that 2KSports have added to 
 their last few games, giving real live updates. I even learned the score in the baseball game last 
 night even though I was too busy to watch it. The menu system still suck rocks, its still far 
 more convoluted than it needs to be and at times really get frustrating. The menu, as always, is 
 almost useless, for veterans like myself, its not a big deal, but beginners will struggle. I also 
 dont like the fact that they changed the controls a bit, and give you fewer options to configure 
 them. One thing they address this year that Ive been waiting for, 2KSports added a ton more camera 
 angles, there must be like 15 or 20 of them this year. Great job, kudos to you guys on that one.
 
  This game again blows away EAs NBA Live 2008 in almost every way. I think people are finally 
 seeing that. If you go to Best Buy and look on the shelves, you see a ton of NBA Live games just 
 setting there, where they belong. Good job again 2KSports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hooperfax006
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  This game is so fun. The Gameplay is great the best ever in a basketball sim. The Graphics are 
 better but not that big of an improvement. The new features like the Dunk contest and the 3 point 
 contest and rookie Sophomore Challenge are great features, The Dunk Contest is really fun it is 
 hard to learn but once you learn it its great. the 3 point contest is fun it kinda gets boring 
 after a while though. The Commentary is almost the same from last year which gets annyoing but 
 they added some more stuff. The game has some bad but alot of good so if your a fan of basketball 
 then you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JayMezzy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  First and foremost I played both the Live 08 and NBA 2K8 games. I also owned the NBA 2K7 game, 
 which is a close representation of what basketball is suppose to play like in real life. So with 
 that all said, I was definitely looking forward to NBA 2K8 to drop. When I got it I started a game 
 with the random selection button and played a quick 20min (5min quarters) game. This game does 
 everything well and the best part about this game is the little stuff... attention to detail is 
 crucial when trying to emulate real life. NBA 2K8 gets it done.
  
  Graphics
  -------------
  When I played 2K7 I thought the graphics didn't look that bad, well until I saw 
 a few of the player faces that is. Live's graphics are better no doubt but 2K is on the right track 
 in my opinion. Face in 2K8 are better than ever, xcept a hand full like Dirk and Kaman, but hey 
 ugly ppl are hard to model huh lol. Look at difference between Iverson and Tyrone Lue. Their body 
 types are not the same, A. I is slimmer and it looks like him. You can compare anyones body type 
 with another player and see that 2K pretty much got it right. The stadiums look good this year, 
 reflections on the court, the nice glossy look, real nice work. Cheerleaders, refs, coaches and 
 now full 3D and can be interacted with, nice touch!! Lots to love about this game man.
  
  Sound
  ---------
  Pretty much the same sounds from last year with the addition of some new 
 commentary that is nice to listen to, especially in clutch situations the announcers scream and 
 sound excited. The crowd is more into it, they react to the 3 ball and pump fakes, nasty crossovers, 
 and Sick dunks. They also are stadium specific which again is a little touch but effects soooo 
 much of the game. In Detroit the fans say Sheeeed, and they say Deeeetroit BAAASSKETBALL. I love 
 it! The soundtrack is nice too. At first I didn't understand why such an eclectic soundtrack but 
 it all blends nicely when your playing the game. It has a nice feel to the game when your watching 
 replays or taking a timeout. Gameplay
  --------------
  This is where the game truly shines. The additional of the Sprite Dunk Contest and Blacktop is 
 a good one. Gone are the days of 24/7 mode, because it did seem like a cheesy add-on but a o. k. 
 idea if they did something different with the story or something but its gone now. NBA Blacktop 
 is fun to play, the street moves are still in the game when you play a 1 on 1 to 5 on 5 game. The 
 3 point shootout is on their now but it seems that it's missing something more. When your done 
 winning its like that's it?? seems like you should win an award or something but nothing happens... maybe 
 next year they'll have it where you can do that at All-Star Weekend.
  The Dunk Contest is very fun and addictive, and challenging (well to me anyways) . I have done about 
 maybe 3/4 of the dunks and I still have to figure out the other combinations of dunks. They are 
 hard to pull off but when u do it, its very rewarding! And it looks good. Not that NBA Live crap 
 when your player jumps 100 feet in the air and the game slows down and you press like 6 buttons. 
 This dunk contest in NBA 2K8 looks real, everything from the gather to the dunk, it all looks good, 
 with the exception of dunks that are just near impossible but hey 2K has convinced me that these 
 dunks are humanly possible with the nice animations.
  Man does this game look real. The animations are smooth and less jerky than in any game. HaHA just 
 yesterday my roommates girlfriend ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Outstanding visuals. The graphic in NBA 2K8 are top-notch, far above what NBA Live 08 has. 
 Player models look amazing and look real in motion. But it's the subtleties that will impress. 
 Little things that give it a much deeper feel than if they just ran up and down the court. A high-five 
 here, some celebration after a basket there, these players look alive. Game-play is excellent. 
 Silky smooth controls deliver fast-paced action with very satisfying play. There is a lot of adjustments 
 gamers can make to make this game fit their level of skill. And off the court, there are tons of 
 side games to keep you coming back for more. The create-a-player is deep, and building a team and 
 taking it into a season is better than ever. The sounds are terrific, though by the third game, 
 you've pretty much heard all the commentary. The dunk contest is pure gold. It takes some time 
 to learn the moves, but once you do, you'll be hooked. Cons: The default setting is a little too 
 difficult to learn from, and under the boards is too unpredictable. Tim Duncan should not be missing 
 lay-ups as often as he does on the out-of-the-box setting. Passing is not as accurate as I want; 
 a few times I try to pass out front and the ball ends up going in a different direction. Learning 
 the special player moves is almost not worth the effort since regular play looks amazing.
  If you are a b-ball fan, this game is a MUST. If you can't decide which one to get, this in the 
 one. NBA Live 08 doesn't come close to the excellent controls, unprecedented visuals, and above-the-boards 
 game-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buggsib007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K8 is the most realistic basketball simulation ever. Unbeliveable moves and player motion 
 is what makes this game an instant classic. The way the players interact with the court and how 
 they are so much like their real life counter parts is what makes me love this game. This years 
 slam dunk addition to the sim was awsome. I can't stop playing this game. DID YOU GUYS EVEN PLAY 
 THIS GAME!!!! How could it be rated anything lower than a 9.0 Te king of all basketball simulations 
 is back in action and ready to take on the world one gamer at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K8 Feels like a basketball game, or as close to one as anyone has ever gotten on a video game. 
 Plays, strategy, and movement is emphasized even further while animations faces and dunks have 
 been improved not only in the graphics dept but in the way they are presented. When Kobe crosses 
 someone up and then throws down a one-handed jam the footwork and motion of the player looks like 
 it would have had you been watching Kobe tear apart someone in real life. If 2K continues its track 
 of steady improvement pretty soon no one will be watching real sporting events anymore. This game 
 is great.
  
  Naggin issues that hurt the score; too many missed layups are super annoying, just bc you are open 
 for the 3 doesnt mean you should always be able to make it (i have 50% FG from the 3 almost every 
 game playing with the lakers, that means farmar and Odom were dropping bombs) . Besides that the 
 game looks and feels that much better than 2K7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solina
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  Very Realistic Basketball... Goes to.... NBA 2k8 I bought Live 08 &amp; 2k8... Well, Live 08 got 
 a bit improved this year.. (the movements, the action, friendly camera angles, the action, Bug 
 fixed (lil' bit) , Marv &amp; Stve did really great, the buzzer sound is great too...) but the player 
 graphics more like they are Soldiers in Call of Duty or in World War.. (haha) . ... it is smooth 
 but they didn't catch their real faces. NBA Live 08 is the Arcade Type for 10 yrs. old below.. 
 but i think... next year it will be better... NBA Live 08 (360) = 7.9 = Good (Improved) NBA 2k8... 
 (Wow!) They really know what the Basketball Game is..
  It's very realistic, even some action outside the court (jumping out the camera-man, fans, coach, 
 etc.) The Movement of the player is very smooth &amp; if you are far away from your TV, you can't 
 notice that somebody's playing NBA Game beacuse it's like you are watching the real live action... 
 You can't just play there to do exhibitions, dunk, crossover etc.. (i mean the unreallistic moves, 
 whatsoever) .. Here you will use some plays (offense/defense) you will feel that you are playing 
 in the court.. It's a matured game.. but They missed some very good defense (there's no vibration 
 when you are guarding another person, the D-Lock is useless)
  
  NBA 2k8 (360) = 8.9 = Great (Success)
  
  -jef 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerohour921
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Alot of people complain about how its so easy to miss a shot in the game. In real life making a 
 shot with a 6 foot 8 guy in your face trying to block you isnt the easiest thing in the world. 
 Layups people just might miss layups because they suck I always make layups in the game like nothing. 
 Overall this game is the most realistic basketball game out there in stores right now the graphics 
 are amazing it looks clean its a much better game then nba live 08. Go buy a copy of 2k8 now before 
 there all gone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metaljeff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  I'll skip re-writing my review... the EA paid off Gremlin robots already erased my first one... suffice 
 to say that this is the deepest SIM game ver produced, with a fun factor that exceeded my wildest 
 expectations.... skip to my lou skip to my lou skip to my lou skip to my lou skip to my lou skip 
 skip skip to my lou my darling darling skip to me me me beat it beat it billie jean wardrobe malfunction 
 word word word me me me more more more words needed already typed them here it is again me me me 
 and so on and on and on and on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazeflipped
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  This is the best basketball game to date. The player models are second to none and with the exception 
 of a few players everyone looks like their real life counter part. The custom shot from Dirk to 
 KB24 it's all here. The crowd responds to certain players and all of the action that's going on 
 the court. The refs, mascotts, and cheerleaders give it an authentic feel. The commentary is a bit 
 redundant but it's b-ball. The one thing about the commentary that is tight is they go more in 
 depth on certain situations and players. As far as to many missed layups, jumpers etc.. This all 
 can be fixed by simply adjusting the game sliders in the options menu. Once you do that then you 
 have by far like I said at the begining the best Hoop game to date if not ever. I mean if you fade 
 off a defender while shooting you can actually bump into the ref right behind you or the coach 
 or another player. If that's not realism then what is. The slam dunk contest is nice kind of hard 
 but still nice and more important realistic. I can't speak for the PS3 version but if you have 
 a 360 this is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightmare16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k8 is the best basketball game of the year the player movement is right on and the new shots 
 and dunks are great . I do think the players faces and bodies have taken a have step back but they 
 did add a great dunk contest NBA live is still just a aracade style game with a very little sim 
 thrown in I've been playing this series since its start on the dreamcast and it gets better every 
 year now i've been a 2k fan with all its series but this year EA did make a better hockey game 
 then 2k and i bought the better game so for all you haters that will say i'm just a fan off 2k 
 your wrong i'm a fan of the best game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dtoxx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I agree with the everyone who reviewed this game it is close to real basketball far as you cant 
 win jus dunkin with Vince or hittin 3's with Dirk you have to have the whole package and use all 
 your teammates
  and CPU always gimmie a run for my money you could be up by 15 let up and CPU will be back in the 
 game (if you play on the hardest level like me) the dunks are crazy and the ally oop ....... play 
 it and see what Im talkin bout great game dont waste your time on Live get 2k 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fReSh805baLLa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  I GOT THIS GAME A FEW DAYS AGO AND OFF THE BACK A DOWNASS GAME... ON THE REAL THO I DONT JOCK NOBADY 
 WEN I SAY THIS... GOT BETTER SINCE 2K7 [WHICH WAS ALREADY A GREAT GAME] .. I AINT SAYIN EVERYBODY 
 CAN HANDLE IT BUT HARD BALLAS GET A COPY.. AND ALL YOU OTHERS WHO DONT GET YERS ON THE COURT GET 
 SOME OTHER JOINT LIKE LIVE OR SOME CRAP LIKE THAT!!!!!!!!! ON THA REAL THO..... OK LETS SEE WAT 
 ELSE... DOWN GRAPHICS, GAMEPLAY [AND QUIT COMPLAINING BOUT MISSED LAYUPS JUSS UP THA LAYUP BAR 
 IN SETTINGS] .... YOU NOW ALL THAT GOOD STUFF SO HURRY UP AND GET YOU A GAME.2K8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot says in its review that one of the negative spots for this game is too many missed layups. 
 HELLO?? is there anybody out there? theres a ton of missed layups and easy jumpers and because 
 of this the game is totally unrealistic! its barely even playable its so frustrating. How can this 
 game be any good if ya cant make a layup? people i want you to pay attention to me this is important. 
 The latest trend for gamedevelopers is to make the game look good to improve upon the graphics, 
 the graphics are rendered irrelevant if the gameplay is bad. The answer is to fix the game engine. 
 get the core fundamentals down first, make sure that you have a relaistic and fun game with the 
 absolute best in gameplay functionality. then after you have perfected that then you can increase 
 the graphics, and online gamemodes and incorporate a slam dunk competion. every year its new graphics, 
 gamemodes, new player on the box with the same tired broken gameplay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrHalo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  In NBA 2k8 Allen Iverson slashes and cuts to the basket in a way that it's literally a spitting 
 image of the real AI. 2k8 delivers the realism that true basketball fans crave for, on this game 
 there are certain layups that only AI is capable of pulling off, or should I say in the entertaining 
 fashion in which he does it.
  
  With 2k8 most of the star players have their own unique package, this package includes signature 
 dunks, handle, and layups. From there you have general packages that are assigned to the rest of 
 the players, such packages include power big men , athletic big men , flashy guard , etc. The goal 
 is to create a life-like product with amazing attention to detail in terms of overall realism. 
 Signature style as 2k coined it.
  
  Goal accomplished, if you could take away the team jerseys and set everyone to the same height, 
 you could still differentiate between LeBron James and Kobe Bryant, or Dwayne Wade, or Allen Iverson 
 just by their movements, tendencies, dunks, and layups. Which is exactly the way it should be, 
 each star is their own person with their unique spice. Something 2k took a step further in Association 
 Mode, each player is actually given a personality, making certain players harder to deal with than 
 others.
  
  Realism by every sense of the word. So, ok the game looks realistic, but how's the core gameplay? 
 In short it's amazing.
  
  Atmosphere:
  
  Realistic team chants like the LA Laker crowd shouting Luuuke whenever Luke Walton shoots the ball, 
 just as they do in real life. Also, from what I hear they have even included the famous Deeetroit 
 Basketball! chant for the Palace, among a slew of other chants for various teams. This on top of 
 the crowd standing when something amazing happens, lights, and overall stadium detail really creates 
 for an intense atmosphere.
  
  Commentary:
  
  Improved, but still room for more. They're more life-like this year and engage in more side convos 
 for example they discuss Kobe's recent tirade of wanting to be traded then not wanting to be traded. 
 The commentary is good, but more script is still needed.
  
  Control:
  
  The only downfall of this game comes in the control department. It would be great if we could have 
 the signature player movements and realistic momentum with slightly more precise control. You really 
 have to feather the stick in certain situations in order to control your player properly, something 
 that's not a problem after a good amount of time playing the game, but it may be somewhat frustrating 
 to the more casual users.
  
  AI:
  
  Most realistic ever through any sport game.
  
  Overall:
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeivast
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  This game has done the impossible. It has IMO the best controls yet. You can even map the dribbles 
 to the right stick ala NBA Live. Lebron plays like lebron. I mean he has dunks that ONLY lebron 
 does in real life. You will not see anybody else in the game with his dunks. Everything has been 
 improved, EVERYTHING. aT a glance, you'd think its similar to last year...... but OH NO. YOU'D 
 BE dead wrong. so many new ratings implemented. an off the dribble shoot rating, man in your face 
 shot rating. etc. etc. And the association. Don't believe Gamespot. Its the deepest EVER. you have 
 to worry about explosive player personalities. You have to worry about players demanding trades. 
 if the chemistry and morale of your players are low, you'll actually see them take plays off. Like 
 jog instead of run on some plays. INCREDIBLE. Say what you want about the game, but unless you 
 actually examine it, instead of barely glimpsing at it, you'll see the deepest most robust, most 
 realistic game yet. P. S. about the missed layups. There are missed layups, but i've never missed 
 wide open layups, and i've made countless in traffic and 1 layups, and i've abused people with 
 layups making like 8 in a row difficult ones. So i think its realistic. I ve seen lebron miss countless 
 layups in real life. go get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dman4Life1217
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  Man, the NBA 2k series just does not know when to quit. Visual Concepts could have easily just 
 improved upon the graphics of last year's game, thrown in a sprinkling of new features and it still 
 would have been a decent game. But they tore it all down, and rebuilt it from scratch. The momentum 
 system is great, it adds a very realistic feel to this year's incarnation that wasn't found in 
 others. Now players move and shift and not stop on a dime and go. It takes some getting use to, 
 but in the end it feels very natural. The all-star weekend makes it's long awaited appearance and 
 boy does it feel good. No longer can NBA Live die hards boast Well, ours at least has the all-star 
 game . The Dunk Contest feels very good and well done. Not overblown with NBA Jam style dunks either, 
 but based off real dunks. The 3 point contest, while not that exciting is in there which is another 
 bonus. My only grip about this game is that it can become painfully realistic at times, because 
 players will go into cold streaks at the wrong time in my opinion. But hey, that's life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxedout45
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  This is what i have been waiting for since 2k7 speedy load times not so complicated menus and a 
 lot of new things some might say its the same as 2k7 but its not its just like buyin a 2007 car 
 then the same model but a 2008 there are going to be similarities but most of the tweaks will be 
 fixed all i can say is if ur a b- ball fan especially 2k sports don't keep reading this go and 
 get it and meet in the lobby B eazzy79 nnnnn mmmmmmm bbbbbbbb c xxxxxx aaaa ffff yyyyyyn hh nnnnnn 
 iiiii jjjj mmmmmmmm hhh mmm kk ff dd wwv v v eee eeef ee fff gg ggg gggg grrw gewg gweg wwe gewg 
 wegg ewgg wg gewg wegf gweg wegg wgeg gwe wegw gw egw we g wgegew gewg gewg weg gwgewg gw wgwegeg 
 ggweg ran out of things to say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianlawrence28
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  just bought the game when it came out and i was really excited because 2k7 was amazing and never 
 got old so i go home and open the game and was kinda shocked on how it wasnt that great like last 
 years and i thought the graphics where a little downgrade and that the game is the same as last 
 year just player updates and a couple new modes. 2k9 better be amazing or im just gonna stop buying 
 games for next generations cause im getting really sick of the downgrade games there giving us 
 they need to kick up it up notch we spend 1000s dollars one new platforms and get sh! t for games 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huddyseven
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  the gameplay is hard i was playing with baron davis i couldnt get past
  dan dickua oh my god. Dont let me get started on Yao Ming he doesnt play like Yao MIng he plays 
 better. In my game rockets versus magic
  Yao jammed on howard 6 times, it wasnt just any jam he windmilled .
  on tomahawked it. Maybe Yao 
 should be in the black top dunk contest.
  New off-the-ball controls allow you to better set up for alley-oops and screens giving the AI open 
 shots or creating space for your own controlled player to call for the ball and drop some dimes. In 
 the end 2k is a must buy
  if u like to play the assosciation. 2k has the best next gen franchise mode
  (beter than maddens!!!)
 
  
  comentary: weak
  
  graphics: okay the faces need work
  
  gameplay : lock down system is too strong for average players
  
  extras: realmaker is good 
 dunk contest is awesome
  
  presentation: ok
  
  music: suks thats 2 years in a row of suk music 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chucknorrisevil
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short. NBA 2K7 is a better game. 1) There's no crossover/special dribble button... and 
 supposedly this is just built into how you move your player. It doesn't work very well. Often times 
 I lose complete control of my player heading in the wrong direction or he won't stop running because 
 I think the AI is trying to perform a special dribble or something. 2) Most of the moments in the 
 game do not feel natural. 2K7 was much more fluid. 3) Players are missing very simple open shots, 
 layups... oh my God... way too many layups. I'm very disappointed in this game and will attempt to 
 return it. I'd prefer to just pay someone to update the rosters for my 2k7. I'm not a hater or 
 a fanboy of NBA 08... I've been solely playing 2k basketball since Dreamcast... but this game is 
 just not good. It's a crime that they're charging $60 for it. I don't understand how they mess 
 up things that were already working so well in 2k7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: draebless
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Wow, im really not going to say much... If you are a fan of basketball or NBA, or you play basketball 
 and like videogames... this game is the truth. Point Blank Period. Currently its the best basketball 
 game ever made in my opinion but at the rate the developers are going, next years will be even 
 better. This is simulation basketball people... so dont expect a dunk fest, if you're looking for 
 that you're not going to find it here. Its Professional basketball and i love it. Enjoy
  
  Oh yeah, i scored 2k7 a 9.3 i think. 2k8 is light years better, that whats so crazy. Currently 
 this game is All I Need for my 360.... Nah im lying, it is football season so Madden is most definitely 
 necessary right now too, but once football seasons over this is probably all i will play. Its that 
 good. One 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BillJr106
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the closest to basketball game perfection that I have ever played. The graphics 
 are incredibly sharp, lifelike and fluid and running at a steady 60 fps. Every players detail is 
 amazing and accurate, and the cloth physics are improved. The courts have also been stepped up 
 a notch, as well as coaches. Also you can now interact more with coaches and mascots, as players 
 leap over rows of chairs or bump into mascots when retrieving loose balls at the sidelines.
  
  The physics are amazing the way the players feet must be planted to transition from deke move 
 to spin move to cross over. Stringing moves together is seamless and realistic now that you are 
 required to have your feet planted.
  
  Slam dunks make an appearance finally, allowing you to set up some truly amazing dunks.
  
  
 All in all, this is just a really fun game with some very minor hiccups. A few flaws such as lock 
 on defense and the occasional cloth physics freak out keep this game from being a perfect 10, but 
 I predict you will love this game none the less as it truly is the best basketball sim ever created. 
 Until next year when they fine tune perfection.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gqukroc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  I have only played for about 3 hours and I got in 4 games playing 9 minute quarters and I am very 
 impressed with the flow of the game. The controls are very tight. The improved ball handling is 
 a great change that puts you in more control of the player. By alternating between the Left trigger 
 and Right trigger you can change hands on the ball and go right or left depending on the defense. 
 I started a franchise with the Warriors and this comes in handy with Monta Ellis because his one 
 on one ball handling is terrible but in the open floor I am able to use his speed and alternate 
 his dribbling with the left or right while on the fly and while moving fast with the ball. I have 
 read a lot about people complaining about missed laypus and easy shots. I have experienced this 
 as well, however it feels like something that I will improve on as I become more comfortable with 
 the shot stick again and the overall timing of the game. Personally, I prefer a more realistic 
 game as not all layups and close shots are made 100% of the time, especially if a big man is nearby. 
 The passing is much improved, I have pulled off several Magic-like passes with Baron Davis. The 
 refs call the game pretty evenly. The presentation is hands down the best I have ever seen. Graphic 
 wise this game looks pretty similar to last year. Some of the faces look improved but are still 
 a ways of way of making you aw and gawk at them. This is the most fun I have had playing a sports 
 game in a long time, it has the presentation of a TV broadcast and the gameplay worthy of countless 
 hours of play. Props to 2k games for hitting it on the head. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazylegzmark
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K8 looks good on the outside but on the inside its just plane ugly. The player models do not 
 compare to their real counter parts, the game is not fluid in movement , when playing against the 
 CPU they never hardly ever miss shots, no post moves, and 2K please get rid of the shot stick its 
 just plane stupid to have it. the right analog stick should be used to for crossovers. If you want 
 to play a real sim basketball game I suggest, you pick up NBA Live 2008
  its in the game. The only good thing about NBA 28k is the online play, with said this game need 
 to be rebuild from the ground up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neovico
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  There&acute; s a lot of people that is claim NBA 2K8 this year, and there&acute; s people is that 
 does not understand basketball at all. This year game is more realistic, peace game, lot of plays 
 well reflected on the arena, screens, pick&acute; n&acute; rolls, etc... and there&acute; s so much 
 people dissapointed because this game is so real. This people preferds to smash the hoop all the 
 time like in Live, but in real life this does not happends. So, it&acute; s clear that dissapointed 
 guys with this game, don&acute; t know how NBA works, this is a simulator not an arcade. Furthermore, 
 you have the blue lines to understand how to make the plays. What more do you want?
  
  Another complain it&acute; s about the graphics.... what? Did you see the 2K7 faces?, for example, 
 caucassian players like Ginobilli?? They were really weird. This year on 2K8 faces look much more 
 realistic and acurate, the bodies are better, in 2k7 they were exagerated, this year you can reconigze 
 each player from far away. Take a look to the arena!! my god, it&acute; s totally ALIVE, the ambience 
 is awesome, better than last year..... at the end, all it&acute; s more real.
  
  I love real basketball, and this game provides me it. If you preferd some easy arcade ans repetitive 
 thing, this is not your game,,,, Live 08 it&acute; s ok.
  
  And with the inclusion of dunk / 3 point contests, the editor and the association mode, this game 
 rocks. A great work from VC and 2K
  
  Take care 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dancing-Bear
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  2K has owned the NBA simulation category for a while now, and it doesn't look like it's letting 
 up. While Live certainly looks to have improved over it's former titles, 2K had less work to do 
 and still pushed the genre further than it's competitors.
  
  The gameplay is simply unmatched. Any abuseable exploits have been removed, or weakened, and it 
 truly takes a patient approach and an understanding of basketball to be good at this game. From 
 brilliant signature animations to intuitive roster customizations, this game simply touches on 
 everything.
  
  While on the surface the game appears quite close to 2K7, upon a game or two the user will realize 
 where the time was put in. Graphics are very important in today's games, but it's the gameplay 
 alone that will keep you coming back year after year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fueledonmusic1x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  NBa 2k8 is the best basketball sim out there because of so many reasons.
  
  1. Great graphics, everyone has emotion to calls, moves, shots, almost everything.
  2. Gameplay 
 is good, the AI never lets sinks on defense and they keep up well defending ur players.
  3. The signature style is amazing. Every star player is unique, like Kobe has his speacial turn 
 around jumper, dirk has his fade-away, steve nash has his crazy ball handling and so on.
  4. They got a slam dunk contest now. Its pretty cool, and really fun to do if your bored. Althought 
 a problem is your scores given to you sometimes don't seem real. You can do a windmill over a bench, 
 and sometimes you won't be satisfied with your score.
  5. Commentary is great. Kevin Harlin and Kenny smith beat Steve Kerr and Albert anyday.
  
  
 go pick this game up. u probably dont want to bother with live 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blakarot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Has anyone played the computer on any difficulty above pro. I know I'm a pretty decent player, 
 but the computer will not miss.... EVER. I know u can adjust slider or whatever, but i dont like 
 doing that and I dont like playin on easy difficulty levels. I thought the harder levels were so 
 that the game could be more competitive, not impossible. No matter how good the defense is that 
 i play. I cant stop the computer. The only shots that i feel confident that they will miss are 
 half court buzzer beaters and full court buzzer beaters. And speaking of which, why do these players 
 take so F@#!! ing long to shoot the ball. I have wide open jumpers and sometimes layups, but by 
 the time I get the shot off some 5 footer comes and either blocks it or throws it off. Another 
 thing... I make substitutions when the other team calls a timeout..... WHY ARENT THEY IN THE GAME???? 
 I have to wait for yet another dead ball. Hmmm... what else....... and what is the deal with the 
 shoes. You got Jordans..... GREAT!! But why is D. Wade wearin some d@#$ spaldings or starters or 
 l. a. gears? If u cant put his own shoe on the game, at least let us change them to somethin we 
 like. WE... the people who play the games... the people who spend our money in hopes of getting somethin 
 fun. Ok.. I know i sound like a little baby right now, but i just keep having greater expectations 
 for NBA 2k, and every year they let me down. With all that said, its stil la great game to play 
 against a friend, but the computer is godlike. And thats just ridiculous. The throwing passes through 
 players' bodies.... come on.... save that for Madden. Sidenote: I miss the player introductions at 
 the beginning of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyAl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Wow... I just played one game after buying this yesterday... My girl had me on lock last night 
 and do you know how hard it is to concentrate on hearing a woman talk about nothing while the new 
 2k b-ball game is sitting there... Well, I did it just to increase my excitement and let me tell 
 you... it was more than worth the weight... I don't really have much to say about the game that 
 you haven't already heard but imagine being knocked backwards into the coach after sinking a 3 
 pointer and watching him stumble as well as you fall to the ground and celebrate with your teammate 
 standing over you celebrating with you... Its little things that make this game spectacular... 
 The dunk contest is craziness... a new cult classic... finally... you have a rating for vertical 
 leap seperate from dunk... you have a shoot in traffic or on the move... defensive awareness and 
 offensive awareness actually matter... They still continue to dumb out on player creation with 
 even less of a choice for body structure.... Nice hair styles though... same BS tatto's though... 
 The knee pads and wraps look better now... the wrist bands don't look retarded... The have rubberbands 
 for the wrist... pretty nice... This game has emotion... it has feeling... it has tanacity... boy 
 do I feel like I'm ghost writing for Dick Vitale right now... but this game has it all... The team 
 creator... sorry gentlemen... Same teams... nothing new... haven't checked the uniforms but I am 
 sure its the same.... The close cams don't have that glitchy feel much anymore.... Bottom line... 
 This game is for you ballers who love the sport and want a reason to have a good time playing... 
 You have to use strategy or get ran... Call a timeout or your guys will become visually frustrated 
 as they throw away passes and miss shots... Watch the coach really get pissed... he interacts with 
 the players on the bench and his assistants as well... This game is a benchmark for next gen b-ball... 
 just like the age old question of where were you when Kennedy was shot... You will remember where 
 you were the day they turned video game basketball into the pinnacle of gamery that we all know 
 could be... No more cheesy exploits... now, its all about position baby.... The only reason I won't 
 give it a 10... No more sweatsuits and different outfits in the park anymore... just cheesy black 
 or white outfits and that BS player creation... One.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maaly81
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  I picked it up October 2nd and put it in I got home later on in the evening. My wife had to tell 
 me to get off cuz I just could not get enough. The animations are far much better than last years 
 game, the commentators are way more intelligent, and the online play has been improved 100%. No 
 more length of the court passing and cherry picking. You actually have to kno the game of basketball 
 and take advantage of the whole team, not just the star player. A couple of issues though. That 
 slam dunk contest is harder than I don't know to what to be able to master. The instructions are 
 not that clear and the animation during the contest is iffy. Also, when you are double teamed in 
 the game, it is way too easy to get the ball turned over. It looks like your guy just hands the 
 other team the ball, then they are off on a fast break.
  
  Other than that, I will be playing much online and an association season or two. Good job 2k as 
 usual. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbnuts
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  MrBnuts back in yo face with an ABOVE THE RIM review of NBA 2k8!!!!
  
  Do you all remember on Seinfeld when George decides after he tells a good joke he will just leave 
 the room because it is his high point? OH MY GOD NBA 2k8 has finally done it. The perfect basketball 
 game 10s across the board from Mr Bnuts! SEE YA LATER, NO NEED FOR 2k9!!!!!!
  
  This is THE BEST, MOST REALEST basketball sim ever!
  
  Lets start with this  the best basketball 
 game ever should make you feel like you are in the arena. 2k8 nails this one Marbury-style and 
 yes I am referring to his jeep game, not his jump shot. The arenas look amazing, but what really 
 sells it is the crowd. You actually see people getting up to get food and walking around. It is 
 amazing. Also, the crowd reaction adds a very realistic feel to the game. You actually feel like 
 you are in a real NBA area. In blowouts the crowd is quite, in close games they chant D-E-F-E-N-S-E 
 and make so much noise. Also, if the away team scores, they are silenced, just like in real life. 
 It feels like there is definitely a home court advantage. In fact, when I play with my surround 
 pumped up to 27 MrBnuts has home court advantage over his neighbors!!
  
  Here is another great new addition in terms of the overall experience. I ABSOLUTLY LOVE when you 
 throw down a hard jam (NH) how the announcers say OHHHHHHH like we all do in real life. While 
 you can only hear the announcers going nuts, it is easy to imagine Kenny Smith jumping all on Marv 
 after a ridiculous King James jam over the entire Knicks front line.
  
  The Gameplay is just what MrBnuts is looking for. It is HARD (NH) to beat (NH) the computer. FG% 
 is typically 50% or less. If you drive to the hoop and take a tough shot  its not going in. This 
 is a bit frustrating and requires a Rich Ankiel like adjustment to your game. If you work the ball 
 around for a jump shot most players will drain it. I am still learning the post game  I hear a 
 lot of hype about it, but I have yet to see anything special from that aspect of the game. Dunks 
 are rare, which is good  in the real NBA you dont see dunks every other time down the court. 
 Something I am having difficulty with is fast breaking  there is a still a lot to learn. I have 
 also found that it is necessary to run the offense from time to time to score. I am not sure if 
 that is just my inexperience or will always be required. One thing I do miss is the RB being the 
 call for a pick button. You can still do it pretty easily through quick plays, but it is not as 
 easy as it was before.
  
  Lastly, I will comment on the post game show. One of the coolest features is how they do the top 
 3 plays of the game. I have only played about 3 games and I am hooked. BEST BBALL GAME EVER  2k8 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cesarylolis
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  I am a very huge basketball fan and I have been a gamer since the frogger and galaga days !! I 
 really believe this year's 2k b- ball game is a work of art. The gameplay is just amazing! The 
 post game show options are out of this world. I played a game last night and during the game I 
 was going off with T-mac , I had 48 points 15 boards, and 10 assists ! At the end of the game I 
 saw the top 3 plays of the game option and chose it. It showed all of the awesome plays during 
 the game. The game is simply amazing !! Great job 2K ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acemoney1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  ALTHOUGH THE GAME IS ALITTLE TOUGH AT FIRST, ITS ABILITY TO BE SO REALISTIC IS WHAT MAKES IT CHALLENGING. 
 THIS YEAR YOU HAVE TO ACTUALLY BE GOOD TO WIN, AND THAT IN TURN WILL MAKE EVERY WIN EVEN SWEETER. 
 THE MISSED SHOTS IN CLOSE THROWS ONE OFF INITIALLY BUT AFTER SOME TIME YOU ADAPT AND LEARN BETTER 
 SHOT COLLECTION. NBA LIVE NEEDS TO GO BACK TO THE LAB, ALTHOUGH THEY STEPPED UP FROM LAST YEARS 
 GAME THE ARE STILL EATING 2K8'S DUST. I THINK IM IN LOVE... AGAAAAIN LOL.
  ALTHOUGH THE GAME IS ALITTLE TOUGH AT FIRST, ITS ABILITY TO BE SO REALISTIC IS WHAT MAKES IT CHALLENGING. 
 THIS YEAR YOU HAVE TO ACTUALLY BE GOOD TO WIN, AND THAT IN TURN WILL MAKE EVERY WIN EVEN SWEETER. 
 THE MISSED SHOTS IN CLOSE THROWS ONE OFF INITIALLY BUT AFTER SOME TIME YOU ADAPT AND LEARN BETTER 
 SHOT COLLECTION. NBA LIVE NEEDS TO GO BACK TO THE LAB, ALTHOUGH THEY STEPPED UP FROM LAST YEARS 
 GAME THE ARE STILL EATING 2K8'S DUST. I THINK IM IN LOVE... AGAAAAIN LOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ejaythegamer121
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  This game is great. Please do not be fooled by the people who say NBA Live is better. I went to 
 Gamestop on tuesday to pick up my copy and the sales person told me that the guy in front of who 
 just walked out the store came in and bought NBA LIVE 08 like right when the store opened up. It 
 was 3 pm he came back wanting to exchange for NBA 2k8. I played this game from 3 pm to 11pm. This 
 has to be the greatest basketball sim ever. 1. They got rid of the majority stiffness of movement 
 and dunks
  2. The player ratings are just right for each character
  3. Better alley oops
  4. Improved defense so now no more cheesers online
  5. The new game modes. Anything is better 
 then 24-7 mode.
  
  I give it a 9/10 because of the dunk contest. It is like super hard to figure out but it doesn't 
 make it suck. They just could have came up with a better control system for it.
  
  Buy This Game, You wont be disappointed I promise you. Do not buy NBA LIVE 08 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBossofBossesx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I must admit I almost bought Live 08 because of the demo game they had set up in the store. The 
 game looks great and seemed to play good too. But after thinking about it for several minutes I 
 knew I couldn't betray my loyalty to the 2K series after so many countless hours spent enjoying 
 2K7. So I made the plunge to 2K8, and I swear to you it's better that I could ever expected. I'm 
 talking totally amazing, like as in good as watching a real NBA game except you control the moves. 
 What more can I say other than I'm totally satisfied.... call it the Halo 3 of all sports games!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick2569
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  i think this game has awsome graphics and sound is great and the dunks are so freakin awsome and 
 sweet. the slam dunk contest is out of this world. its awsome that u can do so many different kinds 
 of dunks on this game. this game is way better than crappy nba live 08 which is ok but overall 
 sucky and needs to be thrown in the trash. if u wanna get a good game get nba 2k8, trust me u wont 
 be let down at all. the moves in the game are pretty sweet also. this game is way more realistic 
 than nba live 08 by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IJP
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  great  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poeticlee590
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I was torn in two directions when I went to buy this years B-ball game. NBA LIVE 08 seem to have 
 a new engine that is actually inpressive, however it plays like the 2k series that being said I 
 went with 2k8 because I am a 2k fanboy. At first glance it seems like it plays like 2k7 but it 
 is a deeper game than last years entry. It is much harder to run and gun against the computer than 
 ever before. The A. I . is super smart, for example if you start scoring with any particular player 
 the cpu will switch coverage and put it's best defender on you and that defender holds you tight. 
 The graphics could be better and that is the main disapointment. Other than that it is an excellent 
 B-ball sim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This is the best NBA game I've played in 10 years! I really ,mean it. This game has very thing 
 from mind bogling graphics (and I don't just mean the player models I mean the whole presentation!) 
 The game plays great with great yet simple controls. (No more Iso motion controls because cross 
 overs can simply be done by moving the left thumb stick, while holding down the right trigger.) 
 Also they added a more dunks then before, and they're are more realistic looking. Much effort was 
 made to make this game look great. Also it seems like they captured the NBA atmosphere the best. (out 
 of NBA 08 and NBA live 08)
  
  The controls the graphics, the gameplay is everything it should be. The game is not flawless but 
 it pretty close. EVERTHING FROM LAST YEAR HAS BEEN IMPROVED EXCEPT FOR no highlights from the Half 
 time show. But other then that and a few glitches here and there. (On a once in a while basis0 The 
 game is as perfect as it can get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpool
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Great game but im a little upset because its the same exact game as last years version with just 
 a few more added animations.. When playing online vs fast breaks the the defense jogs back while 
 the offense blows by you in a full all out sprint.. and even if have ur defense strategy set to 
 get back they still are standing turtles. So its basically pointless u might as well move the bar 
 all the way up too offense of rebounds.. also they only added a few more sayings on the commentary 
 side the game and still u find kenny smith to be late at times.. another thing that irks me is 
 the crowd noise. In this version just like last year the crowd gets loud at times and then it just 
 all of sudden cuts out at once and other times there will be a momentum change in the game and 
 you could here a needle drop!! Now on the positive side i like how they have added the slam dunk 
 contest.. and for u other online players the took away the deep throw balll when in-bounding the 
 ball on the opposite side of the court, alot of cheaters loved to do this last year... with all 
 the bad things said and a couple of good things mentioned its still alot of fun but it could of 
 been much much much better.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmy_Wyne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  The reasons why I say what I did is this. It has eliminated the run and gun game of the older model 
 games. The next reason why I think it's the best is because it has a real basketball feel to it. 
 You actually have to have some skill to play the game it isn't like others where you can rip the 
 computer a new one and not know how to do anything besides dunk the ball. As far as the graphics 
 are concerned, I personally think they have made changes (minor) but they have changed slightly. 
 I always though EA kills the graphics, but the game play is lacking long term value if any. So, 
 if you like to hoop in real fashion scoop this one up because it's what any real b-ball fan will 
 be playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddydolla
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to the next 2K game to come out. I used to be a hardcore live fanboy until 
 the games started to compete on the next gen consoles. Thats where live and 2k switched roles in 
 my opinion. 2k feels more like a simulator where as live seems more arcade. Once you get a hang 
 of the isomotion and the right stick, you can dominate like the real players do. Motions are vastly 
 improved from last year, but the collision physics is still a bit annoying. The real maker is still 
 pretty fun and i love using it. The post moves are a lot better and now you can pull off some quick 
 spins easier and throw it down in the oppositions face. I do believe that some of the team ratings 
 are a bit inaccurate. The Magic and the Mavericks for example. The dunk contest is a lot more complicated 
 as opposed to the Live series, but once you do it for an hour I believe it has a better system. 
 There is no slowed down time in the dunk contest that live has.. so it seems more real. One thing 
 i'm disappointed in is the lack of player introductions and the stamp of approval in this years 
 game. I like the little extras those provided. Overall it is a solid addition to the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playboy12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  At first glance it may look like 2k7 but underneath is a amazing game. The CPU AI is much improved. 
 Cheeser should beware the glitches have been fixed. Players now cut to the basket when they should, 
 There isn't a million steal a game either. The collision system has also been revamped, you can 
 actually be beat off the first step now. 2K sports really put some work into this one and the results 
 do show.2K8 is the most complete basketball simulation game EVER!!! With that being said, if you 
 like run and gun style buy Live. I'm not bias in my opinion but if you've been playing this series 
 since the dreamcast you know what to expect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toliver01eb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Once again 2k8 has done it again!!! the game does look the same as last year and the dribble moves 
 are hard to pull off. Now that we got that out the way, The game is dead on with being a simulation. 
 I had 2 dunks my first game and the cpu had 1. You have to really think before you go running down 
 the court like a maniac. If you think your going to drive and dunk all game you are going to get 
 blown out the gym. when you hit the paint players step up so if you try and shoot anyway your player 
 will probably throw up some playground shot. I'm sure live will get better ratings but only because 
 its easier to play for most. If you dont know how to play b-ball that well you wont like 2k8 because 
 it is slower and hard to play. I'm not a fanboy for any of you thats wondering, games cost to much 
 to only buy it for its name. Oh and one last thing, that demo does this game no justice so don't 
 base your decision on it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
