-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA 2K6
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/nba2k6/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Isomotion and shot stick are great.
 Fantastic graphics and presentation.
 Teams and players play like they do in real life.
 Tons of content.
 Plays just like the Xbox and PS2 versions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Plays just like the Xbox and PS2 versions.
 Not for casual basketball fans.
 Need a high-definition display to get the most out of it.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 15, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.0, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 2,205 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Visual Concepts
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Nov 16, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NBA 2K6 looks fantastic if you have an HDTV, but the gameplay will seem familiar to you if you've 
 played one of the other versions of the game already. 

  When NBA 2K6 was released on the Xbox and the PlayStation 2 earlier this year, it brought forth 
 revolutionary new control mechanisms in the shot stick and the new isomotion juke system. This 
 allowed basketball fans to have extremely detailed control over their players. These new control 
 systems were married to an excellent-looking game engine that shined in both graphics and realistic 
 artificial intelligence. If you've been waiting for the Xbox 360 version of the game, then we have 
 good news, and, depending on how you look at it, bad news. The good news is that the Xbox 360 version 
 maintains everything that made 2K6 on the Xbox one of the best basketball games released in years. 
 The bad news is that if you already own the Xbox or PS2 version, this version doesn't play a whole 
 lot differently -- it's pretty much the same game.  

          NBA 2K6 is easily the best-looking basketball game so far this year...     

  If you 
 own an HDTV capable of 720p resolution, then NBA 2K6 is one of the best-looking basketball games 
 you've ever seenmost of the time, that is. The court looks extremely sharp thanks to antialiasing, 
 with great contrast on the lines and painted areas. The player models are extremely detailed, offering 
 lifelike cloth physics on jerseys and shorts, and modeled sweat that intensifies over the course 
 of a game. You'll see players look dry at the beginning, but as the game progresses you'll see 
 sweat stains on the chest and upper back areas of the jerseys, as well as around the waistband 
 of players' shorts. Sweat on skin is a realistic, glistening sheen that's easy to see when replays 
 zoom in close to the players. The players' faces are also carefully detailed. Some players look 
 more accurate than others, but whether you can agree with the likenesses or not, they animate well. 
 You'll see players' eyes tracking the ball as it's passed or bounces off the rim, and even mouths 
 open as you go up for dunks or jostle for position in the post. Skin textures do look a little 
 bit like plastic or porcelain, but most of the flaws you see in NBA 2K6's player models are a result 
 of the so-called "uncanny valley." That is, since the player models look so real now, it's the 
 minute flaws that are beginning to stand out.  

  What also makes the game stand out from a visual perspective is the unparalleled wealth of animations 
 used for player movement, collisions, and more. You'll find a ton of flexibility and variety in 
 the way players move and act, whether it's dribbling the ball, defending, shooting, rebounding, 
 or even saving a ball from going out of bounds. The animations do pop once in a while, and you 
 will notice some clipping, which can be distracting, but overall the fluidity of the animation 
 in NBA 2K6 is fantastic and unmatched. Frame rates are silky smooth at all times as well; we noticed 
 no slowdowns at all. Where 2K6 falters is in the details. The models used for the crowd, coaches, 
 and cheerleaders don't seem to have been updated at all compared to the Xbox version. When you 
 see a shot of the crowd, you'll notice their lack of detail, which immediately stands out from 
 the great-looking players you saw just a second ago. It is also a stark contrast when you look 
 at the players huddling around their coach, who looks noticeably blockier and flatter than they 
 do. Fortunately, you'll spend most of your time watching gameplay and instant replays, and 2K6 
 shines visually like no other basketball game during these times. If you have a good HDTV, 2K6 
 really looks a lot like a live basketball broadcast when viewed from a short distance away.  

 
          ... if you have a high-definition display.     

  And that's the rub: "... if you have a good HDTV." Playing NBA 2K6 on a standard-definition television 
 results in a game that is difficult to distinguish from the regular Xbox version. You can make 
 out some of the cloth details as players move around, and the replays certainly look better, with 
 player models that are obviously more detailed. But at the default camera angle, player models 
 are noticeably fuzzier and less detailed. Even the court itself doesn't look so great, with ugly 
 jaggies on the painted lines. The point is that you need an HDTV to fully appreciate NBA 2K6 on 
 the Xbox 360, especially because the gameplay mechanics are so similar. Sure, there's the addition 
 of a defensive crouch button (L trigger on defense) , and there have been some refinements made 
 to the shot stick and isomotion. However, the game is largely the same. If you're stuck with a 
 standard-definition television, then you might as well pay less and enjoy the game on your Xbox 
 or PlayStation 2 if you own one of those consoles.     

  The court sounds and crowd noise are as good as ever, and the announcing in the game has improved 
 greatly. Kevin Harlan and Kenny Smith take over for Bill Fitzgerald and Bill Walton from last year's 
 game. Harlan gets overexcited, as he does on TV, but he's still a vast improvement over Fitzgerald. 
 Sure, the soundtrack is forgettable, but getting rid of Walton more than makes up for that. The 
 one thing we're really not sure about is the egregious amount of advertising in the game. Having 
 to see a "Powerbar replay" of all major highlights or the Toyota-branded starting lineups is a 
 lot like TV, but do we need it in the game?  

          Teams and players in NBA 2K6 play more like they do in real life than they have in previous 
 2K games.     

  Moving on to gameplay, the change made to NBA 2K's isomotion system in 2K6 is likely the most dramatic 
 one you'll notice if you're a veteran of the series. First of all, you no longer have a turbo button 
 in the traditional sense. Instead, the right and left triggers serve as "aggressive modifiers," 
 which change how the game interprets your input with the passing and shooting buttons, and most 
 importantly, with the left analog stick. Instead of wiggling the right analog stick to unleash 
 canned and stilted juke animations, the new isomotion combines your movement and your jukes into 
 the left analog stick. Without holding down any trigger buttons you can simply move the left stick 
 to move your player around. Holding down the aggressive modifier and moving your character in one 
 direction will cause him to sprint. Wiggle back and forth and you'll lower your shoulder and do 
 a crossover. Whirl the stick partway in one direction and then the other, and your ball handler 
 will fake a spin and then come back the other way. Similarly, you can use the left stick plus a 
 trigger button to "emote" wraparound dribbles, jab steps, and step-back moves. Finally, the 2K 
 series has jukes that are just as natural and logical to pull off and chain together as in EA's 
 NBA Live series -- isomotion is no longer the redheaded stepchild to freestyle. It's just as good 
 now, and arguably better. How so? Since your right thumb doesn't have to be used to make your juke 
 moves, it's free to shoot or pass right out of your fake. It's a subtle thing, but advanced players 
 will probably appreciate the added flexibility.  

  So what's the right analog stick used for now? Believe it or not, it's used for shooting. In the 
 same way that basketball video game players have been emoting ballhandling moves for years in most 
 basketball games, the new shot stick feature in NBA 2K6 lets players do the same with their shots. 
 If you stand still and toggle up on the stick, you'll raise up for a standard jumper. Releasing 
 the stick releases the ball, just as if you pressed a shooting button in any basketball game. Toggle 
 away from the basket and your player will put up a fadeaway J. On the dribble drive, you can use 
 the shot stick to attempt a dunk or layup right over the top of a defender, or you can toggle to 
 either side to lean around for a cleaner look at the basket. Out of the post, the shot stick can 
 be used to attempt turnarounds, hook shots, or even drop steps. It takes some getting used to for 
 sure, and when you start, you may even forget to use it (a standard shooting button is still available 
 for those who don't like this feature) . But once you do get used to the shot stick, you'll appreciate 
 the flexibility it brings.  

          NBA 2K6 for the Xbox 360 offers the same control schemes as other versions of the game. 
     

  The tweaks made to both isomotion and the introduction of the shot stick in NBA 2K6 represent what 
 is probably the biggest fundamental shift in basketball game control mechanics since freestyle 
 control was introduced in NBA Live 2003. These controls are not necessarily easy for a casual fan 
 to pick up, but hardcore hoopsters will definitely feel rewarded for putting in the time to learn 
 them. These interface changes all mesh well with the existing feel and design of the NBA 2K series. 
 Players still move with a real sense of momentum. Aside from some of the backpedaling animation, 
 there's no sense of ice skating at all in the movement. The presence of two pass buttons, both 
 regular and lead passing (throwing a pass to a teammate heading for the basket) , also contributes 
 a lot to the game's authentic feel. Rebounding looks and feels right, with little or no "vacuuming" 
 of the ball to the hand. On-the-ball defense is somewhat easier in this version of the game thanks 
 to the addition of a defensive crouch button, but you still have to pay close attention to keep 
 in front of your man. If you do, you'll be rewarded with realistic-looking player collisions, and 
 you'll actually be able to steer your man in the direction he wants to move. Defensively, Visual 
 Concepts has added a "strip and rip" steal system using the right analog stick, which lets you 
 poke at the ball with either hand, slap down, or punch upward. This is also hard to get used to, 
 but if you have excellent timing then you'll find that you can strip players just as they go up 
 for a dunk or layup, or punch freshly rebounded balls out of the hands of big men.     

   

  Beyond the changes to the interface, one of the biggest improvements made to NBA 2K6 is 
 with its artificial intelligence. If you're a big fan of the NBA, you'll appreciate that the teams 
 and players in NBA 2K6 really do seem to play like their real-life counterparts. Remember how badly 
 Steve Nash and Amare Stoudemire would light up opponents using the high pick and roll? If you don't 
 keep Nash's movement in check, they'll do it to you in 2K6. You'll see Rip Hamilton run through 
 screens and attack off of curls; Dwayne Wade and Shaq will run their inside/outside two-man game; 
 and you'll see Kobe as he tries to take over games by himself. As far as team play goes, you'll 
 notice real nuances here, too. Teams like the Pistons and Spurs really feel like they crash the 
 boards hard with their guards, while running teams such as the Mavs and Suns will often choose 
 to release their guards and look for transition opportunities.  

          Association mode has gotten a face-liftand more.     

  The AI in the Xbox 360 version 
 seems like it has been toned down somewhat at the default difficulty compared to the other versions 
 of the game. But taking the difficulty levels up a notch brings a satisfying challenge to seasoned 
 basketballers. You'll really need to work hard to find open shots by breaking down the defense 
 off the dribble or by working the ball around, and possibly even dipping into your team's playbook. 
 Playing defense is also a challenge and requires a good amount of concentration, as the computer 
 will look to exploit mismatches or just sloppy, lazy defense. If you don't get a hand in the face 
 of good jump-shooters on every shot attempt, you can expect to get lit up by the likes of Peja 
 Stojakovic or Mike Miller from the arc. You'll also see the computer often isolate its best ball 
 handler on one side, so if you get beaten off the dribble, you'll need to be extra quick with help 
 coming from weak-side rotation. You'll also see the computer adjust defensively and bring double-teams 
 on your best offensive player if he gets hot.  

  Aside from the basic gameplay, 2K6 has also greatly overhauled its franchise mode, called Association. 
 Last year's franchise mode gave some interesting ideas, like having meetings with players, and 
 a card-style minigame to simulate individual games. Unfortunately, a lot of these ideas seemed 
 out of place or just didn't work very well, so they've been scrapped entirely. What we've got instead 
 is year-round scouting of prospects. Much like last year's College Hoops 2K5, you can send scouts 
 to evaluate prospects over the course of the year in preparation for the draft. As you reach the 
 off-season, you can bring in these prospects for individual workouts and actually play with them 
 in games or scrimmages to see how they actually feel. There's also a great new system for developing 
 your existing players. By spending training points, you can run your players through a series of 
 drills that are actually minigames. Succeed in the minigame, and your player will gain in skills 
 based on the drill. Put in enough time on a young player with a lot of potential, and he can blossom 
 into a new superstar. Practices no longer weigh down on your team chemistry. You can schedule these 
 on a daily basis in hopes of giving a temporary boost in skill to your team on an upcoming game. 
 However, these practices can also be detrimental to your team's fatigue. Finally, there's a new 
 system where the game's various owners are modeled. You must attempt to run the franchise to their 
 specifications, whether it's winning a championship, being profitable, or just improving the team. 
 A new nested menu interface also makes navigation easier this year. If there's anything to complain 
 about, it's that there might actually be too much going on with Association. But, thankfully, most 
 of these little details don't need to be handled manually.  

  The 24/7 mode has also been addressed this year, and it's now tied into the real-life EBC, or Entertainer's 
 Basketball Challenge. At the heart of it, though, it's still a basketball RPG and it still involves 
 a lot of work to create your player and to improve his skill by playing in various challenges against 
 a ladder of real NBA players and celebrities. You'll earn new teammates and points that you can 
 use to buy gear, like Nike shoes and clothes. The ultimate goal is to build up the best possible 
 team to go into the EBC tournament at Rucker Park and win it. In the end, though, the overall feel 
 and design of 24/7 is still the same. Some people are going to be really into putting time in a 
 created baller and leveling him up. Most people will probably pass over this mode and see it as 
 just a distraction from the real meat of NBA 2K6.  

          It's not for the fainthearted, but if you love hoops, you should get NBA 2K6.     

 
  Other features in NBA 2K6 include the usual tournament, season, and street modes, where you can 
 play street-style games like two on two, three on three, or 21 in various real-life and fantasy 
 blacktop courts using NBA players. The crib is also back, and it gives you something semi-interesting 
 to do with all those points you're earning by playing games of NBA 2K6. What's more noteworthy 
 is that the VIP system popularized in the NFL 2K games has made its way into NBA 2K6. As with the 
 NFL VIPs, here you can examine these and learn a wealth of stats about your own playing tendencies 
 and trade them around with your friends. The online functionality of NBA 2K6 is about what you'd 
 expect. You can jump into quick matches, tournaments, leaderboards, and leagues. You can also try 
 setting up street mode games. Our testing on prerelease servers was mostly positive, with smooth 
 gameplay and little latency to speak of on good connections.  

  NBA 2K6 brings everything that made the game so great on the Xbox and PlayStation 2 to the Xbox 
 360, with the same excellent control mechanics and challenging AI, due to realistic player and 
 team tendencies. You also get a full-featured product complete with a franchise mode, online play, 
 and the 2K series' signature 24/7 mode. The primary attraction to this particular version of the 
 game is its sharp-looking player models and visuals, though you need a fancy TV set to see them 
 in all their glory. If you have the proper equipment, though, NBA 2K6 for the Xbox 360 offers the 
 best graphics and gameplay combination you're liable to find in a basketball game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (185 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  If NBA 2K6 was not available at such a low price (I managed to obtain a copy for 5$ albeit used) . 
 I would have never thought of buying an older sports game. I also acquired a copy of NBA 06 at 
 the same time. Seeing that I played them both until completing their respective achievements, I 
 will use the other game in comparison in all aspect of the game.
  
  Game play: 7/10
  
  The game is setup with fairly easy controls to learn to play the game. Offense setup is fairly 
 easy to learn as with the defense controls. All basics moves are there. Passing is not complicated 
 as all you have to do is face the teammate to pass the ball to. In harder difficulties you just 
 have to be aware of the opponents in the way to force turnovers. Depending on the distance to the 
 basket you have two types of shots to use to score. The same can be said for defense moves in stealing, 
 jumping to block and intercepting the pass. With the use of each of the NBA teams, their superstars 
 have certain moves that will help you score slightly easier. 
  There are quick games, season mode and multi player options. In local multi-player the game allows 
 you to have up to four controllers. I did not play this game online and thus I cannot comment on 
 it. 
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  The graphics are quite good. Not only can you tell their faces from their real life counterpart, 
 you can notice height and weight differences between the players. Not everyone is a clone with 
 a face rendered on. Only the crowd looks a bit two dimensional.
  
  Sound and Music: 7/10
  
  I like the in game sound as you hear sneakers squeaking and the crow cheering. Seems like most 
 sports games has real songs in the menu screens, the songs are good but get fairly boring with 
 its repetitiveness.
  
  Difficulty: 1/10 (Degree of skill to enjoy the game)
  
  Basketball is a simple game. The game offers a variety of ways to adjust to your skill level. From 
 changing rules to creating rosters you can adjust the game to suit your needs and help balance 
 out matches between friends.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  
  In comparison to NBA Live06 I would have to say as a single player game both are about even. I 
 see in most places the prices are the same. For the price I am sure you will have some fun with 
 the game and look forward to future releases.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meat-Puppet
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I've always liked basketball games, even though I haven't always followed the sport. It's weird, 
 but I have just always found them fun. So, when I was hunting around my local video game store 
 and stumbled across NBA 2K6 for an extremely discounted price, I thought to myself 'Why not?' and 
 bought it. And haven't regretted it one bit.
  
  Firstly, the graphic are amazing. With character's sweating as games progress, with sweat eventually 
 showing up on the back of singlets and around shorts, they are incredibly life like.
  
  The game play is a lot of fun, too. While it may mostly play like every other basketball game you 
 have ever played, a few things have been changed to make this game feel different than all of the 
 other Basketball titles out there.
  
  The use of the right analog stick as a shooting and defending stick is a lot of fun, and works 
 surprisingly well. Getting the hang of free throws was hard for me (but frustratingly easy for 
 a friend!) , but is still a lot more rewarding then just pressing a button. Even when you miss.
 
  
  The game modes are fun, too. With season mode, a single player 'Street' mode, where you create 
 your own character from scratch and try to work your way up to the big leagues and just your standard 
 exhibition matches give this game a rewarding longevity.
  
  Also, if you are so inclined, the addition of 'Crib Points' to unlock various items in the game 
 is nice for those obsessive players who need to have everything. That's if collecting everyone's 
 signature shoes is your cup of tea.
  
  The only real gripe I have with this game is the lack of achievements, and the fact that the few 
 that are there are easy to get, and worth a lot of points. It is a small complaint, but every game 
 needs one.
  
  Of course, like most sporting titles, you'll get the most out of this with a friend, but single 
 player is still a lot of fun, too, and at a discounted price, this game is hard to pass up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Being a basketball fan all my life, I always buy both the EA and 2K games. I won't compare the 
 two games, but I'll tell you that this game does not disappoint.
  
  Graphics: The player models look great, even now. The animations are quite fluid, and at times 
 can look like real life, especially in 1080p. The crowds don't look all that great, but the shadowing 
 and reflections off the floor look great. Overall, the graphics are everything you'd expect out 
 of an HD 2K game.
  
  Sound: The commentary is good, but they tend to repeat what they say after a while. The game sounds 
 like a normal basketball game, from the ball bouncing on the floor or off the rim, or the players' 
 shoes skidding against the floor.
  
  Gameplay: The control layout is really basic, but fun. It's easy to make layups and to take free 
 throws. You can play with up to three other people in one game, which is a blast. There's also 
 easy achievements, too. The gameplay is just so fun. You'll enjoy this game, and it's the best 
 in the series for the Xbox 360 in my opinion.
  
  Score - 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K6 is a great basketball game. You can pick it up used for around $3 and thats a great deal 
 for this game. The graphics are great even thou its an older game. The players sweat the longer 
 they play, and the models are just great. There are also a good bunch of game modes. There is the 
 franshice mode, the road to the ebc mode and tons of street stuff and more. The franshice mode 
 is great and give you a lot of control. You get to pick your team, name the GM, hire all the coaches, 
 scout players, do weekly practice, and just a have a lot of fun. The road to the ebc mode is a 
 great feature in this game and adds a bunch of play time. The crib is not as good as the ones in 
 the football games, but its still nice to have one and there are some cool things you can buy to 
 unlock teams and stuff. The online play is also good. It was kinda hard to find a player on live 
 since its an older game, but when i did find someone the game was great. There was no lag and everything 
 was working fine. Overall this game is a great basketball game, especially for $3. It has good 
 graphics, good gameplay, and a bunch of features that can keep you playing a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leeman911
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I love this game it has every thing a game needs great graphics, good controls, great selection of 
 charecter, and its not too easy and its not too hard. It has easy achvements but there are only 
 5 and i got 4. My favorite nba player to play as is ethere kobe bryent are lebron james and my 
 favorite team is the clevelend cavoliers but lets get back yo the game it has commentators and 
 its preaty easy to shoot and pass which is good. So if you own a 360 in you like basketball gamees 
 or getting achvments this is the game for you. I got this game for 9$ used which is a awesome deal. It 
 also has a good camra which you can select your view of the game which is a good feature. o o o 
 o o o o o oo o oo oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o oo o o o o o o oo o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o oo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swift1981
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  NBA 2k6 is a great game of basketball. Its a while since ive played a basketball game the last 
 being on the snes and dreamcast. NCAA Basketball was a big favourite of mine. Also the crazy NBA 
 Jam. 2k6 has shown me just how far we have come in a short time. Some awesome graphics are on show. 
 Topped up by fast paced smooth animation make for a great effort. The detail is superb in standard 
 mode even down to the sweat on a players arms glistening. The game features a street based mode 
 also with various takes. one on one, half court, full court and 21. However there seems to be something 
 lacking in these modes and boredom sets in quickly. Also the graphics and detail are noticeably 
 poor in the street mode. Look out for the cardboard cut out vehicles floating by. The main game 
 mode is where its at. You can also take part in a career mode where you create your own player, 
 again this kind of detracts from the main game and whilst a good addition gets very tedious. Im 
 reviewing this game and rating it based on the arcade mode version of the game. I can not advise 
 playing it on simulation mode as all the fluid and excitement is knocked out of the game by the 
 constant blowing of the whistle and break in play. Im sure this applies to simulation mode in all 
 basketball games. Overall a great addition to my collection for just 3.99. So many bargains to 
 be had on what is becoming a legendary console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabru8
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  I will be honest and say that I did mainly buy this game for the 1000 achievement points, but that 
 was not all I got out of the game. I found the game to be quite enjoyable, especially the 24/7 
 mode where you create a player and head out to play some major street ball. One thing that I did 
 not like about this mode was the challenge where your controls are reversed. Let's just say I hope 
 I never have to do that again. I was, however angry, also intrigued by this challenge as I had 
 never seen it done before. The developers got a little creative on us with that one. The multi-player 
 is also enjoyable and is a big step up from the only other basketball game I own..... NBA Jam for 
 the Genesis. You might buy this game for the easy points, but you will be enjoying this game well 
 after those points have been earned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PC_JOE_9
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  2k6 for the 360 is quite truly an innovative game. It's little details such as flappping shorts 
 can go a long way, while it's overall fun gameplay and a no glitch experience is what really carries 
 the game. Although graphics are nice, i have no clue how they would look like on a hi def, particularly 
 because i don't have one, lol:) One thing that stands out about this game, is how incredibly easy 
 it is to get 100 achievements, in under an hour. This game is very fun to play with friends, as 
 commentary glitches are occasional once you get some hours in to the game, and extremely hilarious. 
 This game definitely is better than live 06 and 07! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_ferris
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 2, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  With sports games, many feel that if the game isn't the latest, newest, most updated version, then 
 it isn't worth the money to buy. NBA 2k6 has been out for quite a while but can still give you 
 many fond NBA memories.
  
  24/7 Road to the EBC is a fun mode that gives you a chance to create your own player and take him 
 around the world to compete versus both NBA players and actual celebrities (i. e Flava Flav) . The 
 more victories you rack up, the more development points you receive. Franchise mode is a decent 
 attempt to create a Dynasty, giving you full control over all of your teams needs, including Scouting, 
 Practice and Transactions. It gets a bit repetitive though after several seasons
  
  The Crib is a virtual pad that you can add memorabilia to once you gain some cash. And can become 
 addictive after a short while.
  
  Overall: If you don't feel like dishing out 40 - 60 bucks for the more recent NBA simulations, 
 NBA 2k6 can be an adequate replacement 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-cubano
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Weel this gam has it all. It has great graphics which make the players much morre easier to control 
 because of their great AI aswell. It feels like you're playing with real people when you play against 
 the computer because the playjust like a human would be. It has great music that i like it's been 
 nominated and i think awarded for it's muci from mtv. I love the commentators they talk just at 
 the right moment and they don't say anything that would make you say what are they talking about? 
 The game is nice to play with friends aswell as online too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boricua529
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 29, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This is a great and fun basketball game. Just like almost any other game it may need some improvements 
 but overall it meets the standards to be a great and fun game. Both graphics and game play are 
 pretty good. 3 point shooting could be tricky at times. One game your 3 point shooter may do great 
 and next game he may let you down. But either way the moves, shooting, AI are great. A half time 
 show would had been nice to have. In my opinion, 2k7 was not an enhancement and I would stay away 
 from it. 2k6 is definitely the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  The NBA 2K franchise is, by far, the best basketball series in gaming. In my opinion, it's not 
 even close. NBA 2K6 continues that tradition with a very fun &amp; realistic basketball game that 
 I can recommend to everyone who owns a Xbox 360......... except for those of you that already have 
 this game for your original Xbox. Because other than a minor visual upgrade, this is the same game.
 
  
  Obviously the main difference between this version and the regular Xbox version is going to the 
 in the visuals and the price. If you have an HD TV, then this game looks o. k. It will impress you 
 in some areas and look like a PS2 game in others. If you have a regular TV, then you will be hard 
 pressed to find a big difference here and I would recommend getting the cheaper Xbox version. Because 
 like I said before, this is the same game.
  
  The only other major (or minor, depending on your tastes) is the inclusion of the gamer points 
 you get for doing the five achievements. This is widely known as the easiest game to get the full 
 1000 gamer points on, as you can get them all in one single game. And since you can find this game 
 at any local Gamespot for around $10, many will pick it up for that reason alone.
  
  If you have the regular Xbox version of this game, I wouldn't bother picking this version up. If 
 you really want the extra 1000 gamerpoints, well then that is another story. This is a good basketball 
 game, but it didn't really take the next step into the next generation quite yet. NBA 2K7 takes 
 care of that, of course. If you do decide to grab this game, you will be getting the best '06 b-ball 
 game on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Max-Th3-Noid
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 20, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Positive: Solid basketball sim , great graphics in HD , tons of content , exhibition will keep 
 you busy for a decent amount of time , easy 1000G , great audio , presentation is top notch.
  
  Negative: Graphics not so hot on an SDTV , easily exploited for achievements.
  
  Now that 
 the Xbox 360 is here and all of the sports games are out, the big question is how does it look? 
 Well, NBA 2K6 from Visual Concepts and 2K Sports looks fantastic. The player models are a huge 
 improvement over their Xbox and PS2 counterparts, and most of them look eerily similar to their 
 real-life counterparts. Now while that may be great for the people asking that one questions, thats 
 great. However, there are many other facets of NBA 2K6 that really cement it as the best basketball 
 game on the Xbox 360 so far.
  
  Now the graphics might have made a huge leap with the new generation of game systems, but the gameplay 
 apparently missed the bus. Thats not necessarily a bad thing, though. NBA 2K6 on PS2 and Xbox 
 were both fundamentally sound basketball games. The shot stick from those versions returns in the 
 360 iteration of the game, and it really does a nice job in letting players choose just exactly 
 how they want to shoot the ball, fake a shot, or move the ball around a defender. The shot stick 
 also still works on defense as the steal stick, and basically it lets the player dynamically try 
 to strip the ball from the opposing offense. Aside from the somewhat gimmicky, but useful sticks, 
 the improved post play is back, and when your game has Shaq on the cover, youd better make sure 
 that your game has a really good sense of how to play basketball from the post position. Backing 
 down defenders and then dribbling around them or shooting over them is very satisfying, but its 
 not too easy to the point where all youll do is get the ball underneath the basket to your teams 
 big man to put up an easy two. Defense and offensive plays are still called with the d-pad, and 
 the rest of the controls and gameplay are similar to the Xbox and PS2 versions of NBA 2K6.
  
  Aside from the gameplay, Visual Concepts also carried over the sound design from the Xbox and 
 PS2 versions of NBA 2K6. Kansas City native Kevin Harlan still shares play-by-play duties with 
 Kenny Smith, and they do a great job of calling the games. You really dont hear any repeat lines 
 until youve played about 10-12 games in a season, and even then its few and far between, which 
 is one of the best things you can hope for in any sports game. The two seem to really make a great 
 team in the booth. The music in the game is also pretty good. Its pretty much a selection of Rap 
 and R&amp; B, but of course, you can always change your music with the Xbox 360 custom soundtracks 
 control. Now the graphics in NBA 2K6 really scream next-gen for the most part. The player models 
 are accurately detailed down to the littlest things. Youll see Shaqs tattoos accurately and clearly 
 on his huge arms. Youll see Tayshaun Prince of the Detroit Pistons look just as goofy and awkward 
 as he does in real life. And youll even see Richard Hamilton wearing his now trademark mask, with 
 really cool reflection effects on it. One of the most subtle new effects on the players that you 
 may or may not notice in NBA 2K6 is also one of the slickest in the game. The players sweat as 
 the game is going on, and its not just on their bodies. If youve been running both teams pretty 
 hard throughout the course of a game, youll notice the beads of sweat forming on their heads and 
 arms, but youll also notice little puddles of sweat forming in the small of their back under their 
 jerseys. Aside from the graphics, the biggest advantage that NBA 2K6 has over its competition in 
 the NBA arena on Xbox 360 thus far is the fact that it actually has all of its gameplay modes from 
 the Xbox and PS2 versions. 24/7 mode is back, The Crib is back, as well as single-season, exhibition, 
 and franchise modes. So not only can you complete a single-season with your favorite NBA team, 
 but you can also turn them into a dynasty, you can create your own player and take them through 
 the street circuit and into the NBA, and you can customize your Crib as you see fit. The replayability 
 of NBA 2K6 is heightened by the inclusion of all of these modes, but mainly by the online multiplayer 
 over Xbox Live, and the online leagues as well. Not everything is rosy with NBA 2K6, however. While 
 the player models look great, it seems like the coaches and fans in the arenas were just ported 
 over from the Xbox and PS2 versions of the game, and there really is no real innovation or evolution 
 of the control scheme or gameplay from the previous versions, either. That being said, there are 
 plenty of different gameplay modes, and there is also solid gameplay surrounding the new next-gen 
 sheen of NBA 2K6. While it does have its faults, it is the best NBA basketball game on Xbox 360 
 so far.
  
  One of the problems that I had with NBA 2K5 was that the game just didnt feel right. Despite 
 being based on the same game engine, its half-brother, ESPN College Hoops 2K5, simply played a 
 much more fluid game of basketball. Fortunately, this has been addressed in this years installment. 
 Those that are familiar with the 2K series will immediately notice that the game speed is a bit 
 faster. This could be a good or bad thing depending on the individual, but its something that 
 can be adjusted to fit your personal preference. The players also look very good when moving with 
 and without the ball. Theres nothing worse than watching your teammates stand still when trying 
 to run offense. In NBA 2K6, youll see guys cut to the basket, post up and work around screens, 
 regardless of whether youre manually calling the plays or not. Theres nothing more beautiful 
 than watching your small forward run through defenders, turn around, receive the pass, square up 
 and drain the jumper all in one continuous motion. Its even better when theyre receiving the 
 pass from Stephon Marbury - go Knicks!
  
  NBA 2K6 is a solid basketball game, and is instantly recognisable as next-gen with the player models, 
 although the coach and fan models scream last-gen , let's not forget your hear to play basketball, 
 not **** about those sat in the bleachers. NBA 2K6 ... or NBA 2K7, if you want quality, go for 
 NBA 2K6, since it should now be down to about &pound;24.99, but if you constantly demand on being 
 up-to-date, then just go for NBA 2K7, but buy 2K6 as well, to get the feel of superiority to EA's 
 NBA Live franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidy3k
Rating: 4.1
Date: Apr 5, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  this game is not fun at all the gameplay dosent seem to amaze me the graphics dont seem to amaze 
 me the graphics are just generic kind of the characters lookl to big the sweat is generic and thats 
 why hes geting live 07 this game isn't the game that you would enjoy i give it a it is so pooooooooooooor 
 i hate it i hate it and i hope you dont get live 06 or 07 or somthing just dont get this game it 
 is so horible if yuo get you need to go sniff your self lo double l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benster3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  NOTE:::FOR YEARS I HAVE HATED 2K AND ONLY PLAYED LIVE
  
  For christmas, i got NBA Live 06... popped it in my 360 and was absolutely shocked to see a season 
 and play now features were all that it had. PLayed a game thought it was the average Live basketball 
 game. The next day, deciding i wanted an actual franchise mode, i went to EB and exchanged it for 
 2k6 (same price) . when i popped this game in i see a full boat of features -- 24/7 mode, season, 
 play now, assosiation (franchise) ... So basically for the same price, you get a feature rich game.
 
  
  Comparing the games: Live vs 2k6
  
  Graphics -- I would give Live a slight edge over 2k6
  Gameplay-About the same but i have always 
 liked the way live controls better
  Sound- 2k6 blows live away in this one
  Features- Not even close 2k6 dominates with all the dif. modes it includes
  Overall-Gameplay 
 and Graphics are about the same but the sound and features available in 2k6 make it the best choice 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 20, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K6 is an outdated but pretty good Basketball game. But most people will probably buy it for 
 the easy acheivement points. You can collect all 1,000 points in a game or two. Because all of 
 the acheivement points are so easy this game may end up being better for a rental and should only 
 be bought if you want it for the actual game.
  
  NBA 2K6 actually is a pretty good game the controls take a little while to get used to but are 
 nice once you master them. One thing I didn't like is shooting being on the right control stick 
 instead of that control stick being used for spin moves and that stuff. Also you'll miss a ton 
 of shots no matter what you do this is because of the controls for shooting requiring perfect timing.
 
  
  The graphics are fantastic though they are semi outdated and you can totally say that they are 
 next-gen graphics. The sound isn't very good most of the sound effects are drowned out by the cheering 
 of the crowd which luckily drowns out the terrible play-by-play action. This is a very cheap game 
 and you can easily get the 1,000 points in an hour or two but most people will want it for the 
 points which makes it better for a rental.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scared_link
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 16, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K6 is a basketball game that came out a little after the other versions. Its your typical 
 basketball game; it has seasons and off season, mini games, licensed teams and perfects them. In 
 the seasons you choose a team and you play through you can have your own developing team which 
 your team will get better and better. It gets boring after a few months, that saying maybe about 
 20 hours, but that's the season mode which shows that you'll be entertained for a long time if 
 you play by your self.
  
  There is the basic season, if you can't be asked you can just select a team and play other teams. 
 I may have put it to sound boring but its good fun too, not as challenging since you can just go 
 and select a team like Miami Heat. That will keep you entertained too. To shoot in the game you 
 use the analogue stick and just simply shoot. It's easier to slam dunk. You use the same button 
 to steal the ball. You can do skills in the game by pressing R but remember not to do it for long. 
 There is a new mode called street; which is OMG sweat. The graphics in the street mode will look 
 HD even if you have a standard TV, because they focused the graphics on the players so it's easier. 
 NBA is a graphically good game and the music is great fun. With other people you'll be entertained 
 for a long time if not then you have to be a basketball fan to play it for long. I recommend you 
 buy this on the other platforms; it's cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  The Good: Really low price for a 360 game, nice visuals, insanely easy achievement points.
  
  The Bad: All of the achievements can be earned in one game, it's outdated now, isn't very different 
 from older NBA games.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The 2006 sports games may be outdated, but they still can offer a lot of fun at a cheep price. 
 NBA 2K6 for the Xbox 360 is the cheepest game I have ever seen. At $9.99, it's almost too good 
 to not purchase, but achievement hunters looking for some very easy achievements may just want 
 to rent it. It's a classic sim-style basketball game, but with some nice next gen graphics and 
 more realistic player movements. It really isn't that different from older installments, but does 
 any sports game series change that much from year to year? No. The biggest improvement in this 
 version over it's current gen counterparts is obviously the visuals. Players sweat and it stays 
 on their uniforms, the facial animation is very realistic, there are achievements and all of the 
 360's standard goodies are used effectively in this game. The achievements are one of the major 
 reasons why people play this game, you can earn all 1000 points in a single game, if you play it 
 right. However, this also makes players feel that they do not need to play the game anymore after 
 earning all of the achievements because they can be earned so quickly, so make sure you're buying 
 the game for the game, and not for the achievements. Overall, this is an NBA game that is enjoyable 
 for what it is: a well done basketball sim with nice visuals and well done gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: The basic mechanics of a well done basketball game are here, and everything works the 
 way it should.
  
  Graphics: The visuals are very nice, but not the best the 360 has to offer.
  
  Sound: Also 
 very good, but not quite the best they could be.
  
  Value: At $10, this is a great purchase if you want it for the game, and not the achievements alone.
 
  
  Final Thoughts: Sweatty NBA stars never looked so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrian7hall
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2006 3:07 am PT
Review:  If anyone happened to read my review on Fifa 07, this game for me followed the exact same pattern 
 in terms of the years that I played one title - before ultimately getting sick and switching. For 
 years and years I stayed true to NBA Live from EA, which was (bar one or two others) really the 
 only basketball title out. Most of them, to be fair, were pants. The odd occasional surprise like 
 Michael Jordan being in the game was a highlight, only to be ruined by the same drab gameplay week 
 in week out.
  
  One day, I stumbled across ESPN NBA 2K5 - I havent looked back since.
  
  Although the gameplay isnt perfect on 2K, it is as good as it gets. The models even on current 
 gen looked a lot more realistic than Live, the game played more fluently and players actually felt 
 like players, rather than superhuman ghosts. But this isnt current gen, how did next gen play?
 
  
  My first impressions, even on a non HD tv, were WOW. This looks and feels real graphically for 
 the most of it. The presentation at the start was refreshing, the quarterly reports were awesome, 
 and the half time replays showed the entire play instead of just a photo. Needless to say, I though 
 this was it - the pinnacle of basketball.
  
  However, after playing a few games, the bad elements crept into it. The computer AI for instance 
 would be the biggest let down. They do nothing to help you out on defence, but when against you 
 it can be made really difficult to score (even with a wide open 10 ft shot and perfect release, 
 it would miss very often on top difficulty) . There are way too many dunks, and players with poor 
 shooting ability start nailing shots from three and deep two with a rating of 56 (for the computer 
 of course!) . As for the other game modes, 24/7 is okay, but for the most is just a huge drag. I 
 always felt that a mode like this should either let you start with a player from scratch, or pick 
 a current NBA player and work your way through streetballers (and the occasional star) , rather 
 than just play 8 NBA stars at each capital. Also - why oh why is there a reverse controls match, 
 and why the computer isnt limited to the same shots as you in certain games I fail to understand.
 
  
  Association is pretty good, but could do with a bit more player interaction I feel. Practises are 
 always just with one player, which needs to change to incorporate team exercises.
  
  All in all, it was a good attempt, but I will be eagerly anticipating the next installment (already 
 on pre-order) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 6, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the most realistic basketball games out there. It has a good mixture or realism 
 and exciting bone crushing dunks. The star players such as Kobe and Dwayne Wade are not perfect 
 on this game. they go through cold streaks just like everybody else. When they are on though, they 
 are on. The dunks are real. nobody is jumping out of the gym and doing 720 deg dunks. I also love 
 what they did with the graphics of this game. The independent jerseys and shorts are really sweet. 
 the free throw technique for some of the stars are right on. The sweat is also cool. they players 
 are not drenched in sweat the whole game, when they are tired, they will be sweating more and more. 
 At the beginning of the game they just have the pre game warm up sweat on their brow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Generex
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 22, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  A few months ago, I decided to rent both NBA 2K6 and NBA Live 06, to see which one I liked. NBA 
 Live 07 was decent but I think could've been better. But I was really impressed with NBA 2K6. First 
 of all, I hadn't played an NBA 2KL game since NBA 2K2 for Dreamcast, so I didn't know what to expect. 
 But it was great. The gameplay is solid all around, especially The Association mode where you control 
 an NBA franchise. (or import your own created team) The only thing that really irritates me, is 
 the fact that they do not have a separate shot button and layup/dunk button, so you never know 
 what you're going to do when you take it to the hole. But other than that, I really enjoyed the 
 game and I'm looking forward to 2K7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FossilMan23
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 17, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with the bad. The graphics, while pretty good, just don't compare with NBA Live. With 
 that said, that's the only negative I can find.
  
  I'm still tinkering with the free throws, but I gotta tell you the defense on this is awesome. 
 It really pays off to play D.
  
  I love the playcalling and the passing as well. Shooting is very 'touch' oriented, however once 
 you get it, it goes far. But you don't hit every open shot. Back to the graphics, a tad blurry 
 at times, but I repeat not terrible by any stretch. Players faces are realistic, but kinda emotionless. 
 Gameplay does rule though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cedbrooks
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 15, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K6 for the Xbox 360 was clearly the best basketball game for the Xbox 360 console. I was a 
 huge NBA Live fan but after playing this I changed my mind a little. I had NBA Live 06 at first 
 but after playing it a few times I noticed it was a half finished game. The gameplay for NBA 2K6 
 was very solid overall. The only problem I had with the gameplay was the dunk animations. It seemed 
 like their hands never even touched the rim at all. It also could have used more block animations 
 but those are just little things to me. The game has all the same modes as the current-gen game 
 but the thing that put NBA 2K6 on top was the online play. NBA 2K6 has online leagues where you 
 can actually play a group of other people through a whole season and playoffs. You can also play 
 an online game with 2-3 other friends on your team. There is rarely any lag time every time I play 
 an online ranked match. With great online play, 24/7 mode, franchise mode ( or the Association 
 Mode ) , and street mode; NBA 2K6 is a game to reckon with. This would be a great game to have in 
 a collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chanester
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 24, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  So here's the thing... me=not a fan of basketball games. BUT! I rented this game first, and I also 
 rented NBA Live as well, I have to admit, this was the first time I ever really enjoyed a basketball 
 game. The game has it's ups and downs, but still a great game. For me, the game has all of the 
 features needed. Create a player, career mode, nothing really new, just the fact of being on the 
 360. With NBA live 06, there's where I feel the game is missing features. If you're wanting to 
 get one of the two, and don't know which. I highly recommend getting NBA 2K6, for the xbox 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtifulguitar
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 17, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Your typical basketball game really. You have your normal pass, shoot, steal, etc control setup 
 and you play til someone wins. I can't really explain the gameplay better than you play basketball.
 
  
  Graphics:
  I don't have an HDTV, so this game looks like a high resolution PSOne game. The difference between 
 what I saw and what the screenshots on this site show are HUGE. I didn't know HD could make a game 
 go from looking like an PS1 game to something you watch on television.
  
  Sound:
  The cometators and crowd sounds are just looped over and over. The comentators say the same 5 lines 
 over and over and the crowd just uses the same one expression depending on whether you miss a shot 
 or make one. Lame.
  
  Replay:
  I don't really find this game to have much replay at all. And for those looking for achievements 
 only really won't have any. I unlocked all 5 achievements in the first game I played.
  
  Overall:
  Granted I liked this game better than NBA Live 06, I still find it to be a very dull 
 basketball game. Maybe it's just me, but I'm really starting to enjoy basketball games like NBA 
 Street more than I am the realistic ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spurs2103champs
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 15, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game because I really enjoy basketball games and thought it would be better than 
 NBA Live 06 (which it was) . This game brings great game modes with the Association, 24/7, Situation, 
 Practice. I really enjoyed Assocation. This mode is basically like a Franchise. I also like 24/7. 
 In this mode you can make a player and play him in street games. Eventually he becomes very good 
 and you can export him to free agencey once you beat the mode. The grpahics for this game were 
 very good. The sweat really looked real. The gameplay of this game is great. You could play this 
 game for hours and not be bored. The only main this that is wrong with this game is probaly the 
 soundtrack (so use your custom soundtrack) . So if you like basketball games and are trying to decide 
 with this or NBA Live this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoungerob01903
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 12, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Me, im not one for sports games. In fact before this the only game i had played is madden NFL, 
 only cos my friend said it was easy but i did not like it (Im from england where american football 
 is not that hot) , but this was different.
  On my 42inch HDTV i was looking at some pretty awesome graphics, so it started off in the right 
 direction, then i decided to play a quick match using 12 minute quarters, so i could get used to 
 the controls, and set it to very easy.
  Well it took me about 15 to 30 minutes to get used to the controls (with a little help from some 
 one in a thread i set up an the NBA 2K6 forum ) and know what fouls did what. Also there is a great 
 explanation of the controls and game play in the extras bit of the menu.
  If your a first time NBA gamer this is the one for you as i have played NBA Live 06 which is a 
 little harder, but thats for another review.
  If your a little apprehencive rent it, but you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinistersnake20
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 10, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  When I first bought this game i went directly to quick game. I played as the Heat cause thats my 
 fathers favorite team. I'm not really a fan of watching basketball but when I went to the game 
 store I always go to that was the only game that interest me. So off I went to play it. The seson 
 mode is just a series of diffrent games and then the play-offs. I thought it was sloppy. Althought 
 there was on of my favorite places to go to and tha was The Crib. You get to buy trophice and pictures 
 and team balls and also to mini-game (Airhockey and Darts) But the game arn't that great. The controls 
 for the air hockey arn't that great and the darts just cleary suck. Well thats about all I have 
 to say about NBA. I thought this game wa just you clasic NBA type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameboy360
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  First of all i hate sports games.
  Second of all. I really hate this sports game.
  The graphics are awesome, i have to give them that. The shirts move with the wind and your actions 
 and you can literally see all the bumps and ridges on the basketball if you zoom in close enough. 
 Thats all thats good about this game though!
  The gameplay is so lame and boring. Its the EXACT same basketball game as evrything else! Maybe 
 just with different controls schemes, but it is still the same game. I actually got so bored while 
 playing this game that in the middle of a match i started picking at my toenails, and then throwing 
 them at my cat, completely forgetting that i just let shaq standing there inder the hoop while 
 Kobe had his way with him.
  The sound is pretty lame too but what do you expect from a basketball game? There are a total of 
 5 sounds. Squeky shoes, crowds, ball bouncing, ball htiing rim, and ball going through hoop. How 
 exciting!
  Overall.... well lets just say im back to my oath 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daderek93
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 30, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  NBA2K6 is a game were well, you just have to shot the ball on the other teams basket. When I first 
 played this game, I was like "WOWZA"...... NOT!!!!!!!!!!!! When I did first play it I was like "This 
 is just one of those games that just needs more umph." The commentary is great and that Graphics 
 are pumpin, but theres ust that one thing thats missin. I know that this is a Basketball game but 
 there should be some more mini game and stuff. "The Crib" is cool and also the soundtrack is cool 
 but its just missing something. Thats all I have to say about this game..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  nba 2k6 has beautiful graphics and they are even better in HD. gameplay is solid, but i wish there 
 was a better controll scheme in terms of dribbling. the shot stick is a really nice addition, but 
 on the defensive end i really dont like using the right analog stick to steal. association mode 
 is definitely fun and pretty complex. 24/7 mode will attract some fans but mainly will go unnoticed 
 by the majority. the crib is a nice off-the-court extra but i wish there was more to do. overall, 
 this is probably the basketball title to go with this year, but sadly 2k6 nor live truly provide 
 the next-generation experience. maybe next year my fellow basketball fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 29, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  While 2kSports really brings it with the gameplay, and while this game completely destroys NBA 
 Live on the 360, it still leaves a lot to be desired. Someone needs to let the developers know 
 that they were creating a next gen game. I looked at it and the graphics aren't much better than 
 the orignal XBOX/PS2 game. Outside of the crowd everything is virtually the same. Positives- Good 
 game play, but not great, Decent sound. Realistic shooting. Shot Stick is solid.
  
  Negatives- Graphics aren't a drastic improvement. The computer starting lineups can sometimes be 
 ridiculous. The dynasty mode drags and certain players don't play as well as they should. LeBron 
 James can hit the 17 footer and someone should tell 2ksports that. If you combined Lives Graphics 
 with this game and improved the AI, you would have the best game around. Unfortunetly, this game, 
 just like 2K's baseball game, just isn't quite up to expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 28, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Basketball was never my favorite sport, infact, I'm not too found of watching it on T. V. But for 
 some reason I have bought multiple B-Ball games in the past, most of them being "ESPN", now known 
 as 2K. This game is no different, it offers alot of offline content and a pretty sweet online mode 
 that puts your skills to the test.
  
  The graphics are nice to look at, as the gamespot review states, the players look amazingly realistic 
 but the rest of the crowd and the coaches look dated (you can't really tell all that much, but 
 its noticable after a few minutes) . Other then that, the sweat engine and the realistic fibers 
 engine look amazing. You can see the shirts flapping as you run down the court, and the sweat stains 
 that come up after 3 Q's of play. Overall, they are really nice, dispite the dated crowed.
  
  The audio is pretty good, there is the regular crowd noises and the presentation is the same 
 as always, nothing new, nothing horrible... its just there. I stop listening after a wile, it doesn't 
 exactly help the game, but it doesn't hurt it. Overall the game is good, I mean, its a B-Ball game, 
 you either like it or you don't.. Its cheap, if you have the money, like basketball, and want to 
 try it out, go, buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 4, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -------
  Character models are good on a normal TV, highly addictive, good basketball experience, improves 
 over EA's NBA Live.
  
  Cons:
  --------
  Character models are less pleasing on an HDTV, slighlty annoying controls.
  
  Of the two basketball 
 games on the 360 ... this is the good one. The character models are good on a normal screen but 
 when in HD, you can see all the stretched textures under their arms and on their faces. But despite 
 this, the game is a highly addictive basketball game (and the camera is quite far from the players 
 anyway, only when up close does it lokk dodgy) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffdiver1982
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 13, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  This game plays phenomenally well. Like most basketball games, it loses it's fun without other 
 people to talk trash to. The graphics could have been better, but it's still looks good. My biggest 
 beef with the game, is it's franchise mode. Once you finish the 24/7 mode, there isn't much else 
 to do. You import your 24/7 player into franchise mode, just to watch the player you worked so 
 hard to create, regress every year despite how well he plays. Like all basketball games, you work 
 so hard to make the perfect franchise and your players fall apart year after year. LeBron James 
 went from a 99 to a 91 after winning a championship. In his 3rd year I might add. My 24/7 player 
 lost 10 points in every rating. You draft rookies that can never be superstars, and win or lose, 
 your seats will always be filled. The only incentive for winning is that you get to keep your job 
 as GM. Great game with friends, bad game if you have nothing better to do. NBA Live could take 
 a lesson, but both should learn from Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hurricane_333
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  
  
  The latest slew of sports titles to grace the Xbox 360, such as Madden 06, Fifa World Cup and Top 
 Spin 2, all have one thing in common. In the looks department they put actual real life to shame, 
 but they play exactly like last years counterparts on the last generation of consoles. Ok thats 
 2 things in common but you get the idea
  
  Ok, so we know NBA 2K6 shares many characteristics of almost every 2K Games basketball title ever 
 released, but for this review well focus on its more unique attributes, the most noticeable being 
 the Tiger Woods PGA Tour -esq. shot stick. Its not used to pot birdies or sink bogies here though 
 (you stupid idiot) , pushing the right thumbstick back sets your player up for the shot, and pushing 
 it forward commands your lumbering oaf to release the ball from his bear-like grip. Like Tiger 
 Woods, the more fluent your thumbstick motion, the greater your chances are at swishing the net 
 and making grown men cry with that game winning 3 pointer.
  
  The graphics will no doubt play their part in the games appeal, detrimentally tainting your perception 
 of what the real world actually looks like. Even without a HDTV gold plated AV cable set up thingy, 
 NBA 2K5 looks phenomenal, joining Fight Night Round 3 and Madden NFL 06 in heralding us in to the 
 true next generation of bloody good looking games. Like the real world through the eyes of a depressed 
 teenager or middle aged man however, theres bound to be a drawback to kill your euphoria, and 
 NBA 2K6 is no exception. The crowds look like theyve come fresh off the Tony Hawks 3 bandwagon, 
 and even though the many hundreds of them are rendered in full 3d, their lifeless, staring, pixilated 
 eyes that pierce into your very soul somewhat detract from the whole this game looks really good 
 experience.
  
  The players on the other hand look phenomenal, with sweat glittering off their bald heads, and 
 realistic facial animations that gnarl or smirk at you as if to say oh yeah, I may be made up 
 of polygons, but Im way smarter than the real Shaq. The high definition players stand out from 
 the blocky crowd in a peculiar fashion however, resembling the graphical style in Mortal Kombat. 
 You know, the sort of cut out look, where the players appear real but everything else doesnt. 
 Adding fuel to this bizarre fiery mish mash of graphical styles is the superb animations, making 
 the players look even more realistic, setting them apart from their clap, sit-down, repeat spectator 
 cousins. The players uniforms perhaps resemble the most obvious evidence of games developers spending 
 far too long on subtle details such as cloth physics, but this wasted time wasnt. well, wasted, 
 as shorts and jerseys will fold and crease in an uncannily lifelike manner at the slightest movement. 
 Kudos to 2K Games for this little extra.
  
  Speaking of little extras, youll find many in the sprawling career mode, wherein youll create 
 your own monolithic monster (or scrappy sissy) and guide them through their eat, sleep, breathe 
 basketball ing lifestyle. Much like Top Spin Tennis, youll choose venues from around the country 
 to compete in, be they championship finals or simply modest mini-games, such as 3 point challenges. 
 As well as being a welcome break from the hubbub of the stuffy match court, they also boost your 
 players stats, eventually turning him into some kind of awesome freak basketballing machine thing. 
 All 2k games need now is a quest for the golden hoop and we may have a pretty decent basketballing 
 RPG on our hands
  
  The main hub of the career mode lies in your very own customisable penthouse where you can walk 
 around in 1st person, selecting songs from over 50 notorious rap artists such as Method Man or 
 Redman from your Jukebox, sit back and relax, soaking in the slow realisation you are in fact sitting 
 on the floor in your dirty little living room in Barnsley. If you can suspend disbelief for a moment 
 though, you may enjoy your own little slice of paradise enough to marvel at all the trophies youve 
 accumulated, or revel in the back-and-fourth goodness of the air hockey mini-game youve unlocked. 
 You can even walk to your vending machine to buy a Tracker Bar () . Although this has no effect 
 at all on anything, EVER, its nice to have advertising rammed down your throat in the form of 
 a virtual caramel n nut bar. Wait, no it isnt
  
  Other modes that you can dabble in include season, tournament and street modes. The first two are 
 pretty self explanatory, but to some of you non-ghetto superstars, the latter mode may need explaining. 
 The street basketball mode basically allows you to fully customise a match to suit your jaunty 
 needs. Dont want to constantly turn your head from left to right? Play half a court. Feeling overwhelmed 
 by the sheer number of egos on the screen? Make it a 1 on 1 game. You can even take it to the court 
 with celebrities youve unlocked in career mode. Although they dont rival the likes or Steave-O 
 or Carmen Electra from ESPN NFL 05, its fun to run rings around the rappers, who indecently are 
 about the only celebrities on offer here.
  Oh shoot (sport the pun?) I almost forgot. This is the paragraph in which I mention the mish mash 
 of features Ive missed to basically clear up everything and not get an angry letter from the developers. 
 First is the broadcast style presentation. The commentators are spot on, jabbering in a typically 
 American fashion about nothing in particular whilst simultaneously reflecting their real life counterparts. 
 There are even commercials half way through the match (yes, more subtle Tracker Bar  advertising) . 
 Continuing with the theme of mentioning totally unrelated features in attempt to bring you the 
 definitive, if slightly unprofessional review, the gameplay is typically basketball-ish. Tackling 
 is still as difficult as ever, even on rookie mode and with the new juke stick control method 
 mentioned earlier, and end to end matches are a common, if very irritating sight. However, veterans 
 who dont mind constantly moving their eyes from left to right to left to right may want to crank 
 up the difficulty to the highest quadrant If they want to get the most out of the games primarily 
 dumb AI. Oh yes, and the last thing, multiplayers good too. You can play up to four players and 
 even choose teams from the 70s up to present day. What more can I say? It does its job but its 
 nothing we havent seen before.
  
  In basketballing terms, NBA 2K5 is the full package. A substantial career mode, gameplay thats 
 been solidly tweaked from last years outing, and blindingly gorgeous visuals to boot. In gaming 
 terms however, this just amounts to a put the bouncy ball through the hoop game. If youre looking 
 for THE definitive Xbox 360 basketballing game, youve found it. If you have a HDTV setup then 
 you may even let out a little tear of joy. But if youve been searching for that killer game to 
 keep you busy until Halo 3, then keep searching. You know the basketball formula by now.
  
  80%
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDeragusX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 8, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is just simple amazing if you're a basketball fan. I've always loved the NBA Live series, 
 until this year that is. Once I played this game, I was astonished and taken back at how realistic 
 it felt to play. All the moves, how smooth they were, it just felt real. It played more real than 
 Live, which made me happy. The graphics definitely aren't the best... I will admit however, that 
 they are pretty decent on an HDtv. However, with no HDtv, the graphics have a huge flaw. The crowd 
 definitely doesn't look real, which gives Live the edge in the graphics department. Other than 
 that however, pick this game up, and ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THETRUEXBOXMAN
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I have had this game since the 360's release & it's just so much fun! The shot stick is amazing 
 but at first it was a little tricky. The free throw system still gives me problems but it overall 
 took time & i got it right but this game is absolutley insane! The graphics are just spectacular! 
 I love this game! The only thing I HAVEN'T DONE is complete 24/7 but besides that I know this game 
 is a must own for a basketball fan/atic/freak like me! No way anyone who loves basketball can turn 
 this game down. This game is much better than NBA Live 06 (excpet that Live has the menu-player 
 thing) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renagade_Relish
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 28, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  NBA 2k6 is a simulation basketball game from 2k sports. If you've played the previous games then 
 stop reading this now and just get it, but if you haven't and are considering it continue on.
 
  Like I said before, this is a SIMULATION basketball game. It is meant to be realistic, and with 
 a few tweaks in the sliders it is. Basically the controls are the same as they always have been 
 for NBA games. You have a button to pass, shoot, but wait, there is a little twist on the shooting 
 this year. While it isn't the biggest thing ever to hit basketball games, and it will, by no means, 
 change the way we play them forever, it is a nice addition. It's called the shot stick. You use 
 the right analog stick to control what kind of shot you want. Now, on jumpshots you're better off 
 using X, but if you are driving the lane, posting up, or have a wide open lane for a dunk this 
 will be better, because you can direct what kind of layup/dunk you want to do. If you press down 
 you usually (keyword usually sometimes it doesn't do what you want it to) do a reverse layup, if 
 you press right you will lean to the right on a layup, and so on. With the dunks though, I didn't 
 notice any sort of set direction you push to do certian things, which was kind of weird. Overall 
 it's a nice addition, but you don't have to use it.
  They also changed the isomotion this year. Now all you need to do is hold down the R button, and 
 move the LEFT analog stick in a direction. Each direction corresponds to a different move. You 
 can also hold down L and R to do even better moves. You're either going to love, or hate the changes 
 they made to isomotion this year. The AI on the other hand is a different story. You can only love 
 it. The AI is so realisitc in this game. The teams use the same kinds of strategy the real NBA 
 teams use. So if you are the Suns it will be a run and gun kind of team, and if you are the Spurs 
 you won't see a whole lot of that. It really adds to the experence, and makes the game better overall.
 
  As for the graphics in the game, they are amazing. The players clothes move realistically, and 
 as the game moves on sweat starts to pour down their face, like it deos when you are really playing. 
 The only things i didn't like were sometimes, the clothes would go through the players body, and 
 the sweat didn't look amazingly realistic. Also I don't think NBA players sweat in the second minute 
 of the first quarter. Overall the graphics are amazing but I expect 2k to fix the little things 
 in 2k7. 
  The sound is pretty good, although sometimes the bradcasters will make mistakes like saying that 
 the team is running out the clock even though there is also of time left. The soundtrack flatout 
 blows though. This is what you have a custom soundtrack for. USE IT!
  Overall NBA2k6 is a solid basketball game with great graphics, AI, and controls that anybody that 
 has a passing intreast in Basketball should check out. And with a retail price of 40 dollars why 
 not?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 23inchesspinnin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  This game shows us just far we have come from the games of old. It has you expecting more form 
 developers because we know that they have done this well and can do better. How much better? I 
 can't wait to see when 07 comes out. NBA LIVE 06 was a generic game with no player emotion, mouths 
 don't move, open shots always fall as if open pro's don't miss. NBA 2K6 has realistic calls such 
 as over the back that you won't find in other games. They have stepped the shoe game up adding 
 real shoes instead of the dreamcast specials everyone use to wear. Now if we could just get the 
 stiff hair wig on steve nash to move like NBA LIVE did then we are ready to become the only NBA 
 game to be made. 2K6 does have a few glitches such as jerseys breaking up and guys getting naked 
 ( losing their shorts) as they run down the floor but they show no genitals thank God. Hall of 
 Fame mode is genius on this game but after you get the hang of the stroke, you will do just what 
 you did on other lesser modes. Win by 20. In HD it only gets better. This is the greatest basketball 
 game yet. Go pick up your old sega and Play NBA LIVE 96. You can only appreciate the 2K sports 
 team and the strides that they have taken in becoming the New Heavy Weight Champion of The World 
 of Basketball game making. Congratulations 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evergreenJR20
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  When I first rented this game and put it in my 360, I was like YEAH BOY! This game is totally enjoyable. 
 The graphics run so smoothly and unlike live 06, it has realistic gameplay.
  2k6 has lots to do from playing the assosiation to playing street ball. This game had players doing 
 what they do in real life. and i like that. Also the announcing was Great. Kevin Harlan was getting 
 me into the game, but Kenny Smith needs more EMOTION.
  I also like the fact that the shot stick was available. instead of pressing buttons, i like shifting 
 mw thumb down and releasing it to get a jumshot. With all this exciting news, there were minor 
 flaws. Like when you look at the coaches. 2k really needs to do a better job of remodeling. Also, 
 the replays keep coming too much. Its like everytime someone hits a shot, there is a replay, it 
 kinda gets annoying. But other than that 2k6 was the GREATEST basketball game I have ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick924
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 24, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  The Nba 2k Series has always been know for its graphics, online and simulation characteristics. 
 The new edition of 2k6 for the Xbox 360 improves on every other 2k game or NBA Live basketball 
 game. The game is just so well polished in every areas.
  
  Firstly the graphics are amazing. It doens't matter if u have a standard tv or an HDTV because 
 you will pause the game just to show others the faces of the players and how well they depict their 
 apperance. For example in this game I can point out any player just by their faces. I couldn't 
 have ever done that before. The gameplay is just pure. With the shotstick this year you have an 
 aresenal of new moves at your disposal. Franchise is franchise even though it is a bit deeper than 
 it has been in past years with the new pracitce and development sections. This game gives you everything 
 you would be looking for. The sound is pretty good no complaints. Online is where the game lifts 
 off. You can always find a match. And most of the time you will get a good oppenent. Occasionally 
 you may get a few morons screaming in the mic and shooting 3's all the time. But you shouldnt worry 
 about that because chances are you are going to win the game if you play smart and secondly after 
 the game you can send feedback and whether you would like to play against him. 
  
  To sum it all up if your looking for a basketball game to buy on the Xbox 360 buy NBA 2k6 in a 
 heartbeat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shakycurl
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 17, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  this is hands down the best basketball game I've ever played in my life. thhe graphics are realer 
 than ever, and the gameplay makes you feel as if you're your favorite player ( cough cough Wade) . 
 the online mode is fun to. but watch out for the people that only play that game because they will 
 beat you very bad and curse you out. why does this review have to be 100 words? I have said everything 
 i need to say so let me submit it already y y y y y y y y y y y yy y y y y yy y y y y y y y 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameranker319
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  Most people consider this game not all that great just because of all the sweat the nba players 
 have and no real gameplay. I believe they are wrong, because for most of us nba fans, we like this 
 game not only for the realistic graphics, but just for the awesome gameplay and sweet controls. 
 The xbox 360 makes this game look spectacular and the controls they made for this game shows the 
 true nature of the nba franchise. The swoosh of the net, the crunch of the rim after it has been 
 dunked on is just part of what they did sound wise to make this game great. Another great feature 
 which they put into this game was how you had to time your shots, because if you held your shots 
 to long you would throw it too far and if you held the trigger for not long at all you will be 
 too short on your shot. All in all, they made this game very realistic and a really great game 
 sound wise, graphic wise, and control wise.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadherrella
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  first of all... don't believe the comments that this game is just like nba 2k6 on the xbox. It is 
 way better! the controls are the same but that is what you expect... these are great controls. the 
 framerate is smooth unlike nba live 06. the characters look like the players in real life. in nba 
 2k6 you really feel you are in the arena. from the dancers, to the bench players and audience reacting 
 to whats happening in the game... to facial expressions on the players after a play. I noticed some 
 players chewing gum while shooting freethrows. yes and the freethrows. the most natural of all 
 freethrow controls in a bball games (just like in the xbox) . yes everything in the xbox version 
 has been included in the 360 version. and everything i wanted the xbox ver to be is in the 360 
 ver ---sharp graphics, widescreen aspect (even most pc games dont have widescreen which makes it 
 difficult to watch on a widescreen TV without the black bars on the side) . Oh yes and the clothing 
 mechanics... this is just great... you can actually see the clothing move as your player moves. The 
 dunks and the way the player moves are just great... really natural. And the commentators are just 
 more enthusiastic about the game then nba live's steve kerr and marv. THE BEST PART of nba 2k6 
 i like is the ability to DOWNLOAD THE LATEST ROSTERS from the real NBA, and when playing against 
 an opponent, during his/her freethrow you can shake the cam using the left and right triggers. 
 i have only had this game for less than a week and i am so glad nba live 06 released a demo so 
 i can see how bad the game is (everything you don't want in a bball game like bad framerates and 
 non realistic player models was shown in the nba live 06 demo on xbox live marketplace... the only 
 plus in nba live 06 is the graphics but at a closer look i believe nba 2k6 is even better because 
 the players actually look like their real life counterparts and sweat naturally) . you may read 
 that the crowd is just the same lower-detailed crowd from the xbox version but you really don't 
 notice them while your playing... you notice the players more. the reactions that you get from the 
 crowd, coach and players is what matters more and you will definitely enjoy watching em. So if 
 you are planning to buy nba live 06, please read reviews on nba 2k6... they're all true. for the 
 price now of $29.99 i rate this game even higher for all the content and great gameplay a big phat 
 ----10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maaly81
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 13, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I like it for the most part, but it has flaws. TOO many missed layups, that even the pros would 
 not miss. A lot of turnovers that pros would not be quick enough to pick off also. The online gameplay 
 is great other than that you play a different game everytime, meaning that the way you shot on 
 offense and how the players react drastically changes, and it sucks because you cannot be all the 
 players at once on defense, and the AI just stands there sometimes and lets the other player do 
 whatever they want. It is brutal at times bt looks real nice. Don't get this gae uless you are 
 ready to learn how to be very disciplined and strategic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: govinator07
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 13, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  this game is easily the best basketball game made to date blowing NBA Live 2006 out of the water 
 like live was a sailboat and 2K6 was a freakin like friget or whatever the hell u call those things.... now 
 onto the review
  
  GRAPHICS: the graphics on this game outstanding, the player models look lifelike with the skin 
 texture, the body sweat and all of the natural human body functions..... (except for going to the 
 bathroom.... gross) ..... then theres the moves, the shake and bakek, breakin ankles, its all the 
 same when it moves so fluently throughout the course of the whole game. after you get passed the 
 graphics of the player models u have the fans and the rest of the stadium (besides the floor which 
 looks amazing with all the reflections and scuff marks and all that) , the crowd, the coaches, and 
 the refs (although they improved a little) have all been imported from the previous platforms in 
 order to get the game on the shelves in time to get LIVE out of here.
  
  GAMEPLAY: gameplay is very simple for all the very simple people out there who dont really like 
 to play basketball but like to play the games and shoot up some J's with LeBron and Kobe and D-Wade.... 
 its very simple......
  A is to pass ------- (on O) ------- change player --- (on D) 
  B is to lead pass --- (on O) ------ take charge - (on D)
  X is to shoot -- (on O) ------- i dont 
 actually remember --- (on D)
  Y is to control computer ---- (on O) ----- block/jump -- (on D)
  RT is turbo
  then theres the 
 advanced controlls like the pro hop and the shake and bakes and the fancy dunks..... u can use 
 the RS to do some fancy hooks, shots, even shoot with ur other hand/side, then dunks that are diff. 
 from the regular X dunk.
  
  overall this game is easily the best basketball game for 360 or maybe any system and could very 
 well be the best sports game out to date with all the advanced visuals and gameplay techniques 
 u can use, it makes this a must buy and u will be playing this for a very long time.... until 2K7 
 comes out that is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrain14
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  N. B. A. 2k6 is the best basket ball game ever made but with saying that there are rather some kind 
 of flaws like the defense is a little choppy I dont mean like slow but it can be hard to block 
 at some times but that doesn't change the overall focus of the game it may also be a little to 
 easy for some of you to pick the ball off but overall this is a great game i love the association 
 mode it is the best basketball dynasty mode of all the games. The N. B. A. street mode was a little 
 bit of a let down as it simply made me feel like I was playing another EA. sports game. overall 
 the create a player is really good and allot of customizability. Online play happens to be great 
 also. With tons of downloadable content from Xbox live. Overall this is a must buy you wont be 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most realistic basketball games out there. It has a good mixture or realism 
 and exciting bone crushing dunks. The star players such as Kobe and Dwayne Wade are not perfect 
 on this game. they go through cold streaks just like everybody else. When they are on though, they 
 are on. The dunks are real. nobody is jumping out of the gym and doing 720 deg dunks. The "cool" 
 comes in on the alley-oops. you can throw it off the board or from half court and complete the 
 oops. They are not perfect though. Unlike EA games I have played (which i love EA sports to death) , 
 If you throw an alley-oop it doesn't amgically end up in the player's hands wherever he is. In 
 this game, the situation has to be right for it. 
  
  I also love what they did with the graphics of this game. The independent jerseys and shorts are 
 really sweet. the free throw technique for some of the stars are right on. The sweat is also cool. 
 they players are not drenched in sweat the whole game, when they are tired, they will be sweating 
 more and more. At the beginning of the game they just have the "pre game warm up" sweat on their 
 brow. 
  
  One bad thing I have found is that the jerseys may mess up once in a great while. They will disappear 
 or something like that. Small price to pay for the amount of graphical work that was put in. The 
 gameplay for me is ok. Playing thought the EBC mode is very addicting. That is a great mode they 
 put in. The association mode is just like any other franchise mode. you either like it or get bored 
 with it. I really like the online play though. It is great for all ability levels of the game. 
 
  
  The other thing i was not crazy about was the lack of all-star weekend. the skills competition 
 and 3-pt shootout and dunk contest are complete highlights of the nba season (although they are 
 losing their tough lately with the other A. I. getting screwed over this year) . Maybe next year 
 this game could get these features in. With the graphics work they are able to do, they could make 
 some pretty sweeet stuff happen. Overall this game is the best basketball game on the 360. Suprisingly 
 to me NBA live didn't put up much of a fight. Heopefully they can expand and take over the basketball 
 scene next year. This year though, 2K has it rocked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_fat_bum
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  the gameplay is innovative, especially with the "shot stik" controls. the graphics are phenomenal 
 but it has some flaws on the crowd. i hate how they keep making crowds that suk. the announcers 
 are very well done. i still wonder how long they did voice overs for the announcers. i dont know 
 about the value, i think it is worth a little less than $68. i havnt played it online but people 
 say it is actually pretty good. i am not really sure if u should get it but if u r a big basketball 
 fan, this game is definetly for u 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersohail
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Nba live has got beaten today and forever, so bring out the excitement to life with nba 2k6!!! 
 With amazing graphics that you can see the sweat of every player who is on the court. Play either 
 half or full court or even change the rules. Hit the streets and become more skillful and show 
 off to your mates. It is a great addition to the series and the best so far. Gamespot are totaly 
 wrong about this version it shouldn't be 8.3 it should be 9.3!!! There are lods of modes and lods 
 of games you could play even unlock thousands of stuff. 
  
  GOOD THINGS ABOUT THIS GAME-
  - It has smooth surfaces and good player graphics and in-game graphics. 
  - More modes mean more 
 stuff, get more and more unlockable each time you play!
  -Kreate ur own character is much more fun when you make ur own charicter better, you acctually 
 concertrate with the skills you need to improve!
  -Realism makes the game more realistic, wether it is real it is better, when you play a match you 
 have guys watching you, you have cars going past, you have enveirment everywhere!
  
  BAD THINGS ABOUT THIS GAME-
  - Well i dont want to say this but the gameplay is bit dodgy but 
 little more smoother would make it bettter : (
  
  It is a really good game and it should achieve good too AND THANK YOU 2K SPORTS FOR GIVING US A 
 REALLY GOOD GAME TO PLAY :D 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgfreak
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 28, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K6 delivers the basketball world with beautiful graphics and smooth gameplay. Plenty of game 
 modes, Association mode (career) , 24/7, and street mode. The online game runs smooth and is really 
 straight forward. Mastering 3 point shooting is tough but after a few games u get used to it. The 
 pistons own online but I have won with the T Wolves and the Nets. Best Nba game to date. If you 
 enjoy basketball and own a 360 u should pick this game up. If u dont have a 360, ur a loser. Wii60 
 is better than PSWii. Sweet rap soundtrack yo. Peace homie G. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoscougar1
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 27, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game since the launch of the 360 in Australia, it kept getting delayed 
 and delayed, but I finally have it and I'm extremely happy! The game play is fun, I love basketball 
 and play it myself and i just find it's the most realistic basketball game that has'nt lost its 
 video game simplicity. Although the 24/7 mode is fun, it can be a bit of a chore at times. The 
 mode tha really grabbed me was the Association mode. I find that I keep wanting to play that extra 
 game, just to make my stats look better. I love looking after a game at all the different stats 
 I rack up with individual players and how that effects my season. One other little perk of the 
 game that will make you want to play that extra game is the introduction of the Crib into the NBA 
 2K franchise. Although it's not as well done as the NFL 2K5 one, its not without its charms. There 
 is plenty of items to but and trophies to achieve, but only in a very confined space, and unlike 
 its NFL counterpart it does'nt give you the luxury of purchasing furnishings for your 'pimped' 
 out crib (only posters and plaques etc.) The shooting is very accurate and precise, and I did'nt 
 think it would work, or I would get use to it, but the 2K team pulled it off very well. The only 
 criticism I have of the shot-stick is the power dunk, it seems that it can't stopped and you can 
 jump from an uncanny distance. Otherwise it's a brilliant feature that really puts the control 
 back into the user.
  Overall this game is extremely fun and has a tonne of replay value, I strongly recommend this game 
 to any basketball and non fan alike (I managed to hook my friend on the NBA with this game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NJD3V1L
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  This game isn't like NBA Live where you just play cuz it's the only good basketball game out there. 
 This game iz the best for the XBOX 360, and if anybody doesn't like it, they just don't understand 
 basketball. This game actually got me to watch basketball more than i used 2. 2K6 isn't like NBA 
 Live where it haz the dunk contest and the 3-point shootouts. it haz the all star game during the 
 season but no dunk contests or 3-point shootouts. This game puts the game in basketball. it haz 
 the best graphics with the best gameplay ever for a basketball game. JUST BUY IT!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydrolite
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 22, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k6 boasts an excellent and worthwhile venture into next gen consoles with a solid basketball 
 game. The game boasts excellent player models. Although it offers great next gen graphics it looks 
 out of place against the crowd. Even with that it still looks great.
  As you play through the game you will be sucked in by the realistic presentation of this game. 
 The crowd reacts accordingly as you make a harsh rejection, slam it home, or hit the game winning 
 three. Also the announcers, while not perfect, are believieble and follow the action very well. 
 The only thing it misses is the pre game presentation. They have a very good opening comments by 
 the announcers but they miss that pregame excitement by the player announcements. The game could've 
 showed the players being announced while lights and smoke are all around them, as a star gets announced 
 the crowd goes ballistic. This would've made this a spotless performance.
  Gameplay is still top notch. It offers a very realistic simulation of the pace and gameplay of 
 a real NBA game. The addition of the rip stick is an excellent addition. The only problem is the 
 fact that the ISO motion stick has been replaced by a virtually useless shot stick. Instead ISO 
 motion is used with the use of the turbo and left thumbstick. It is very difficult to pull off 
 the right move when you want.
  NBA 2k6 boasts a strong showing in the content department. Association mode has just gotten deeper 
 and more in depth than ever. Also the 24/7 mode makes a strong return with even better gameplay 
 and more fun. The crib also has very many unlockable items with even more already unlocked for 
 you.
  If you already own 2k6 for xbox it probably isn't worth the extra money but if not it makes a great 
 addition to your Xbox 360 collection. Also with this game I believe it cements 2K sports ahead 
 of the rest of the competiters in the sports crowd. This is a great rental but an even better buy 
 if you can ante up the money for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 15, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Before i played this game i thought it sucked but then i did play and thought wow i should rethink 
 that! This game has some of the best ghraphics ive ever seen an the 24/7 rocks its really fun to 
 be able to travel and its also cool that you can play against celebirtys like Flavor Flav and when 
 you beat them they'll give you there phone numbers the online play is great to this game just keeps 
 adding on to its greatness i will give one thing its the best in the series so far thats what i 
 think about NBA 2K6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngmurk911
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 14, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Even though this game is a port I still feel its underated by some people. This game indeed has 
 nexgen graphics, The gameplay is slick and fluid this game is not hardly bad by any means. This 
 game looks nothing like the current gen, even on standard t. v., The best thing they did was keep 
 all of the features, Your getting all of the same exact features on the current gen with way better 
 graphics. This game is a perfect port, its simple if you liked the current gen version of this 
 game, you will LOVE THIS GAME. This is the best looking and playing basketball game to date.... go 
 pick it up if your a fan of the 2k series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiccup
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 14, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K6 from the creators of 2K sports well I am doing the 360 review of this game so it is very 
 different from the others. NBA 2K6 is going again to hit is with this basketball game. Alot has 
 come over its six years of franchise. Now they give us this game the official of all basketball 
 games the new added features of the game fit with total player control it makes you think you are 
 a pro playing this game it fits. The online mode is good though the online community can be jerks. 
 Some modes are still in from the originals but one thing has changed in the 360 version and that 
 is sweat and the shirts that move in some way that cool. Some things are the same from the original 
 which is a bum out. The players in the game look authentic and realistic in what they do in real 
 life. Though this is an excellent game for the basketball fans. It has improved and its a good 
 game but to tell you the truth it gets boring playing over and over until you finish the playoffs 
 or the franchise. What they should put is some fights or flairs. But its online mode keeps it going 
 even though the guy you are olaying can be a jerk. Overall thisis a pretty solid game with its online 
 mode go get NBA 2k6 its worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheTruth2500XL
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 6, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I like this game, but it's not the greatest, too bad it's only one of two basketball game on the 
 360, the other being horrible.
  
  It feels weird playing because of the mix of next -gen players and curent gen coaches, stadiums, 
 courts, fans, and everything else. Great player models though, I know they would look much better 
 on an HDTV so I'll say it great, right now on my tv they look alright but still good. Gameplay 
 is like the Xbox version, could have made it better. All they really did was update rosters and 
 update player models. The commentators do a great job. The trading and tema managment have alot 
 of depth and make this game for hardcore basketball fans. The new shot stick is pretty cool though, 
 but crossovers and fakes aren't as good as the original. Online is real fun though. It's much more 
 fun than single player, mostly because it's more competetive and better than the playing the kind 
 of stupid computer A. I. If you need a basketball game for the 360, this is it. Not much of a choice 
 but this still is a good basketball game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felixk
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 4, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest... i'm not much of a basketball fan. In fact I hate it. I think its boring to watch 
 on TV. But after playing this video game, I must admit it got me a bit interested in the sport. 
 The controls aren't easy to learn but once you do your set. The graphics are terrific. The loading 
 screen showing you the starters are great too, you barely notice the lengthy load times.
  
  This game must be even better if your a fan of basketball and know some strategy. Since i'm clueless 
 on how to execute a "pick" or some other basketball techniques I just pass and shoot.
  
  All in all, i think this is a great game and would provide hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MountainDew77
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 2, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I bought NBA 2k6 back at launch, and let me just tell you. I am still playing it. I started playing 
 this series last year on 2k5 for XBOX, once I was done with the NBA LiVE Series. This game still 
 has the same, solid gameplay as it's predecessor on the XBOX. Responsive controls, realistic movements, 
 all the good stuff. It has plenty of game modes to keep you interested, (Franchise Mode, Season 
 Mode, Exhibitions, 24/7, online play (includes leagues and tournaments) , and everything else a good 
 sports game should have. The online play is fun, unless you experience lag, which sucks for a basketball 
 game (or any game for that matter) . Overall, it is pretty much the most realistic, most fun basketball 
 game I have ever played. 
  
  8.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarist698787
Rating: 3.3
Date: May 1, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  This is a good game, from what I can see of it. I haven't got to do much playing. It freezes shortly 
 after tip-off. I have not completed one game without if freezing.
  
  The graphics are great, the sound is incredible, but mine just doesn't work. I exchanged it for 
 a new one and it doesn't work either. I thought it might be my xbox 360, but it is fine. Nothing 
 freezes on it but the 2K games. So if you can get a copy that works, have fun. Oh yea, don't bother 
 calling 2K customer service about the issue. They were rather rude and they kept trying to send 
 me to Microsoft.
  
  I know of several other people that have had this problem and they can't get any help with it either. 
 Well, I thought I was done with EA Sports and that the 2k franchise was my way out. I guess I will 
 have to suffer through another generation of NBA Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 30, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  You can do any basketball move or dunk the gameplay makes you feel like your playing the game.
 
  
  graphics: 8/10
  
  Good graphics but you need an HD-TV to make this game look really good
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
 
  It feels like your actually watching a basketball game but in this case your playing because the 
 announcer says every name in the game and it feels like hes doing it live.
  
  value: 6/10
  
  Achievements are way to easy!!! You might want to keep playing this game because 
 of multiplayer.
  
  Tilt: 8/10
  
  I had a lot of fun playing this game and if you like basketball pick this game up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zenwork21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  If you like to play basketball in the real life or if you just - love this game- you can't miss 
 this great game. Players, unlike NBA live 06 plays the way you are expecting and graphics is rely 
 good if you play it on HD system. But even if you play it in a standard environment it is really 
 good. You can even use vintage team so Magic Johnson, Larry Bird fans can't miss it.
  Just a couple of down point in my view.
  Music is terrible, I really do not like it and you are 
 not able to create your own.
  Commentary on 24/7 baller mode is something to remember in a negative .
  But you can easily turn 
 them down and enjoy the game. I had NBA live 6, and even if it has got a slightly better graphic, 
 as a gameplay is not even close to 2k6.
  C'mon Magic .... let's go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slappnuttz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 26, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I was very happy w/ this game. The controls were very easy to get used to and it was a lot of fun 
 to play. The graphics are very good for one of the first next generation sporting games. I didn't 
 hear a ton about this game and I thought maybe it wasn't that good. I decided to rent it last week 
 because I needed a break form my normal routine (GRAW and Oblivion) and as soon as I started playing 
 the game I realized I needed to go buy it because it was too much fun for me not to own. I think 
 this is a must have in your video game library.
  
  The one thing I did not like was how easy it was to get the 5 achievements and the 1000 gamerpoints. 
 Don't get me wrong, I don't hate the fact that I was able to get the 1000 points in less then 2 
 hours but for some people they might only play the game for the points and then not play it anymore. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRaven_basic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing 2K basketball games for a couple years now, and like EA Sports used to do with 
 Madden, 2K improves on their masterpiece each year. Every year they put out a great addictive game, 
 making the gameplay just as fun year after year. The controls to the game will take a bit of getting 
 used to, you shoot the ball with the right joystick which may be hard at first but once you get 
 used to it, it adds much more fun to the game. You now just use your left joystick to do your drippling 
 moves, which again takes sometime getting used to. 
  
  Franchise is a lot of fun, from weekly practises, to mini games to improve your team theres just 
 a lot to do. If thats not your thing there is always the 24/7 mode, which you create your own character 
 and build him up, from 1 on 1 to a full 5 on 5 street game, which is also a lot of fun.
  
  All that is great, but my favorite part of the game is the Xbox live part of it, playing other 
 people online in this game is a real treat. It really never gets old, with online leagues and tournies. 
 They're lobbies you can just jump right in, ask for a challenge, and your ready, that simple. I 
 have played many many games and their are very little glitches in the online expierence, nothing 
 that will take you out of a great time. 
  
  Now on the xbox 360, the graphics are amazing, the only reason i gave them a 8 out of 10 is because 
 every once in a while there is a little mess up in the game and the jerseys kind of look messed 
 up (hard to explain) , also the crowd and the coaches could look a lot better, compared to the players. 
 The detail on the players is nothing I have ever seen before and will be one of the many things 
 keeping you hooked on this one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 15, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I loved NBA 2k6 for the X-Box, but when I heard that 2k didn't short on their game like EA did 
 I bought it immediately.
  The gameplay is just as much fun if not better. I think the graphics make the game even more better 
 to play. All the modes are here including creations. The AI at times seems to want a mouthful of 
 nuts while you dunk on them. You may sometimes even find yourself dunking on your own team mate.
 
  Speaking of graphics, they're insane! There are some below minor patches that could be fixed, but 
 they are still beautiful.
  I still miss the presentation being done by ESPN, but 2k did a good job on it. The commentators 
 keep things very fresh.
  The soundtrack is okay, but then again if you loved it... you might be a die hard rap fan who happens 
 to like no name artist too. Some of the songs I have to admit are catchy.
  In conclusion, if you love basketball and the NBA, this game is for you! It has everything you want. Well, 
 almost. It still doesn't let you control Ron Artest while he dodges beers, and tries to knock out 
 a fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rktgqjF5dTS
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 8, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  this is the best basketball game out there, and a must have for any basketball fan!!!! At first 
 the controls my be weird to someone new the the series and may take a liltle while for the average 
 person to get use to, but once you get it down you will fill unstoppable. you'll find yourself 
 wondering if you are watching tv, because the graphics are that good. this is your game if you 
 want to pound the ball inside, or if you want to rain three pointers all day you can do that too. 
 and the vip mode is the best thing ever. with there being only two basketball games out right now 
 for the xbox 360 you have got to make the right choice and got with nba 2k6 instead for nba live 
 06 and you will not be disappointed. thanks for reading my dumb review so i am going to let you 
 go now bye bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechosenone827
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I will start by saying the graphics are amazing, the player models look great, the uniforms move 
 around, and the sweat effects are awesome. However, the graphics do have their flaws, the audience 
 and the coaches look like they came out of the original Xbox version. I really enjoyed the game 
 play in 2K6, the shot stick is very innovative and gives the player a new feel to shooting the 
 ball in a console basketball game. The controls are easy to get a feel for and the multi-player 
 aspect is great while having friends over and good on Xbox live. I thought the commentary was done 
 pretty good and the in game sounds and music were done well too. On to the Achievements, I unlocked 
 all the achievements in 2 games, though they can be done in one game by adjusting the quarter levels. 
 Overall NBA 2K6 is a very good basketball game for the Xbox 360. I have never played NBA 2K6 for 
 the original Xbox, but from the reviews I have read the only difference is the visuals. Since I 
 never played the original Xbox version of 2K6, I thought it was a very good game and a fresh new 
 experience in playing basketball especially with the inclusion of the shot stick. If you have not 
 played this game give it a rental like I did, or buy it because it is very good. I can't wait to 
 see all the improvements that will be put into NBA 2K7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nationyde5
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 12, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K6 is the best basketball game you can get this year. The graphics are amazing while both 
 in motion and stationary, the animations are plentiful and smooth as well. The game play is spot 
 on. It feels more realistic than NBA Live does and requires you to use some strategy in order to 
 get good shots off. And speaking of shots, the shot stick and strip and rip are the next great 
 b-ball innovations.
  By putting the dribbling controls to left analog stick combined with the triggers your thumb is 
 free to shoot as soon as you are out of your move. It allows you let it fly as soon as get even 
 a little space. It really shines though when you take it to the hole. you are able to control which 
 hand you use and even switch hands in mid-air. You are also able to select which type of dunk you 
 want to attempt. The right analog stick is also used superbly on defense, you are in control of 
 which direction your player will swipe. With a little practice you will be locking guys down like 
 Artest.
  The presentation is also nice even though the game lost the ESPN license it still has its flashy 
 replays and highlight reels. the commentary can be repetitive and sounds robotic at times and often 
 will fall behind the action. The on court sound are good though, especially when you throw down 
 a power slam with Shaq.
  If you are looking for the most realistic basketball sim out there then look no further than NBA 
 2K6! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666_NOTB
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Out of the two Xbox 360 basketball games, I can tell you right now that you're better off with 
 this game. The gameplay is just like any other basketball game out there. Getting used the controls 
 won't take you long, and you'll be in action in no time.
  
  Gameplay: Just like every other basketball game, nothing absolutely mind-blowing here. Still fun 
 to play, however.
  
  Graphics: Some get this game some Anti-Aliasing. Character models are good, but nothing outstanding. 
 It will be interesting to see how they improve for next year's title.
  
  Sound: Solid.
  
  Value: If you're a big basketball fan, then you have no other choice. Buy this game. If you 
 aren't huge on the game, rent it first, or just pass altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MercuryFlash
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  I'm sure many will complain that the game is too similar to the Xbox version. To my knowledge, 
 2K Sports never hid that fact. If you watch a video interview on this site, you'll see the developer 
 discuss some subtle gameplay tweaks to the complement the graphics upgrade.
  
  So let's start with graphics. The player models look great. Are they as sharp as the players in 
 Live? No quite, but the 2K6 animate so much more smoothly and realistically. Having played both 
 games for at least several hours, 2K6 looks and feels much more like a real NBA game. The courts 
 look very nice. The coaches and fans need more polygons, which hurts the overall presentation a 
 little, but honestly I play the game to see the players.
  
  The gameplay is as great as it was on the Xbox. I love the amount of control and intuitiveness 
 the Right Thumbstick offers for shooting and defending. It's easily the best control scheme for 
 a basketball game I've ever used.
  
  I'm glad to see all the game modes from the Xbox version made it to the 360, which keeps the value 
 and replayability high.
  
  Some will complain that the game didn't change enough for the next gen console, but considering 
 this is still 2K6 and NOT 2K7, I'm very pleased with the outcome. 2K Sports obviously made gameplay 
 a priority over graphics, and I applaud them for it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  Yes, finally, they made a very good game finally!! This game is so sweet and beats the living hell 
 outta EA's crappy game. The season mode is pretty sweat. The gameplay is deffinelty improved and 
 so are the controls. The graphics are top notch now. Everyone, i mean everyone looks just how they 
 are suppose to look. The crowd gets wild when you do awesome shots or dunks (which is a good thing 
 for nba games) . The sound is alrigth, pretty over average. The annoucers get boring after awhile. 
 
  
  Strenghts:
  -Great graphics
  -Great character models
  
  Weaknesses:
  -repettive.
  
  Question:
  
  What will they think of next?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterles
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  i played this game solely for gamerpoints. after achieving the points, i quickly discarded of this 
 game. but while i played it, it was pretty fun. ummm.... the game had these stat altering thingys, 
 i could make it so that i would never miss a single 3 pointer, so i never missed. it was pretty 
 fun. the computer kept shooting 2 pointers and missing, and i just kept shooting 3's. i also made 
 it so i could steal the ball everytime. so i'd usually win games llike 150 to 7. it was fun for 
 about 2 games, then it got old. i'd play 2 player, and we'd just make 3's all day. no big deal. 
 i liked it better than nba06 because you could steal the ball in this one. yep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taman08
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun, has very nice Graphics and sounds very good. This game is way better then 
 NBA LIVE on Xbox360. Try playin aginst a challenging friend on 7:00 it makes the game even better 
 and higher scoring. Most of the player look exactly like they do in real life. The shot sick was 
 a very good idea and freethrows have a different shotting style and is more accurate to the shooter 
 freethrow ability in real life. The players fatigue levels have a greater affect on this game also. 
 This is a very good and fun game over all and is by far the best sports game on the Xbox 360 yet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jilarson
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  The controls are easier compared to NBA LIVE but the graphics aren't as good. I like the 1 button 
 vs. 2 ont LIVE to shoot and if you are close enough to the basket then they automatically do a 
 dunk or layup (if they are short) The steals with the right thumb stick is cool too. That way you 
 aren't just mashing buttons and getting them confused.
  I wouldn't mind owning this game.
  Compare the two games and see what you think...
  I enjoyed this game but I just couldn't get 
 all the controls on LIVE down. 
  Even the free throws are easier and more understandable. On 2K6 you pull the right thumb stick 
 back and release at the top of his pose and release. On LIVE it took a long time to get it and 
 noone knew how to do the free throws but it is down on the right thumb stick until the ball is 
 at face level and press up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGJHUB
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 19, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  First off let me start of by saying the grafics are pretty good, if your blind.
  The game has so many problems. The clothing gos through the skin, when i take a freethrow shot 
 the other players are having spazz attacks the players on the carrer mode are less than beleiveable. 
 It feels like im playing a 64 game when i turn it on (the main menu) . The gameplay is not fun at 
 all, the contols just dont work that well. This game is not worth 60 bucks, i would get it if it 
 was like... hmm maybe 20 i dont know its just a junky game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlimFrom303
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is the near-perfect example of this fine sport of basketball. It epitomizes the fluitivity 
 of the game and captivizes the important tendencies of its real life counterparts. What this game 
 lacks is the fluidity in which inside shots are attempted and made. Overall this game gives a deeper 
 meaning to the game of basketball and represents the struggle, pain, happiness, and skill it takes 
 to be an NBA Player. You experience first hand how to pass, steal, shoot, defend, and how to play 
 the game in a smart manner. This game takes the difficulty to another level and knocks the bottom 
 out the comp. Y'all best believe that this is where its  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neohakusho
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 13, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  When I first played NBA 2k6, I thought no way, could graphics be as nice as the ones I saw over 
 at the previews. It's just as nice. The graphics in this game cannot compare to any other NBA games 
 in the past. If compared about the gameplay and system with others, this game is easily the winner. 
 The 24/7 idea was a great idea for this game and the way the players play on the court is just 
 'unreal', this is truly the "best basketball" game so far. The player models are also created really 
 nice as well. Although, some faces do look a bit unrealistic. But the probability of you mistelling 
 which player is who is low, so the model wouldn't be a problem. As for glitches, there's tons of 
 them. At some times in street ball in 24/7, when a player is checking a ball to another, he would 
 freeze or the ball won't go through the hoop yet score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K6 has pretty much only two big points to it. First of all, it plays exactly the same as it 
 does on its lower gen brother, xbox. So, really there is no big gameplay advantage to having this 
 on 360, other than the visuals which is my next point. The visuals in this game are really good. 
 The exeed the xbox's by far. (if you have a HDTV) The presentation is really nice alos. I like 
 this game alot better than the rival NBA Live 06. It felt more complete. It has alot more game 
 modes and crap like that. Overall, if your going to pick up a basketball title for the Xbox 360, 
 pick up NBA 2K6. Even though I wouldnt recommend buying either, I would buy GRAW, Fight Night, 
 or wait for Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnmetcalf
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K6 is a great game of basketball that keeps you wanting more. I have to admit that I'm not 
 a big basketball fan at least from watching it on TV I haven't seen an NBA game 1999 but there 
 was something about this game that was drawing me to it. The graphics are very tight especially 
 the player models they look very next gen. the sweat stains and the separation of the uniforms 
 from the players bodies make for a very realistic experience. The coaches, cheerleaders and fan 
 models though could use an extreme touch up but the most important thing is the players and they 
 look wonderful.
  
  The sound and the pace of the game is great with very few hicups in the frame rate. The shot stick 
 really makes the game feel like you are really taking a shot at the basket. You just feel like 
 you are in the game my competitive spirit at time makes me want to trow the controller if the other 
 team gets a shot in or if I miss a shot. You get that involved.
  
  The in game commentators do a great job of getting that TV broadcast feel into every game.
  
 
  The game is full of extras. From minigames to playing with the legends in a game of 21 to decking 
 out your crib you will have alot of fun playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iBoxCarBobi
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Just like any other sports game that came from the original Xbox to continue its work on the Xbox 
 360, this game has some good things, and some bad things. Overall the game has really good graphics, 
 but that is only if you stay on the court. The player graphics are amazing, but the fans still 
 look like crap. Not only they look like crap, but everything that they do there looks like crap. 
 Its true that you can turn off the announcers, but if i want to take a shot from half court, they 
 should be saying that I am an idiot and telling be to yank the player off the court. The sound 
 is pretty good and pretty much fallows the whole game really good. Probably the funnest thing to 
 do in the game is to max out your team and scale down the other team, so that you end up owning 
 them. The thing that i hated about that game is that when i score too many points, over 150. The 
 announcers no long say that points, they just say a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlcain
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  For starters, let me clarify my view on videogame basketball. I enjoy simulation basketball. When 
 I say simulation basketball I am not talking about games where a fast break happens once a game 
 if your lucky, I'm just talking about true to life basketball. This means that if you play the 
 Phoenix Suns then they are going to run the basketball and work the fast break, and if you play 
 the Lakers then Kobe is going to be a beast to stop. 
  
  I have never been fond of EA's NBA Live franchise because it was all about threes and dunking, 
 and that is not my style of play. The 2k franchise hasn't been much better lately, as they hit 
 a low point in NBA 2k5. Do not worry though, as all is now forgiven with the release of NBA 2k6. 
 
  
  Let me tell you a story about the best thing to happen to basketball video games. Once upon a time 
 there was an evil giant named EA sports. This evil giant had plans of total domination, and this 
 lust for power led them to make an attempt at crippling their arch-nemesis named 2k sports. This 
 attempt was buying the exclusive license to make NFL games, a crippling blow to be sure. But out 
 of that defeat came the best possible news for fans of basketball videogames. You see 2k sports 
 had a very talented team working on their NFL franchise and without an NFL game to make, 2k sports 
 put them hard at work on the NBA franchise. Not only that, but they had some people from another 
 game, Inside Drive, working on it as well. This meant that almost triple the team of last year 
 was hard at work on bringing us a great game of basketball. The end result became NBA 2k6, a game 
 featuring an all-new control system, better graphics (especially on the 360) , MUCH improved A. I., 
 and team tendencies that changed realistically depending on a teams players. 
  
  So overall, I think NBA 2k6 is the best basketball game ever made. Its still not perfect, as the 
 graphical features besides the charater models range from ok to very bad and the 24/7 idea has 
 grown stale, but this is still one of the top launch games. Keep in mind though the new control 
 scheme may take awhile to get used to for those new to the game. I definitely understand peoples 
 thinking its not different enough from its last gen outing, but it is still different enough to 
 make it the superior version. And seeing as how its not backwards compatible, if you got rid of 
 your old xbox there is little choice. :P
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: netsgiantsfan24
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k6 is a really fun game for the 360. The graphics are great and look real. I love the shot 
 stick feature and online is fun too. Great game overall. The only bad things that I have seen about 
 the game are some glitches in it. Sometimes, playeres lose their jerseys or their shorts and the 
 jerseys seem to hover over thier shoulders. Also, the achievements are way to easy and you should 
 be able to unlock them all within a few games. Nothing major though. NBA 2k6 is a great game, if 
 your a basketball fan then you shoud definately buy it. If your not it may be worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superbustacap
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 30, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I guess I'll say more though for the sake of 100+ words. First off, the Xbox 360 version is way 
 better than the original console versions, with graphic and gameplay improvements. The graphics 
 are really amazing at some parts (even without HD) , and pretty crappy in others. The new sweat 
 effect is done very well. Vince Carter and LeBron James looks almost real, while players like Kirk 
 Hinrich don't look so good. Also, the coaches look like they do on regular Xbox. The smooth gameplay 
 is the best to ever hit a basketball game yet, but there are still some glitches. One player's 
 jerseys can once in about 20 games, start going crazy and he looks naked. Laugh if you want. Also 
 once in a while when a ball goes into the hoop, it won't go through the net. And finally and sound 
 isn't perfect and there isn't much to say about that. Anyway, all basketball fans with an Xbox 
 360 should definatley get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StupidHenchman
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Im not much of a basket ball fan, but man did this game get me hooked! From the slick menus to 
 the sweaty players, everything in this game is done right. First off, the graphics. This game looks 
 great on an HDTV, but even if you dont have one it is still incredible, the players move so fluidly 
 that you will think you are watching an ESPN broadcast. The controls are easy to learn but tough 
 to master. The gameplay is about the same compared to early gen consoles. The achivements.. im kind 
 of dissapointed. There are only 5, yes they are hard to get but 5!? Cmon Madden had at least tree 
 times that much. This game is a great pick up and play game and a very deep game at the same time 
 and any sports fan will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: africandragon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  this game is tight. It looks great and it plays great. IF any one wants to get a basketball game 
 for the 360 get this one for sure. It is very replayable. THis game looks even better on a HD so 
 if you have one of those then there is even more reason to get it. The gameplay is solid and is 
 a lot like the xbox version which could be good or bad for different people.  
  
 ps this game is a game that you can spend hours playing with friends and if our bad, it wont be 
 too much fun for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynasty3patriot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Alot of people were waiting for this release on the 360 to see the graphics. the graphics are the 
 best that have ever been in a basketball game. they are just spot on. it is also cool that the 
 jersys and shorts move when you are running. the gameplay really hasn't changed in this version. 
 i think it is pretty cool that you can call offensive and defensive plays on the fly. 24 7 mode 
 is different this time but not by much. its cool that its there but it really hasn't changed. the 
 assotiation is pretty much the same. coch a team and win the NBA finals. you got the crib. its 
 not really improved but its cool that its there to like unlock little mini games. the use of adds 
 in this game is just annoying. the power bar triple threat replay will like come up 10,000 times 
 in a game and it gets annoying. this is the best looking and playing game on the 360. if you have 
 a 360 and are a basketball fan this is definetly the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killamike241
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  2K Sports has really made their impact since taking over Visual Concepts from Sega. Even though 
 they lost the ability to do NFL, that hasn't stopped them from continuing with other sports titles. 
 They have always outshone the competition with the NBA 2K series, the best looking and most realistic 
 of its genre. Last year, before Sega let go of Visual Concepts, they put out what many saw as a 
 sub-standard game, at least by VC's standards. 2K Games and VC set out to fix some of their issues 
 from last year, and try once again to revamp their once-great franchise. The result? Well, it looks 
 like NBA 2K6 is back in the fight for basketball supremacy - but not by much. This year is once 
 again a mix of great and ehhhhh. It's definitely hands above 2K5, though.
  
  Many of the game modes from last year have made it back to NBA 2K6. The normal stuff comes back 
 like the Quick Games, The Association Mode (Franchise) , Online Gameplay, training and practice 
 modes, and such. There isn't anything really new in the game modes. But there are some additions 
 to the current modes. Street mode is back again. One area 2K has always had over Live was the ability 
 to play good Street Basketball. You can not only play one on one and 21 separately, but returning 
 is the Full Court street game which you can play two on two up to five on five. It's still the 
 Ringers vs. The Ballers. For some reason, everyone is in full street clothes during the game, which 
 wouldn't be so bad except now you have almost no idea who is on what team! They don't even do shirts 
 and skins or sweats and shorts. Well, at least the cool street courts are back. NBA 2K always had 
 the sweet courts like The Cage, Rucker Park, Venice Beach and The Gym. This year there are brand 
 new courts in Egypt, Red Square (Russia) , San Francisco, Chicago, Washington DC, Pittsburgh and 
 Southwest (which looks something like Arizona) .
  
  They've also brought back the 24/7 mode. This year it's called 24/7: The Road to the EBC (Entertainer's 
 Basketball Championship) . In the 24/7 Mode, you can create your own customized player to take on 
 the best street ballers in the NBA. The Create A Baller feature is as always very nice and pretty 
 in-depth. Create your player down to the armbands and facial hair. Once you make your guy, you 
 can compete in challenges against players from today and the past, and you can complete certain 
 challenges to unlock items and increase your player's skills. This year, you gain development points 
 from your games to go in and work on various drills to make your player even better. The cool thing 
 about this feature is that it works off of the internal clock in your Xbox. While you are away, 
 the clock keeps going and if you stay away too long, your player may need a little extra practice. 
 There are over 100 new items, new timed mini-games, and multi-player games. There are new games 
 like Score Challenge, No Steals (don't let the ball get stolen) , Small Ball, Two on Two and more. 
 And if you're good enough, you'll get product endorsement deals, and celebrities like Flavor Flav 
 are going to come challenge you to matches - and they are TOUGH to beat.
  
  
  
  There are a couple of new tweaks to The Association (Dynasty) mode that make it much better than 
 last year's. Here's the skinny: You, as always, have complete and utter control of every aspect 
 of whichever NBA franchise you want to run. You choose the team you want to work for and create 
 your head coach (normally, you'd create yourself) . You can set up all your team strategies, do 
 all the scouting and personnel decisions (contracts and all) , and then get out on the court and 
 play. Team Chemistry now becomes a factor in your franchise, and is affected by how long players 
 have been together and the overall success of the team.
  
  But that's not all! Just like you were able to do in NFL 2K5, in NBA 2K6 you can set up Team Practices 
 and Player Development Drills. Between games in the regular season, you can assign Team Practices 
 to help prepare for upcoming opponents or to strengthen your team's chemistry. Player Development 
 Drills can be assigned to specific players, and you can take control of the player to complete 
 one of 15 different drills. Successful completion will increase players' attributes permanently 
 for their career. There is also comprehensive stat tracking, the Rookie Watch that highlights hot 
 rookie players, and the addition of every NBA award given out at the end of the regular season. 
 This includes Most Improved Player, Sixth Man Award, as well as All-NBA teams, All-Defensive teams 
 and much more. One big change is in how you navigate through the menus with very easy access. At 
 any screen, simply flick the Right Analog Stick, and you will bring up a quick menu, giving you 
 everything you need. The Association is definitely right up there with the deepest of franchise 
 modes for an NBA game.
  
  And of course, as you play games and accomplish challenges within them, you get points and unlockable 
 things for... The Crib. Yes, the Crib returns again. Complete with Air Hockey and Darts, places 
 for your trophies and even a snack machine, you can put your most prized possessions in there for 
 all to see. Not as big as the Baseball and Football cribs, but still a nice place to show off your 
 accomplishments.
  
  It's never a great sign when you get conflicted about gameplay. But once again, I find myself really 
 impressed with some things and really unimpressed with others. Let's start with what I am impressed 
 with. The overall flow of NBA 2K6 is great. You get more of a realistic basketball experience with 
 this series than you do with NBA Live.
  
  Visual Concepts doesn't like to rest on its laurels. If they can shake things up, they will. They 
 really shook things up in a major way with the controls this year. It's almost totally different 
 from anything you're used to. The first and most obvious change is the inclusion of the "Shot Stick". 
 The right stick now totally controls your shooting, from jump shots to lay-ups and dunks! It takes 
 a bit of getting used to, because most of us have used the right stick to control special moves. 
 There is a learning curve to the shot stick, but once you get the movements down, you really have 
 control of every shot you can make. One more new control which I really like, and is used with 
 passing, is called Dual Player Control. By hitting a button, you can highlight another player on 
 the team, and give them a quick command. You can send them in towards the bucket or down into the 
 post. Or you can have them pull back behind the 3-point line and get open for a shot. Use that 
 and the icon lead passing and you can have some serious highlight real material.
  
  Before we move to defense, can we please put IsoMotion out of its misery? Look, it was a valiant 
 effort to put some sort of freestyle controls into the game, but with the latest change it's gotten 
 even worse than before! Since the right stick is not a shot stick, your new IsoMotion controls 
 are done with a combination of the right trigger and the left stick; I can't tell you how unintuitive 
 this is. The idea is to be able to hit the trigger and stick to do ankle-breaking moves, behind 
 the back dribbles, spins and so on. The problem is that it's still too complex and slow to really 
 be effective. And the defense can literally just stand there and you'll rarely get around them. 
 If you can pull off a spin move, which requires stick movements I haven't done since Fight Night 
 and Street Fighter II, you'll just spin right in front of the defender while he stands there and 
 laughs at you. And while they say you can chain these moves together, that's all fine and dandy; 
 except they are so hard to do in the first place you'll accidentally pull it off and not be able 
 to do it again. It's gotten to where I just don't use this stuff in the game. Sorry guys, IsoMotion 
 has got to go.
  
  I have one other issue; I call it the "computer won't let you win" syndrome. Somehow, even on the 
 lesser difficulty levels, it seems the computer will sense when you're doing well in a game and 
 adjust itself. In other words, when the computer decides you've played well long enough, it will 
 turn the entire momentum of the game around. My players will no longer be able to shoot... open 
 court dunks that simply miss... I could have a wide open three, and airball it. But the commuter 
 offense rips open a 14-0 run and is hitting 15 footers with three defenders jumping up with them. 
 Next thing you know you went from up six points to down 14. That's just crazy. This is not just 
 a problem in NBA 2K. Basketball games have been like this for a couple years now. I'm hoping with 
 these new next gen systems and multiple cores and threads that AI can be more realistic and refined.
 
  
  One area Visual Concepts has never had to worry about is presentation. And they retain their edge 
 this year too. The level of detail in the character models and arenas continues to impress. The 
 player models have been refined to look and move more realistically, and include some signature 
 moves from players, like Shaq's hook. The player faces actually look like who they are supposed 
 to be, something I still don't think Live does well. Each of the arenas looks incredible from the 
 court to the banners hanging from the rafters. And the crowd stays full polygonal people in the 
 stands waving their inflatable tubes on the basket ends. The coaches, refs, players on the bench, 
 commentators are all polygonal characters as well. There are some nice new shot and ball handling 
 animations, like a defender grabbing and trying to yank the ball from the handler. Hey, and thank 
 you for fixing the "running in place" animation when a player tries to drive in and a defender 
 is in the way. Now the defender will push back on the ball handler. It gets repetitive, but it's 
 there. Now since 2K Sports also lost the ESPN license, NBA 2K6 has a few new sponsors. For example, 
 you have the Triple Bar Replays, and the Toyota Truck "Keys to the Game". Visual Concepts did NOT 
 take losing ESPN lightly.
  
  On the sound side, many of the cool things from 2K5 are back again, not just custom soundtracks 
 but arena music too! Create your own music for specific in-game stuff. Commentary this year is 
 done by CBS Sports' own Kevin Harlan and Kenny "The Jet" Smith up in the booth and Craig Sagle 
 down on the court as the bench reporter. And if that wasn't enough, and this surprised even me, 
 there are training videos in the game to teach you how to play that are narrated by my favorite 
 NFL 2K announcer, Dan Stevens and Peter O'Keefe!!! Maybe that's a sign of things to come for them, 
 but it was really great to hear their voices again. At one point in one of the videos Peter says 
 "And you CAN'T coach that!!" to which Dan replies "You've been waiting all year to say that, haven't 
 you?". Great stuff!!
  
  Maybe basketball games have hit a limit and we're really going to have to wait for the next generation 
 before things step back up. NBA 2K6 is absolutely better than last year. But it's not the powerhouse 
 it once was. I still love the game, but they need to fix some things before it really hits the 
 Xbox 360. IsoMotion either needs an overhaul or it needs to be scrapped. And PLEASE do something 
 about the computer AI. But on the flip side, I love the new shot stick, and the strip and rip controls. 
 The game still has a solid flow to it, and only NBA Street has better street hoops action than 
 this game. From what I have heard and seen, the Xbox 360 version of this game is going to be out 
 of this world. I can't wait to see that. In the meantime, this is a good game to prepare yourself 
 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjolnir334
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 27, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k series has always delivered the most realistic basketball experience. Once problem I had 
 with previous 2k games was the isomotion. I often found it a terrible way to control the players. 
 Thankfully this year Visual Concepts have revamped the controls and have greatly improved what 
 it used to be. Instead of using the right thumb stick to perform crossovers you now pull the right 
 trigger and use the left thumb stick. This may seem awkward at first because you use that thumb 
 stick to move the player, but don't worry it works incredibly well. They have also changed up the 
 shooting. You can choose to just use the simple X button but if you can get used to the right thumb 
 stick controls, you'll soon find out how much deeper the controls can be with it. What direction 
 you push changes your shot. So up for a basic shot, left for a left handed shot, right for a right 
 handed shot, and down for a reverse. Of course this only alters layups and dunks. 
  
  The A. I. in the game is rather good. I can't seem to remember the last time I've lost to the A. I. 
 on default difficulty. Another nice thing is that they do not do it through impossible shots, but 
 rather play with skill to beat you.
  
  The graphics in the game are some what of a mixed bag. First of all the players look down right 
 amazing. It some times hard to tell the difference between the game and real life, especially when 
 at the free throw line. On the other hand coaches, fans, and refs all look terrible. In fact it 
 is basically current gen displayed in HI-DEF. 
  
  I have two big problems with this game. The first is the presentation. Due to the fact that they 
 don't have any official license it kinda feels shallow. My other problem is that other then the 
 graphics there are no real improvements over the box version. So if you already have it than there 
 is no point in paying $70 for virtually the same game. 
  
  Overall NBA 2K6 is a solid B-Ball title. It offers a wide variety of modes, but if you've already 
 picked up the current gen version, there's no need to pick up this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abrussa
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  This game is addictive specially if you are a nba lover, one of the amazing things about this game 
 is not too much the graphics is the online and multiplayer mode, is so awesome that nba 2k6 update 
 the roster every time having all the teams updated with the correct level. This game is great for 
 nba lovers. I recommendo you this game 100 %. I hope the next one just amuse me because this one 
 just amaze me. You will have so much fun playing this game, just becarefull who you are playing 
 with, they are a lot of people that like just to win and not to play a sim game, but besides that 
 the online game is amazing specially when you are in a league. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doops
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 27, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K6 has completely left it's other competitors in the dust such as NBA Live 2006, which was 
 atrociously shallow, and NBA 06. The visuals in NBA 2K6 are unmatched by any other sport's game, 
 except possibly Madden 06. Although there are a few glitches in teh game, such as whenever you 
 a player goes up for a reverse layup, it is almost a guarentee to go in the basket, no matter what 
 you do you block it. Another glitch is that players iwll make extremly unlikely shots, such as 
 throwing the ball 80 feet across the court and making it, or taking a tournaround, fade-away 3-pointer 
 with 2 people in their face, and swishing it. Although at first, the controls might seem uneededly 
 complicated, and changed around, but once you get used to the new controller configuration you 
 will be able to use all of teh new and usefull news to your advantage. The online mode of the game 
 is very good, and allows you to keep almost every single stat in the game. Whether it is the percentage 
 of times you cover the ball handler, or how good your shot selection is. Along with your success 
 at stealing the ball, and blocking. If you are looking for a basketball game for the Xbox 360, 
 or ANY system for that matter, NBA 2K6 is the game you should get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360warrior
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  This game looks great, especially when im playing with my favorite team, the Miami Heat. The game 
 has better depth in it then Madden 06 and better controls the NBA Live. On-line is fun, achievements 
 are super easy, and it has a some-what in-depth season mode. Fun to have when you just wannna dunk 
 with Shaq on your buddys, or shake some guys with Wade. There isn't much to say except this game 
 plays exceptionally well and is the best game ive seen this far to stream music with. If you follow 
 basketball the least bit, buy this game. An 8.5/10 just because it isnt a must have for everyone.
 
  Gamertag   PHINS FAN 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanteKiller
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  First it was Full Auto, then it was GRAW, and now NBA 2K6 for the Xbox 360 is the newest game that 
 awes the entire audience with next-gen graphics. The graphics are incredible. At first, the players 
 are dried up and look their best when they enter the stage. Once the game gets going, you can see 
 the player sweat to his last drop (literally) . When you zoom up close during the replays, you can 
 see that the players have been given only the best amount of detail this side of Madden. But sometimes, 
 the players in the game don't exactly look like the players in real life. For example, Dwayne Wade 
 doesn't just look like the real thing -- he IS the real thing. But when you go to Shaq, he looks 
 like he just got ready for Shaq-Fu 2: Attack of the Retarded Level Designers. But, then again, 
 this IS one of the first sports games for the Xbox 360. If there is one other thing wrong with 
 the graphics, it is that now we can see reporter Craig Sager's horrible outfits clearer than before. 
 Jesus, it looks like a wardrobe only a mother could love. Yellow and pink?! I've seen androgynous 
 men with better style than him.
  
  Moving on, the sound design is also well done. This is the most overlooked aspect of a videogame, 
 but when it comes to sports titles, Visual Concepts nails the sound of the NBA. The commentary 
 runs like you are sitting in the crowds watching the game or watching it on TV. Voices echo from 
 one side of the court to the next while the fans cheer on their favorite teams. Again, there are 
 a few things that they could have improved on for VC's first 360 outing. When you are zoomed in 
 on the players, you can't hear anything that they say; not on the sidelines, not on the court, 
 not even at interviews. But this is a minor complaint that can easily be forgiven. The soundtrack 
 also has a great impression. You have lisenced tracks from artists like Ghostface and RJD2, making 
 for an ear pleasing festival of joy, rapping, and sweaty men.
  
  But graphics and commentary alone don't help a sports title if it doesn't have excellent gameplay, 
 which is where NBA 2K6, or even the other 2K titles, succeeds. Sure, you still have the same dunks, 
 layups, and passing controls as before, but the real hook to this version is the dual analog control 
 that they put in the game. You can use the second analog stick to tweak your dunks or layups to 
 perfection. The AI is also very well done, staying in between the fine line of Perfect Dark Zero's 
 high school dropouts and Dead or Alive 4's rocket scientists. Your opponent will try to block your 
 shots as hard as they can when it comes to the regular shots and layups, but when it comes to the 
 dunks, I have two words for you: Shaq Attack.
  
  To sum it up, NBA 2K6 is a game for the NBA fan: complex and satisfying to the very end. There 
 are a ton of modes to find in here: quick matches, 24/7, season, tournament, Xbox Live, and more. 
 With near-perfect graphics and quality gameplay, NBA 2K6 could not only be the best sports game 
 of the year, but one of the best basketball games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  2K6 is a great bball game that I enjoy a lot. Now, the players faces aren't even nearly as realistic 
 as Live's but, the clothing and overall body of the players is perfect! From afar it looks much 
 more like a real game than Live. The one thing that everyone doesn't like about 2K6 is the fact 
 that the dunks are weak! You play Live and they have some of the sweetest, strongest dunks around 
 that fit perfectly, then you play 2K6 and Vince does nothing special and Shaq just seems weak at 
 times. Other than that though the game is SO good! Love the shot stick and the way the players 
 move. It looks so real! Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheerio2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Probably the best basketball game out. This has great graphics, a decent soundtrack, and the controls 
 are pretty easy. Online has no lag and it is a game you'll play for a while. Many features such 
 as Association, 24/7, create a player and team, and much more. If you like basketball games you 
 gotta get this. If you want an all around basketball game get this and not NBA Live. This game 
 is more for serious basketball players. It doesn't have as much arcade feeling as NBA Live. Controls 
 are a little harder in this game but it doesn't take to long to get used to. If you like playing 
 basketball games and your willing to spend the money get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: idealbasher
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  When NBA 2K6 was released on the Xbox and the PlayStation 2 earlier this year, it brought forth 
 revolutionary new control mechanisms in the shot stick and the new isomotion juke system. This 
 allowed basketball fans to have extremely detailed control over their players. These new control 
 systems were married to an excellent-looking game engine that shined in both graphics and realistic 
 artificial intelligence. If you've been waiting for the Xbox 360 version of the game, then we have 
 good news, and, depending on how you look at it, bad news. The good news is that the Xbox 360 version 
 maintains everything that made 2K6 on the Xbox one of the best basketball games released in years. 
 The bad news is that if you already own the Xbox or PS2 version, this version doesn't play a whole 
 lot differently -- it's pretty much the same game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  After the NFL license was swiped by EA, Visual Concepts had to really stick it to the NBA Live 
 franchise. With no ESPN or NFL game to work on, 2K6 competes so well with so much precision, NBA 
 Live is pretty much dead this year.
  
  Barring menu presentations and splash screens, NBA 2K6 has three things going for it from a visual 
 standpoint. 
  
  Tons of animation, flowing jerseys, and pretty sweat.
  
  It isn't so much the details of the players' faces and their tattoos but the way they approach 
 the basket and the way they defend the player. In the NBA Live series (especially on PS2) , player 
 animation is less creative when colliding or guarding each other. Under NBA Live animation, they 
 are similar to paper dolls reacting to each other - clunky and unnatural. 2K6 does away with this 
 with clean motion technology where one motion flows into another making a player look seemless 
 on court. What's really impressive is not so much how good animation looks when the ball is slamed 
 into the basket but more so on how a player transitions from offense to defense and vise-versa. 
 Players react realistically.
  
  In close-up camera shots, the flowing physics-based jerseys float from the skin and look gimicky. 
 Just imagine invisible shoulder pads under the jersey. But from Press View, the game really makes 
 a difference. From this view the game makes a huge statement in graphic realism. This is a great 
 thing since most of the game is played in this view and adds to 2K6's player movements look even 
 more natural. Add a nice set of detailed sweat textures as you're playing the game and you have 
 a very solid formula to compete as the most realistic looking sports game to date.
  
  On the controller, play selection, ball control are very natural when compared to NBA Live's interface. 
 The alley-oops fest which was so prevalent in NBA Live's last previous games never existed here. 
 Instead, you must learn to recognize defensive stances and tactics and run the plays that are effective 
 to cut to the basket. With cross dribbling under a single control stick, it makes things that much 
 easier. Much of what you see in 2K6 has been done on NBA Live albeit more cleaner and more natural. 
 This natural control even flows into free throws - where your timing and manual centering of the 
 analog stick substitutes for the imaginary crosshairs on the backboard. This is perfect for head-to-head 
 play when you deliberately want to miss the free throw in certain situations. 
  
  The other nice feature is 2K6's plethora of playcalls to choose from both on offense and defense. 
 Unfortunately, these plays require some form of practice and the practice mode doesn't do much 
 to help you execute those plays. I guess the 2K6 developers expect you to learn through the season. 
 By practicing the plays and recognizing cuts and picks, the game gets suprisingly deeper than expected. 
 Once you're used to expanding past post-ups, isolations, and pick and rolls, 2K6 makes playing 
 a Point Guard a blast to play.
  
  2K6 does have a few drawbacks. If you're a newcomer to the franchise, you'll feel as if there is 
 a huge difference between the difficulty levels of Rookie and Pro in the 2nd half of the basketball 
 game. Under the Rookie level, you can easily run to the hoop alone doing simple juke moves. The 
 Pro level plays similarly to rookie... at least for the 1st half. In the beginning of the 2nd half, 
 you get cold and the AI becomes hot. This is where learning the plays will help you contain those 
 annoying superstar players who seem to make every shot.
  
  2K6's other modes of play are similar to what you've seen in NBA Live and previous installments 
 of the NBA 2K series (i. e. Crib, Season, etc.) . There really isn't much to see. That's ok though. 
 On the ball courts of 2K6, the work really shows. It is better than any new gimmicky mode (i. e. 
 slamming contest) . That's a good sign of real progress. 
  
  Some graphical annoyances include the in-game presentation of the fans. The fans are still a bit 
 clunky and blocky taking a little away from the game and Mike Bibby still looks like a monkey. 
 But thanks to the smooth animations and colorful play-by-play commentary, the game is very enjoyable.
 
  
  Diehard basketball fans are required to buy this game. 2K6 is one of those basketball games where 
 the hardcore and casual basketball fan can enjoy. For 2006, it is the best basketball game to date.
 
  
  radcastro. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxfan6978
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 13, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K6 is one of the few sports games on the XBox 360 console that is worth the $60. The graphics 
 are great on a normal television and are just plain incredible when played on an HD television. 
 The detail is incredible, you can see every bead of sweat on a players face, you can see that player's 
 facial expressions as they drive to the hoop. Of course, however, there are little flaws in the 
 graphics (as with every game) , but all in all the graphics are will blow you away. The gameplay 
 is great due to the elimination of the Isomotion stick and having that be incorporated to left 
 analog stick. This makes the jukes seem much more natural than in NBA 2K5. Also teams and players 
 play just like they do in real life. For example when you are playing the Heat, Antoine Walker 
 will jack up 6-8 stupid three's against you and Shaq Daddy will take it strong to the hole almost 
 every time. The only thing I dislike about the game is that the soundtrack really sucks, but that 
 is not a problem if you have put your own music on your 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrian1480
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K6-360 was a respectable addition to the NBA 2K family, but it has its shortcomings.
  
  THE GOOD:
  -Classic 2K gameplay. The 2K gameplay is outstanding and always has been. Its 
 nuances demand you run plays and execute on offense and defense. Not adjusting is the fastest way 
 to lose a ballgame.
  -Player graphics are awesome. Most players look fabulous... and the cloth physics implemented make 
 you just want to see players move around. hard to get enough of.
  -If you have friends around, there are few games as enjoyable to play against someone than 2K6. 
 Online makes it last even longer.
  
  THE BAD.
  -Some players have simply unrealistic flesh tones. I don't know who the art director was... and 
 I don't know why the BLACK project manager didn't object, but some of the players (K. Garnett, 
 J. Richardson) are black as MIDNIGHT... and clearly look poorly colored. 
  -Playing against the computer at times is unfair. You'll lose more than you'll win against the 
 PC. And if you prefer to not run plays, you'll never win a game. If that means the computer has 
 to shoot 70% to win... it'll do it.
  -While some players look awesome, many others look NOTHING like their real-life counterpart. Even 
 some of the real starts (eg. LeBron) don't really look like them. Others look down right scary. 
 They must improve next time around.
  -Coaches look like their lastGen counterparts. And they look even worse when standing next to their 
 dolled-up players.
  -The sweat is awesome.
  
  All in all, 2K6 is an excellent game that's deep and blows away its competition. With some ammendments, 
 2K7 should be fantastic. But those things that were bad really need to be addressed, as they clearly 
 and quickly take away from the gameplay experience.
  
  If you don't have friends that would want to play 2K6 regularly with you or unless your favorite 
 NBA team is really good, just make it a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurrtySouf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 11, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok this Game is the BEST basketball game OUT! Yeah, The Graphics on Nba Live 06 are good, but EA 
 cant mess with 2kSports Basketball Games.
  
  Gameplay: The Game is Perfect, Gameplay Outstanding not much i can say here. Except When you Go 
 Online, if you are going to, get prepared to get dunked on By The Lebrons, T-Macs, Kobe, Wade Type 
 People. But, It Is Very Easy to stop them just get use to the game.
  
  Graphics: They Sweat and Look like the real Person you See in real life. Just By Seeing a Person 
 on a Replay out of the random i can automatically Tell Who It Is.
  
  Sound: Not Much To Say But.... PeRfEcT :)
  
  Online: for all you who have played this on xbox/ps2 
 u sould know. It is always somebody in any lobby you go to, Most of the Time. But the Online Leagues 
 at 2ksports just make you love the game even more, I am in about 4 and i love them all. The pages 
 are updated alot and putting teams/players in the spotlight. 
  
  Overall: Worth The Buy, If you havent played 2k basketball games This is a MUST Try/Buy/Rent.
 
  
  Souf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  This is a great baskeball game that offers it's own unique challenges. While the achievements are 
 a breeze so basically you can score a quick 1000 GS in an afternoon. The teams all look great tnd 
 the graphics are all around stunning. Online play is just as fun because your head to head against 
 someone who could be T-Mac himself. It's great to play around with and multiplayer games are a 
 ton of fun. The soundtracks are good and provide a sort of street feel to the game. You should 
 definitely pick this title up if you like basketball, but I would also reccomend that you look 
 at NBA 2K6 first as it provides a realer approach to basketball in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiwanfrenchy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  It is a game I decided to pick over NBA LIVE 06 as since Live 04 I don't ever buy any NBALive games 
 because it is simply unrealistic. On the Xbox the only problems 2k games had was the graphics, the 
 music and the menus. As the xbox 360 is the next generation platform, it does have the engine to 
 make 2k games gorgeous but still saves the realist plays. The dynasty mode is more relevant as 
 you do start with some money this time!
  everything looks cool, now what I really would like to hear is that College Hoops 2k6 will be as 
 nice and that we'll be able to import our college players on NBA 2k6, and there it will rock!!!!
 
  For me, the best basketball game ever, can't wait the next NBA 2Ks on the 360!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nilihist
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K6 is the coolest basketball game out right now. The nex-gen visuals are awesome, the player's 
 look fantastic, the shot stick very comfortable, and you can make you own character to go in the 
 NBA which is sweet. The bad is that the crowd and coach's look like last gen graphics and you need 
 a HD to get the most out of the game. It suck's to see these nice character's huddling up with a 
 bad frame-rated coach. The live really isn't that great either and plays just like the last NBA 
 2k's. Overall NBA 2K6 is still a great game and hardcore basketball fan's will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  This was one of two basketball games that came out on the 360 at launch. I've always played 2k on 
 my PS2 and was torn because the graphics on NBA live for the 360 was awesome also. But thank goodness 
 for reviews and previews. I decided to stick with what I was use to, that's right same ole same ole. And 
 I wasn't disappointed, not only is the gameplay extremely easy but this has to be closest to the 
 real thing that I've seen in years. Sweating, sweat marks on the shorts, back of shirts. During breaks 
 when the players are heading back to the bench you can tell who's tired and who's spent (done) . The 
 feel of the players moves, dunks, passing the ball is fluid. Tho at times there are a few plays and 
 players that do look cartoonish. Come on flying pretty much from mid-court to dunk... and your a 
 center. Funny... funny... but all and all this is a fun basketball game and worth the $60.00 bucks. Can't 
 wait until 2k7 probably have armpit hairs/deodorant streaks....... can't get no real than that. ENJOY!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amazingz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 5, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This is simply the best basketball game out for every console out there.
  Why? well this is why..
  
  Graphics: Well its obvoious there is a graphic improvment on the 
 next gen console xbox 360. Skin texture and playe face models were outstanding and what i found 
 amazing was how the jersey and shorts would move in a realistic motion. Overall these graphics 
 out do the other competitor nba 06
  
  Gameplay: 2k6 desided to play it safe and keep it almost identical to the xbox and playstation 
 2 gameplay, which I thought was a smart move because the gameplay for xbox and playstation 2 were 
 simply outstanding.
  
  Audio: Hip hop is the main feature in this game and i found that it stuck to what nba games usually 
 do and i found it to be amazingz. 
  
  Sound effects: When getting that nice swish it sounds amazingly realistic and those hardcore dunks 
 gave the game a smash!
  
  Overall i recomend this game to all the basketball gamers and this will certainly stay on your 
 console for a while to come!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elpuertorican
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 5, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I could have bought 2K6 for the Xbox, but i wanted to wait for the 360. I was not dissapointed. This 
 game has it practically all. Godd graphics, decent sound, innovation, interesting controls, The 
 Crib... this game rocks. Its one basketball game i wont stop playing until 2K7. The graphics are great, 
 and i didnt see that much of a difference from HDTV to TV. its really a worthwile basketball game 
 to any fan of the NBA. The controls are a little tricky but once you get used to them you will like 
 them. The teams are balanced and the gameplay itself is really balanced and the 24/7 is as good 
 as ever. This is a must-buy for basketball fan-360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 4, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K6 is the next gen's posterboy for HDTV. If you have one, you'll be befuddled by the detail. 
 One time I actually stopped playing and dropped the controller because I thought I was there or 
 watching an HD basketball game. Then I went upstairs and saw a basketball game on SDTV and NBA 
 2K6 looked better than the actual game. If you have a regular TV though, the only thing to seperate 
 this version from the Xbox or PS2 version are replays and cloth physics. Not to mention $10. Plus 
 jaggies become noticeable.
  
  Whether HD or not, this is still a good basketball sim. Skills we be rewarded but if you are careless 
 (aka chucking a pass three-quarters down court) , or even making one too many passes on the fast 
 break, you will get picked off. The only complaint about gameplay is that with a good shoot (cough 
 Kyle Korver cough) you can step a few steps behind the arc and drain 3's all day. 
  
  Sound. Up and down. Crowd is loud and announcers are OK, but some noises like dunking sounds, just 
 don't seem right and are just like NBA 2K5 on Xbox.
  
  You'll have a good time with fanchise if you buy it, or it's fun for a week if you rent it. (seeing 
 as acheivement points can be easily well... acheived with the sliders or a created player) .
  
  HD- Worth playing... definately
  
  SD-If you don't care about the reduced graphics... worth 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerPlayer914
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Pros: Jaw-dropping player models; depth of options; addictive game modes; solid online play
  Cons: Sideline characters lack detail; generic arenas; lackluster achievements
  
  So you were 
 one of the lucky ones to score an Xbox 360, and youre the envy of the neighborhood with an HDTV 
 to take advantage of its so-sharp-it-hurts resolution. You also happen to be a sports junkie, which 
 means you are in the videogame equivalent of nirvana. The basketball war between rivals EA and 
 Take Two has continued onto the Xbox 360 as part of the systems launch lineup, much to the delight 
 of fans looking for the best b-ball game available. On one side of the hardwood, is the venerable 
 NBA Live series, which has redesigned its entire graphic engine specifically to take advantage 
 of the Xbox 360s advanced technology. On the other side is the NBA 2K series, which has focused 
 instead on overhauling its on-court player models while retaining all of the popular features found 
 in the Xbox version. 
  
  Sweating the Small Stuff
  
  While we would love to say that both games reinvent the way basketball videogames are played, neither 
 are dramatic departures from what is already available on PlayStation 2 or Xbox -- at least from 
 a feature standpoint. It all comes down to sweat. Not the amount of hard work from the developers, 
 which is also important, but rather how detailed the visuals are when it comes to rendering actual 
 beads of perspiration. Both companies have prominently advertised real-time sweat for their respective 
 games, so visuals are obviously a major emphasis for this seasons basketball crop on Xbox 360. 
 Thank goodness the system cant replicate smell, or else players would be reaching for deodorant 
 sticks and Odor-Eaters before their controllers. 
  
  New Years Resolution
  
  The developers for NBA 2K6 spent most of their time in tweaking the player models, which look fantastic. 
 Droplets of sweat are noticeable on players, and bodies become more, well, dank, as the game progresses. 
 Muscles are now clearly defined, and the animations have improved to the point where little flicks 
 of the wrists, one-handed grabs, and pro hops look extremely lifelike. 
  
  The sharpness in resolution means you can read individual tattoos without squinting, see the difference 
 between those who could use a shave and those who already did, and notice just how intricate cornrow 
 braids can be. Uniforms now move with the momentum of players, so baggy shorts will flutter while 
 driving to the hoop, jerseys will flap when jumping for a shot, and other nice touches. Expect 
 to be surprised the longer you play the game -- even the free throw routines have been revamped. 
 
  
  Trouble Vision
  
  While the athletes look great, sideline characters such as coaches, cheerleaders, and fans do not 
 sport the same amount of detail. This is especially evident during the frequent cutscenes, where 
 bland-looking coaches talk to extremely detailed players. Another quibble is that the arenas are 
 all generic outside of the hardwood courts. The developers cut a few corners by changing the logos 
 and graphics on the court instead of capturing the authentic NBA venues. 
  
  Other areas for improvement include more realistic hair and smoother transitional animations. Some 
 of the shaggy-haired players, like Steven Nash and Mano Ginobili, have hair that stays perfectly 
 in place no matter how fast they are moving. Fans will also notice animation quirks like players 
 continuing their running animation against stationary defenders, for example. None of these issues 
 are deal breakers, however, and most will likely be addressed in future installments of the series. 
 
  
  The Complete Experience
  
  Unlike NBA Live 06, all of the game modes featured in NBA 2K6 on Xbox appear on Xbox 360. Players 
 can participate in the addictive street-themed 24/7 mode, where they create a player and build 
 up his attributes by challenging NBA pros and celebrities to various one-on-one contests. The franchise-like 
 association mode is also available, and you can purchase all-star teams, fantasy courts, and other 
 goodies to populate your crib. 
  
  Players who jump onto Xbox Live can create custom leagues and/or tournaments with up to 30 players, 
 adjusting the playoff format, number of games, schedules, and much more. Quick matches can be filtered 
 to include the top 900 or the top 100 players, and choices can be further refined to include feedback 
 percentages. The one drawback to the otherwise robust online experience is that the developers 
 only included five trivial achievements, all of which can be completed offline. Compare this to 
 Perfect Dark Zeros whopping 50 achievements, and you have to wonder what the developers were (or 
 werent) thinking.
  
  Nothing But Net
  
  Based on features alone, NBA 2K6 is the slam-dunk choice for Xbox 360 basketball. The player graphics 
 are beautiful, with or without an HDTV, and the controls have slightly improved since the games 
 appearance on the original Xbox (players can now enter into a defensive crouch by tapping on the 
 left trigger button) . While there is certainly room for improvement in the games television-style 
 presentation, sideline visuals, and color commentary, the overall fun youll have clearly outweighs 
 any shortcomings.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrod009
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  If you love basketball, you will love this game... Amazing graphics, great gameplay, this game is 
 so much better than NBA Live... NBa live has a terrible camera view and the graphics arnt too great 
 they look like the players look like there is a a too much sweat coming down them... If you love 
 the 2k6 series and NBA you will definitely truly enjoy this game.. I cant wait for the graphics 
 to get any better becaue this game will look so good especially with an HDTV... this game is great 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROLLTIDE06
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  Sure, there are only 2 next-gen hoops games out there - but this one is definitely the best. Everything 
 returns from its' XBOX counterpart. The only major difference is the upgraded graphics. And the 
 upgraded graphics are absolutely gorgeous. It's nearly breathtaking to see the movement of the 
 players jerseys and the incredible detail of the players themselves.
  
  The gameplay is very solid (AND it has a Franchise mode) and is definitely more simulation than 
 arcade. I usually lean towards the EA games when it comes to sports , but basketball has always 
 been the one sport that I've never really had a favorite between 2K and EA. Over the past couple 
 of years, EA hasn't stepped up to the plate like the 2K series has and has solidified its spot 
 as my #1 hoops game. 
  
  If you are torn between the 2 and don't know which game to buy - then I would suggest renting them. 
 The biggest turn off of NBA Live for me (other than the gameplay) was the exclusion of dynasty 
 mode. NBA 2K6 delivers solidly in all aspects of the game and this is definitely the right choice 
 for any hoops fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santana4545
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 30, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I've been an EA fan forever, but I decided to try this version of 2k sports for the 360. I was 
 blown away by the gameplay and the different game modes. I noticed the big difference between the 
 two is that EA focuses more on visuals than gameplay. Not saying that NBA 2k6 doesn't have great 
 visuals, but the players actually feel 'real' and not stiff like like in NBA LIVE. I also love 
 the fact that you can choose to play different modes like tournament, practice, and street ball. 
 It's a nice break from a regular simulation. One thing that EA has not done for its 06 lineup is 
 have a "create your own player" feature. For some reason I have always found that feature very 
 appealing and 2k sports has it. Overall this game has a lot of depth and has the ability to keep 
 you trying to achieve more and play harder. I recommend this game to anyone. As a long time follower 
 of NBA Live and EA in general I think we might have a new champion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michiguy1982
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 29, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Alright i know this game is alot like the ps2 and xbox versions, but don't try to fix something 
 that ain't wrong. So as usual i will just list the good and bad things.
  
  Good:
  - Fun and addictive
  - Replay graphics are amazing
  - Alot of signature moves, including free 
 throw routines
  - Has legendary players like Dr. J and Magic and alot of others.....
  - The street court game is innovative
  - Each person in the crowd is 3D. Meaning they move around 
 in the crowd and aren't blocks like in past games. During blow-outs, the crowd starts to leave
 
  
  Bad:
  - The usual, alot of controls to remember. Both the right thumbstick and the X button is used to 
 shoot
  - Easy is too easy, and any diffuculty rating above is too hard
  - Not alot wrong with this game other than that........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cancerbad
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 27, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  First off this is a great game.. I am new to the 2k6 series, and this was the first 2k6 b-ball 
 game I've ever played. I rented Nba Live 06 to compare the two and I have to say this game blows 
 EA away.
  
  Gameplay-The game play is very nice. The shot stick is a great addition and they should keep it 
 in next years game for sure. The dribbling moves and crossovers and what not are done well but 
 it can get a bit easy to crossover people. The shot stick really shines when you are going in for 
 a lay up or dunk.
  
  Graphics-The graphics are amazing, the player models are incredible (the black players are a lot 
 better than the white players for som reason though) The crowd is about as good as most xbox graphics 
 but that is a good start since these are the first games to put hole polygons as the crowd.. I 
 think.. but anways i recomend this game just for the eye candy.. But the one drawback is that if 
 you want to really enjoy it you need an HD...
  
  Sound- The crowd sounds real which is good.. ( I usually listen to music while playing it though) 
 and the announcers are preety good, the sneekers sliding against the ground sounds real and other 
 miscellaneous things make it shine.
  
  Value-It has great value.. I just wish they would have pollished the street ball a little more.. ex. 
 there is a glitch that when you are on defense you can hold the intentional foul button down while 
 running and the player will stay still while running.. its wierd.. and also i have had to restart 
 the game a few times because in the middle of the game i am incapable of passing the ball (it is 
 not the controller) . But other than that everything seems good.
  
  In conclusion if you are hesitant on which basketball game you want defianetly go with this one.. 
 Coming from someone who has played both i know what i am saying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechedude
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 26, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Here is the following review of a game i like to call....
  
  -----------------NBA 
  
  Gameplay: 
 The gameplay is solid, steadfast and awesome. No problems in the gameplay department except for 
 the occasional glitch in which the player loses his / her pants. 9 out of 10
  
  Multi-player: Great Multiplayer online or offline. But if you feel like settling a grudge, Play 
 against your friend over a girl or something. 10 out of 10
  
  Graphics: Of course, it gets a 10 cause it has ~real~ sweat! the graphics rock. the cloth ( jersey) 
 on the player actually moves!! 10 out of 10.
  
  Sound: 2k sports did a great job while working with the music. Honestly, the music is awesome mixing 
 with R&B and Rap, perfect blend for NBA 2k6
  10 out of 10
  
  Value: it'd cost you $60 why not give the value a high rating? the game is awesome in the value 
 department. 10 out of 10.
  
  Tilt: it's a great game in all but the game settles with a 9.7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codizzle42
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 24, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  At first I did not think that this game was as good as NBA Live 06 for XBOX but after I learned 
 how to play it and played for a while it really grew on me. I have become quite addicted to it 
 and like it more than when I first got it. It is also a pretty good game on XBOX Live, it is fun, 
 and easy to find a match. I recommend getting it if you enjoy playing sports games. Also don't 
 get frustrated just because u don't like it at first, because when I first got it I was really 
 disappointed, but then I started getting into it and I have become very fond of it.
  
  Codizzle42 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 22, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are excellent and you tell that is where development time was spent. 
 The overall experience for this game is enjoyable but there are some irritating things about it 
 too.
  
  Repetitive commentary, I think they spent a whole 10 minutes recording the commentary, because 
 there is no variety at all and it's just irritating to listen to them say the same stupid comments 
 over and over.
  
  Also, a lot of the play is just unrealistic, hitting half court 3 pointers is something you would 
 almost never see, and 90% of the time your get fouled you also get the basket.
  
  When comes to free throws, I find the mechanics awkward and hard to determine when to shoot the 
 ball exactly right, you don't see any kind of meter or gauge to tell.
  
  During season play, you can see the last 3 games your opponents has played on the season calendar. 
 This is good, it shows you the score, but you have no clue if they won or loss, it's just the score.
 
  
  Even with all of these irritations, the game play is very smooth and moves right along, I like 
 the crowd atmosphere it's like they get involved in the game making it seem more realistic.
  
  The only thing that I miss is a ESPN Sportscenter update like what they used to do with ESPN 
 football, that would of been cool. 
  
  This game is fun to play and would buy it again..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hightower8655
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K6 is one of the greatest simulation style basketball games I have ever played. The graphics 
 are amazing, with an incredible amount of detail that makes the players seem more lifelike than 
 ever before. However, this game is much more than a graphical centerpiece for the new system, as 
 it offers several modes of play and an advanced, yet simple to get used to play mechanic.
  
  High Points: First off, the graphics are outstanding! Most of the players look either exactly 
 like or very similar to their real life counterparts. Visual Concepts even took the time to make 
 sure that the bench players all look very similar to their real likenesses, and that is impressive. 
 Also, the sweat effects, replays, and overall presentation simple add to the overall beauty of 
 this game. Kudos. Next, the gameplay is very innovative. The right analog stick is used to control 
 shot types in this new edition (as opposed to isomotion moves, which have been remapped to the 
 right trigger) , and this allows you to decide what kind of shot or dunk your player attempts. Will 
 you simple put in in with heavy traffic around the hoop, or will you try the riskier move to posterize 
 your opponent? The choice is yours. Also, the amount of modes for this game is impressive, with 
 an in depth franchise mode, and street ball modes to add more depth
  
  Low Points: Like many basketball games, stealing is more of a roll of the dice than it is a test 
 of skill. I like how the right analog stick controls the pass intercept attempts, but some of those 
 are questionably executed. On the ball stealing is a complete game of chance. Also, so of the free 
 form athleticism of the sport is lost in the translation, but that is to be expected, and this 
 game comes closer to realism than any other released to date.
  
  Conclusion: An outstanding basketball game. A gem to any fan of the series, or sporting games in 
 general. Though it is not without flaw, this game shows that we can expect great things in the 
 future from 2K Sports.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: falker27
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 18, 2006 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is pretty awesome. One bad thing is I play a few games and save them. When I 
 turn back on my xbox 360 I can't load the game. I go to the load file and it says it loads. I can 
 check the season stats and game info, but can't get back to playing the season where I left off. 
 Please Help me with this! Thanks!!!!!! I think this game has good graphics. To bad they are not 
 as good as the instant replays it has. If the game looks like that while you are playing then it 
 will for sure be next generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody998
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 16, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  
  NBA 2006
  
  NBA2K6 is one of the first sports games to hit the Xbox 360 and with good presentation and style 
 and gameplay that is similar to the previous versions of NBA games it is sure to be one to buy 
 if you are a sports game fanatic. You may need a HDTV to really enjoy what the game truly has to 
 offer to you graphics wise but this shouldnt put you off buying it if you are considering buying 
 it but only have the standard SDTV
  
  Much of the game mechanics remain the same as the previous versions of the game that got released 
 for the older consoles years ago which is a small downside, but this never really needed to get 
 changed in the first place as its still almost flawless and makes for good gameplay and so that 
 experienced users with the older NBA games may find it easy to pick up and play and be good at 
 it. The games single player is good as it has a lot of customization and tools to manage your players 
 and hone your gameplay .Also the Cut scenes are good and the presentation overall is stunning and 
 with good AI to top it off it truly is one you should consider buying or at least renting even 
 if you cannot get onto Xbox live. Xbox live is great on this game, with smooth connections, no 
 lag and easy to set up and join a game of choice and a large number of games up the whole time 
 there is no frustration to be had playing online and the whole experience is fun, easy , reliable 
 and most importantly has a next gen online gaming feel to it.
  
  The game remains true to its real life player counterparts as the players in the game will act 
 and play just like they do in real life and do the same kind of stuff and play styles which are 
 really cool. They also look a lot like they do in real life but sometimes if you look closer you 
 can tell the textures are not right or they really dont look like proper skin textures and look 
 a bit strange .Also with all the special sweat and clothes moving when they run effects there is 
 bound to be a few minor glitches so if you look closely you can see small imperfections on the 
 player models , plus the coaches and audience and TV presenters look like they are torn straight 
 out of the previous games which gives an overall rushed feeling towards the game and really dont 
 look right when standing next to next gen player models with sweat dripping from them while the 
 audience and coaches and other people remain like they did in the older versions.
  
  The game also has great sound effects and a great soundtrack consisting mainly of new hip hop tracks 
 from new artists. The crowd although may not look alive but they sound alive and the cheering adds 
 a lot of real sounding emphasis onto the game and the commentators also sound amazing and as if 
 a real live basketball match.
  
  This is definitely a rock solid launch game with very few flaws to complain about. It has great 
 style, gameplay, graphics and Xbox live function as well as single player and 2 player. The series 
 has without a doubt got a whole lot better over the past years and this really shows it off to 
 the fullest. Definitely one to get if you are a sports game fanatic.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K6 introduced a new method of "balling" to me with the shot stick. Until now I had always 
 played NBA LIve so I do not know if it is old news or new, but I can tell you that it makes the 
 game require that much more skill to put it above all others.
  Graphics wise the game gives you a new look at the fans, three dimensional, and unique, as well 
 as cutscenes of fans entering the arena or buying concessions. The two things that absolutely blew 
 me away about NBA 2K6 was that the sweat visuals were so realsitic that it made ME feel hot and 
 in desperate need of a shower. 
  Also it gave you mascots and cheerleaders, but more importantly it had stunning clothes mechanics. 
 A players shorts when he is running or his jersey when he is bumped bring a new level of realisticness 
 to the floor. It made you feel like you were watching TV.
  The only bad thing is that a ugly white outline seemed to be one some of the player or character 
 models. It detracted from the realism and is my only complaint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I just say WOW I'm so glad I bought this game. Its fun every time you play and the Online is just 
 what the 360 needed for its first 2k sports NBA title.
  This game proves that if EA hadn't bought up the rights to the Exclusive NFL Licence that the 2k 
 sports version of the NFL would have blown Madden away and thats why EA did what they did.
  
  Whether you are playing the single player portions of the game or you are whipping up on your 
 friends this game delivers all around fun for everyone. ( *HINT* 360 ) he-he
  
  The gameplay was solid and the graphics will blow you away. Players sweating up and down the court, 
 showing fatigue and facial expressions, and the replay function is awesome.
  
  The New Free Throw feature makes you feel more into the game, I love things that bring you as close 
 to the game as possible. Man I Love to Dunk and baby is it sweet when you walk of the court with 
 a win. 
  
  One really bad thing but hardly anything that would Kill your game Buzz, but the Coaches and the 
 Announcers are really strange looking and DO NOT belong in this game with the amount of detail 
 that is in this game. The Announcer as the ugliest suits and has the "Handy" the Hamburger Helper 
 Hands, seriously check it out. Other than this, thats all I could find in the game that I didn't 
 like.
  
  If you are into sports and you need a good game to fill your need on your 360, Definitely Buy this 
 game. But if your wallet is still kinda empty from the Holidays then Definitely Rent this one.
 
  
  GameFly. com @ $20 a month is a great way to rent 360 games, Instead of Blockbuster @ $8 a rental 
 for just a week. Plus with Gamefly. com you can have 2 games for the whole month or trade them in 
 for others with no extra costs. Check it out if you are a big game renter.
  
  Thanks for reading my review, Please check out my other reviews on 360 Titles.
  I Love you All
 
  -Crim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  Out of the two NBA games out for the 360 I would have to give this one the edge. It seems to flow 
 a lot better then EA's 06. Very easy controls and all the great NBA superstars. The graphics in 
 this game are amazing and the sweat is unbeleiveable. Your player doesnt start out sweating he 
 progressivly starts to. Needs a little more anti alliusing as some things arnt as sharp as they 
 could be and the fans in the arena could use a little more work but other than that a great game. 
 A great multiplayer game and for any basketball fan I reccomend you give this game a shot if you 
 havent already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 12, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  All hail the king of basketball video games! 2k sports has once again proven they are a better 
 developer than EA Sports. ESPN NFL 2K5 was better than Madden '05, ESPN Major League Baseball 2K5 
 was better than MVP '05, and NBA 2K6 is better than NBA LIVE '06. While the so-called next-gen 
 Madden on the 360 is a complete dissapointment, NBA 2K6 is not. The graphics are shockingly good, 
 the gameplay is rock solid, and it plays beautifully. Simply put, this is the most realistic basketball 
 game ever created. No, it's not perfect. 
  More work is needed on the animations to make them a bit more fluid. The coaches need to look as 
 good as the players. I'd like to see better stat overlays and maybe even a studio pregame and postgame. 
 As far as gameplay, some shots on the floor are a little too tough to make, and defending a dunk 
 is nearly impossible. All told, I'm nitpicking. The bottom line is 2K Sports is on the verge of 
 making the perfect basketball simulator. The best sports title available for the 360. One last 
 thing: this game is not for novices. If you want to play on AllStar level or better, you better 
 know how to ball. The controls are great, but complex, and it does take some getting used to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killuminati4181
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k6 has everything a real BBall fan can want. a real franchise, street ball, great graphix, 
 great game play. i would advise every body to get this game. The Nba 2k6 is a solid game. it has 
 the best graphix i have ever seen in basketball. it runs very smoothly, players physics are on 
 point. the dunks and crossover are exactly were it is suppost to be (no arcady or street ball, 
 Just real Sim) . it has alot of options and online gaming that is out of this world. if ur tiered 
 of the 5 on 5 harwood bball just take it to the street in Road To EBC. it is definatly the most 
 complete bball game out there for the 360 (I have NBA live too, lets just be serious EA half-assed 
 us on the 360 with slick grafix and not much input in there games) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-dog007
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 11, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  I am very disappointed in Gamespots review of this game. 
  This was the first & last time I'll ever buy a sports game not made by EA Sports. NBA 2K6 is the 
 worst sports game ever made, granted the graphics are very good, the game runs like a computer 
 nightmare. The commentary is almost 3 seconds behind the game play, it runs so choppy that I almost 
 feel like Im playing an old computer game that doesnt meet system requirements; not playing my 
 $500 Xbox 360. Everyone is so caught up with the graphics that they dont realize how bad the game 
 play is. Every game made for the 360 should have great graphics, that what we are paying for.
 
  Gamespot where were you on this one? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kewz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 10, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  Ok lets start i have been playing basketball games since nba 2k and when jason kid was on the cover 
 of live. First of let me say that in the previous xbox i owned both nba live 05 and nba 2k6. Every 
 year since 2000 2k was the better b ball game but in 05 nba live took the crown. For simple reason 
 alot of problems with the nba 2k6 and their association mode was horrible felt more rpg to me. 
 So back to 2006. Live 2006 preety much was the same game as 06 nothing different but the new special 
 moves game become more arcade while still fun just all out arcade. so i sold it bought 2k6 at first 
 it took getting used to the shot stick which i never use and should be taken out, and the new free 
 throw are my only 2 compliants. Other than that its deeper, more realistic bball game their is. 
 The animation is fluid and realstic. Yes you may have to fix the sliders a bit . For example if 
 you throw a pass far the games A. I will always pick your pass. The association mode is deep from 
 realistic trades, to training individual players. Overall 2k6 took the crown for this year hopefully 
 2k6 will keep listening to gamers and keep making great games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Of_SeeD
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  The long anticipated arrival of the first generation of sports games for the XBOX 360 is upon us. 
 2K Sports NBA 2K6 is the first basketball title to grace the shelves for hoop-crazy XBOX 360 owners. 
 Fans of the series that have already played the XBOX or PS2 versions will find the 360 version 
 plays exactly the same. Save for the gorgeous visuals and a few tweaks to the controls, the different 
 versions are identical. But this is not a bad thing. NBA 2K6 is the only choice for basketball 
 purists. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  As I mentioned previously, the XBOX 360 version is virtually identical to the XBOX version. All 
 the gameplay features you have grown accustom to are back. Players can jump into an exhibition, 
 enjoy playground style games such as 21, or go through a full season. The 24/7 mode also returns 
 with a new twist: it is now endorsed by the actual Entertainers Basketball Challenge. As before, 
 this mode grants you the chance to take a created baller and make him into a street legend. 
  
  NBA 2K6 gives gamers a fantastic depth of control. The scheme, involving several secondary 
 functions through use of aggressive modifiers, has a bit of a learning curve. Players not accustomed 
 to 2K Sports style of control may feel a bit frustrated initially. But I encourage those who do 
 to take the time to learn the system. The game richly rewards your patience. The shot stick feels 
 a little awkward at first. But I quickly began found it to be accommodating and natural. That being 
 said, tough, I do have one gripe with the control scheme: the dunk. I still think there is no better 
 way to handle dunks in basketball game than the one-button dunk system featured in EAs NBA Live. 
 Using a modifier plus the stick in a certain direction does open up a world of control options. 
 But I guess I just have a bias towards the immediate satisfaction of a thumb mashing dunk. To each 
 his own.
  
  
  
  
  
  There are also some minor clipping issues. I dunked through the back of the backboard on a few 
 occasions. I sometimes watched as the arms of players going up for blocks or rebounds seemed to 
 pass through the rim as if it were vapor. On occasion, the AI seems to have bizarre lapses in judgment. 
 I did not appreciate Shaq being moved out of the paint to guard speedy point guards at the top 
 of the key. I also thought it seemed far too easy for the computer to get off contested shots. 
 These minor gripes aside, NBA 2K6 is a fantastic game of basketball. 
  
  Graphics
  
  Wow. NBA 2K6 looks gorgeous. And for those blessed with an HDTV, it looks gorgeouser. Everything 
 is so sharp and defined. The movement of the jerseys and the shifting of the muscle mass beneath 
 them is very life-life. Throughout the course of the game, you notice that your players begin to 
 sweat quite a bit. Jerseys start to show sweat stains across the waist line and down the back. 
 Close-ups on the players show small variations in skin tone. Even the reflections in the backboard 
 look startlingly crisp. There are so many animations for different players in different situations. 
 You can also see every crack and slight imperfection in each empty seat in Philips Arena. It looks 
 frighteningly real at times. 
  
  Sound
  
  The game almost sounds as good as it looks. And, given how great it looks, that is more compliment 
 than critique. Kenny Smith and Craig Sager deliver great commentary. The stadium sounds are authentic 
 and hit your ears with tremendous fullness. Combined with the visuals, the audio component of NBA 
 2K6 helps deliver an authentic arena experience. 
  
  
  
  
  Depth
  
  NBA 2K6 gives gamers a veritable cornucopia of gameplay options. The 24/7 mode will require a serious 
 commitment of time and attention. The online experience enhances the replay value tremendously. 
 And given how well the core gameplay feels, basketball fanatics will quickly become addicted to 
 the authentic feel of NBA 2K6. 
  
  Fun Factor
  
  2K Sports has fashioned one brilliantly entertaining basketball title with 2K6. Fans who prefer 
 a simulation experience will be delighted to no end by this title. I cannot say enough good things 
 about this game. 
  
  Overall
  
  2K Sports keeps their winning formula intact, porting over the original XBOX version and enhancing 
 it with a few control tweaks and incredible graphics. NBA 2K6 is a must play for XBOX 360 owners. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikthe10man
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  THIS is a basketball game. Through all the years of the running and gunning of NBA Live, NBA Shootout, 
 the older 2k series, Double Dribble, and even Takin it to the Hoop (!?) , video basketball had many 
 constants - tons of points scored, weird player movement, and virtually no defense to speak of 
 outside of cheap A. I. and/or rampant stealing/blocking. Many a gamer spewed profanity laden grievances 
 about the way the game would do "dumb stuff". No longer is this the case with NBA 2K6. The players 
 feel as though they actually have weight, and the shot stick gives you offensive options that gives 
 total command over the on screen action. The "aggressive" button is a refreshing change from the 
 turbo buttons of old. Sure, anyone can still ring up a zillion points, but the pace of game is 
 nearly perfect. The defense is actually refreshing to play. The control is DEAD-ON. If you lose 
 against a human opponent, generally it's no one's fault but your own.
  Graphically, the game is beyond being merely decent... although you'll need a HD monitor to fully 
 enjoy the beauty of 360's graphic engine - otherwise, it looks just like a regular XBox game on 
 any analog television. The sound is pretty cool, but I turned off the god-awful hip hop music and 
 played my own songs from the hard drive. Really, who the hell listened to the music before they 
 put it on the game? A deaf man? Sheesh! I even heard a NBA Live 06 song played during the game!
 
  Overall - best hoops out. Recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa-k
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  My header says it all, i ckecked the reviews for this game and was happy with them as well as the 
 images. The graphics alone says it all, the players sweatin' the realism of their faces with expressions. 
 The game play is quite is easy to adapt to, at first when they introduced the right control stick 
 as the shooting buttom i said "hell no" i forgot to change it in the game options and now i'm lovin' 
 it. Another thing i like is saving your replays on your HD which is another interesting thing. 
 Graphics are so detailed that with sum players who have a bald head u can c the razor bumps and 
 stubble on their heads, and all what i say about the graphics r not even on a HDTV so imagine if 
 u do have 1 ( which i do but my 1 yr old would dismantle my 360 the minute he sees it lol) trust 
 me this is a game for every that's any b-ball fan out their. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360123
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  the game has changed so much. Whether it's having almost perfect animatioms or having the best 
 graphics on any basket ball game to date this game is simply awesome. I's say 2K sports is going 
 to have a great future for the 360. Another good thing about nba 2k6 is its ability to stay new 
 for a very very long time. the reason it will stay entertaining for a vaery long time is because 
 you have so many modes to choose from and the gameplay is so so so sweat. Bottom line is that if 
 you're going to buy a basketball game for the 360 get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connorgrains
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I was going to buy NBA Live 06 for this system, because I have it for gamecube and psp. But my 
 brother Patrick told me to buy this game because of its better reviews, so I payed attention. I 
 brought my X Box 360 home on new years day at 6:30 am and started playing this game. What I saw 
 shocked me, and as a die-hard gamer, It put me in absolute awe. This games graphics are unlike 
 anything you've ever seen or expierienced. The pants and jerseys move, sweat stumbles down the 
 players face. Each player has his own real life reactions and shooting forms and style of play. 
 The crowd looks reals and the courts do to. When the player misses a shot, it does not just hit 
 off the back of the rim. It can go off the basket anywhere, which makes the game more realistic.
 
  
  The game is easy to learn and the sound is great. This game is a perfect way to show someone next 
 generation gaming. I highly recomend this game to NBA basketball game lovers, and graphics lovers 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 3, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I had a chance to play this game today. And yes I will compare it to Nba Live 06. The only difference 
 about both games is that Nba 2k6 is a lil quicker and more up to pace on the court. I thought this 
 game would look a lil better than Nba Live 06 or Nba 2k5 being that is next gen. I don't see the 
 difference between Nba 2k5 and 2k6. I only thing I noticed different from 2k5 is the jersey movement 
 and the player close ups. But full court view you can't tell the difference between 2k5 for PS2 
 and 2k6 for xbox360. If I would chose between nba live 06 and nba 2k6 I would pick Nba Live 06. 
 The players look more realistic and the coaches don't look like box figures like they do on nba 
 2k6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malowqb16
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  If you like basketball, GET THIS GAME! It is one game you can play alot. The graphics are just 
 so amazing. The player models are very realistic. The coaches are not that good looking, but still 
 good. Gameplay is good. One bad thing, its to easy to Dunk, but still very fun. Online is very 
 good too, one of the best bball games ever. I Love how the shorts wave and how you can see the 
 holes in the Jerseys. I dont have an HDTV, but it still looks amazing.
  If you watch bball, it looks exactly like that. The 24/7 mode is very cool. You create your own 
 player. VERY COOL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Sure, NBA 2k6 is $60 bucks along with many other sports game, but I can tell you right now this 
 is the one that's worth it. The graphics are mind-blowing, they're just AWESOME! You can see the 
 players sweat and the jersey doesn't stick to their body anymore, it has it's own physics and the 
 jersye will move up and down when the player jumps and the shorts will also move along with the 
 player's movement. These are just incredible details that they manage to capture and the graphics 
 are a huge jump. Other wise, NBA 2k6 has The Association, which is franchise mode and everything 
 to offer. If there's a game to showcase some of Xbox 360's best graphics and offer you the best 
 basketball experience on the new console. The shot stick is not a very great addictive, it's usefull 
 once you get use to it, but when you get couple of buddies over, you're gonna have to give them 
 pop quiz about what's shoot, pass or you'll have to go thru the annoying trial-and-error or the 
 constant "Hey! What's shoot?" The shot stick is a minor problem in this otherwise the best basketball 
 game in the next-gen! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skihawks
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:17 pm PT
Review:  What people want to see from next-gen games is a major leap in graphics. NBA 2K serves up some 
 of the best visuals in regards to player models and animations. Watching Paul Pierce stand outside 
 the three-point line, one-on-one with a defender and palm the ball as he protects is unreal. However, 
 there are many graphical items that I don't understand, especially for being a next-gen title. 
 The arenas are decent but no working scoreboards? The coaches are PS2 models, which does not mix 
 well with the 360 player models. The sweat and uniform movement brings realism to the game. Although 
 the player faces are not up to par with NBA Live, the ball physics will leave your jaw on the floor...
 
  
  The gameplay is where 2K needs a bit of work. Computer controlled players tend to stand around 
 once they run their designed pattern. Defense is almost non-existent and the controls need a major 
 tune-up. The shot stick, although an original idea, has to go. I'd prefer the right analog stick 
 be used to control cross-over dribbles, spins, etc. 
  
  2K also has its entire package in place, bringing all of the extras you see on the current gen 
 consoles. The game is deep although the presentation was not altered from the current gen versions.
 
  
  Overall, 2K is the best playing hoops game on the 360 which is not saying much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawarrior030
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games out. ANY game for Xbox 360 has unbeleiveable graphis but this 
 game is so well balanced. The creators did not spend all their time on the game play or the graphics 
 of the players. The improved the graphics in the crowd a lot. Some games still have two demnsional 
 crowds. The commentators give play by play. When players are taking free throws, you can see the 
 sweat dripping down their face. Computer players play exactly how they should. The spurs in this 
 game play like the spurs they post up and pass. The suns look for the fast break and take many 
 three pointers. THIS GaME IS WAY BETTER THEN NBA LIVE FOR XBOX 360. I REPEAT THIS GAME IS BETTER 
 THEN NBA LIVE FOR XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giflow
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 2:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good, graphics are good ,could of did better with the court ,coaches and surroundings 
 ,players look ridiculously real. Sound is the best ive heard from a basketball and football games 
 ,could of have players talked more on the court ,commentary is almost like hearing a real game 
 on tv. The presentation is the best by far for a sports game. It really captures the excitement of 
 a Nba game ,with the halftime highlights post game hightlights the association mode and all that 
 little stuff the makes it a fun one player game (take notes EA) . Me and my roomate prefer playing 
 this over Madden ,because of its total control over the players, the gameplay is the best by far 
 as far as a sports game, still needs improvements, like some animations are slow for quick players 
 and it seems like everbody can be a point guard in this game cause everybody unrealistically can 
 handle the rock, most casual bball fans will probably overlook this though, but in most people opinion 
 realism is better. Overall this is a good game the best best sports game for next gen, that still 
 has a lot of room for improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kruegmeister
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:24 pm PT
Review:  The Players look awesome.
  Never thought I'd ever say this, but the Sweat looks amazing.
  The Players Progressively get more sweat as the game wears on.
  Their Jerseys will start to show 
 sweat as well.
  The Players look like their real life counterparts.
  The Jerseys move and sway on the Players which is way cool.
  
  I find it a bit too difficult 
 on the Rookie setting though.
  See, me and my son like to play together on the same team and we will sometimes have trouble winning 
 on the easiest Setting.
  
  Note to Gamemakers;
  Difficulty settings are easy enough to program into a game.
  So if they could just make easy 
 = easy.
  I mean on some games you should put a counter on it. If the Player dies 30 times in a row... THEN 
 IT IS TOO HARD... time to scale the difficulty back.
  Good thing the controllers are rugged enough to take a few throws...
  Of course on my PSP I can't 
 throw the Controller :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuiitsu
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 11:46 am PT
Review:  They say Nba 2k6 is for everyone but surely it is for the ADVANCED gamer, sometimes the game will 
 depend on cool blocks, and steals when you start you can tell you going to have some fun but first 
 you need to find the game strategy they play in order to know where their weak.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is very good, and very effective many things will make you wanna scream 
 and shout, it is a thrilling game, when compared with EA's NBA 2006 i would say they hang around 
 the same area at the moment.
  
  Graphics:
  From the sweat from the head, to the slick of the arena the graphics are truly impressive and show 
 off what the xbxo 360 can bring, if you have a hdtv you know what it's all about, the movement 
 of the players just look immensly real.
  
  Sound:
  The commentators in the game give the game a real nice effect, and the menu screen music is really 
 cool giving the game a real good urban effect for the urban gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtfulnick
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 11:15 am PT
Review:  When i first started playing the Los Angeles Lakers versus the Philadelphia 76ers on this game, 
 i thought i was actually watching the real thing. The graphics as many people already know are 
 amazing on this game. But i think that the gameplay is what makes this maybe the best basketball 
 sim ever created. In no basketball sim before this have i ever been able to get to the foul line 
 at least 15 times a game. Not just the graphics are realistic but the actually games can be realistic 
 at times with your occasionally ridiciously unrealistic game.
  
  I cant say anything about xbox live portion of this game seeing that i dont have live yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FarCry194
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 8:08 pm PT
Review:  First off, if your like me and you don't have an HDTV, then you should still buy this game. It 
 looks absolutely unreal when you first see it. I was completely blown away, and you could honestly 
 fake out your parents or old people... it looks that good. The gameplay is also amazing, it makes 
 you feel like your controlling a real game. It may take you a while to get used too shooting free 
 throws, and the new isomotion controls, but once you get it, its awesome. On gamespot, they say 
 to play it only on an HDTV, well I have to disagree. If your a basketball fan, an overall sports-fan 
 and you have 360, you have to get this game, its a must have in your launch line-up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 6:02 pm PT
Review:  I wasnt expecting much out of this game, after test driving a copy of NBA Live 2006 I just knew, 
 this was gonna be another one of those years. One of those years where the norm is to do much of 
 nothing to the game just add a few roster spots, and then charge you full price for it. You know 
 like EA is SO good at. So I was very surprised to see that NBA2K6 wasnt that way at all. Man, 
 Visual Concepts really did a number to this game. The A. I. is much improved, the defense is much 
 improved, and the game feels much, much more like a NBA game. Its really that simply. The game 
 isn't for the casual player, this is hard core basketball.
  I was very surprise to see the computer team take the ball to the wings, and fast break past me 
 like I was a school kid! I HAD TO PLAY DEFENSE, what a concept huh?
  The computer offense is way better at getting the ball down the court and getting a good shot off, 
 you wont see the computer waiting around for something to happen, it will take you to the hole, 
 and make you feel bed about it. Its awesome to see that. Even on the default setting the computer 
 teams are much improved. PLUS, this year they got the bug fixed so that the computer coach call 
 a time out, and does it at the right time. Its so cool to see my team run off 10 points in a roll 
 and have the computer coach frustrate calls a time out!
  The graphic also have improved, but maybe not to point I wanted it to, I think I will have to wait 
 to the Xbox 360 version come out maybe. The sound on the court, and in the booth has also improved, 
 with more court talk, and court cut screens giving the feeling of a live NBA game on the tube.
 
  I havent done much to the rest of the game, I dont really bother with much of that show biz 
 stuff, but I do love the improvement in the 47/7 game. Its deeper, and more realistic then before.
 
  Not saying for sure right now, I need a lot more time on the court, but this is a must have for 
 any B-Ball fan. This maybe just what weve been looking for, for a long time. The Xbox 360 add 
 so much more to the game, with 5.1 dolby Digital it's awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynamitehero
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 24, 2005 2:49 pm PT
Review:  this is a very very very good game... if you are a basketball junkie. in my opinion the game is 
 fantastic but ive been listening to alot of my friends and they dont seem to enjoy it nearly as 
 much as i do. they belive the game is too hard and is much to difficult to be fun. so as i said 
 if you really like basket ball you would relize that this game is is more life like than madden 
 with foot ball. if you could magine taking control of a real player in a game this would be that 
 game. if everyone saw this game through the eyes of a basket ball player people would enjoy it 
 alot more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n3oS7oRm
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 23, 2005 7:28 am PT
Review:  I bought this game on launch day and did a quick review of it by playing "Road To The EAC" I like 
 the features of the game so far, and it has plenty of content to keep basketball fans happy. Though 
 I'd personally like to see one save file for the whole game and not multiples, but I guess that 
 isn't possible yet. I'd also like to see more customization options. Anyway back to the game. After 
 playing the "Association" mode The starting announcements kinda disappointed me. I hate the loading 
 screen that shows a picture of the player and says their name, to me that doesn't show off any 
 of the graphics. The menus aren't very impressive, they seem like they were ported directly from 
 the original, as well as the coaches. The player models look pretty good, with an exception of 
 a few players that I have noticed. The sweat pouring off them is a awesome feature. This game will 
 have a long life with me because of the season modes, And I'm glad they didn't completely remove 
 all the goodies on this game. I strongly suggest you consider this before buying NBA Live 06. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_FrEsH_Ta_DeFF
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 9:12 am PT
Review:  Dis game is da best basketball is da best i ever seen.. da graphics are unbeliveable. i neva seen 
 a basketball game where da players SWEAT now dats sick. Da passing in dis game is nice also.. and 
 da second thing i like about dis game is da crowed, i looks so real makes u feel like in on da court.. 
 im not really crazy about basketball games but i'll play them, and i have to get a copy of dis 
 one, this is a classic. im probaly gonna get it on psp though because i know its gonna be addicting 
 so gotta have it on me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTomlinson21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 21, 2005 4:05 pm PT
Review:  All my life I have always boughten NBA Live games.
  
  But this year I decided to get NBA 2k6, because it at least had a franchise mode.
  
  All I 
 can say is that I am VERY impressed. The sweat graphics and jersey movement really brings the game 
 too life.
  And an HDTV just adds onto it.
  
  The gameplay is superb and is very like life.
  I feel that there are no glitches or anything 
 that makes the game somewhat dissapointing.
  
  The music I love, because its rap.
  
  And the game should have its re-play value be everlasting. Especially how fun online mode is. It 
 doesnt even hardly lag.
  
  Overall, I have had lots of fun with this game, and it has quite a bit of good features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blax1976
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 21, 2005 12:37 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k's latest edition of B-ball crushes the competition as usual. This year's game is the best 
 by far in the series. The graphics are spectacular, game play is on point, and the controls are 
 great - (just took some getting use too) . The simulation mode is fantastic. This is the most realistic 
 game on the market today, and just think.... this is just their 1st installment of the game on the 
 xbox360, it's only going to get better. I just love the overall realism of this game. With these 
 graphics, we could only imagine how good the 2K6 football game would have looked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SubSnakeX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 20, 2005 8:49 pm PT
Review:  When you first play the game you will realize that the load times are nice and short, so that is 
 quite nice. The menu's are really nothing special, but who really looks at the menu's anyway gameplay 
 is all that matters. The controls are really easy to pick up quick. It's pretty standard and easy 
 to control. The graphics will make you fall to your knee's as well. The sounds will rock you especially 
 if your a big NBA fan. If you got a favorite player, well they probably look just like they should. 
 The sweat on the characters is highly detailed, as well as the facial features/expressions. Scars, 
 acne marks, and pretty much anything from a live player is on this game. If your looking for a 
 next gen NBA game you probably found it, otherwise try your luck somwhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prestoner77
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 20, 2005 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Same as the Xbox version, almost all shots are similar, some are added but still not 
 enough to make the feeling any different than the first version. But the gameplay is still greater 
 and better than NBA live 06. 
  
  Graphics- Best graphics I've seen on the 360. There's just some slight problems with the cloth 
 animation, sometimes it overlaps on the player models' skin and it just looks so jaggie. Some players 
 need some improvement because they don't look like the actual players from the NBA while others 
 looks exactly the same and did a great job on it. I also think that they can do better on the hair 
 and maybe make it animate or move much more. But other than that, the graphics is outstanding and 
 as close to real-life.
  
  Sound- the commentators gets repetitive sometimes and needs more dialogue to say. Good Rap musics 
 on the interface.
  
  Value- Great Replay value, especially online. Give your best and try to get in a higher rank. This 
 game is definitely worth it. 
  
  Overall- currently the Best Basketball game in 360 and I fully recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blinke916
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 20, 2005 11:26 am PT
Review:  NBA2K6 is barely better than NBA live. If you are like my cousin and are fooled by a gam, e just 
 having good graphics then be my guest and buy NBA2K6. The game play in NBA2K6 is much better than 
 the gameplay in live. The 24/7 mode is a complete waste of time. Who in the world has about ten 
 hours every day to dedicate to a created player. I don't know about you guys but I go to school 
 full time and work. Not to mention I like to chill outside every now and then. If they wouldn't 
 penalize people for having a life then I would love doing 24/7. The game gets boring very quickly 
 in Association and the computer makes idiotic trades with each other. I also don't know why players 
 have the option to bring up players from the college game when it is coming out in March. By the 
 time the college games comes out I will have lost NBA2K6 somewhere in my house never to be found 
 again. I WOULD RECOMMEND TRADING IN NBA2k6 before it is too late. I mean did you see the graphics 
 that they done came out with. Madden 06 was made worse by the fact that it's graphics took up too 
 much room. NBA2k6 is definetly lacking in the graphics department. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njnaz765
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 3:43 pm PT
Review:  For a game that came out on both xbox and ps2, you would expect that 2ksports would add something 
 to their number one franchise. But as we all know, game developer's all live by the if it ain't 
 broke, don't fix it motto. But this isn't necessarily a bad thing.
  
  GRAPHICALLY
  this game boasts some of the best graphics that 360 games currently offer us. Unfourtunatley, the 
 games graphical updates are next to nothing when seen on a standard definition television. But 
 still, face models, in game animations and the jersey movements, still are an impactfull upgrade 
 when on any television.
  
  SOUND
  We all know back in 2001 or so, EA decided to make their menu's rock with liscensed music from 
 top name artists. Well looks like NBA 2k6 didn't get the memo. Don't get me wrong when I say that 
 some songs are catchy and even good, there seems to be only only recognizeable name out of all 
 the artists. This is sad because the one you probably have heard of is Redman. Not to say that 
 he is bad, but he really isn't the rap superstar we wanted. There are like a bajillion songs to 
 choose from, but it seems no matter how many times you encourage your player to SHUFFLE the songs, 
 it still plays them in a particular order. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  This game has the best gameplay animations, controls, and presentation. The animations look fluid 
 for the most part, but sometimes they seem a little out of place. The controls are revamped with 
 the addition of the shot stick, this is controlled through pushing the right analog stick down, 
 causing your player to perform a jumpshot, and release the stick to let the ball fly. The crossovers 
 are also mapped to the left analog stick making crossovers really quick and looking necessary. 
 Although, the crossovers can be hard to pull off sometimes. The presentation is top notch. The 
 game has opening intro's with shots of the fans filling in the seats and buying conscessions. The 
 game opens with a Toyota key matchup, then a halftime report with actual clips from your game, 
 the a useless "around the cooler update" which is really a generic comment from the coach, and 
 the post game report which is just 3 or 4 clips of the player of the game.
  
  DISSAPOINTMENTS
  I was sad to see that they didn't do what ESPN NFL 2k5 did with at the end of 
 a week, pressing start resulted in a 2-3 minute sports center episode with clips from your game 
 and other games. Also, NOTHING IS CHANGED from the original version, making this game suffer. A 
 couple of new animations and graphical updates is the best it gets on the 360.
  
  BOTTOM LINE
  If you love basketball, skip EA's NBA live and get this, if you already own the 
 xbox version, too bad, only the 360 version works on the 360. Thanks 2ksports, thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aftermath6
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 19, 2005 1:21 am PT
Review:  First of all, let it be said that there are not a lot of good products when it comes to basketball 
 simulations... this is by far the best one ever made though. The player movements are much more 
 fluid, the players' faces look incredible, and the instant replays drive the product home.
  
  There are a few glitches that you may not notice at first, but after playing the game for a 
 while you'll notice, on fouls especially that the players will go through each other and on some 
 defensive plays the player will vibrate against the other player. Both instances make for very 
 awkward visuals.
  Luckily, they don't happen enough to really bother anyone and the overall presentation is great.
 
  
  The coaches and crowd detract from the overall graphics and make the players look even better (but 
 just because they look so horrible) . I've read that both the coaches and the crowd are ports from 
 the regular XBOX version... unfortunate to say the least.
  
  No doubt, if you love basketball, you love video games, and you are dying for something that just 
 resembles the NBA then you have to buy this product for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukeAF24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I will start by saying that, yes I know it is a port from the current-gen consoles, but is that 
 really a problem? NBA 2K6 lives up to it's name by giving the best basketball experience for your 
 money. Most people might say no to the hefty sixty dollar price tag, but it is well worth the price 
 of admission.
  
  This games graphics are superb. Minus the fans and coaches, which are severely less detailed then 
 their on-court counterparts. Players sweat in real time, and dry off if they sit on the bench for 
 awhile. Their jerseys begin to get sweat stains as the game goes on. You can also see the nubs 
 on the basketball if you zoom in close enough. Can it get any better?
  
  The gameplay is were 2K6 shines. It is an exact replica of an NBA game. No easy baskets here. At 
 first, some may get frustrated, especially on the harder modes. You need to run your game the way 
 the real NBA players do. Call plays, set picks, double team, all that good stuff. You can't just 
 jam it home with T-Mac, or Lebron anymore.
  
  Online mode is quite fun, but is still full of plenty of exploits. In addition to that, their mandatory 
 feedback system is downright broken. If you beat someone straight up, 90% of the time that person 
 will give you Negative feedback, just because they are a sore loser.
  
  Overall, this game is worth the purchase for any basketball fan die-hard, or casual. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gizmo_ny
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 15, 2005 10:40 am PT
Review:  Man, this game has got me hooked! From the innovative controls and gameplay to the ridiculous amount 
 of options. I've put all my other Xbox 360 games on hold. I love the way each team plays like their 
 real-life counterparts, from ball hogs like Kobe and Pierce, to slashers.... like Kobe and Pierce. 
 The replays are a sight to behold. The Association mode is great, integrating practice, progression 
 and rookie scouting amongst so many other things, to create a deeper franchise. The soundtracks 
 are so tight, I haven't even had to resort to the 300+ songs I downloaded onto my 360. 'The Crib' 
 is just an ingenious addition to the game, something extra to do, and I love that aspect. I haven't 
 even started on the 24/7 mode. I honestly can't see how any basketball game fan would not love 
 this game. If you chose live '06 over this one, you WILL regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramobara
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2005 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is obviously the best basketball game to date. It is a wonderful NBA sim and this game 
 rocks my world and the world of the developers for NBA Live 06. Honestly there is absolutely NO 
 COMPETITION between the two. The graphics i have to say are absolutely amazing, except when you 
 come across the huddle and you see the most fabulous player models compared to the coach, I seriously 
 hoped they could've spiffed it up a bit, but hey, it's not that important. Back to the game, no 
 one but visual concept could have pulled something off like this, they did an amazing job, all 
 props go to you guys. The gameplay is off the chain, from the dunks, the passes, the crossovers, 
 and especially the shot animations; when you are on a fast break the shooter just doesn't pull 
 up automatically and shoot the ball stiffly, instead all his weight transfers from the front to 
 the back, its hard to describe but you should see it for yourself, it's mind blowing. The thing 
 for this game that sells it is, besides the graphics, is the depth that this game carries along 
 with it. I don't know all of this non-sense about the game looking jagged or unsmooth on a regular 
 definition television but it does look better on a HDTV of course, especially my 65" DLP HDTV, 
 not meaning to brag of course. If you are a basketball fan you definitly have to pick this game 
 up, yes EA has made good basketball games in the past but this year's 2K's year they definitely 
 deserve it. Speaking of which, the graphics for Madden 06 are horrible seriously imagine if 2K 
 sports made NFL 2K6, imagine the possibilities. And, seriously I'm not a 2K fanboy, I just play 
 the better games, don't we all? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scottyyeahbaby
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2005 9:02 pm PT
Review:  How much better is it.. well let me name a few things:
  
  AI is better in the 360 verison. Instead of not running plays down by 5 at the end of the game. 
 The A. I. takes over and will try to hit a three pointer with one of the star players.
  
  Players are slowed down. This is a nice thing, where in the xbox verison the players could all 
 run up and down the court very fast.
  
  The sweat is awesome... it's not overdone and look real. Even the sweat on the players arms look 
 really good. 
  
  This is a must game for any sports fan on the xbox 360. Don't miss the Jason Kidd kiss at the foul 
 line, or Labron's 360 dunks.
  
  Amazing Game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merkury622
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2005 11:50 am PT
Review:  I'm sure many will complain that the game is too similar to the Xbox version. To my knowledge, 
 2K Sports never hid that fact. If you watch a video interview on this site, you'll see the developer 
 discuss some subtle gameplay tweaks to the complement the graphics upgrade.
  
  So let's start with graphics. The player models look great. Are they as sharp as the players in 
 Live? No quite, but the 2K6 animate so much more smoothly and realistically. Having played both 
 games for at least several hours, 2K6 looks and feels much more like a real NBA game. The courts 
 look very nice. The coaches and fans need more polygons, which hurts the overall presentation a 
 little, but honestly I play the game to see the players.
  
  The gameplay is as great as it was on the Xbox. I love the amount of control and intuitiveness 
 the Right Thumbstick offers for shooting and defending. It's easily the best control scheme for 
 a basketball game I've ever used.
  
  I'm glad to see all the game modes from the Xbox version made it to the 360, which keeps the value 
 and replayability high.
  
  Some will complain that the game didn't change enough for the next gen console, but considering 
 this is still 2K6 and NOT 2K7, I'm very pleased with the outcome. 2K Sports obviously made gameplay 
 a priority over graphics, and I applaud them for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llost1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 11:17 pm PT
Review:  10 faces to choose from, and only 6 skin colors. The focus is the shoes. This makes a great game 
 to play for hours with friends, and its nice to see the teams doing what they would in real life, 
 instead of all teams doing the same thing, ex: spurs play differently then the Mavericks. The clothing 
 movement is a great asset to the game, because it makes it look that much better. But the low poly 
 coaches in the mist of all the high poly chars, is a big boo boo. The audience being low poly was 
 fine though since you dont see them in the game that often and since you dont see them with the 
 chars. The control is nice because you can get many different dunks in from the same char, instead 
 of just being 1 or 2 different dunks. The sweat on the players is a beautiful addition as well. 
 Now you can see who is playing hard, even if you didnt see them play. Worth buying if you like 
 basketball games at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevLar1980
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2005 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This is the best basketball game ever, well besides Double Dribble. If people give this a bad review, 
 it's because they suck at playing the game. The graphics are tight, enough said. Gameplay is good, 
 but sometimes the player you're controlling likes to do his on thing. The only bad thing is that 
 people that don't dunk on people, shouldn't. Robert Horry dunked on me like 6 times in one game, 
 and my defense is nice. If you don't think so, meet me online, gamertag: Kevlar2020. Other then 
 that, the game is all around fun, and looks all so beautiful on my 47" HDTV. That is a must if 
 you want the most out of the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marceloasesino
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 4, 2005 12:55 am PT
Review:  if you like basketball or sport games, you must have this game. the graphics are just amazing... 
 you wont belive how players sweat, how clothes move, and how muscles look.... you can even see 
 players veins on their arms! ..
  the gameplay is just as good as it was on the xbox and playstation 2... but you wont feel you are 
 playing the exact same game.. not only for the graphics, wich are sky to earth different, but also 
 the game has a lot of new animations that make it even better. i thought that one of the worst 
 things about nba 2k6 for xbox were the dunk animations, but that subject is almost 100% improved, 
 as a lot of the new animations are dunks that come to erase some of the previous dunks...
  the only bad thing is the coaches and the arenas... coaches are horrible; arenas are not that bad, 
 but they just dont keep up with the beauty of the player models...
  even so, i would never say that those 2 small reasons are enough not to get this game. 
  this 
 is a must have for all basketball fans and sport game lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaFish511
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are awesome a lot better off than i thought they would be expecially cause i dont have 
 an HDTV .. gameplay is one of the best things about it, its so real. You have even amount of fouls, 
 passes look real, there is over the back fouls called atually.. only downside i see from the game 
 is the fans and coaches they could work on that alot more to make them look like the players on 
 the court but im satisfied .. the replays go into detail a little more where you can see the sweat 
 on there skin come off or the stitching in the jersey.. If your one of those people who dont have 
 an HD right now dont worry bout it this game is still great without it. 2k games have been my favorite 
 for awhile because of games like this .. blows live out of the water. Get the game to understand 
 the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greydragon17
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:50 am PT
Review:  There isn't much to say except that NBA2K6 has recieved an graphic upgrade compared to the other 
 systems version. Though I've only rented this game on both the playstation 2 and on the XBOX 360 
 I must say that I prefer the XBOX 360 version of this game. Both are the same game and from what 
 I saw offers the same things... but it is very amazing to see how different the graphics are. The 
 players look so realistic compared to any other system as they are smooth, faces are enhanced to 
 look more like the players and the jerseys move very life like when they run or even better when 
 they cut into the hole for a jam! But it doesn't stop there as the players even sweat when the 
 game gets going and it looks so great as it adds to the experience of what actual goes on in a 
 real basketball game.
  
  A few draw backs are the graphic on the crowds and coachs are a little more smooth looking but 
 this can't really be seen when you see these amazing models of basketball player moving around 
 them. But you can really over look this.
  
  The game is the same as the rest except it looks reall really great on the XBOX 360. Specially 
 if you own a good quailty HD TV! It makes the game even better if you own one or even if your friend 
 owns one and will let you play NBA2K6 on it. A good game to pick up if you like sport games and 
 looking for something to start your 360 collection. Seeing this game makes me ready to see what 
 else they can do for future 2K Sport games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newgen1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 11:32 pm PT
Review:  This is the Basketball game to get. The graphics are amazing and the game play is tight. It took 
 a little getting use to coming from the Playstation 2 Version to the XBOX 360 version but after 
 playing it non-stop for 4 days I can say its the best Basketball game I have ever played bar none, 
 and I played them all. The flow of the game is just right. I had some friends over the house and 
 when they first saw NBA 2K6 they thought it was a video and not in-game play. When I told them 
 it was the actual play, they were blown away. If this game was just a pretty face I wouldnt care 
 for it ( example: NBA Live) but the game play amazing too. If you are looking for a Basketball 
 game, look no further then NBA 2K6. You wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostsod
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Alot of games for the 360 feel rushed.. sports games being the main ones. Nba live is garbage other 
 than graphics.. played nba 2k6 other day was impressed by it Its prob the sports game to get if 
 your wanting one . The coolest feature is the sweat dripping off players and as the game goes on 
 it get more profusive. If nba 2k6 was 40$ i would have gave it a 9.0 but since its 60$ i would 
 advise waitng a couple months till a prices drop.
  
  Madden = weekend rental . Graphics aint every thing EA son of B***ches monoplized the nfl market 
 than throw this crap in our face WACK! Bring back nfl 2k6. They really made a mistake there that 
 was the cream of the crop in football games! EA must think the game community our morons! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buttpuke
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 26, 2005 9:44 am PT
Review:  1st off, the graphics are absolutely beautiful. Almost like watching a real game. The stadiums 
 shine and the announcers are spot on. Live can't contest. The music is great but can get annoying 
 after a while and the menus are easy to navigate. Game play is good but not perfect. I think the 
 shot stick is cool but I'd rather use the stick for cross-overs. The cross-over system is flat 
 out crap. Holding down 2 buttons and then pulling the stick is too much to do in a split second. 
 CHANGE IT BACK! I just didn't feel like I had complete control over the players on my squad. Once 
 you get used to the goof-ball controls, this game really shines. The pace is quick but realistic 
 enough not to be called "arcadey." Alley-oops are much easier to preform this year and the helps 
 a lot in terms of fun factor. Defensive play is fun and challenging. Like Live, this game has a 
 free-throw shooting system that relies on pulling back the stick and releasing it at the apex of 
 the players follow-through. I don't like the feel on it. I know the whole next-gen thing is less 
 meters but I'l sacrifice on-screen clutter for better control. Still this is the b-ball game that 
 makes the 360 worth having at launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwkvck21
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 25, 2005 1:05 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is awesome and this game is really fun to play but the huge setback is that it's not 
 possible to pick more than one team in a season. Thats a huge dissappointment to gamers that want 
 to take on their friends or brothers in a full 82 game season to really see who is the true CHAMP!!!. 
 I would love to see the next 2k game have this option because i dont think it would be tough to 
 add and it would make this game a lot better. This game has great ballhandling moves and maybe 
 the best ever in a game. A few players could look more realistic but it's not a big deal. Everything 
 about this game is just great except for that one major addition that is needed. Me and my brother 
 love the Madden games because we can choose as many teams as we want and go at it all season long 
 with all of our favorite teams in a whole season and that is really fun. This game would flat out 
 be 10 if it wasnt for that because now we have to spend the whole season playing exhibition games 
 and a tournaments istead of picking 3 or 4 of our favorite teams and playing a the whole season 
 out and seeing which of our teams make it to the playoffs and which of our teams can win the championship 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SporadicSymptom
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Man.... I just can't believe it......... after all these years.... they still have not perfected Peja 
 Stojakovic's beautiful stroke! That is sad. Anyways this game is not worth 60cha ching. I mean 
 Shaq's ass sweat and Rasheed Wallaces' cigar mark in his hair is good, but the gameplay still is 
 mediocre. I have been dissapointed by all NBA games (minus NBA 06: The Life Vol.1) since 2003. NBA 
 Live 2003 has been the only solid NBA game I have played other then The Life Vol.1 This had spectacular 
 graphics but they need to up the NBA experience. Why does Kris Kaman look like a monstrousity from 
 hell? Anyways this was a good game graphically but still suffers from weak gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billydakid2k3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2005 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Yes, i know it seems theres nothing more than a roster update and better graphics here, but wait, 
 there is. Ok now lets start off by saying that the addition of the deffencive stance was a nice 
 one, but it has its faults too. Its is still pretty good though, i mean if you wanted new things 
 and moves and all that stuff, then you were thinking that this game was 2k7, and not 2k6 on a next 
 gen system. Yeah i had my doubts too, but play the game on a hdtv and it will blow you away. Its 
 not perfect on hdtv but its pretty damn close. Abd i think that the crossovers feel a liltle more 
 effective then the xbox and ps2 versions of the game, not much but a liltle. By effective i mean, 
 pulling off the moves, its got a liltle bit more controle, in its over all feel that is. It still 
 needs more work , but its better. It was the best hoops game on the xbox and ps2, and it still is, 
 but i dp agree they should have added some new things, like instead of 21, call it 33, and make 
 the street modes have an option that allows you to play like the and 1 street ball games, only 
 for when your bored of the sim style of play.
  
  This games still is the best bball game to date by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nba_fantasy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:26 pm PT
Review:  it looks like the only thing different about this new x-box 360 system is that all of the games 
 are gonna look more realistic then the old version of x-box dont get me wrong it is a good thing 
 to have in a video game but wouldn't u want the gameplay to be better. I think the 2k and live 
 series should have more fancy crossovers. Let me explain I'm not talking about some crazy off your 
 head through your legs streetball type of ricks just more ancke breaker moves like Allen Iverson 
 and what Steve Frances would do and more body trickmovement like wade and kobe would be nice to 
 have in a basketbal game also active players moving around the court without the ball like Richard 
 Hamilton Ray Allen and Allen Iverson you need more physcal intimidation movement from deffensive 
 player like Ben Wallace and Ron Artest that would draw attention to those type of players who wont 
 the ball in there hands or have u think twice when your about to pass the ball to one of your players 
 who are being guarded physcially them. I really think we need more dunks then just 10 i mean come 
 on you got the same dunks ever since the 2000 version. I remember on the back of the old 2k game 
 cases it said 60 dunks or somthing like that lol i see u didn't false advertise it this year good 
 one.... I also think having cut scenes is real coo but if u wan't to be a little bit more realistic 
 make players shake hands hug make them look like there saying whatsup to eachother at the begining 
 of the game with some competitiveness and atleast have the players chatting on freethrow lines 
 I mean damn players on the game ack like they dont even no eachother at all. I also think there 
 should be a little gameface some trash talk goin on lol dont get me wrong i dont mean cussing threatning 
 or some illegal things like punch him in the face i mean habds slaps on partners when make great 
 points nice play or toants like Ricky Davis Kobe Bryany and Shaquille O'Neal After they make a 
 Impressive dunk getting the inrire home court arena hype. ANother add on like fouls u should have 
 more foul movements then only just 2 of them like the karate chop to the arm in back or the on-purpis 
 carebear hugging make accidental body contact ones like a elbow tripping on another player's leg 
 spraining an ackle or falling on there backs then getting up showing other people that the player 
 u are controlling is the real deal like allen iverson and last but not least u have to have the 
 player enter act with the referees when they feel a foul call on them is wrong. I guess its alot 
 to ask for on the next series of 2k7 im not being picky with how the game should be made all these 
 things happen 99 percent of the time every game even when your playing a real game with your friends 
 it happens. I have a very strong feeling the 2k and live series can be very successfull if these 
 add-ons are made on there basketbal video games. I dont know what is the difficultoes about making 
 a game but there doing a good job with what they have going in 2006 I just think there should be 
 ADD-ons being made it shouldn't be a big deal of adding stuff that happens in the nba in real life 
 plus you have new techknowledge and new systems 360 ps3 dont dissapoint us in 2007....... lol feeling 
 pressure? Im just playing. Nice ghaphics by the way keep up the good work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmiller77
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:15 am PT
Review:  I opened this game with total excitement and I was not dissapointed. The game does play like the 
 Xbox and playstation version but that is a good thing but obviously it looks alot better. The players 
 have the tendencies of their real life counterparts like Kobe, and Iverson always wanting to take 
 the game in their own hands and Steve Nash with his crazy passes. The game is awsome and very worth 
 the money I believe the live reign has been ended. This game boast of every option you could ask 
 for many different modes like outside play and the innovative 24/7 mode where you can challenge 
 other takers online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HL2ROXS
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:08 am PT
Review:  2k6 not only looks and feels great but.... it has the same gameplay from 2K6. But lemme first start 
 off saying I have a standard tv and all I can think is this real life? I got confused the 1st time 
 I played it. These graphics are way better than HL2... and that is very hard. I don't want to spend 
 so much time writing a review since it is addicitice but all I can say is if you got the money 
 go buy it! The sound of the crowd roars a little when you get a money ball shot or a MUST NEED 
 shot.
  
  Gameplay: Same as NBA 2K6 for Xbox, PS2 so i'm going to rate it an 8.
  
  Graphics: Woah player models look just like themselves and the screenshots they have posted on 
 the website it looks better when playing it. The reason I gave it a 9 because of the crowd and 
 coaches looks ugly... But you will see sweat dripping, player emotion, and jerseys boucning and 
 all those little eye candies!
  
  Sound: Woah the ingame sounds are awesome, the commentary's might get repetitiveand so will the 
 crowd.
  
  Value: It is well worth your $60 if you've never played it before, but if you are a true NBA 2K6 
 fan you will get this game anyways.
  
  Final Verdict: 8.7 Great
  
  PS. My review for NBA LIVE 06 FOR X360 http://www. gamespot. com/xbox360/sports/nbalive2006/reader_review. html? id=202732 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:17 am PT
Review:  I do not watch pro basketball. I do not like pro basketball players. I bought this game due to 
 knowing that 2K sports makes good games. I have to say this game is really fun to play multiplayer. 
 This game shows off what the XBOX 360 can do in early developement. I do not like playing $59.99 
 plus tax for a game with the date on it, due to they don't hold value, but its a launch title. 
 I have to say this game plays really nice and wish 2K sports would make a football game as did 
 MIDWAY. Everyone that has seen this game on my TV has enjoyed playing it. I am waiting for the 
 college basketball game to come out. Thank you 2K Sports for making this game good. I still will 
 not watch the overpaid players in the NBA though... I can not believe I bought this... but this is 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yamabushi98
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 22, 2005 2:52 pm PT
Review:  lets look at NBA 2K6. 
  Did you look at it ? Ok. Now go play your cheaper Current Gen  choice. 
 
  Wow , you mean I can pay $20 more and I get better player models? what else do I get? ... nothing? 
 really? what a deal !
  But it does look better, barely, Thats worth $60, isnt it ? and I personally base all my game 
 purchases on graphics alone, gameplay? why would I want gameplay when I can look at pretty pictures.
 
  ps: feel free to cut and paste this review to all other 360 sports games, just add there missing 
 features.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kobe_kobe85
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:08 pm PT
Review:  it looks like the only thing different about this new x-box 360 system is that all of the games 
 are gonna look more realistic then the old version of x-box dont get me wrong it is a good thing 
 to have in a video game but wouldn't u want the gameplay to be better. I think the 2k and live 
 series should have more fancy crossovers. Let me explain I'm not talking about some crazy off your 
 head through your legs streetball type of ricks just more ancke breaker moves like Allen Iverson 
 and what Steve Frances would do and more body trickmovement like wade and kobe would be nice to 
 have in a basketbal game also active players moving around the court without the ball like Richard 
 Hamilton Ray Allen and Allen Iverson you need more physcal intimidation movement from deffensive 
 player like Ben Wallace and Ron Artest that would draw attention to those type of players who wont 
 the ball in there hands or have u think twice when your about to pass the ball to one of your players 
 who are being guarded physcially them. I really think we need more dunks then just 10 i mean come 
 on you got the same dunks ever since the 2000 version. I remember on the back of the old 2k game 
 cases it said 60 dunks or somthing like that lol i see u didn't false advertise it this year good 
 one.... I also think having cut scenes is real coo but if u wan't to be a little bit more realistic 
 make players shake hands hug make them look like there saying whatsup to eachother at the begining 
 of the game with some competitiveness and atleast have the players chatting on freethrow lines 
 I mean damn players on the game ack like they dont even no eachother at all. I also think there 
 should be a little gameface some trash talk goin on lol dont get me wrong i dont mean cussing threatning 
 or some illegal things like punch him in the face i mean habds slaps on partners when make great 
 points nice play or toants like Ricky Davis Kobe Bryany and Shaquille O'Neal After they make a 
 Impressive dunk getting the inrire home court arena hype. ANother add on like fouls u should have 
 more foul movements then only just 2 of them like the karate chop to the arm in back or the on-purpis 
 carebear hugging make accidental body contact ones like a elbow tripping on another player's leg 
 spraining an ackle or falling on there backs then getting up showing other people that the player 
 u are controlling is the real deal like allen iverson and last but not least u have to have the 
 player enter act with the referees when they feel a foul call on them is wrong. I guess its alot 
 to ask for on the next series of 2k7 im not being picky with how the game should be made all these 
 things happen 99 percent of the time every game even when your playing a real game with your friends 
 it happens. I have a very strong feeling the 2k and live series can be very successfull if these 
 add-ons are made on there basketbal video games. I dont know what is the difficultoes about making 
 a game but there doing a good job with what they have going in 2006 I just think there should be 
 ADD-ons being made it shouldn't be a big deal of adding stuff that happens in the nba in real life 
 plus you have new techknowledge and new systems 360 ps3 dont dissapoint us in 2007....... lol feeling 
 pressure? Im just playing. Nice ghaphics by the way keep up the good work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MJ2Sik17
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Live is a Friggin dissapointment and this is no better i mean at least EA tried to do something 
 different. 2k tried to change the graphics and slap on an extra 20$ are you serious. Same game 
 as on xbox please, they could have at lest changed the way everyone shoots the same. Now i just 
 dont know what to do Live changed everything or 2k Didnt change almost anything. Cmon all they 
 did is some motion capture stuff with the most boring player in the game shaq of all people no1 
 plays with him comn 2k I love your game but this is pretty low. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nosebleed01
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 21, 2005 12:09 am PT
Review:  This game is a joke.. i went out and got both nba live and 2k6 cuz i ve been a fan of 2k6 but live 
 just seemed so next gen so i had to get it even though i thought i d regret it .. now all i regret 
 is buying 2k6.. its the exact same game i have on my ps2.. its real sad... i cant beleive they 
 did this.. the only aspect of the game that has changed is the replay.. thats it!!!!!.. i have 
 to say the gameplay is amazing.. always has been but come on !! its x360 .. the new generation 
 of videogaming.. and this is the best they can come up with .. GET LIVE.. TRUST ME.. live s like 
 watchin a game on tv.. 2k6 is like playin 2k6 on ps2... very disappointed... finally live took 
 the lead.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unkkanny
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Every year I try to see which game is better in terms of having fun. I pick Live every single year 
 since whenever. On the next gen level... even though im a Live fan. I wanted 2k6 to be better because 
 I figured that they would change up their game play to be less stiff. The game is still stiff with 
 better graphics. I would go with live beacuase It just looks better. Most people who complain about 
 missing features probably dont play with many people (if any) . its set up for the consumer to pick 
 Better Graphics and animations (live) or a better overall package that is a complete port (2k6) I 
 say get what your heart tells you is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nba_lover
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 6:01 am PT
Review:  this game is the total basketball expierience. the graphics are amazing. the new cloth movement 
 is amazing. the game modes are the same which is good because nba live took out all there good 
 game modes like all star weekend. this game is the best basketball game ever made on the face of 
 this planet to this date. it is worth the 60 bucks and i give props to 2ksports for making this 
 game. next year just add a dunk contest and nba live wont have a chance. i have already gotten 
 this game and cant wait to actually play it. the only flaw is the coaches are not that next Gen 
 so they look weird next to the great players, but hu really cares about the graphics of the coaches. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rscpc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I've just played the game in my local game store as the clerk was nice enough to open a copy and 
 I must say It's everything I've been waiting for for years . Finally a game true to life as far 
 as the game is really played. I'ts not a dunk fest and finally you really feel your apart of the 
 scoring. I love that there is an outside game and you must pass with concern. It looks spectacular 
 and sounds just like my boys on TNT, I've played the xbox version nonstop since its been out and 
 they upgraded the player movement from standing around to layups to flow. I'ts great . Thats what 
 i loved the most. The experience. I Will not lose sleep over how the coaches, floors and fans look 
 because its all about the players in the end...
  
  Phila 76ers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BONECRUSHER001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2005 11:48 am PT
Review:  Over the years, the 2kgames series have grown to some of the top notch sports games of our decade. 
 This game is no ecseption. Nba 2k6 is a next generation fun all around basketball game with some 
 amazing graphics. It will probably take you around an hour to get the hang of it. Also if you've 
 played the previous secual 2k5, your gunna see a huge different in the controlls. Thats where the 
 flaws come into place. The new shot stick (right analoge stick) is confusing when you first pick 
 up the controll, your gunna see yourself throwing alot of half court shots by accedent. Also with 
 the next generation consual graphics, you'll see that the players just wont look as the really 
 do and that the couches or the crowed wont look any better than the xbox or ps2 versions. If you'de 
 played the original xbox version, i recomened that you dont buy it. Your gunna need a h/d t. v. 
 to see how good the graphics are, but still wont be a good title to choose at launch maybe a rentle. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zep311
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 18, 2005 10:43 am PT
Review:  I spent a lot of time wondering about how amazing certain games on the 360 were going to be. I 
 mainly wondered about Perfect Dark Zero and Madden, but I'm also huge basketball fan. I love playing 
 basketball games and so do all my friends. The one question was, which game would we get, NBA Live 
 or 2K6. Right now it's looking like 2K6. The graphics look real nice, and the whole jersey movement 
 is pretty cool. I heard complaints about the graphics looking too plastic-like sometimes, and sometimes 
 I agree, but I really don't care that much. What I do care about is what is really in this game. 
 I enjoy Live and 2K gameplay, so what it came down to is what does each game have to offer? In 
 Lives case, it offered to little for too much. Leaving me to this. If you're gunna buy a basketball 
 game, buy this one. It has a lot more this year and will probably be the most entertaining of the 
 two. 2K6 is my pick for this year. Hope its as enjoyable as it looks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvkoolaidmanvx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I pitched a tent... yesh i did. This game is truly next gen. Graphically its amazing. i could right 
 a 10 pg review just on the graphics. The gameplay awesome.. plays just like real b-ball with the 
 way teams play like heat going to shack... amazing. Nothing i can say to pick on it. ITs perfect 
 basically. This is a reason to buy a hdtv right there. Its eye candy finger pleasure and pitch 
 tent worthy by far. Compared to nba live... well nba live looks like crap compared to nba 2k6. nba 
 has expressions on the face... realistic sweat.. awesome isomotion... clothing movement and everyhting 
 a awesome nba game needs. nba live has no clothing movement and no facial expressions. and costs 
 more i believe. So pick up NBA 2K6 its worht every penny and more. Infact give the teller an extra 
 20 bux just for letting you have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabriel415
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 5:52 pm PT
Review:  The game is the best Basketball game for the Xbox 360 and it should convert new lovers of ESPN 
 2K Sports. C'mon Live fans, deep inside you know that EA Sports reign has sadly ended and that 
 2K Games now carry the torch. The game graphics is sharp i just feel that the crowd is a little 
 to stift and paper like. Also there should be a better introduction, bring it back to the old days 
 when there actually was an introduction. Also it is too easy to get inside the paint in this game 
 which prevents you from using your team full potential of defense. Just like the other 2k games, 
 after a while the game gets too easy, thus lacking competition and interest. However the game is 
 overall a good game and a great component of the new Xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebiddybop
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 31, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  If you liked nba2k6 or its predecessors for your xbox or ps2 then you'll love this game for sure. 
 It has everything that nba2k6 has except the graphics bring the game to life. The gamespot review 
 has alot of truths though. The coaching models and crowd a low grade graphics but the game isnt 
 really about them. It's about the players and the game of basketball. The game plays great. All 
 the game modes you loved from your other console versions are still here and great. If you have 
 an HDTV and like basketball then this is the game for you. Look no further then nba2k6 for the 
 xbox 360.
  
  Joe. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
