-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA Ballers: Chosen One
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/nbaballerschosenone/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Stylish presentation.
 Plenty of current and past NBA players.
 Lots of great nicknames for your created baller.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Repetitive gameplay.
 Controls are needlessly complex.
 Act-a-fool combos are overpowered.
 Fouls, charging, and goaltending don't belong in an arcade basketball game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 23, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.8, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 5.3, 160 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Genre: Basketball
Date: Apr 21, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Chosen One isn't what Skee-Lo had in mind when he wished to be a baller. 

  EA and Midway share the rights to NBA-licensed arcade basketball games. As a result, the NBA Ballers 
 franchise is released every other year, with EA's NBA Street series occupying the year in between. 
 This year is NBA Ballers' time to shine and that didn't happen, which means it's a down year for 
 arcade hoops. NBA Ballers: Chosen One has some interesting ideas, particularly with regards to 
 its presentation, but it's ultimately a disappointment thanks to repetitive gameplay and needlessly 
 complex controls.  

           Win scenarios vary from one match to the next, but they have little impact on how you 
 play the game.      

  You can single-play games of 1V1, 2V2, and 1V1V1, or sharpen your skills in practice, a shootout, 
 or three-point contest. You can also play ranked and unranked matches online using your custom 
 character, which is pretty cool. The bulk of Ballers' content, however, is found in Story mode. 
 Here you create a player, give him a nickname (we went with "Beans") , and choose from hundreds 
 of different shirts, pants, shoes, jewelry items, and more to customize his appearance. You'll 
 unlock more gear as you progress, but you can make a truly unique baller with just the stuff that's 
 unlocked from the outset. Your created player will be terrible at first, but his attributes will 
 improve slightly after each game. These attribute boosts are supposedly based on your performance 
 in the previous game, but they seem more random than anything else. Story mode's premise is simple. 
 Each year after the NBA playoffs, the top players in the league take part in a street ball tournament, 
 the winner of which will be known as the "Chosen One." Story mode is divided into six episodes, 
 each of which contains five chapters. Episodes are introduced by short video segments that feature 
 Public Enemy's Chuck D as a host of an  NBA Tonight -like show. He doesn't have anything particularly 
 riveting to say, but the segments are nicely produced and add a bit of realism to the mode.  

 
  Although the game's six episodes have diverse themes, they don't feel that different from one 
 another. Most of the time you go up against other players one-on-one and try to beat them. Sure, 
 dunks might be worth three points in a round, you may have to pull off a particular special move, 
 or you might play to 21 instead of 11, but after a couple of chapters you realize there's not much 
 variety, or at least variety that matters. Even the media mogul chapter, where you're vying for 
 a spot in a soft drink commercial, isn't interesting. You spend most of the chapter beating guys 
 head-to-head and then the last chapter performing specific moves against LeBron James while the 
 commercial is filmed. But this just ends up feeling like the rest of the game because the moves 
 are presented in list form before the round (once you start playing, you can't reference them again, 
 either) , you're doing the same combos you've been doing for the last few hours. The "commercial" 
 that plays when you're done doesn't even look like a commercial, nor does it feature the moves 
 you performed while shooting it.  

  Most people don't expect a great story or a lot of variety to the game modes when they play an 
 arcade-style basketball game. They want the best players, over-the-top dunks, hard fouls, diverse 
 court locales, as well as fast-paced, fun gameplay. Chosen One delivers most of these. There are 
 more than 80 current NBA players as well as legends such as Wilt Chamberlain, Moses Malone, Daryl 
 Dawkins, Dr. J, Larry Bird, Magic, Bill Russell, and more. The basketball courts are spread out 
 among a number of interesting locations including an airplane hangar, a penthouse suite in Boston, 
 the Chicago lakefront, a rooftop in Dubai, South Beach, and the mountains of China. Dunks are suitably 
 outrageous. Even someone like Steve Nash can throw down some crazy dunks and pass the ball to someone 
 standing courtside for a long-distance alley-oop. Toss in plenty of blocks, steals, and physical 
 play, and you have a game that should be a lot of fun, at least on paper.  

  But NBA Ballers: Chosen One isn't fun, and there are a number of reasons for this. To start with, 
 the controls are much too complicated for this style of game. You can juke with the right analog 
 stick or a face button, but you can also hold down any of the shoulder buttons to further modify 
 your jukes, dunks, and alley-oops. Eventually you'll learn all of the moves, but you'll still have 
 a difficult time performing them thanks to frequently unresponsive controls, especially when you're 
 forced to hold two shoulder buttons in conjunction with another button. Like in NBA Street you 
 must perform flashy jukes and dunks to fill a meter. The twist here is that this meter serves to 
 fill  another  meter, which, depending on how many levels are full, gives you a guaranteed steal, 
 successful juke, made shot, block, or game-ending super dunk.  

           Act-a-fool combos are just plain foolish.      

  These super moves, particularly the 
 game-ending super dunk, are so effective that you'll spend most of your time trying to fill your 
 meter with the game's worst feature: act-a-fool combos. You begin an act-a-fool combo by holding 
 a shoulder and face button together while standing near a player. Once the combo starts, button 
 icons appear onscreen, and you must press them as quickly as possible. The defender can also try 
 to press the buttons, and if they do so before you, the combo ends. The AI won't stop you very 
 often, though, and once the combo has ended after five moves, there's usually an open path to a 
 dunk, which will be worth five points thanks to the bonus points awarded from the combo. Not only 
 do you get bonus points for the combo, but you fill your meter as well. It takes just three or 
 four successful act-a-fool combos to fill the meter to the point that you can end the game with 
 a super dunk. Playing the game this way is cheesy and boring, but you're forced to do so because 
 some of the challenges, like coming back from 20 points down with three minutes to go, and beating 
 T-Mac in a game to 11 without letting him score, are absurdly difficult.  

  The problems don't end there. For some reason there are fouls in the game, and though you aren't 
 penalized for the first four, when you get your fifth foul, the other player gets a foul shot that's 
 worth three points and they retain possession. The defensive fouls may be annoying, but they do 
 serve to keep you honest. The fact that you can get called for charging is just plain annoying 
 and has no place in this kind of basketball game. One particularly terrible game variation gets 
 rid of the checked-ball rule, so you don't have to take the ball back on a change of possession 
 or after you score. The game devolves into both players standing under the basket trying to catch 
 the ball as it goes through the net, and then immediately putting up a shot when they do catch 
 the ball. It's mind-numbingly stupid. Toss in inconsistent goaltending calls, repetitive cutscenes 
 for super moves that often end with you facing away from the basket, and horrific clipping problems 
 that see the ball go through the rim on dunks so that you don't even know if you made them or not, 
 and you're left with a flashy-looking game that isn't much fun.  

  NBA Ballers' strongest aspect is its presentation. Even the menus are attractive. The cutscenes 
 that introduce players like Kobe, Agent Zero, and LeBron look cool and inspire a sense of awe when 
 they play before a big matchup. It's a shame that big-name players like Shaq, Kidd, and Gasol, 
 who were recently traded, aren't on their current teams. Nevertheless, players look lifelike and 
 have a swagger to them that only NBA players seem to have. There's little variety to more routine 
 actions like running, diving for the ball, and shooting from one player to the next, but there's 
 no shortage of great-looking dunk and juke animations. While the "normal" moves generally look 
 great, the developer got carried away when it comes to the cutscenes for special moves. These noninteractive 
 clips that play for every special move are repetitive and do nothing but interrupt the flow of 
 the game. To make matters worse, there's no way to turn them off.  

           Chuck D does a solid job as both host and play-by-play announcer.      

  Chosen One's 
 audio is surprisingly subdued. The soundtrack by Just Blaze stays mostly in the background and 
 doesn't stand out as particularly good or bad. In addition to hosting the TV show in the game, 
 Chuck D also provides play-by-play. He gets a little repetitive, but he's better than most of the 
 announcers found in other street games. Plus, hearing him yell "They call him Mr. Beans!" when 
 our player threw down a dunk never got old.  

  NBA Ballers: Chosen One deserves credit for trying to bring some new ideas to a genre that isn't 
 known for mixing things up. But while many of these ideas may have seemed good during the design 
 phase, they don't work in the context of the actual gameplay. There's no reason to pick this one 
 up, regardless of how bad you need a basketball fix -- there are plenty of cheaper, better options 
 available.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 9, 2009 5:35 am PT
Review:  Buy this game if you love basketball. Those special super moves like super dunks, stepping on peoples 
 head dunks, and super alley-oops. Everything is like 21 point style basketball and everything is 
 super-something. With an NBA classic type of gauge where you can fire up and unlock moves that 
 give special sequences and earn double points. 
  The game is really glicthy and bad looking in the graphics department, with super moves looking 
 like some sort of bail out of a horrible snowboard fall rather than a star sparkling, flame igniting 
 super slam. Grabbing the ball is alot to do with how many fouls you are restricted to that game, 
 with the ball doing the almighty EA "your player can see, smell and touch the ball but the other 
 player gets it anyway" This is a let down, its a game that is in no way fair or relevant to skill. 
 Its pretty much just a game.
  
  The story is awesomly awful. Chuck D hosting a basketball tournament. No acting, no character storyline 
 and not much else. Well thats about it. Your best bet is to buy it so you can complete the game, 
 but don't expect it to sell for very much after. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whiteghost09
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, I rented this from a friend. I didn't really expect much, since I hadn't heard much about 
 it. I didn't get much either. 
  
  The first thing we did was play the multiplayer. There's a 1 vs. 1, 2 vs. 2, 1 vs. 1 vs. 1 (pretty 
 much the basketball game 21) , practice, and 3 pt. contest. 1 vs. one and 2 vs. 2. Both are good 
 modes and fit the game well (besides the gameplay problems I'll cover in a minute. 1 vs. 1 vs. 
 1 is TOTAL CRAP. I guess it's a good idea but just doesn't fit in a video game. 3pt. contest is 
 nothing special, it's decent. All in all the fun with multiplayer will last you maybe a half hour 
 a sitting.
  
  Since the multiplayer really wasn't that great, I figured it was more of a one person game and 
 story mode would be cool. Not the case. It's just like 36 matches of multiplayer with retarted 
 AI oponents and teammates!! So yeah that was a huge disappointment. 
  
  Let's get to the gameplay now, starting off with the positive - the graphics are amazing. That's 
 about it. Allthough the models are stunning, the animations are crap - especially with the environment 
 (the net, ball, ect.) . The contols are awful - they're very herky-jerky, and the game doesn't always 
 respond to your commands. Also there is only one side camera view, and it's at an awful angle. 
 You can't even see one half of the court at a time. This makes even rebounding or chasing loose 
 ball a challenge. You can do some cool moves, but they're all the same for each cahracter (except 
 for super moves, but there's only one for each player) . This creates a very dull experience after 
 a while. 
  
  Another basketball game, another crappy basketball game. The developers clearly put way too much 
 time into making each player look exactly real and not enough time into anything els. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeller
Rating: 5
Date: May 21, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  This game is simply god awful. It needs to die. And die NOW. The controls are a nightmare. The 
 fun factor is almost near ZERO. I refuse to put more time into this sorry excuse for a game , even 
 for the easy increase in gamerscore.
  
  Oh, the deep secrets of the universe. Is God real? What happens after we die? Did aliens help build 
 the pyramids? And finally... Why do developers release games like this one? What a waste of time 
 and energy. What an insult to gaming. Have some pride in your work. If your going to make a game, 
 make sure its a damn good one. 
  
  If the game you've created is the equivalent to a video enema do one of the following.
  
  A: 
 Fix it. Push back the release date. In the end I would think it would be worth it.
  
  Or.
  
  B: FIRE your game testers. They have no clue what they are doing.
  
  And finally.
 
  
  C: Ship your games out to the desert. It worked for Atari all those years ago. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsmack10690
Rating: 1
Date: May 11, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  Wow this game is horrible. The controls are horrible the game-play is stale, all around it should 
 be rated with negative numbers. Some of the features do not even seem to work, like the assign 
 function for special moves. Don't even rent, definitely don't buy it, and forget the game ever 
 existed as soon as you can. They try to be a little NBA Jam / Street with the seriousness of Live 
 and fail. Homecourt is a much better game with better features and more fun to play. The only saving 
 grace this game has is the street rules to the games like no checks and clears, and the half court 
 idea is innovative. But seriously the game-play sucks and so does everything else in the game.
 
  I'm being told that my review has not enough letters, so I'm writing this sentence just to fill 
 up space. Blah blah, blah blah blah blah, yada yada yada, and I put in Vegas 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 7
Date: May 2, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Their really isn't all that much to say about NBA Ballers: Chosen One, so I will try my best to 
 make a review long enough to be published. You basically just create your own player and you fight 
 your way to the top in one-on-one matches with the pros. Sounds simple enough and simple is good.
 
  
  On the positive side, the game is nothing more than just some fast paced fun. As well their are 
 some really cool moves you can preform. Who wouldn't love to kick a basketball into a guys face!
 
  
  However, the game also features a steep learning curve as well as no graphical improvements from 
 the last game whatsoever.
  
  Final verdict: So yeah the graphics are meh but it is the gameplay that made the series fun. and 
 that hasn't seemed to change at all.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  REview is still not 800 characters. Why 800 anyways? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
