-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA Live 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/nbalive08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Controls are tight and responsive.
 Game is fast-paced but doesn't feel too unrealistic.
 Vastly improved over 07.
 Kerr, Albert, Johnson, and Anthony do a great job calling the action.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Players miss too many easy shots and still attempt layups from behind the backboard.
 Transition animation could still be improved.
 Not a whole lot in the way of new game modes and features.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 922 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Oct 1, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Thanks to significantly improved gameplay, NBA Live 08 is a good, solid basketball game. 

  NBA Live's transition from the last generation of consoles to the current generation has been 
 fraught with problems -- too many to list here. Nevertheless, the team at EA has kept plugging away, 
 and it seems the third time is the charm. There aren't really any new features to speak of in NBA 
 Live 08, but the gameplay has seen vast improvements on both sides of the ball. You'd never think 
 it was possible after the last few years, but NBA Live 08 is much-improved and actuallygood. 

           You don't need to bring up the hot spots overlay to know this is going in.      

  
 Forget how last year's game played; it's a whole new ballgame in Live 08. For starters, the default 
 camera angle has been changed to a dynamic broadcast-style perspective. It's easier to see what's 
 going on and also cuts down on the number of shots you'll put up from behind the backboard, though 
 that still happens far too often. The controls are where the game really shows improvement. The 
 basic scheme is mostly unchanged, but it's a lot more responsive this year. It's a piece of cake 
 to perform a crossover, pass the ball, perform a hop-step, and then decide whether to dunk with 
 the square (or X) button or shoot with circle (or B) . This results in a fast-paced game with lots 
 of sharp passing and great finishes. Some people might find the game to be a little to run-and-gun, 
 but there's no denying that the gameplay is exciting. It would be even more fast-paced, but players 
 tend to stop to receive passes on the fast break, and ball handlers will sometimes inexplicably 
 slow the break with a lob pass. There are a few other things that are in need of improvement. Players 
 miss some absurdly easy shots down low, and the officials call the games too tight (especially 
 charging) . Furthermore, defense is haphazard, and outside of fast breaks, players tend to stand 
 around a lot and don't do much to get open. Regardless, the game plays much better than it did 
 previously.  

  The whole "superstar icon" bit from 07 is gone, but there are still ways to differentiate the stars 
 from the scrubs. Top players such as Kobe, LeBron, Arenas, Wade, and Dirk each have a special go-to 
 move that makes them really valuable when the game is on the line. With the exception of some of 
 the big men, the move is generally some sort of side step or step back that leads to a nearly unstoppable 
 jumper. They're a bit overpowered, but it is nice to be able to count on your star player in crunch 
 time. The other way to tell the great from the merely good is to press the left bumper or L1 button. 
 This brings up your player's hot spots, a color-coded overlay that shows what part of the floor 
 that particular player is most successful shooting from. This may not sound like a significant 
 feature, but there's a huge difference between a player's shooting percentage in a hot zone versus 
 a cold zone. As a result, you'll find yourself working to get players open in specific parts of 
 the floor. You'll even pass up open shots because you know a player isn't good from that area and 
 there's another player with a better shot. Both of these features are quite useable, even if they 
 are poorly explained in the pitiful instruction manual.  

  It seems as if the developer's resources were focused entirely on making the game play better, 
 because otherwise there aren't any significant new modes this year. You can take part in the slam-dunk 
 contest and three-point shootout. You can also participate in the rookie challenge as well as the 
 FIBA tournament, neither of which anybody really cares about. Online play has been upgraded and 
 now includes online leagues, which means that things have finally caught up to the 2K series in 
 that regard. Our online experience was slightly smoother on the Xbox 360, but both versions played 
 reasonably well. It was frustrating that there seemed to be some rubber-band artificial intelligence 
 that made the games closer than they probably should have been. Sure, the games were more exciting, 
 but it's obnoxious to suddenly not be able to hit wide-open layups. Dynasty mode has seen some 
 subtle improvements, but is largely unchanged. It's nice to be able to jump into a game mid-sim 
 and save your team from defeat, though. The stats and results seem to be fairly accurate too; however, 
 it was surprising to see Shaq retire after the 2007-08 season.  

  There's very little visual difference between the PS3 and Xbox 360 versions of the game. The 360 
 version appears to have slightly less aliasing and runs a tad smoother. Player models look great, 
 and although they don't look as smooth as 2K8 when in motion, they're vastly improved over last 
 year. There's far less ball warping, and the transition from one move to the next is better, though 
 there's still a lot of room for improvement. The floors, which show off real-time reflections, 
 are attractive. Likewise, the arenas are equipped with working scoreboards and filled with excited 
 fans.  

           EA has heard your cries; you can finally play as the French national team. Vive la France! 

  Considering that Steve Kerr has left the broadcast booth to run the Phoenix Suns, there was some 
 question as to who would fill his shoes in NBA Live. The good news is that it's... Steve Kerr. In 
 addition to dealing with Shawn Marion's trade demands in real life, he's back alongside Marv Albert 
 in the game. Once again the duo is nearly as good in video game form as they are on television. 
 They do a fine job of keeping up with the action, and they mix in a nice bit of analysis and banter 
 in-between. Ernie Johnson and Greg Anthony do a great job calling the All-Star Weekend events. 
 They're always good, but they're at their best when the competitors are at their worst -- they'll 
 really let you hear it if you stink.  

  If you're just doing a rundown of what features and modes are new in NBA Live 08, you might think 
 the game's not all that different from 07. That couldn't be further from the truth. It still has 
 a long way to go before it catches up with the outstanding 2K series, but all of the little tweaks, 
 changes, and enhancements add up to one vastly improved basketball game. NBA Live 08 is worth a 
 look, especially if you like your hoops games with a bit of arcade-style flair to them.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (62 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PsboyX360
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  NBA Live 2008, it got a 7.5 for a reason. It's good for other people's opinion, but others think 
 it sucks. Well I don't.
  
  I am a die hard fan of the NBA, I played Nba Live 08, 07, 06 and 2k8. They're all fun. But i prefer 
 the 2k series. the live series are good too but not that good.
  
  Nba Live 08 could have gotten higher for it's rating if it had better plays, action, dunks, blocks 
 etc. Because, that is what the people expect when they play these type of games, this game has 
 some of those but not all of it.
  
  I gave NBA Live 08 because it's fun to play with your friends at home, and it get's addictive in 
 a few days, but later, ah screw it.
  
  NBA 2k8 has Hall of Fame that's why it got an 8.5. But NBA Live 08 doesn't have that. NBA Live 
 series are a bit crappy compare to NBA 2K8.
  
  I am not saying NBA Live 08 sucks ass, it's just not as good as you thought. But NBA Live 08 is 
 fun to play with friends, it get's boring alone, same routine all the time, but sometimes it get's 
 tough and you go crazy as you play.
  
  Well, that was my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Every year I usually buy both the EA and 2K basketball games. I usually like 2K games better, but 
 I bought this game because I also like EA games. Was it worth a purchase? Yes, but the game does 
 have some noticeable problems that drag the gameplay down a bit.
  Graphics -- the player models look great, but the animations look bad. Players pass the ball weirdly, 
 and there are still those little glitches were players' arms or heads will go through either the 
 net, rim or backboard. The animations for running look jerky., also. The crowds look bad, but that's 
 in just about every basketball game ever made. I'd say the graphics aren't perfect but are a lot 
 better than NBA 2K8.
  
  Gameplay -- the controls are fluid and easy to understand. To shoot you press B, to pass press A, 
 press X to steal, press Y to block, and so on. Unlike previous PS2 versions of NBA Live, this game's 
 gameplay runs somewhat like 2K8's. However there are some problems that drag the fun down a little. 
 There is no timing on your shot, and it feels like you're not in control of your shot. The AI is 
 bad, since your teammates just stand around after a missed shot and don't attempt to get the rebound. 
 Also, your teammates don't make that much of an effort to get open for a shot. The fouling system 
 is unrealistic and quite annoying. You get charged for charging fouls way too often, and it actually 
 doesn't look like you bumped into the guy if you go to the replay. When a CPU player is driving 
 towards the basket and gets fouled, 90% of the time he hits his attempted shot while in midair. 
 When you play down low on offense, you shoot from behind the backboard too many times. The scoring 
 during a game is still too unrealistic, as the scores usually end up to at least 115 points each 
 team per game. Also the blocking is awful. It's nearly impossible to block a shot, even when you're 
 playing as the center and are trying to block the point guard. An addition to the gameplay are 
 these "hot spots" the players have, which gets annoying. An example of this is when a player is 
 wide open for a three, you pass it to him, but he's in his cold zone so he's very likely to miss 
 the shot, even if it's Kobe Bryant. The multiplayer is really fun. When I play online, I usually 
 play the team play, where it's 5-on-5. I think it's really fun, even with the gameplay problems.
 
  
  Graphics: 7.9/10 -- the faces and models look great but the animations look jerky and stilted, along 
 with some minor glitches.
  
  Gameplay: 6.3/10 -- good control layout but there's too many problems preventing it from being solid, 
 so it's just ok.
  
  Online: 7.2/10 -- pretty fun but not excellent
  
  Enjoyment: 6.7/10 -- i enjoyed it, but there's a lot of problems that EA need to fix in order for 
 it to be a really good game.
  
  Final Thoughts: If you're a basketball fan get this game, but for anyone else avoid, unless you 
 like some easy achievements. This is a solid basketball game, considering that there isn't much 
 that's better except NBA 2K8.
  
  Final Score: 6.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcEeMan69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  I gave this game a 8.5 rating because its just not like NBA 2k8, in most ways to me its a lot better 
 than 2k8. I like the controls, how they have the right thumbstick as the juke out button, instead 
 on 2k8 how they have it as just moving to the right. Some players they worked hard on and just 
 some they didnt put crap into, and some players are just literaly impossible to slow down or even 
 stop like Gilbert Arenas, Kobe Bryant, basicly you can be unstopable with any player, and can easily 
 get 30 to 40 points a game. Sometimes when the person misses and hits the rim and then the floor; 
 the dudes just stare at it and do nothing until ya move them. I love the alle hop Right Bumber; 
 and the fade away's and juke out then shot. The Shots are a lot more cooler than 2k's shots. The 
 franchise is pretty cool and the fantasy basketball is cool too. Overal this is just a fun game 
 than can grow on ya. Its just a plain fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 6
Date: May 25, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  I have bought new NBA games every year and this is one of the worse I have played in a long time. 
 There are just so many things about this game that is irritating and take away from the enjoyment 
 of it. Here is a few of the problems:
  
  1. You miss shots right under the basket way to often
  
  2. Players that are driving to the 
 basket and get fouled almost always get the basket too.
  
  3. No save feature, why why why would they not include a save feature. I don't always want to complete 
 a game in one sitting. 
  
  4. Too many times you shoot behind the backboard or hit the side of it.
  
  5. Your own team 
 mates move out of the way so your opponent can drive to the basket, I 've seen it happen. I am 
 like, Where are you going????
  
  6. The last game I played the player indicator stopped working, I couldn't tell which player I 
 was controlling and almost lost the game because of it.
  
  Overall this game is just playing irritating to use and I don't buy games to be irritated. I will 
 be trading in today, this game for NBA 2K8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ptownzson89
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 24, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is very improved over the last few games. This best NBA Live in this generation. graphics 
 arent everything in a game but, this is the best looking basketball game ever made. The gameplay 
 has changed a little bit but it has been improved over last year's game, which was very stiff. 
 The Slam Dunk Contest is still the same but this time it is harder to actually finish a dunk. The 
 commentary is still the best in a sports game (only in my opinion) . Although i wish Kenny Smith 
 swa still the commentator in the dunk contest. Kind of miss him saying "It's Over!" But, it's still 
 pretty good. If i was to write a review in the game i would give the gameplay a 8, the graphics 
 a 10, the sound a 9, and the overall quality an 8.5.... Although gamespoit gave it a 7.5... which 
 is better than the last few NBA Live... I still think it deserve a better score. in my opinion 
 this game is better than NBA 2k8 but not as good as NBA 2k7. NBA 2k7 still has the best gameplay 
 in a basketball game. But, any fan of NBA Live will enjpy NBA Live 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowb0ysFaN15
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  NBA live 08 is probably the best in the series on the xbox 360 but the game has very little to 
 offer and is filled with glitches. for example when you shoot the ball sometimes go throught the 
 side of the hoop and the controlls are a little delayed and easy shots are missed more then made. 
 Things like this can really get you ticked off. But the games graphics and decent gameplay make 
 up for these mistakes and the thing that makes this one differnt from the previous games is that 
 this one is a more fast paced and realistc game. I bought this game scared to play it because of 
 how the previous 2 were but when i played it it was better and it is worth the money i used on 
 it. But the all-star weekend is the same as every year the normal slam dunk contest and all star 
 game and it just gets older and older every year so next year they should change a little then 
 the game would be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLBLAKERS10
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  NBA live 08 for PS2
  
  Pros
  Some good action
  Some good signature moves
  
  Cons
  Bad animations
  Crossover stick doesnt work as well as past versions.
  
  If you have just 
 a PS2 then I would go with 2k8 If you love Live then you will be able to adjust
  But if you have a 360 then get it for 360.
  
  Some of the big problems for this game is the 
 frames per second.. It moves very slow and some big slowdown at some times... Also the AI isnt 
 that great ether... They will walk out of bounds, or throw some realy bad passes.. Graphically 
 this looks worse then 05... Franchise has no option to make the season shorter then 82, which is 
 really disapointing if you dont want to play 82 games and dont like to sim... Online there is no 
 roster updates, and there are no improvements from last year.. They have only added one new mode 
 and that is FIBA world tournament, it is ok.. The hotspots they have added dont really affect the 
 game like it does on the 360 version.. So either save your money and get 05, or get 2k8 for 12$ 
 cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  NBA Live 08 is by far the best game in the series yet. It improves on the already amazing qualities 
 of the series. EA has truly done well with the game this year.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  NBA Live 08 features four difficulty levels, ranging from Rookie to Superstar. The game is very 
 smooth in all aspects, whether it be dribbling, passing, shooting, or dunking.
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  Even when not in HD, the game's graphics are godlike. Though there are a few 
 players who could be worked more on (e. g., Steve Nash, Tony Parker, etc.) , most are done to perfection. 
 It will be hard to improve on this in the next game.
  
  Physics of the game: 6.5/10
  Some of the physics of the game aren't up to my standards. During a loose ball, players will stand 
 around the ball, as if wondering who's going to pick it up first. If you try to pick it up, you 
 will more than likely end up stepping out of bounds somehow. Some players are able to dunk from 
 outside the paint WITHOUT a running start. This just seems ridiculous to me.
  
  The Bottom Line:
  Overall, the game is spectacular. Everything is done to near perfection, except 
 for the physics. I would definitely recommend this game to any hardcore NBA fan, however, as NBA 
 Live 09 is coming in the near future, I would advise you to wait (so you save your money) .
  
  Final Score: 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingDre410
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  this game starts out good the first couple of days you play it but after that it is just a arcade 
 game. this game has great graphics but it will leave you with an empty feeling in your chest. this 
 game is toooooooooo easy. and toooooooooo
  un realistic : cpu players will make shots even though being double and triple teamed. the cpu 
 point guard will always drop anywhere from 18-35 points a nignt on you no matter how good your 
 defense is. there is no player custimization option such as headbands or sleeves. unless you create 
 a new player. i have been playing live since 2003. but lately it gets annoying beating the cpu 
 day in and day out. 
  
  EA claims that they got rid of the freestyle superstars, but it is nothing but capital BS ( if 
 u catch my drift) . I am probably going to get nba2k9 unless ea makes some major changes.
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  
  Gameplay: 7.0
  
  Presentation: 7.0
  
  Realism: 5.0
  
  this has 
 been a review by the King 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vergil2016
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 29, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  its a fun game but the gameplay is kind of wierd it could use some work like when u r running and 
 stop it will keep on going and if its ever hapend to any other person this one time steped out 
 of bounds and it said it was a foul how can u get out of bounds and foul mixed up its like HARD 
 to mix them but also the players look like there gigantic or realy shrimp like its weird to play 
 a basketball game with sumowrestlers and shrimps it is kind of funny dough when u dunk the ball 
 with a shrimp cause then it looks like he could fly in the air its funny with big people cause 
 it looks like the just have to tippy-toe to dunk the ball like Tony parker HIS TINY during gameplay 
 he should be a little taller if u have ever played it u would know how small he is its kind of 
 NBA street home court cause ur guy can be like 4'2 but jump like 5ft in the air its awesome when 
 u do a dunk the only diffrence is there is fouls in the NBA games not in street games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ed_The_Great
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 14, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I use to have NBA 2K8 and then I scatched it when I'd tried to tilt my 360 vertically when 
 the game was still running. I wanted to play a basketball game so I went to gamestop and bought 
 NBA Live 08 since I've been playing NBA 2K8 for a long time. Boy did I made a big mistake. THIS GAME 
 IS HORRIBLE!!! Yes the graphics are clean and players moadel and face are highly detailed and the 
 sound is excellent but the gameplay is just pathethic. I dunk ,they dunk, i shoot 3, they shoot 3 
 for the whole game, there's not much you can do on defense. Shooting is being done by just pressing 
 a button which makes contesting and blocking shots impossiple. Passing out to an open shooter when 
 you get double team in the post is nearly impossible since the player seems to get there faster 
 than the ball. this doesn't give me the same satisfaction as when I hit a wide open trey like in 
 NBA 2K8. They should have made passing, button sensitive and have a lead pass button to make your 
 catch and run. Players don't box out and don't go up for rebound at all, I have three men around 
 the basket and instead of gettin a body on opponent, they just stand there and look at the ball 
 bounce off the rim. They are completely unaware of where the ball is. They are also unaware of the 
 out of bound line. There are so many things wrong with this game that it would take me forever to 
 write about it. This is the second time I tried this game and i thought it would be better than 
 06 but not much has change. No more will i ever buy or rent another NBA LIVE or another EA Sports 
 game for that matter even if GS give it a 10. i don't trust GS score anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportzfan8993
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  This version has definitely been the best in the series that I own. I have 2006 and 2007 and they 
 both were pretty bad. The reason why this game is great is because the makers didn't try to go 
 to fancy, but they made it more smooth. It was good they took away the superstar moves because 
 those were a little unrealistic. Also they changed the game so that now you can't just throw and 
 full court pass because the computer will intercept it. Now you can actually block layups. In 2007 
 you could only block jump shots. 
  By comparing this game to 2007, you can tell this one is way better. The graphics have changed 
 a little, but the whole game runs a lot smoother. Online doesn't have much lag. I haven't been 
 able to join a league yet though. The quick strike ball handling is sick because before you couldn't 
 get by your man, but now you can. I wouldn't say the post game really got better but that it got 
 worse. You only can shoot, pump fake and drive, or do an up and under. 
  Another good thing about NBA Live 2008 is that the computer plays offense realistically. They will 
 actually shoot the ball when there open, they won't pass into to traffic, and they actually set 
 good screens. 
  The 3 point contest and dunk contest are pretty much the same.
  There still are a few glitches in this game. The ball or somebody's foot will sometimes touch the 
 out of bounds line, but the ref won't call it out of bounds. When you swish a shot, the net will 
 fly up way to high. Sometimes the computer will stand under the basket just dribbling and doing 
 nothing.
  Also it seems like everybody shoots by releasing the ball as they jump. It is hard to time the 
 jump right. In 2007, people like T. J. Ford released the ball at the top of their jump which made 
 it easier to shoot.
  Overall, NBA Live 2008 is a huge improvement to NBA Live 2007 and you should definitely buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Well, NBA 08 was a pretty good games, considering how fast the game goes, the controls, and multiplayer 
 mode, but it could use some fixing up. Some of the mulitplayer stuff sucked, and i thought while 
 i played the only good thing was the real game. I'll admit the controls were pretty simple and 
 easy to use on the Wii, but it did have some problems as well, like . It was not the most simple 
 thing. When me and a friend were playing against another team, we lost because the controls were 
 a little complicated. It does take some getting used to. The game was widley improved from 07, 
 but that doesn't mean it's perfect.
  
  This is not the best sports game I've ever played, but come on guys. It isn't all bad. Wii players, 
 don't get discouraged. The controls just take some getting used to. Once you are used to them, 
 you'd be amazed how much fun it can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingBobCat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  I'm not a huge B-Ball fan, but I enjoy the sense of accomplishment from making a few baskets and 
 winning a game or two. :) I played the demos of both NBA 2K8 and NBA Live 08 (on the 360) and came 
 away feeling that perhaps 2K was more technically realistic, but Live was more fun, overall. In 
 general (and not understanding the technical details and strategies of B-Ball) , I felt Live 08 
 was more accessible to a dope like me. :)
  
  I guess it's like racing games: Some people want pure sims and others want more arcadey racers. 
 And I'm obviously more in the arcadey camp when it comes to B-Ball. Regardless, I highly suggest 
 you try both demos on XBox Live to find out which camp you're in. :)
  
  Oh, and by the way, and maybe it's just me .... But there seemed to be much less space on the court 
 in 2K than in Live.... Almost as if the players size didn't quite match the size of the court or 
 something. But then again, maybe it was just me, as I found 2K much more difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrossFire245
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Ok, here's my story. A few days ago, my uncle gave me this as an early Christmas present. I didn't 
 ask for any basketball games, so it was nice. However, I was kind of upset that it was Live 08 
 and not 2K8. After playing for a few days, I have to give EA a lot of credit for this game. It 
 is a GIANT improvement over 07.
  
  Lets start with the good stuff:
  
  -New FIBA tournament: This is a very nice addition to the game. You can play as 8 national teams, 
 including USA, France and Spain.
  
  -Excellent Graphics: This is where Live 08 ows 2K8. The player faces and models just looks great.
 
  
  -New Low Post Play Controls: A very nice addition to the game. You can pivot, fake and hop with amazing 
 grace. Hey, what's better than letting KG doing his thing down low?
  
  -Online Leagues: Nice new addition that helps it catch up to 2K8.
  
  -Great ballhandling controls: 
 You can pull of a bunch of nice crossovers, spin moves, and behind the backs with the ball handling 
 controls.
  
  -Hot and Cold Spots
  
  Now here's the bad:
  
  -Too many offensive fouls: Sometimes when I'm on a fast break, I get an offensive foul that makes 
 no sense or was a defensive one. This also happens sometimes when driving in for a layup.
  
  -AI won't chase loose balls: This just isn't realistic.
  
  -Players still shoot from behind 
 the backboard: The players will get a rebound, but then shoot from behind the backboard. This can 
 be a real pain.
  
  Foul Shots can be a pain: The "Up and Down" fould shot controls can be a pain, but you get better 
 after some practice.
  
  -Rosters are a tad bit early: They stopped in July but should have gone a little longer. 
  
 
  
  Summary: In my mind, an 8.0. I use to hate Live after 07, but this game is much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musica23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  This game changed the nba live series... by that I mean, it really made it better.. Nba live 07 
 is nothing compared to Nba live 08, the gameplay makes you feel that you are actually playing in 
 the game, the graphics are the best, player animations are jaw-dropping, Dunks are breath-taking! 
 You can clearly see lebron james going straight inside and make powerful finishing move. The new 
 feature of this game is the hot spot, when you press your lb (xbox 360) the players hot spot will 
 show up which identifies that players favorite spot of scoring in that game. The bad part of this 
 game is when there's a loose ball, even though the ball is in front of that player, he doesn't 
 get the ball for some reason, and another bad part of this game is when they're tied up they tried 
 to make a basket by shooting the ball behind the backboard which causes a turn over. Overall Nba 
 live is not a complete disaster this time, it's complete winner.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SargeGunnerz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of EA Sports, and NBA Live is no exception. Many people, me included, had 
 many complaints about how poorly made NBA Live 07 was, but as for 08, I have none. This is just 
 a fun and easy to learn game that has become one of my favorites. In this review I'll give a detailed 
 breakdown of the game and then compare it to NBA 2K8.
  
  Graphics: The graphics for NBA Live 08 are the best graphics in a basketball simulation to date. 
 They are very realistic and it really feels like you're in the arena watching the game. Even without 
 names or numbers, you can easily identify players with one glance at them. Ea obviously took time 
 with the graphics and they look great. The animation in the game are also top notch. The crossovers, 
 dunks, shots, and layups all look fluid and authentic. All of these things combine to form an authentic 
 game that's just fun to look at.
  
  Announcers: The announcers on NBA Live 08 also add to the authenticity of the game. Instead of 
 being choppy, fake announcers, these guys are relaxed and sometimes even funny. They have real-time, 
 mostly accurate observations and even give some random facts about some of the players throughout 
 the game.
  
  Crowd: The crowd is also a great piece of he game. They have varied reactions and it doesn't sound 
 like the same cheers and shouts after every shot.
  
  Soundtrack: The soundtrack pretty much sticks to the same formula and mix as previous games in 
 the series, and most of the songs fit the game pretty well.
  
  Overall Sound: When playing a game the combination of the crowd, announcers, and court sounds, 
 the game feels very real and it really grabs at you and immerses you in the game.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is what I really love about NBA Live 08. It's pretty much the same controls 
 as the other games in the series so it will appeal to veterans of the game that are familiar with 
 the controls, but it's also rookie-friendly. The controls are simple in the sense that there is 
 a shot button, a layup button, a pass button, and a freestyle stick. There are a few other options 
 and buttons but they really tried to make a simple, user-friendly game that's just easy to pick-up-and 
 play. The AI in this game is also pretty good, your teammates will move around the court smoothly 
 and I have never had any moments where a player gets stuck or refuses to move. Calling plays isn't 
 as complex or exciting as it could be but it gets the job done. One recurring problem I had was 
 with the fouls. Multiple times I could be standing in the path of the offender, and i take the 
 charge with my feet set well before he knocks me down, and they call it a defensive foul. And I 
 was far enough out in the key for it to be fair. There have been issues on the defensive end too, 
 but for the most part, it doesn't make the game completely frustrating and unplayable. Overall 
 the gameplay is fun, engaging, and easy to get used to.
  
  Game Modes: There are a few key game modes that I have to mention in the review. One of course 
 is dynasty, where you pick a team and begin your career with them to hopefully take them to the 
 championship. the main dynasty screen was a little confusing at first and I wished they had stuck 
 to the old-fashioned full calender view. But it still works, and is fairly easy to navigate. There 
 is the All-Star Weekend game mode which is still fun to play. This includes the 3-Point Shootout, 
 the All-Star Game, the Rookie Challenge, and the Slam Dunk Contest.
  
  New Additions: Theres a new practice mode featured in most 2008 Ea Sports Games. Right when the 
 game loads you begin to play around as Gilbert Arenas in any arena of your choice. You can shoot 
 around as soon as you start up the game. You can also switch to any player and any arena. There 
 is a new Shot Display feature that's assigned to LB. When you push LB with the ball in your hands, 
 you see an accurate display of your player's ability to shoot around the court. Red stands for 
 high chance of making af field goal. Yellow is medium. Blue is low.
  
  Reasons To Buy NBA Live 08 Over NBA 2K8
  
  1. Graphics are way better and more realistic. The 
 shorts in 2K8 can sometimes turn into skirts and get stuck as a player runs. 2. Sound Is way better. 
 The Crowd in NBA 2K8 is very repetitive and annoying sometimes. Announcers are far less accurate 
 than on NBA Live.
  3. Gameplay can be frustrating for new players and old players alike. Although the game is a lot 
 more complex, it can be very frustrating to learn and if you're used to EA games it would be even 
 harder. Some people like it, I personally don't.
  
  Both games have their flaws but overall, I think NBA Live is better and more satisfying to play. 
 I give it an 9! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soxguy09
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  NBA Live 08 is such a great game on the 360. From my perspective, it's the best basketball game 
 for me because I went from NBA Live 06 on ps2 to 08 on Xbox. 
  Pros
  -The Hot spot feature was a good replacement from the player styles. It lets you choose who you 
 want to give the ball in the final ticking seconds of the 4th quarter. You know who is hot and 
 who is not.
  -Most of the rosters are up to date.
  -Graphics are at best.
  -Crossovers, passes, ally-oops, dunking, etc., are incredible at times.
  -Go-To moves are really 
 close to players in real life.
  -Franchise with other countries all-stars was a good choice to involve with the game.
  -Camera 
 Angles have been made better.
  -Many more features.
  
  Cons
  -Lots of overused sayings from the announcers.
  -Shots that hit the backboard too often.
  -Defensive 
 fouls are called on just bumps, instead of actually fouling while driving to the hoop.
  -Some of the rosters are not changed from previous trades, free agent signings, etc.
  -Fans are 
 blah. They do chant, but there just sit and wave their hands. 2k8 has fans that actually get up 
 and go to the concession stands.
  
  Overall the game has more pros than cons so it's a better game than a 5.0. On the other hand, there 
 are cons that bring the game down from a perfect 10. All in all, if you are looking for a great 
 basketball game, this is the one for you. There are some small things EA can fix, but they are 
 all minor. The pros make this game a good buy for a hoops fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralBayne
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  Probably one of the worst Basketball simulations out there. The only thing good about this game 
 is the graphics. Players don't go for loose balls on the floor, instead, just stand there and look 
 at it roll out of bounds or your challenger pick it up instead of you. Player tend to shoot behind 
 the basket on wide open lay-ups. The hot spots make it almost impossible for players with blue 
 areas to score unless it is a lay-up. There is no shot timer on your release so it's 50/50. To 
 many easy steals in the game, and the defense is not that great at all. It is an improvement over 
 Live 07, but the game play is still unrealistic. The commentating gets a bit dull after you've 
 played the game for a while and Marv and Steve tend to repeat the same things over and over again. 
 Also, the free throw shooting isn't that great, players with poor free throw shooting like Shaq, 
 can make the free throws if you just do the motion right with the analog stick. I recommend NBA 
 2K8, probably the best Basketball series to date, but until EA can improve on the game mechanics, 
 it looks like 2K sports is the next-gen sports title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LANCESCHELL
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  The NBA Live series always has something new up its sleeve. The basketball sim returns this year 
 with something definitely new... a basic game of basketball with no special effects or anything, 
 which for a basketball hardcore fan, is good. It gives you what you want. But as a video game, 
 it is not the greatest. Bugs from the previous two entries have been fixed for the most part. The 
 game does run super smooth once your into the game, and it is one of the smoothest games on the 
 platform at that matter. The problem I have with it is, the blocking is back to the Live '00 days 
 and so on... it is nearly impossible to block. You are almost forced to use the right thumbstick 
 to play all defense. Another annoying issue that seems to facing all EA Sports 2008 games is that 
 if you do not have a widescreen or big television set, chances are, text on the screen is hard 
 to read and is in some cases, illegible. Player models are fantastic though and overall, the graphics 
 in this game are good. The arena and surrounding things could use some work though... flashy introductions 
 (they are not flashy enough!) , when someone dunks on the home team, they NEED to play LEEEBBRRRROOON 
 JAMMMES!! not just the generic.. Lebron James with the assist, etc. This was present in older versions... 
 what happened to that (what I feel) realistic vibe? Also what I noticed is that in NBA 2K8 the 
 crowd acts realistic. Fans get up to go to the concession stand, restroom, etc. and all these little 
 perks that really make the polish of the game seem super cool. EA Sports needs to take a hint from 
 2K Sports in that regard. Overall, I am impressed with the visuals... they just need a few tweaks. 
 This is, though, the best NBA Live game on the Xbox 360 hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DodgeDuty
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  First I would like to get the bad things out the of the way
  - CPU point Guards score to much 
  -Dumb AI won't pick up loose balls that roll on the ground
 
  -The international FIBA courts aren't the right size
  -Players still should behind the backboard
  Now the good part
  -Great looking player faces
 
  -Hotspots work, but can be distracting
  -Low post moves
  -Fluid highlight stick for pulling off moves
  -Online tournaments
  
  The game still needs 
 some minor tweeks, but NBA Live is gradually improving. Still though, not the strength it used 
 to have in the past with 2K8 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thelakerchild24
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  This summer EA Sports showed all us Live fans that NBA Live 08 was going to be a great and solid 
 basketball game. And as every other year, I buy the game, even if 2K Sports got a better score 
 from the critics.
  
  Immediately when I pop in the Live disc, the game shows a very appealing presentation. The moment 
 you get into the game, Gilbert Arenas is in the Wizard's arena, giving you a realistic feel that 
 you are alone by yourself shooting hoops. The controls were very simple B to shoot, A to pass, 
 X to Dunk/Layup. While shooting around with Mr. Arenas I noticed a very BIG problem; There is NO 
 timing on his shot! I switched players to Kobe Bryant and checked his shot; NO timing. The timing 
 of a shot gives you a feel of control, and without it the game feels like it is out of your hands.
 
  
  For example when I have a wide open 3 and miss the shot, I feel that it wasn't in my control that 
 I missed the shot. It totally feels unfair that it misses beyond my control. Other than shot control, 
 NBA Live has other Gameplay problems. In given trailers and interviews, EA said that NBA Live would 
 have a very interactive and realistic post play. That is completely BULL. It is the same canned 
 animation every time: Pump fake, step, jumpshot/fadeaway. It really feels the same every time when 
 it comes in the post.
  
  The dunking animations are pretty generic. For years Live has been known for its flashy dunks and 
 alleyoops. Sadly, all of those great lokking flashy plays are gone. Passing is also very odd looking 
 too. NBA players do not float passes to each other. In Live every single pass is slow and floaty. 
 The only pass that has some kind of snap to it is the alleyopp pass; which is extremely easy to 
 pull off, even on superstar difficulty.
  
  Another problem I have with Live is that it still has the annoying little glitches that were featured 
 in Last year's 
  NBA Live 07. You still see players going through each other and clipping through the backboard. 
 
  
  And one thing that is SERIOUSLY ANNOYING is the charging frequency. Foul calls are rarely called 
 in NBA Live 08. and one is finally called, it is like Tim Donaghy called the foul. Every time I 
 get to the rim and I have an opourtunity to get off a dunk/layup, the defense gets bailed out when 
 the virtual Donaghy calls a charge. And the thing that annoys me the most about this is that the 
 defender does not actually set his feet or actually look like he got hit.
  
  The Go-To-Moves can be amusing unless if you noticed that most of the animations are the same thing. 
 It is either a fadeaway , a stepback, or the ocasional floater.
  
  The game also has some roster problems. The rosters are dated back form July, way too early to 
 stop taking down rosters. Lukily EA gave a roster update back in October. Also the Western Allstars 
 still have Kevin Garnett. Didn't he get traded to the Celtics ? 
  
  When going against the computer AI for the very first time, it can be challenging. But once you 
 get the hang of the controls the computer won't even be a challenge (even on Superstar Difficulty) . 
 There is the option of playing a friend online. If you play someone who likes to play realistic 
 basketball, you can have a very fun time having a challenge untill the final buzzer. Then there 
 is the ocassional cheezer who uses all the exploits *cough* charging bullshit *cough* Luckily EA 
 gave away shot timing, because there is no controling a missed shot. Then there is a guy who wants 
 to dunk all the time and gets to the rim at will, making every shot. EA really needs to focus more 
 on the defensive end, because it is very frustrating watching a dude online scoring 75 points on 
 you with one player, and his points were all in the paint.
  
  EA also had some scheduling issues in Dynasty mode. Last time I cheked in the real world, the Lakers 
 didn't play the Mavs in November yet. There is also no edit player (for editing Gear) . Personally 
 I don't mind it, but you have to have it in the game so you can add your own special flavor in 
 the game.
  
  Overall NBA Live 08 is yet another disappointing game from EA Sports. From all the trailers it 
 looked like EA actually made a solid basketball game, however it was all flash but no substance. 
 If it weren't for the abundant glitches and annoying little things, this game could have been a 
 solid basketball game. Oh Well..... There's always another year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Like I said The game is ok. First of all Gilbert Arenas is on the cover, I thnk either Tim Duncan 
 or LeBron James deserve to be on the cover. The best thng about LIVE 08 is the amazing graphics 
 they are totally nex Gen and I actually think its real life, you can actually see Gilbert Arenas 
 sweating. At the same time I hate the controls they are not the best I have seen in a game. The 
 defense is lame in the game beacuse last night when I played In a Game Nate Robinson Dunked over 
 KG which is so wrong seeing KG is 6''11. Anyways I have not played on Xbox live but I guess it 
 would be pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xcluse
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  I was pretty excited to see what this game had to offer this time around. Last year i was so disappointed 
 in Live 07 that i became a 2K basketball gamer. This time i didn't buy but i went to a friend's 
 house who idiotically bought the game as soon as it was released. After the first 20 dunks/2 minutes 
 of the game i realized that Defense isn't a factor in this game, but the worst part about such 
 an offense based game, was that the movement was sub-par compared to NBA 2k8. Every time i transitioned 
 from a crossover (which were these ugly stiff movements) to take a shot, there was a considerable 
 delay to putting that shot up. It just didn't feel natural when taking shots in this. The post 
 game was just incomprehensible. I've grown tired of the separate layup/dunk and shot buttons because 
 you can't necessarily plan the exact post up shot you want. I was truly confused with which one 
 to use. I became truly disappointed when I saw the free throw interface. I thought it was simple 
 logic like NBA 2k8's system and based on timing that your player puts up the shot, but once again 
 i was mistaken. It's hard to explain but the timing is awkward with each similar looking free throw 
 that all of the players take. I mean their shooting form even looked ugly while taking free throws 
 (lol) . I recommend this for the younger crowd of kids who aren't big sports buffs. There's a button 
 to press to show you your ball handler's hot spots (basically the only places you should really 
 shoot from with that person. If you just quickly run to one of those places on the court and shoot 
 while your opponent struggles to play their non existent defense, you will get the shot off. Or...... 
 just take it to the hole (doesn't even matter who) and you got an automatic 2 points. This game 
 was like playing with 30 different versions of the Phoenix Suns. No Defense, Just Scoring. Nothing 
 else. I'm serious just scoring is all you're going to get out of this.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lublar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Nba Live 08 brings a new smooth feel to basketball video games, and it is very improved from last 
 years game. Shooting animations look smooth and fluent, as do most layups and dunks. You still 
 have all the basic game modes such as Franchise, Season, etc, and some familiar mini games which 
 I don't really find entertaining enough to play; so the game offers you with enough to keep yourself 
 entertained and coming back to play again. In this years installment, hot spots have been included, 
 which are areas on the floor where a player has the highest chance to make a shot. I find this 
 to be a good idea, and it makes shooting the ball more balanced, while also bringing more focus 
 to star players. Player ratings are as important as they've ever been, not to say that players 
 rated in the 70s and below can't make a shot, but you want the ball in the hands of your star players 
 in tough situations. All this, coupled with improved graphics, AI, and post game make the game 
 a must own for any basketball fan.
  
  However, the game isn't all good in my eyes and there are a ton of little things that get on my 
 nerves. While the post game has been upgraded giving you more options for your centers and powerforwards 
 in the paint (you can either try to spin off and dunk, or take a quick shot, or a turn and fade 
 shot.) , they made it way too hellacious. It is nearly impossible to defend the post if a team has 
 a decent Center or Power Forward. Just a simple pass into the post, spin around the defender and 
 dunk - that's all you need, and it works about 90% of the time. It is nearly impossible to defend 
 this, sometimes you can manage to stay with the player - but you'll still get dunked on, and often 
 times an And 1 will be charged by the ref. Other times, you might cause them to miss the dunk/lay 
 up, but a defensive foul will get called. Other times you might get lucky enough to swat the ball 
 out while they dunk - but that's usually only once or twice a game. The only way to really stop 
 it is to call a double team which usually doesn't react immediately, so the player still has time 
 to dunk on you, but it also leaves open a wide open shooter. It shouldn't be impossible to guard 
 someone in the post one on one.
  
  So, the post game is really my biggest problem with the game, it's just too hellacious, but there 
 are a few other little things I'd like to mention. While the AI is much improved over last years 
 game, there are still times when the computer messes up, or animations force turnovers. There are 
 a lot of times I think when more steals should occur. The game AI lets you get away with too many 
 careless passes. Sometimes you can pass it right through a defenders body and he'll just let it 
 go through him without trying to intercept it. Also, rebounding AI still isn't the greatest, sometimes 
 player will just let the ball roll right past them, without even trying to grab it. There are also 
 some animations you can't get out of that cost turnovers. One in particular, if you are dribbling 
 down court and someone comes up to defend you, and you try to run past them, you'll often times 
 be pushed out of bounds if you are near the sidelines, and you can't stop yourself from running 
 out of bounds. Another, if you are driving in the lane and go for a lay up, sometimes you'll be 
 forced behind the backboard and end up throwing the ball into the back of the backboard - which 
 is out of bounds and a turnover.
  
  My review is starting to sound negative, but it's not. I would have given the game a 9.5 if it 
 weren't for some of the things that I mentioned above. This is the best basketball sim out there, 
 and should be picked up by anyone who is looking for a good one. There are many improvements over 
 last years installment, and its noticeable. The game runs smoother, the players move more fluently, 
 and the AI operate much more efficiently. I remember in last years game, one of my biggest pet 
 peeves was players picking up the ball while out of bounds - that has been fixed, thankfully. A 
 lot of people think EA are slackers in some of their sports titles, but NBA Live 08 doesn't show 
 that - you can see vast improvements. So, overall this is an excellent game, and fans should enjoy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aureatus
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for a week now and I like it. It is better than 07 as far as animation 
 and graphics. The game play is trash. I am playing it and I pass to the SG for the perimeter shot 
 and all of a sudden, HE PASSES TO THE PF ON THE WING. This is very a stupid glitch. I have to pass 
 to the player and wait 1 second before I move the player in order to have him keep the ball. This 
 is just one thing, next is the players stop for about 2.5 sec when they get the ball. Then they 
 miss in the paint shots 60% of the time. The CPU drives through the defending players like they 
 were not there, and I get stopped from going to the hoop with Wade like the defender was holding 
 his ankles. I hope they patch this game, or I am mailing this game to EA and telling them thanks 
 for the $60 rental. I think I will buy 2K8 today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tvuollo
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 22, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  30 seconds left in the last quarter, Seattle is up by three points against the Lakers. Luke Ridnour 
 drives to the hoop, takes the layup... that hits the back of the backboard, out of bounds, Lakers' 
 ball. Welcome to next gen hoops.
  
  I'll start off with the aspect that hit me first when I popped this game in my ps3: the graphics. 
 At first the game looks incredible. Player faces, floor textures, jerseys, arenas and coaches. 
 The signature shots look good, although not as good as in 2k7 in my opinion. There are some signature 
 dunks, like for LeBron James. Soon during the first game, I start to see some familiar and unwanted 
 gameplay, like same old player stuttering, warping from running animations to layups, dunks that 
 bounce off the rim and in and miscellaneous small things that really feel misplaced. Some players 
 with lighter skin tones look reddish like they hopped out of a boiling pot just before the game. 
 The ball still clips the net. There are two things that irritate me the most are the screwed up 
 eyes of some the players (occurs during free throws) and that most of the crowd looks like crap, 
 worse than Live 2000.
  
  The gameplay feels much better than in the previous installment, but that isn't saying much, since 
 there are still numerous things to ruin your basketball experience. I like the fact that you can 
 speed over a defender but it can be abused, especially in multiplayer. EA tried to make the players 
 move around more realistically like 2k8 judging from it's demo; it looks more realistic but it 
 makes some aspects of the game more difficult, especially defense. Speaking of defense, it sometimes 
 feels pretty lame. There seems to be no counter moves to some of the post and goto moves. The right 
 analog stick is useless, since it takes for a while for a player to even raise his hands up. Shot 
 blocking looks weird, most of the time the shot gets rejected to the same direction it was originally 
 heading to.
  
  On offense the most noticable thing is that EA got rid of user shot releasing (I'm not sure if 
 the case was same in next gen 07, I never played it) . It's a matter of taste whether it's a good 
 or a bad thing. It can bring more realism since there's no missed open jumpers if you misexecute 
 a shot. Then again, there is no real guarantee how to make a shot since user has no control over 
 it. I personally preferred the user controlled jumpers. I was pleasantly surprised that without 
 even trying to get everyone involved, somehow the points were evenly scattered. Speaking of team 
 effort, the players stand around too much. Most of the time it's because a play is being executed 
 and it's about one player cutting and running through a screen while all the other players just 
 stand around and wait. Fast breaks are sometimes good, sometimes not. Cpu controlled players tend 
 to run under the basket and slowing down speeds while passing, stopping at the 3pt line and everything 
 you wouldn't want them to do.
  
  Point guards still run the show for the cpu. The point guard, no matter who, will test his luck 
 driving, for example Earl Boykins taking on Kevin Garnett under the basket (it wasn't a pretty 
 sight for Boykins) . The AI too often doesn't recognize an open man and it's strategies seem random. 
 It also relies too often on shooting in your face, which looks horrible if you approach this game 
 as an NBA sim.
  
  Passing in this game has gone worse due to various reasons. Firstly, the direct pass button has 
 been integrated together with the alleyoop button. In order to dir pass, you have to hold the button, 
 which will take a second or more and during that time the situation, for example a fast break will 
 be over. Secondly, the player often passes to a different player you tried to pass to resulting 
 in gray hair. There's also situations when players like Nash and Kidd pass straight into the chest 
 of opposing defenders. Thirdly, alleyoops and lob passes are a catastrophe this year. Most of the 
 alleyoops sail at the height of the shot clock, timed way off and out of bounds. If you manage 
 to make an alleyoop, most of the times the receiving player stops about six feets from the baskets, 
 waits for the mile high pass to land and catches it with a two feet takeoff. Most of the lob passes 
 seem to have the speed of a balloon.
  
  And now with the actual bugs, things that should have been fixed before this game had been released. 
 Players still attempt layups behind the backboard that result in out of bounds calls almost every 
 game. Players also receive passes that force them to go to an animation that brings them out of 
 bounds. The cpu also sometimes passes an inbound pass to a player that is already out of bounds. 
 There is some framerate slowdown after replays. So far I've encountered two types of game freezes 
 that required to exit the game; one during a timeout (the players also didn't have jersey numbers 
 during it) and during a free throw. Sometimes players airball layups, players like Kobe Bryant. 
 The intentional foul button doesn't work in multiplayer. The freethrow help window sometimes pops 
 randomly during gameplay, once it stayed there for 3 minutes in front of the action. Players still 
 chase the ball when it's heading out of bounds never catching it. The most annoying thing however 
 is missed layups that cause a dilemma. Players miss off the rim, off the back of the backboard 
 and off the bottom of the rim. Professional basketball players don't layup off the bottom of the 
 rim. When you try to compensate this issue by increasing the layup slider, strange shots begin 
 to fall that come from angles that shouldn't result in a basket. There are very strange animations 
 to accompany these.
  
  As always, the new Live game has some featured new, often heaily advertised things about it. This 
 year there are goto moves, hotspots and quick strike ball handling. Goto moves are cool, some are 
 more easily triggered than others, but it seems like a feature that might be abusable. At least 
 with Arenas I was able to drain jumper after jumper. Then there's the hot spots, which show the 
 hot spots for every player. Kobe has almost the whole court as a hot spot while Shaq has only the 
 front of the basket. But what about Leon Powe, who has nothing but a whole court full of cold zones? 
 Quickstrike ballhandling doesn't feel very different to me from freestyle control. The featured 
 post moves are great but a bit too effective, seems like they work almost every time. I was able 
 to use the counter shot to score over 20 with Rasho Nesterovic more than once. The dunk contest 
 has been a great addition to last gen games but in this one it's horrible, most of the time I didn't 
 know what I was supposed to do even though I mastered the contest in last year's games.
  
  The audio in Live 08 is familiar. Same recycled play-by-play, same clunky rim sounds and a new 
 EA trax soundtrack. Presentation could be better, since it's the third year of next gen hoops. 
 The replay screen doesn't allow much rewinding and contains about ten seconds of material and there 
 still isn't an option to save replays. In-game auto replay cameras are strange and do not represent 
 TV-style presentation at all. There are also no additional extra stat screens during gameplay except 
 when someone scores a double-double etc. The 2k-like highlight reel after the game is a cool addition 
 but it doesn't work very well, it often shows short clips of an empty court and other odd stuff. 
 The game menus are mostly the same as in Live 07 and 06, so no imagination here.
  
  This is the third year of next gen hoops and EA is stumbling to deliver a solid basketball game. 
 There are good things about this game but usually when you come across a satisfying gameplay moment 
 two bad sequences follow that really ruins the athmosphere. EA is taking a step back in some directions 
 while getting ahead in some others. Gameplay has been improved but the bugs and miscellaneous small 
 things that have risen or remained unfixed really decrease the overall basketball experience.
 
  
  For a next gen game, there just isn't an excuse. Why haven't they tested the game enough to iron 
 out the bugs? Do they really met their own standards with this game? The main purpose of a video 
 game is to have fun, I had some fun moments with this but as a long time basketballgame player 
 I couldn't stand it for too long, that's why I don't write anything about the dynasty mode, since 
 the gameplay is too bad for me to start one. Live 08 also seems to fall short of a basketball sim, 
 since the best strategies don't reminisce real basketball too much. I'd rather play an older NBA 
 Live all the way back to 2001 if it was only for the gameplay. EA really needs to make some dramatic 
 changes to it's franchise because it's not a good next gen game, barely a good game, period, and 
 not as fun when you spend enough time playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Booe5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  This game is really a surprise to me, I was not expecting a great basketball game this year from 
 EA. Because over the last couple of years since making its crossover to the next generation consoles 
 NBA Live has not quite made the grade . But they have definitely improved by leaps and bounds this 
 year with NBA Live 08. With the smoother game play, real player animations and shots, and the true 
 to life NBA atmosphere that you get when playing a game. Also the NBA live All-Star weekend is 
 still a great feature in the game, and the FIBA championship tournament is a great added feature. 
 So overall this is a great game and a much needed improvement in the series, hopefully EA will 
 continue this success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  You know, this game is my first basketball game that i bought since i'll own a next gen consoles. 
 Back to the old days when i'll first bought a basketall games for my PS2 consoles, the graphic 
 is good and i didn't think the graphic in this new era of gaming will improved heavilly such as 
 this game. So for gamers outhere who like to try this game on their next gen consoles, i'll suggest 
 you should try it. In conclusion for 360@PS3 gamers outhere, buy this game or just in case, rent 
 it...@@@@ @@@ @@@@ @@@ @@@ @@@@ @@@ @@@@ @@@@ @@@@ @@@@ @@@@ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sunsfan5000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  NBA Live 08 is a great basketball game. Why? Its just really fun. I mean no game is perfect. In 
 this game its a little unrealistic like making impossible shots but thats all I see. The loading 
 is fast for me but the trivia system is not better than practicing. So it looks great and runs 
 smoothly. The AI is actually kind of tough at some time but that depends the difficulty. You really 
 have to think about your moves because if you don't you mess up. The dynasty looks great. If you 
 dont want to do the stuff thats boring you choose not to do it. Now online i have not done but 
 its supposed to have issues. We'll see about that. NBA live 08 is way better than 07 and the flaws 
 arent bad so yeh.
  
  Yeh its a fun so just do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hooperfax006
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 15, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Before I start My Review I have to say that this game is an Improvement from NBA Live 07 which 
 means that the NBA Live Series is going in the right Direction.
  
  Good of Game: The Graphics are great much better than NBA 2K8. The Commentary is very good it feels 
 like a real basketball game. The Features like the 3 point contest and the dunk contest are fun 
 the 3 point contest is better than the one in 2K8
  
  Bad Of Game: The Controls kinda get confusing like X to dunk and do a lay up and B is to shoot. 
 They still shoot from behind the backboard and it gets really annoying. The Hotspots to me is kinda 
 stupid it makes a lot less fun cause you it is a way to get a really easy shot.
  
  The Live Series is going in the right Direction but it will take a while until it reaches the 2K 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeyondPerfect
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 14, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Even though EA Canada completely changed NBA Live, it's still just a decent basketball game at 
 best. The new control scheme is cool at first, but they said it wouldn't be as easy as the freestyle 
 controls, which is a complete lie. Infact, I think it is easier now, I do the same move with Kobe 
 Bryant the entire game, just like I would if I was using the freestyle controls from previous games. 
 Players miss far too many layups, its just disgusting. The A. I. is pretty bad also, they don't 
 react to anything at all. I scored 24 points in the 3rd quarter with Kobe, but they don't make 
 any defensive adjustments. No pressure, no double teams, just a simple one on one against Steve 
 Nash. Overall the game is a complete disappointment and me being a huge basketball fan, I had no 
 choice but to get this because of a deal at Toys R Us and NBA 2K8 was sold out. This shouldn't 
 even be called a basketball sim, its more like an arcade style game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilbran2384
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  Nba Live 08 is a good game. It reminds me of the old Nba Live games. Remember Nba Live 03,04, and 
 05? Well this game is better then all those combined. If you want to make it a better game, then 
 just adjust the sliders. Look up some websites to find some decent sliders. The sliders make the 
 game more enjoyable then the game already is. For instance, slowing down the game speed makes the 
 annimations run more smoothly. Also, lowering the steal ability of the players helps get rid of 
 some of the cheap turnovers in the game. If you lower some of these sliders, then you will be amazed 
 of the new Nba Live game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmag420
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  finally EA is gettin its bball franchise back to where it was prior to 06... i had it 2 days n already 
 think its more fun than nba 2k games prior to this year... nba live is a pleasant suprise that is 
 definately worth a look by any basketball fans.. dont be afraid to try this one this year.. its a 
 dope game for sure... dont beleive the hype of 2K go buy nba live! ! ! ! ! trust me i was hating 
 on EA since nba live 05 .. this one is much better... game is also packed with a lot of features 
 and game modes such as all star as previous has had.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jukester10
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  All I know is I've played both games and this one is most definitely far from being able to compete 
 with the realism of ESPN's version of basketball which is the realest basketball game out there 
 at this point in time. EA really needs to step their game up if they are ever going to catch the 
 2K series which has been stomping them since 2K came out! I've been a Live fan for a long time 
 and I was so disappointed when it moved N64 and that version wasn't that well put together so it 
 is in the past for me because as soon as I played the 2K series for dreamcast I noticed how more 
 realistic they were and how the difficulty was but the learning curve was easy for me as is for 
 any basketball game. In 2K8 the difficulty is more realistic and the AI is more intelligent than 
 ever before. I have yet to play on xbox live yet but my friends tell me that the competition is 
 difficult these days so I'll see everyone on there for the challenge! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buggsib007
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 9, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  NBA Live 08 is not better than NBA 2K8 and i dont understand how some people can say it is. It's 
 an arcade game that has non-realistic game play. If you want to spend your money on a great basketball 
 sim then 2K8 is what you need and if you want a video game that has no character then your in the 
 right place. The game play on NBA Live SUCKS!!!. The people are not like their real life counter 
 parts at all in this game. The people are to skinny and they dont move well. Hit up see what its 
 like. com to see a real basketball sim in action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t-mac720
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Well i bought both new nba games and i first played 2k8 and i was very mad it was nothin new da 
 same gameplay but im not saying thats bad but it gets really annoyin when ur widddeeee open and 
 i mean like completely open no around u and u still miss da shot now of course u cant make all 
 those shots but u miss more than u make which is soo stupid! The dunk competition in 2k8 is the 
 crappiest **** i have every seen in my life !!! it is soooo hard to do a simple dunk they should 
 have taken it away and never make another one! The 3 point challenge isnt really that bad but like 
 the freethrows it depends on the person who ur shooting with each player has their own style of 
 shooting so u have to time every player differently which takes a bit long to understand =/. over 
 all the game deserves a 7.6. Now lets talk about nba live 08 this games had my doubts but it is 
 incredible !!! ITs sooo much fun ea has finaly changed the gameplay of the game and have put back 
 to how it was 3 years ago! There is the dunk competition which is really good but i dont know to 
 many great moves so im not gonna say much about it also the 3 point is nothing special but its 
 still good. The only thing i think they should improve is the speed of each player. The players 
 in the game are really slow to move up and back down court but that really doesnt do too much to 
 the gameplay over all i give this game a 9.1 i really dont care what u ppl think but if u want 
 to message me and tell me what u think of my review go ahead ill message back well dats all peace 
 ppl =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fdlazarte
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  ive been playing NBA series for more than 10 yrs now and i would say this one is the best of the 
 series... with superb graphics and action game play, the more i want to play it... the 'go-to' 
 moves are really good but most fade-away shots are the same... the hot spots are good but it doesn't 
 mean you'll get 100% shot, it still depends how you release the ball... the fiba roster is ok but 
 not updated (waiting for EA to update the roster) ... and i hope they update the background announcer 
 commentary because most of them are used on the previous version.... over-all, i like this game 
 and will continue to play it maybe until the nba season ends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfpaw5
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 9, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  .Not a bad arcade game but, still not a true sim. Passing except for trick no-look passes are not 
 crisp. A simple pass to the wing is still a 5min wait. Way too many layups and jumpers missed with 
 a defender in your guys face.. Still shooting thru the backboard I see???? Dribble out of bounds 
 and come back in for a layup......... Rebounding, oh well can we say bend over and pick it up off 
 the floor. It's colorful and fun if you just wanna play for braggin' rights...... Still better 
 than the last several years. Player movement is totally better than last year, no stickey to the 
 floor. Guys really don't do much on their on without play calling. 2 shot buttons are still confusing 
 , causing way too may charging violations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrycee
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  To start off where did the tens and 9s come from cause this game is way
  far from that. This game is very frustrating and needs serious help. EA need
  to find a better 
 way to make games cause there slippin. Yes ! its a way better
  game then last year But !Whats up with shoting the ball behind the basket
  makin the ball go 
 threw the glass into the basket. Thats some straight up
  BullS__ ! U have no control of defense at the basket and when u do ur stiff
  as a board hard 
 as a rock to move. Why is it the other teams make almost
  all there baskets and you dont ? What happen to halftime report and presentation? This game looks 
 good on HD but thats it it looks good. game
  play is so and so but!! better than last year.2K8 is crushing this game. The
  game is alive the 
 fans is in the game. EA stop saying its in the game , Cause you been out of the game for 3 years 
 already come back to reality. Man ! maybe u need to fire some of them lame workers and hire real 
 ones
  Because ur slippin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polterpsikesxxl
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  The game is overall revamped and re done to the point where its an outstanding play. I enjoy the 
 depth and the animation..... and surprise..... the GAME PLAY is original and enjoyable this year. 
 The push from 2K has been overwhelming in previous years, but with the release of Madden 08 and 
 now Live 08 EA has established themselves as king of the hill' once again. Opinions are opinions.... and 
 I just believe that 2K8 doesnt play any different than lasts years version. This years Live is 
 truley a NO BRAINER . The points that make this game so outstanding to me are the 1. The Graphics. 
 2. The smoothness of the game. Even while playing online.... there is basically NO lag at all. The 
 smooth play makes the game seem very realistic and fast. 3. The Presentation is brought to the 
 game on a high level. As you scroll through the menus the screens are matrix like. For example.... while 
 on the practice screen you can switch players almost instantly. I can go on and on about Live 08 
 but you must play it and sample it for a few hours to judge it for yourself. If you look at my 
 Gamer Profile you'll see, I purchased 2K7 and got a great deal of acheivmentts...... Get your head 
 out of a hole and take the blinders off and get with the NEW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airnique25
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  NBA Live 08 is by far the best basketball sim EA has ever developed. Improved gameplay and almost 
 perfect player models. Ive actually have been a fan of 2K basketball for the past 3 years because 
 Live proved to be to unrealisitc. But I must admit that NBA Live 08 is EA best installment yet 
 and finally surpasses the dominance of the 2K series. I would know because I have both of these 
 games and Im currently trying to sale 2K8. Though the 2K series offers alot of extras in game modes 
 and player animations (a bunch of stuff that gamers dont care about) it comes in 2nd place to NBA 
 Live's overall presentation and in-game feel. NBA Live's gameplay is totally revamped proving to 
 be exciting and fast paced but not unrealistic. Contrary to NBA 2K8 which is much slower to the 
 point where it becomes boring at times. The controls in Live 08 are simple and effective in moderation 
 while 2K8 has complicated dribbling controls that look errelavant at times because of their difficulty. 
 If you hold no bias toward any company and what the best basketball game available, I would advise 
 you to purchase NBA Live 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxMidgetxxJ
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This game doesn't deserve a 7.5 its more lively and more action into it that will keep you playing 
 it. There are tons of new features and gamespot rated this a 7.5? They are so sad giveing the wii 
 version a 3/10 when that is also great. Although this game is a fun basketball game I suggest 2k. 
 Graphics are great good amount of modes and the menu is ok. The online feature is also great being 
 my first online nba game ever. Furthermore there are hardly any lags (serious) when you make a move 
 your player moves very realistic and hope they continue to improve this game as well as the wii 
 knowing that the wii version didn't have much time to be worked on and its still as great as the 
 ps2 version.
  
  Love basketball pick this game up very good in many different ways. Trust me and don't trust gamespot! 
 INFACT NEVER TRUST GAMESPOT lol!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viktory2008
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  I own both 2k8 and live 08. I also own 2k7 and live 07. Last year, hands down, without question, 
 2k7 was a better game than live. It's common knowledge that Live 07 was terrible.
  
  Graphics Live looks really good. The faces not THAT good, but sometimes they are spot on. At the 
 freethrow line, the faces look bad most of the time, but in real time, you can tell who is who 
 simply by the face, and at a good distance, it looks very realistic. The play models are great 
 as well, EA allways does a good job on graphics.
  
  Presentation
  No brainer, EA understands GUI and menu systems, they do a great job here as well. Gameplay
  
 The gameplay is challenging, but sometimes unfairly so. They AI has trouble playing good defense 
 for consecutive possesions. Often leaving lanes to the whole wide open. Help defense is hard to 
 come by, and reaction time to quickness is slow at best. Anticipating how some players will react 
 to your commands (jump, block, rebound, move) is tough. The AI will take over for you and make 
 your job difficult.
  
  Layups
  The post game is fantastic, very fun, until you actually shoot the ball. Players (for no measurable 
 reason) miss easy gimmie shots, shoot behind the backboard, and have shots SWATED and at an alarming 
 rate, when everything (.5 seconds before the shot) was wide open. These issues would be more tolerable 
 if there was some way to avoid them. It happens all too often if you play in the post, and there 
 is no way around it.
  
  Fast Breaks
  Star players miss lightly contested layups or shoot the ball directly upward, while directly under 
 the basket, resulting in a shot that slams into the bottom of the rim, when a simple finger roll 
 would have sufficed.
  
  Momentum
  The momentum system is a little overcharged in this years game. When working for you, your team 
 will run off up to 20 points straight, reeling jump shots, steals, blocks, and impressive stops 
 (and some missed layups by the CPU) that either bring you back froma deficit, or send you charging 
 ahead. When it works against you, it's almost a deal breaker, players get ripped (Kobe Bryant gets 
 ripped like a high school kid by Earl Boykins... TWICE) , fast breaking teams seem to run off endless 
 dunks back to back to back to back, staying infront of quick players is impossible (see my help 
 defense rant above, apply that here) , shots, open shots have no chance of falling, and again, layups 
 become as likley to fall as a full court alley oop to Earl Boykins. In each game, building a lead 
 is like a curse, because you can't relax. That would be a good thing if the comeback run by the 
 CPU didn't feel mandatory, and inevitable. You can't simply out play them for 4 quarters, you're 
 reduced to waiting for the run, once it's over, rebuild a slightly smaller lead and finish the 
 game. You can win games by 20+ points but trust me, 3 of 5 games will playout as i've described.
 
  
  In all, the game is good, but these small issues can be very, very, very frustrating. If you can 
 overlook these, it's a solid game.
  
  I'd STILL say get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  Mad props to EA for it's hard effort and dedication in providing the best Live ever. As a 2k loyalist, 
 I must agree that this year's Live 08 definetly gets the credit it deserves. Last year I rated 
 Live 07 decent, despite trying to get over the bugs and clipping issues. But this version is like 
 night and day from last year. This game feels nice and smooth with excellent ball handling control 
 and the physics is much improved as you rarely notice any clipping issues. The camera perspective 
 is perfect as no longer you have to wait for it to catch up as player move naturally back and forth. 
 I must admit however, that the gameplay still needs tweaking as it sometimes feels a little too 
 arcadey, but by adjusting the sliders you get a much better sim of basketball. The graphics are 
 the best ever in any sports game, from Rasheed's perfect bald spot to Iverson's armful of tattos, 
 this is the greatest looking sports title period. The announcers also are the best in the biz as 
 Marv Albert and Steve Kerr again do an outstanding job in the booth. My only gripe is the excessive 
 fast break points and behing the backboard layup attempt in which the ball hits.... well the backboard. 
 Some no call out of bound and impossible computer points leaves you scratching your head at times 
 even when you apply good defense, but with great ball movement you can apply the same. One of most 
 impressive feat yet is the feet plant technology applied to every player. Now, every player moves 
 realistically which makes this look like a televised game. People say it looks robotic, but I personally 
 think it's more realistic than 2k8's player movement. It may not be as fluid as 2k8 but by next 
 year it will and people will finally notice. All in all this is a great pick up and play style 
 game if you want to get away from the tense sim that is 2k8. I own both copies and they're both 
 fantastic in its own right. Yes, we all know Live was disastrous last year even if the graphics 
 tried to make up for it, but this is all about the improved gameplay and Live truly delivers. This 
 is the first Live I'm truly keeping and it's the only one among all my 2k games. So, to all my 
 fellow 2kers, watch out cause Live is seriously contending for the championship bball title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordKTF
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Nba Live has always been a good game to play. But its time to make Live a AMAZING GAME to play. 
 Live needs to set to tone for next year, by pushing out of their comfort zone into uncharted land. 
 I think gamers and fans of the Live would love to finally see the full likeness of next-gen. I 
 think Live should include schedule practices during franchise mode, workout session, and basketball 
 training program.
  
  Practices -interactive drills ( which the team runs or just your player)
  -going over gameplay 
 with teammates and coach
  -learn the new game strategy by running new plays before every game.
  
  Workout Sessions
 
  
  -weight training
  -running suicides -defensive workouts
  -offensive workouts
  
  Training Program, this program helps you gain strength in all areas. Its can also help you get 
 in shape. Like for example when Lebron James came into league, he had the height and weight but 
 not the totally force behind it. He train hard and eventually even his strength with size. At the 
 begin of the program you'll take before &amp; after picture of yourself . Also a before &amp; after 
 ratings of yourself. The program can involve:
  
  -hard workouts -weight lifting, running, etc.
  -gain needed physique for your position.
  -gain 
 muscle and body mass with it.
  -become a stronger player in 8 weeks training. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z1PS23_H2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  the best thing about this years game is you can play for once and not get pissed at something almost 
 everytime down the court. the presentation is great, the players look good even though some may 
 look a little odd, gameplay is great, announcers tend to repeat themselves a lot, and a thing i 
 can't stand is for some reason when your posting up, do a fake, then hit the x button to take it 
 to the basketball about 98% of the time youll get called for a charge. wtf is up with that? overall 
 this game is good, a game us nba live fans can finally play, unlike the last 2 years i bought them 
 then returned it the same day to get 2k. finally i can have an nba season playing nba live, there 
 still could be some more improvements though with the dynasty mode, and i think they should add 
 in the high flyer stuff again and all that jazz. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StankOnYa
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Oct 5, 2007 4:46 pm GMT It's crazy how EA and 2k came at us with these games this year. Mind you 
 I've only played a few game ofboth live and 2kat my brothers house, and only had one day to play 
 the 2k8 demo since i just got my 360 back yesterday.
  
  First off, Live has way too many mistakes for them to even think we'll be happy with a game that 
 not only has things wrong with it within the game-play but also cost us 64 dollars to purchase. With 
 that said i think nba live 08 is still a good game, nice to look at and even better when you actually 
 play it. It's fun!!!!! yes it's fun and a lot of people believe this to be the case also, it just 
 should not cost us 60 plus to own it maybe 45 to 50 dollars tops.
  
  Now 2k8 is allot of fun also but is flawed do to it's lack of eye popping graphics, awkward controls 
 and presentation this year. Come on 2k what the h*LL, no player intros, starts up the same as 2k7, 
 no one wants to see only line up pictures two years in a row. My biggest gripe with 2k is that 
 it doesn't give us the range of control over a player like nba live does, wich live pissed me off 
 by taking out the separate layup and dunk buttons as-well as a couple of juke moves this year. 
 But still has better overall player control.
  
  Overall live 08 is a good game ,would have been even better or even the best game this year if 
 it was not for 2k8. No joke if 2k8 didn't play and animate the way it do live would kill it. Same 
 goes for 2k8, if live 08 didn't look as pretty didn't have fiba, and all-star weekendlive 08 would 
 be in trouble.
  
  I have to say I buy both games every year, even found a way to have fun with live 07, but this 
 year I'm only gonna buy one of them first and the other when price drops a little. The first one 
 i'll buy is 2k8, sorry I just feel i can't go wrong with it. 2k8 has soooooooooo many sliders, 
 that you can almost make it play how ever you want plus it's more of a challenge. The main reason 
 i feel 2k8 is the better game this year is because the game just flows more smoothly, Player models 
 are way better than 2k7's and gameplay wise i can't get enuff. 2k8 player models are so good this 
 year you can tell who's who just by looking at there body type, plus player faces look a hell of 
 a lot better, not to mintion they play just like their real life counter parts. Next year who knows 
 who the champ will be, but this year it's 2k8. Hay I LOVENBA basketball, as-well as video games 
 for it. I'm in no way biased, that just happens to be my opinion on the two games. Don't beleave 
 me my gamertag is APEstanKonYA. I'll be back on line soon. I buy both games every year. Live 08: 
 8.2 2k8 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dman4Life1217
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 5, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  This incarnation is defiantly improved. I'll give it it's due in that regard. The only problem 
 is, it's improved to standards that were being set by NBA 2k5. Which would be great if we hadn't 
 already played NBA 2k5 already 3 years ago. The FIBA national teams are great, and will be a brief 
 spot of enjoyment, but honestly, I do not see how anyone but an extreme EA loyalist would pass 
 up on NBA 2k8 which is the all around better game this year, and has been since the series came 
 out in 1999. The animations feel alot better overall, but players still have that skating feel 
 to them. While some may appreciate the hot spots, alot of the times games will boil down to who 
 can get their star player to the hotspot the fastest and hit the shot that the never miss. It is 
 really frustrating when it does come to that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kissthedingo
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I got both 2K8 and Live '08. Live '08 was free because a friend of mine gave it away for some reason 
 (hmm... I wonder why) . Turns out BOTH games are OK this year. BOTH games have issues that could've 
 been avoided. Live '08 looked promising but still not there yet. Right Through The Board Shots 
 and Clippings are still there, Graphic wise - a lot better than 2K8. Gameplay ---- It's a major 
 improvement from last year but still a meh. 2K8 is a major downgrade from last year --- what the 
 hell were they thinking?! The graphics are horrible!! Compare this year and last year if you don't 
 believe me! 2K8 game play is good but not better and really that's not saying much. To sum up, 
 pick your poision. Rent one first before you make coming to a conclusion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: draebless
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Finally EA took some time out and actually worked on their basketball game this year. The result, 
 a smooth game of b-ball that is easily the best Live in years... There's still some questionable 
 things about the game, ie: ball physics, some animations, certain aspects of lighting, and ofcourse 
 a few glitches, but i wont harp on that. All in all Live 08 is a pretty good basketball game that 
 looks to be on the right track again. If you're stuck trying to decide whether to go with this 
 or 2k8, its all a matter of preference and what you really like. To me Live is still more arcade 
 than simulation, but thats just my opinion... It just doesn't have that authenic feel that i've 
 grown to love. I love steve kerr and marv albert on the commentary though... they've been great 
 since Live's inception to Next- Gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDude23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  NBA Live 08 is by no means perfect. But has it grown and improved... absolutely! It has improved 
 so much, that even though I love basketball, and played Live every year, with a small hiatus to 
 2K (During 06 I think) , this is the first time I have experienced no new disappointments. I haven't 
 started a franchise yet (which will always be a disappointment until they 'Maddenize' it) , but 
 played through one entire game (8 min. quarters) . It is smooth, and beautiful. The animations are 
 fantastic, especially the little things like a player pointing out an assist, or 'raising the roof' 
 to get the crowd going. The sound quality, effects, and commentary are above and beyond all other 
 basketball games i've ever encountered. In my opinion, a lot of this game is about the little things; 
 like how the crowd will chant your team's name, or how late i the game the crowd explodes after 
 a big bucket. Player models are the best i've seen... in any sports game. I know a lot of people 
 bash this series, but it has improved by leaps and bounds. I still have to learn the intricacies 
 of the post game, go-to moves, and freestyle dribbling, but i totally look forward to doing so. 
 The overall presentation of this game is phenomenal. The accurate look of go-to moves really makes 
 this far more real and exciting. I also took a peak at the 3-Point shoot-out which i've always 
 enjoyed as a break from the regular gameplay. Overall:
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Animation: 9/10
  Commentary: 10/10
  Sound Effects: 10/10
  Game-Play: 8.5/10 (Luke Ridanour 
 is NOT a 36 ppg player)
  Modes: 7/10 (an estimate... franchise in BBall games are always below par)
  Menus &amp; Navigation: 
 8/10
  Improvement over all other next gen versions: 10/10
  Fun:10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamstallion
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I am proud to say that this game is not perfect but is the best game on the market... Very enjoyable 
 I recommend this to everyone.. I currently have 2k8 with me as well and it is getting no play here.
 
  
  I was playing superstar mode USA vs. Spain and they were killing me by 42 at one point in a 12 
 min game. so after the half I got used to it and mounted a come back. My friend Shawn was on his 
 way over to play some dynasty mode in NCAA 08... When he arrived I was down only 16 with 4 mins 
 to go in the fourth... with 5 seconds, down by 3, I ran Kirk Heinrick through some down screens 
 and popped him out at the top of the key and for three Shawn (my friend) witnessed me tie up the 
 game with .7 seconds left in the game...
  
  I ended up winning the game on over time by 8 and I realized this game was hot!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heavye80
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This is coming from a 2k fan for the last couple of years. I chose Live this year because I enjoyed 
 playing the live demo over the 2k. Easy to learn controls and a completely overhauled free flowing 
 engine, and key Hot Spots make up for the half a.... abortion that was NBA Live on the 360 for 
 the past two years. The beautiful graphics make 2k look horribly dated, the only problem being 
 it only does 1080i. Hopefully there can be an update or a patch through Xbox live, anyways the 
 graphics and physics are still awesome, wait ... down right spectacular!, compared to 2k. The addition 
 of the ESPN live roster stats keep you up to date on who is on your favorite teams and how well 
 they are doing, also helps to keep your rosters up to date in case the roster downloads are behind. 
 True player control makes you feel like your NBA heroes, and the frame rates on fast breaks are 
 sick. Marv Albert and Steve Kerr are back for exciting commentary, actually like to hear these 
 guys doing there job.... It counts and the foul! My only gripe would be the foul shooting, it does 
 not feel fluid enough gonna need a bit of precise control for this one. Overall not a bad job this 
 year EA Sports, not bad at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earnhardtfan77
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  i never thought i would be saying that nba live, in my opinion is better then 2k!!!!! nba live 
 08 is a great game with great animations and great graphics, when i seen koby shoot his fade away 
 jumper i could not believe how life like it was, i played the three point shoot out which was also 
 really fun and the dunk contest i have to get used to, i have played 2k the past 4 years something 
 they never had, but they do now, but i decided to give live a chance and im glad that i did, this 
 game is great real life like feeling in the arena when your playing the game and excellent commentary 
 player modles are right on and player movement is right on, this game finally has gameplay unlike 
 any of the past live games. this is a must game to get... finally live is bck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LPoPPin15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  for the past couple of years Ive been calling the game nba dead 05,06 07 ect. but wooooowwwwww 
 they really brought live back from the dead this time first of all the gameplay and control scheme 
 owns nba 2k they make u feel like ur acually in the game and playing online I swear I felt like 
 I was playing a friend with a second controller. I had no lag issues at all, the game ran soo smooth 
 and lag free, I cant wait to start or join an online season. The dribble moves with the right stick 
 is PERFECT, the nba 2k shot stick is soo stoopid (how r u gonna shoot with the right analog) anyways 
 now you can make your own scenerios wich is cool and ive never seen that in a bball game b4 and 
 you can share rosters witch is sweet to keep your game updated. The grafics are waaaay better then 
 2k, the allstar weekend is still there just alittle updated (wich was the only good thing about 
 the past nba lives) so im glad thats still there. and every player has hotspots wich is freekin 
 sweet so you can know where your player is hot or cold from. one thing I always liked about nba 
 live is the player lock that is swweeet and im glad they didnt take it out because it makes playing 
 with your friends cooperatively soo easy (dont even bother to do a 5 on 5 co-op in 2k) and what 
 really gets me going is this now that ea went in a different approach with live 08 I could imagine 
 how sweet live 09 is gonna be. All im gonna say is this GO BUY NBA LIVE THIS YEAR YOU WONT REGRET 
 IT!! Im gonna trade my 2k8 in today, live is back so im gonna call it NBA ALIVE 08 lol GOOD LOOKS 
 EA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodbird
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  This game has a lot of new features that makes it stand out. Also I played NBA 2k8 and I cannot 
 get the basketball feel of that game. EA knows how to make sports games and keep it fun, even when 
 they are doing a bad job. NBA live 08 is what I would play with my friends and 2K8 does not give 
 me a good taste at all. The graphics, the performance, the new features such as FIBA, The control 
 scheme, and the Practice before the game starts is great. I love this game. I see a lot of games 
 being reviewed and overrated too. 2k8 is rated high because people like to see the big does go 
 down. People at game spot love to down play games like this because they do not play anything else 
 but Nerdy worthless overrated crap. I love to look at this site everyday and see games like helo 
 get 9.5 rating when its no better than last year, but madden get a bad rating because it is no 
 better than last year. They are both the same thing, but the gamesport crew and fans like games 
 like that and will never try to open up and see what other people are interested in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTsensation
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  I WAS ALWAYS A FAN OF 2K THIS YEAR I WANTED TO TRY SOMETHING DIFFENT SO I WENT WITH LIVE THIS YEAR.. 
 THE DEMO WAS GREAT.. SO NOW I HAVE THE WHOLE GAME THE REALISM OF THE GAME MAKES U FEEL LIKE U ARE 
 IN THE NBA .. THE CONTROLS ARE NOT TO HARD TO FIGURE OUT THE CROWED GETS SO INTO THE GAMES.. LIVE 
 IS THE BEST I DONT THINK ILL EVER GO BACK TO 2K GET LIVE GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD i love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This is a game reminds me of a great dessert. When you are playing, you savor and enjoy everything. 
 With awesome gameplay, ball-handling all the way down to juking out a defensive player while spinning 
 to the rim for a 2 handed dunk.
  
  But when it ends you want more. Everything in the game feels like it was painstakingly built from 
 scratch with alot of attention and detail. There doesn't seem to be any stone unturned. EA puts 
 out quality product for basketball and hockey, not so much football though. If you enjoy a great 
 relaxing sports game , this is a game you will come back to time and again for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoonToBeT2k7
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  The EA Sports NBA Live series has been going through 2 or 3 VERY down years. This year's 08 is 
 a big improvement upon last year.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  The graphics on Live are second to none in the NBA Video Game market. The player models are spot 
 on, the arenas look very realistic, and the fans don't look to bad. Some poor lighting (especially 
 in the stands) keep the graphics from getting a 9.
  
  Graphics: (Compared to 2k8)
  
  Not even close. Live owns 2k in this department. But, when it comes to lighting, 2k is ahead of 
 Live. Player Models, Physics and Faces all go to Live.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  The gameplay this year has improved much thanks to tons of new animations, an excellent game in 
 the paint, better shot animations and more realistic physics. All of this makes Live 08's gameplay 
 superior to 06 and 07.
  
  Gameplay: (Compared to 2k8)
  
  This is a tough one. 2k usually seems to grab simulation gameplay but this year, it is very hard 
 to tell who the winner is.
  
  Audio : 9.5/10
  
  The commentary bar none, is the best in any game I have ever played. It can not be rivaled by any 
 sports game (or any other game) ever. The fan noises are excellent as well, with team specific 
 chants and the crowd responds well to on-court action.
  
  Audio: (Compared to 2k8)
  
  The in-crowd audio in 2k8 is excellent but the commentary is no where near Live's. Live wins this 
 one.
  
  Fun Factor: 9/10
  
  This is by far the most enjoyable game of basketball I have ever played. Whether it is Kobe's turn-around 
 or Novitski's fade, this game is definitely a joy to experience. Sadly, the dunk contest remains 
 virtually un-touched as does the 3-point contest.
  
  Fun Factor: (Compared to 2k8)
  
  Depends on what type of gamer you are I suppose. To me, Live is very realistic as is 2k8. This 
 one is 100% opinionated.
  
  Ending Notes:
  
  Live is a great game this year but there are PLENTY of glitches. Players step out of bounds (with 
 no call from the official) , balls pass through heads of players (rarely) , hands go through the 
 rim and backboard, and players dunk the ball (and miss) and the basket counts. All of these are 
 not of the norm to a usual game, but you will run into one or 2 glitches a game : (.
  
  All games have glitches, whether the title is NBA Live or NBA 2k. If you can deal with a few minor 
 setbacks, you can deal with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  After seeing the games that ea has put out out the last couple years, I wasnt expecting much especcially 
 with nba live 08. But I must say, all you 2k fans better shut up because Live is back and better 
 than ever. To get started, The atmophershere is awesome in this game. It brings you into it. I 
 cant say enough how exciting some of these games can get. Live has everything you would want in 
 a basketball game. The extra stuff such as, all star weekend is back and better than ever. Those 
 kinds of games never do get old. Also the addition of world teams is a lot of fun. Im still trying 
 to find things wrong with it but I just cant seem to find any. I have been noticing long loading 
 times and there was one game where I lost the names under the player. Ah well, an update should 
 clear those up. Those wont take away the fun from the fun that you'll have playing this game.
 
  
  So 2k fans looks like you bought the wrong game today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huddyseven
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  They have added the EA Locker. It states you can share rosters and scenarios with those on your 
 friends list. The roster sharing from the Locker was great for March Madness last year so its 
 nice to have it here. It sounds like you can create scenarios and put them in your locker for other 
 people to download and attempt which could be interesting.
  
  So far it has seemed to me to be improved in that the defense is boxing out well. There is still 
 the issue of players selectively going for the ball, letting it hit the ground first, ect.
  
  Ive gone over a lot of what I like about the game through my community event and demo impressions 
 so it would be redundant for me to talk more about those things right now. I do have a few comments 
 to make on the first couple games Ive played. As Ive mentioned in the comments its difficult 
 for me to assess the game very well when Im recording because I have to play through my computer 
 monitor. This adds some challenge as I have more trouble identifying pass icons, telling which 
 player is which, and so on. Once I play more on my TV Ill add additional impressions of the game, 
 and clarify if I still find these things to be true. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
