-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA Live 09
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/nbalive09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Signature playcalling makes running plays a breeze.
 New pick-and-roll mechanic is simple and effective.
 User-friendly controls.
 Marv Albert and Steve Kerr do a nice job in the booth.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lousy defense leads to lots of dunks.
 Dribble moves are too often ineffective.
 Be a Pro mode isn't very deep.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 16, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.7, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 418 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Oct 7, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NBA Live 09's gameplay has again seen some improvement, but there are still a few rough edges.

  NBA Live has had a rough transition to the current generation of consoles; however, slowly but 
 surely, the games have gotten better every year. NBA Live 09 doesn't make the same leap forward 
 that 08 made, and the much-hyped dynamic DNA feature has little effect on the gameplay. However, 
 new pick-and-roll controls, as well as signature playcalling, make this Live the best in several 
 years.  

           Kobe Bryant's DNA: It's not just the property of the Eagle County sheriff's department 
 anymore.      

  NBA 2K9 has "living rosters," whereas NBA Live 09 has "dynamic DNA." No matter the name, the result 
 is generally the same. EA will be updating Live's rosters on a daily basis to reflect what is happening 
 in the NBA. If Chicago Bulls rookie Derrick Rose continues to show no fear driving to the hoop 
 as he has this preseason, his in-game persona will reflect that. Should Shaun Livingston prove 
 he can stay healthy with the Miami Heat and start the season off on a hot streak, his attributes 
 will get a bump to immediately make him a factor. Basically, you're going to have really up-to-date 
 rosters; if that's important to you, you'll enjoy the feature. If you were pretty happy with the 
 frequency of roster updates in previous years, you won't get as much out of it.  

  Dynamic DNA isn't just used for current rosters; it's used throughout the game, though its implementation 
 is better in some areas than others. Floor overlays and percentages that tell you how likely a 
 player is to drive left to the hoop aren't very useful. They're also -- judging by the updates after 
 a bucket -- quite often inaccurate. The DNA feature is most useful with regards to playcalling. You 
 can bring up a playcalling menu at any time with the press of a button while dribbling. You're 
 then presented with four playcalling options. These options are determined by what plays are typically 
 run when the ball is in that player's hands in real life. That's neat, but the best part is that 
 once you call a play, the game walks you through it by placing markers on the floor. This not only 
 teaches you what your role is in executing the play, but it also makes what your teammates are 
 doing extremely obvious so you're not just running to spots and wondering what to do with the ball. 
 If you prefer to run a simple pick-and-roll, you can do so with ease. If you hold down the left 
 trigger or L2, a player will come set a screen, and you can use it as you see fit to drive or take 
 a shot. You can also get your teammate involved a little more. If you release the button before 
 the meter fills, your teammate will go to the hoop. If you release it later, he'll step out for 
 an outside shot. It's a simple mechanic that's easy to use and very effective.  

  It's good that calling plays is intuitive because you'll need to instruct your fellow players if 
 you want them to move around at all on offense -- they do very little on their own to get open. But 
 even that's not a huge problem because it's pretty darn easy to dunk at will. Unlike previous games, 
 however, you won't always be able to take the ball coast to coast with a single player. Dribble 
 moves with the right analog stick are quite often ineffective, thanks to some unseen gravitational 
 field defenders have that keeps them close. Instead, you'll sometimes have to wait for the CPU 
 to make a bad double-team so you can hit a teammate near the rim (you'll need to use icon passing, 
 since regular passes rarely seem to go where you want) for an easy dunk. Although you can cover 
 your man fairly well with the effective lockdown-defense feature, bad team defense is one of the 
 game's trademarks. Even if you double-team a player, he's nearly unstoppable should he receive 
 a pass in stride while cutting to the rim -- players just don't react in time. Poor reaction time 
 is also a problem with user-controlled rebounding; it seems no matter how early, on time, or late 
 you jump, you're going to miss the ball a good portion of the time.  

  Most of the gameplay modes are the same as last year, but that's not necessarily a bad thing because 
 there's plenty to do. You can practice the basics in the NBA Live Academy, prove you're the best 
 team on the planet in the FIBA World Championships, take part in the slam-dunk contest and three-point 
 shootout in the NBA All-Star weekend, or take control of an NBA franchise in Dynasty mode. An intuitive 
 interface and interesting method of improving your staff are the highlights of the Dynasty mode. 
 But we experienced such quirks as Andrew Bynum winning the MVP while averaging 7.9 points and 10 
 rebounds per game, or even worse, a few crashes that left us unable to continue our season.  

 
  Live 09 is the latest EA Sports game to include the Be a Pro mode found in NHL 09 and FIFA 09. 
 However, unlike those games in which you control one player throughout the course of his career, 
 you're only able to play a one-off game in Live. This makes the mode downright uninteresting because 
 you have no vested interest in how you mesh with your teammates. You'll have a little more incentive 
 to be a team player if you play the five-on-five Team Play mode online. Not only do you receive 
 a rating based on your performance, but you'll have to deal with some pretty unhappy teammates 
 if you hog the ball or play like a jerk and cost your online club a win. Online play lags a bit 
 when playing with more than a few other human opponents, but in general, the online experience 
 is fairly smooth.  

           Of course there are lots of dunks -- it's NBA Live!      

  Live 09's presentation is inconsistent. Pregame intros are nicely done, most of the better-known 
 players look reasonably like their real life counterparts, and there's plenty of great animation. 
 However, the transition from one animation to the next is often poor, and the in-game presentation 
 is rather dull. Marv Albert and Steve Kerr are back in the booth, and once again, they do a nice 
 job calling the action, though they don't have much new to say this year.  

  While it's a little disappointing that Live 09 isn't a drastic step forward, it is an improvement 
 over Live 08 and a very solid basketball game. Dynamic DNA isn't going to change the way you enjoy 
 a basketball game, but effective pick-and-roll mechanics and intuitive playcalling certainly will. 
 If you want a basketball game that's fast-paced with easy-to-manage controls, NBA Live 09 is worth 
 a look.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: karlos008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything it needs to become one of the best nba games there are just a few little 
 problems.
  
  Graphically the game is excellent and it is free flowing all the time. I especially like the start 
 up screen whereby you can practice your shots and generally mess around.
  
  One of the problems of the games is the training. You never know which bits you have actually done 
 and it can also get repetative quickly.
  
  A second problem is on defense, you can tell that it is not free flowing and seems extremely patchy 
 and it becomes random whether or not you steal the ball back.
  
  The final problem is there is not enough variety in skill and slam dunks which I found annoying.
 
  
  But on the whole the game is generally free flowing and graphically sound. If you like basketball 
 games it is definitaly a must buy. The passing and movement is a particular highlight of the game 
 it allows for quick breaks whenever your opponent is on the attack.
  
  XIDangerMouseIX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiLPri3st08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 10:48 am PT
Review:  Hello and welcome back to my blog, today i will be doing a review on nba live 09. of course the 
 first thing that jumps at you when you start up the game is the NBA 365 feture which is basically 
 awsome to say the least. I have also noticed that the gameplay looks even smoother than last years 
 improvement. another thing that has been added to this game is the quickstrike ankle-breakers. 
 a very cool new feture for the offense but defensivley they need to make it a little easier to 
 stop. The signature play calling and pick and roll controll are also magnificent fetures to the 
 game. The controls in the game have also been made user friedly if your like me and can pick things 
 up quick then the learning curb is about 20-30 min. That would also be the time for reagular people 
 as well. Overall this game has improved tremendously and should be a better rating than what they 
 gave on gamespot.
  
  my final verdict is a 8.6 out of 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HanSolo10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 9:36 pm PT
Review:  So I was debating which game to purchase between 2k9 and Live 09. I decided on LIVE 09 since I 
 have always been a fan of this franchise since Live 03. I will start with the bad news first, the 
 players move way too slow. For example when I use the right joystick to put the players arms up 
 when I'm on defense, there is about a 1.5 second delay. When I use the joystick to perform a crossover, 
 the player is very slow even when using a player like Kobe Bryant. When I use the R joystick to 
 move the ball to a different hand I expect it to happen right away not 1.5 seconds later, and blocking 
 a shot is especially difficult since there is a delay. You almost have to predict if the opponent 
 is going to shoot and hope you get lucky. Last years game (Live 08) was a little faster with the 
 freestyle controls so I think EA has gone a little backwards in that regard maybe because EA tried 
 to make it so realistic they sacrificed timing and responsiveness which is very important in basketball. 
 In fact the crossovers and ankle-breaker moves from the R joystick don't have any effect on the 
 computer players (not even on rookie mode) thus you don't gain any advantage and the game is really 
 spent just playing a pass and shoot stradegy. Usually I would use a crossover to change direction 
 very quickly and get to the rim but since the crossover is so slow it won't allow that to happen, 
 this is very frustrating!! Ok, on the positive note the graphics are amazing and it looks and sounds 
 like a real game with great commentary, music, cheerleaders and even let's you shoot around while 
 waiting to load. I love the free t-mobile 365 feature which updates the team on a daily basis according 
 to what is happening in real life. I also enjoy how you actually get to hear and watch news broadcasts 
 on sports news while you are practicing and shooting around. This is a good basketball game and 
 I really like most of what it has to offer, I just want EA to fix the freestyle game play and also 
 put the (take charge ) button on maybe the RB button , anywhere but on the R joystick because it's 
 just too difficult to use that way. Overall I like playing this game and the slam dunk contest 
 is also fun to play. I expect more from next year's game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bullsfan769
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  The NBA live series has been rebuilding slowly and with their first effort in 07 with nba live 
 08, EA seemed to be back on track. In nba live 09, EA has fixed some of the problems that were 
 in nba live 08, but some things still feel unrealistic. The improved quickstrike ankle breeaking 
 doesnt work that well, and on defense, if you dont keep your player in front of the cpu, they will 
 easily get past you for a dunk or layup. The other stuff is done well like the faces and the player 
 models which generally look better than the competition, even if the sweat effect is a little too 
 much. NBA live 09 has less clipping than before, but occasionally players will pass through other 
 players and on replays you can see their hands go through the rim and its pretty distracting sometimes. 
 09 also has less game glitches like freezing up during the game and theyve gone back to the practice 
 shooting during the loading of the game, which hasnt frozen up since ive been playing it like the 
 trivia that would go on forever in nba live 08. NBA still has as many features as before, bringing 
 back all the favorites like the all star weekend and dynasty, which is still a deep sim of seasons. 
 Theyve also added be a pro mode from NHL 09, but it doesnt work as well here and ends up being 
 pointless to play. The new NBA academy doesnt serve much purpose except for practicing to get familiar 
 with the control systems and playcalling which work very well. You can call plays easily on the 
 fly and set a pick and roll which works very well. Overall, this game was pretty good, better than 
 last year as expected but some player movements are jerky and the gameplay still isnt on the same 
 rate as the 2k series, but not bad as it has been in the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin8919
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 5:54 am PT
Review:  This game has given me nothing but trouble since I bought it. I am returning the da** thing. It 
 keeps freezing during gameplay. Not to mention the horrible frame-rate. I just want to break it, 
 but I won't get my money back if I do that. Can't give all bad review. When it does manage to work 
 the game play is pretty good. Not the best definitely deserving of it sub-par rating of a 7 (should 
 be lower) . But like I said when it does manage to work it's a good game. So I over looked the freezing 
 every two seconds. The DNA is cool, but every game has the ability to up-date their rosters. The 
 difference is that NBA live 2009 has decided it needs to center its game around it. I think this 
 is stupid. NBA 2k9 does the same thing and has more features. EA can't seem to keep up. The controls 
 are really simple, which is good. Because I don't want to have to deal with hit the Y button to 
 start it, hit the x button, the B button, hold the LB, and then hold Y to do some random move. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergamer14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  NBA Live 09 is a great game but sadly there are some problems, but no game is perfect so all I 
 can say is that I hope EA sees the problems this year and fixes them . The things that make the 
 game less funny are bad camera angles 2K has good camera angles but I grew up on EA and NBA Live 
 It bad when I go to the baseline camera and I can't really play defense especially when it's a 
 bad angle and it's a way back view. So I'm stuck with Broadcast and Press Box. Another problem 
 is the way you shot all the players this year have weird jump shots and they barely get off the 
 ground and its kind of difficult to make shots but once you get the hang of it it gets pretty easy 
 it's all about timing pretty much. Another problem is the Lock down defense system I don't think 
 there's a button for it (correct me if I'm wrong) but you get a lock on your man (defender for 
 people who don't know) and all you do is move a little bit or you press turbo and then you get 
 out of the lock and they get pass you (and with me usually they get an easy basket) . Also the quick 
 strike moves need to be improved but there in the right direction. Also NBA Live is not known for 
 the greatest crowd but you don't play Live to see how great the guy in the back's animation is 
 (no one really cares or at least I don't) . It would be nice if they fixed that though but it doesn't 
 matter. So all in all NBA Live has problems but I'd take EA over 2K any day so NBA Live has my 
 vote as the better basketball game this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piercetruth34
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  People are used to thinking live sucks but they've failed to see that EA actually is on the way 
 up with this game. No it's not perfect. Some of the animations are pretty bad. But the DNA system 
 is great. The gameplay is fun. The pick and roll and playcalling system is really good. The online 
 setup is great. I am a diehard hoops basketball gamer. I had 2k9 and loved it and i'm not knocking 
 that game. It's an authentic game and very well done, but it's also not the sim that peopel make 
 it out to be. It looks real. The control is very real and they give you every option in the book 
 at this point, but when it comes down to it there are still flaws in the engine and the AI is flawed. 
 Live is a change of pace and it's very refreshing and I have to say I'm impressed. Now they just 
 have to polish it for next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneDeranger81
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Graphics and presentation are just fantastic. Animation is great most of the time but there can 
 be some little glitches.
  
  Much prefer it over 2K9. Graphics are far superior and the court isnt crowded and hard to move 
 around like 2K9. Controls are much easier to learn too.
  
  Low points:
  *Not many acheivements, only 23.
  *You have to pay for Live 365.
  *ankle breakers are quite 
 hard for me to do.
  *Some lay up animation looks a bit off.
  *Not much detail on International player models outside the NBA.
  *Country ratings are very wrong. 
 England and Iran should NOT be rated better than Australia.
  *Be A Pro mode could be alot better if you could take a player through a career and develop them 
 etc.
  
  High points:
  *Great graphics
  *Online works quite well
  *Great sound, presentations etc
  *365 update is great
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattastic8
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  some people like NBA Live 09
  some people like NBA 2k9
  some say they are the same thing. they are wrong. they are very different.
  
  Good vs. Bad 
 -Live 09
  
  Good: improved graphics, lots of game modes, NBA Academy, new animations, new signature shots (not 
 that many though) .
  
  Bad: gameplay is improved but still sucks, player DNA is worthless (who cares if someone likes 
 to go left?) , navigation screen control is very very very slow, lots of slow loading screens, limited 
 player customization, Dynasty mode is hard and complicated, there is no such thing as a fast break 
 in Live 09 (they always slow down every time down the court) , bad ball control.
  
  Summary: If you are not that good at video games, then buy this game. Its not strategic at all.
 
  
  Good vs. Bad-2k9
  
  Good: great gameplay, good graphics, easy setup, quick loading screens, easy season mode setup, 
 easy player customization and editing, great off-ball control, Living Rosters updates are pretty 
 handy, awesome cut scenes between each quarter, 2k share system is a very good idea,
  
  Bad: not that many game modes.
  i cant think of anything else that's bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VIRGIN_ISLANDER
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  Defense wins games and it is way to hard to play defense in live 09, especially shot blocking. I've 
 noticed that there is a delay between when you press the block button and when the player actually 
 tries for the block which ends up frustrating because by the time that happens the shot has already 
 been made. And while i'm at it why is it that when i finnally get a steal my player kinda runs away 
 from the ball even though i trying to point him in the right direction he being force way from 
 it.... And whats up with the ankle breakers. Fine lets say that i do get pass the defender why am 
 i being magically held back by some guy obviously slower than me.. I can go on and on about the 
 flaws in nba live 09, but even so i still like the game, but i rather not go online cause its to 
 easy for someone to capitalize on these flaws and quickly make games one sided, if i had a choice 
 of one thing to fix in this game it would have to be defense. Come on EA!!!... this is next gen damn 
 it and EA had ample time to work on this game, so i see no reason why it had to end up this way. You 
 are giving 2k9 fans more reasons to hate on live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawg_07
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 20, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  After not playing a console basketball game for a couple years, nba live 09 was what i expected 
 in terms of gameplay. New stuff, better graphics, still far from simulation, but still fun and 
 decent game. The problem being, which trumps anything good about this game, is that it has so many 
 bugs and freezes every time i play. I even exchanged the game for another new copy after buying, 
 in case of a faulty disc because i could not believe any gaming company would release a game with 
 so many problems. But with no luck my next copy did the same, making the game pretty much unplayable. 
 I play my 360 often with many other games and therefore am sure it is not my console with the issues. 
 I am thoroughly disappointed in EA, especially for being such a profitable company. I feel that 
 EA has been absolutely betraying its customers by releasing some very poor sports games lately. 
 Until (or if...) an update is released to fix the problems in this game i am very frustrated with 
 a brand spankin' new $60 game that i cannot even play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: espionaj2008
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 17, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  I dont want this to sound like alot of the other reviews. I'm not into the Comparison, true gamers 
 know what each franchise EA and 2k have been bringing to the table for years. I say im a old school 
 gamer, if EA is better than 2K im on it and vice versa we dont get paid to endorse these games. 
 I think the updates to this year are better. Things like animations and the ball actually following 
 the players actions like a dribble move are on point. I still thing Live is more of an arcade thats 
 all. The graphics are great. But Im from the old school when its all said and done and you take 
 away ALL THE INTERNET FUNCTIONS (Some people dont know what its like to play live 97 on a Sega Genisis 
 lol) It comes down to the simple game play. Graphics are important but this is a sport game and 
 really how often do you pay attention to graphics when it comes down to playing the game of basketball, 
 maybe when the action is slow on a free throw or a close up but this is not Rainbow Six ya know. 
 Im not bashing the game but the developers of both LIve and 2K need to remember that it goes back 
 to the gamers needs. I want the game to be real i. e. shots, free throws, not sliding not frame 
 lagging. Its 2008 and we should be able to get this right. Gamers are paying $60 dollars for a 
 video game now come on. I wish there was a better way to pressure the developers. I personally 
 have 2k But i played LIVE 08. Im just tired of spending $60 dollars on a game when the little things 
 that count are smoothed out. They have access to ever NBA player that wants to be really part of 
 the game, get the movements and animations right. But I would really like to see more LIVE reviews 
 where are the EA gamers at, 2K has almost 500 reviews. Dont worry about saying if the game is flawed 
 because some idot wants to bash the LIVE series the people that make these games review our input 
 ya know. Keep Balling.
  
  Keep Gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmageddonBC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I am sorry to be the bearer of bad news but NBA Live 09 is better than NBA 2K9. 2K has always been 
 at the top of basketball video gaming success, but live has more content, is smooth flowing, and 
 actually feels like I am playing the sport of basketball. All of you that have played the 2K series 
 know what I mean when 2K gives you the guaranteed situational baskets, i. e. If you lose your defender 
 as a point guard and you then get picked up by a center... you can still make a basket regardless 
 if he is like 8 ft tall. (2K ballers you know what I am talking about) Live does not have that, 
 you will make te basket based on skill or if you can have a clear shot to the basket. I really 
 don't feel like listing all the nuances that 2K has but I don't see the same problems in live 09. 
 Also the playrs on live do not move like robots anymore, unlike some other writers suppose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEf31
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  First of all Ill say i was a Big 2k guy until I bought Live and saw the graphics and said to myself 
 I dont care how this game plays It just looks so real... All the great player models are back and 
 better than ever with more facial description... But they havent found an "average" difficulty 
 its with way to easy 123-74 or you end up feeling like you are just trying to stay in the game 
 but think its unrealistic you will win... 115-105 games. The Quickstrike works to well for the 
 computer and not well enough for you... they will often blow right by you... Slow jumping when 
 attempting to block sometimes u will block 3 straight shot with one guy and other times they will 
 delay and give up an open look which WILL always go in on all-star and above Mikki Moore will hit 
 open 15 footers all game a little un realistic but no one actually leaves people open in the NBA 
 soo who knows... Oh and the biggest Bug of all!!!! FANTASY DRAFT! It will often take Yao Ming Twice 
 in a row... He will only show up on one tema but the other team he was drafted on will end up without 
 a 1st rounder... really frustrating... 
  
  Other than that its still the best looking basketball game there is... the graphics are second to 
 none and announcing is as good as anyone... Oh and NBA 365 should update on Dynasty mode too and 
 stay current like if lakers sign someone he should get singed in your dynasty league on the same 
 day... If you havent played that far it should just go through when u get there kinda complicated 
 but would be great option to have your own season on NBA live 09... I give it an 8... would have 
 been a 9 if these bugs were worked out... maybe they will patch or something but for now its an 
 8... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyeto3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I dont see why there are 5's and 5.5's this game is good, if not great. The graphics 
 are amazing with the animations and the look a like realism. The gameplay controls are good too 
 but sometimes when you go to steal the ball from someone you will actually run away from the person. 
 NBA Live 09 has all the things that you would expect from an average nba game, like character creation 
 and dynasty mode, but the real thing that seperates this game from the others is the Live 365. 
 The ability to have stat updates to all NBA characters everyday truly makes the game new and fresh. 
 The online multiplayer isn't bad either, if you can get in a match. All in all, I would give this 
 a 9.5 for a couple of minor flaws like better game modes. theres just not as much depth as I would 
 like. But if your trying to decide if you want to get this game, first rent it out to see if you 
 like it, cause after you try it you may find that you like it more than i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcalotti
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  umm comparing it to the nba 2k9 the overall gameplay isnt as good because after an hour of playing 
 it gets easier and boring. the graphics of the individual players are better than 2k9 but the overall 
 graphics of 2k9 are better because the courts and fans just look more realistic. i also like the 
 features that come with 2k9 such as the sprite slam dunk competition, and also how it shows sprite 
 slam dunk replays during the games. i would recommend buying 2k9 if you are an overall GAMEPLAY 
 gamer and not ppls face graphics. if you are just into buying a game with outstanding graphics 
 on specific players than get live 09. once again i would reccomend getting 2k9. if you dont trust 
 me rent the two games and compare them yourself..... if the nba live 365 is making you wanna buy 
 nba live than forget about it because you have to pay like 800 microsoft points for it.
  
  ok i will talk to you later PS remember dont buy this games right away............. rent it first
 
  
  cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtiswun
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  As I've said before for all basketball games out there today, none of them are perfect or even 
 good enough for my expectation. NBA 09 has taken a step back. I cannot believe how people are still 
 liking this game.
  
  Let's begin with the graph & animation. Just horrible. They need to fire whoever they are that 
 are responsible for this department. While most players look somewhat similar to their real life 
 counterpart, some players just done completely wrong. For example, Anthony Parker of the Toronto 
 Raptors, he looks nothing like him and he's a STARTER for the team and not some bench player. This 
 is just unforgivable. From my memories, NBA 06 had better graphic than this.
  
  As for the animation, again... a total failure. There are so many awkward movements. eg. When a 
 player simply goes for a dunk, the player would first gather himself but he does not run straight 
 towards the basket, at the last step of the lift off, the player would magically jump straight 
 towards the basket. 
  
  Another example is when a player goes for a dunk the dunking animation is suddenly very fast which 
 totally does not match the speed. And movement transition is SOOO OFF it is unbelievable. 
  
  OK... now onto the Gameplay, I think in this department it is slightly better than before but 
 it is not that much better. Most of the problem is on the defensive end, I have a hard time grabbing 
 a rebound. Even when I totally have position, when I jump it would just seem to grab nothing but 
 air. 
  
  Same thing when I try to go for a block. I still haven't been able to block one shot at will. The 
 jump/block button is not responsive when it needs to be. The only time when I block a shot is by 
 accident. While my teammate AI does an incredible job of blocking shots though with again awkward 
 jerky animations.
  
  There are just so many things done wrong in this game. While 2K does a better job but they also 
 have quite a bit of bugs of their own. People need to stop buying this game because if you keep 
 buying it. You're telling EA that you are fine with this game and they will not improve it. I really 
 hope their sale this year would be suffer and make them realize they need to totally redesign their 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kvone2kx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  the game is great, i am a faithful 2k series player but something told me this year to go for live, 
 as i did in 05 for the gamecube version, and to tell you the truth, the game has improved in so 
 many ways, the controls are still easy to manage, and the dynamic dna, wow! its about time they 
 did a game like such, the stats of players come right in, if they are injured, or just hot or cold, 
 overall its amazing to me how far from nintendo ds we are now. the only thing ive noticed is that 
 player seen to get shaky but it might be because im using my 360. something in the back of my head 
 keeps telling me i should have gotten it for the ps3, but only time will tell. my advice, is get 
 it, dont stress the few perks of the glitchs, im sure an update will come soon enough to fix it. 
 and another pro thing is that with the game tmobile provided a code that will keep the dynamic 
 dna in full effect for the next year. this game defenitely has pushed me to become a live goldmember 
 to put my skill out on fools. something i have been waiting on for the game to do so. i have given 
 it a 9.0 because i havent had the chance to go online, so that point is still pending with me.0ne! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverWeeZy
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  WOW, is the simple way to put it. The big question every year is which do I get? NBA 2k or NBA 
 live. Every year its no question really. Always NBA 2k. I even usually buy 2k but this year was 
 different. I bought NBA Live for the first time. I played both demos and 2K just didn't deliver. 
 NBA 2K was just horrible compared to Live. NBA Live has just taken everything to the next level. 
 The graphics, soundtrack, set up, game modes, and most important and most improved, GAMEPLAY. The 
 gameplay for Live is just sooooooooo realistic. NBA 2K seemed like they didn't change anything 
 at all and that just doesn't work for me. The players uniforms and faces look so good and real. 
 When I played 2K they looked the same as last years and they sucked. Also, The new 365 updates 
 is something totally new and different. I can't wait til the season starts and their is trades. 
 My game will update right away. The only thing is you have to pay 800 microsoft points for it but 
 its worth it. This year to answer your question. Which game, NBA 2K or NBA Live. Go with NBA Live, 
 plain and simple. If you don't you will regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philly215
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I honestly wanted to love Nba Live... even tho the better part of me knows that it is the 2nd choice 
 runner up to the continous excellence that is 2k sports every year. And by buying nba live i would 
 further provoke EA's buyout of Take Two which would end the 2k series for all its fans... So i 
 bootlegged live.
  
  In a nutshell the gameplay has been changed heavily from last year the only problem is that Live 
 itself needs to change. From the grass roots up. Or the developers need to be replaced with more 
 skilled devs. because once again the animation are jerky and the movements completely pulled me 
 out of the experience. 
  
  I mean after watching 2k flow so smoothly with ultra-rrealistic things as players "grabbing jerseys" 
 and wiping sweat. 
  
  then seeing live struggle with the basics of players simply running the floor. It bothered me deeply
 
  
  if your a live fan... you most likely have been stuck too live since nintendo and cling out of brand 
 loyalty
  
  if your new to console sports... theres only one clear choice and that is 2k basketball once again...
 
  
  maybe next year live 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VinRony
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  The Game is really good, and when i've played it i was really impress about the outcome of it. Graphic 
 is ok. The Gameplay it's define the game when you play it, it's really similar to real life. The 
 was that the offense is set up, it's real so real you cannot permit yoursel to make bad pass otherwise 
 you're going to get you're self an interseption. The defense at the other gave you nothing you cannot 
 penetrate with one player on the offensive zone. Some it's also force the offense to make a shoot. That's 
 realistic. Also the ea team added new intesting feature to this game NBA Rewing witch i think is 
 good and the DNA witch is really nice with the players real like their tendency on the court. On 
 my point of view it's actually gave the players their own way to put the ball to the basket. With 
 the rewing, it's gaves players the old way to score. In overall, this game is really nice. The game 
 is REAl, and original. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
