-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA Live 07
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/nbalive07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More game modes than last year.
 slam-dunk contest is great.
 commentary and sound are top-notch.
 Level-one superstar moves are cool.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Online options are sparse, and lag is a huge issue.
 upper-level superstar moves are overkill.
 animation is spotty, and there's lots of clipping.
 controls are unresponsive.
 new dunk and layup buttons make controls needlessly complex.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 29, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 1,090 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Sep 25, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite the addition of several previously missing modes, NBA Live 07's many gameplay flaws and 
 uneven visuals relegate the series to the bench for yet another year. 

  Once the initial luster of shooting hoops during load screens and seeing realistic players drenched 
 in sweat wore off, flaws such as missing features and impossible-to-make free throws made NBA Live 
 06 on the Xbox 360 a letdown. EA has addressed many of these problems in NBA Live 07, adding several 
 game modes and superstar controls, but many key issues remain. As a result, NBA Live 07 again comes 
 off as unpolished; it just happens to have more ways to experience the rough edges.  

          Clipping is a frequent occurrence.     

  NBA Live 07 boots straight to the practice 
 gym, where you can warm up your moves with Tracy McGrady. Here you can select from a number of 
 game modes via the well-designed menus. Play now, season, and online return from Live 06, and new 
 this year are dynasty mode and the NBA all-star weekend. The all-star weekend includes the rookie 
 challenge game, three-point shoot-out, slam-dunk contest, and of course, the all-star game. The 
 dunk contest is easily the highlight of the weekend mode due to its depth and the large number 
 of great-looking dunks you can perform.  

  Dynasty mode places you in the role of general manager for the team of your choice. After hiring 
 an assistant coach, assistant, trainer, and scout, it's off to training camp where you set your 
 team's training priorities. Over the course of a season, you can use your staff in a number of 
 ways. Assistant coaches can research rumors and schedule team events, assistants work with players 
 to improve their skills, trainers help players heal faster, and scouts can evaluate talent year-round 
 in preparation for the draft. In addition to monitoring players' happiness and overall team chemistry, 
 you'll need to keep an eye on their fatigue levels to make sure they don't get too worn out over 
 the course of the season. If you're looking to improve your team via a trade, you can do so. Another 
 way to better your squad is through the draft -- a process made easier if you keep your scouts busy 
 during the year. Your team can still perform well if you don't keep your staff occupied every day, 
 but putting in the work will yield tangible results.  

  Introduced on the PlayStation 2 and Xbox last year, but new to NBA Live on the Xbox 360, are "total 
 freestyle controls." Each superstar player is designated as having one or more of the superstar 
 abilities -- high flyer (great dunks) , scorer (athletic layups) , playmaker (fancy passes) , post (power 
 dunks) , and shooter (variety of jumpers) . The best of the best have three levels of skills, as 
 well as another set when they're "in the zone." These additional tiers let them pull off even fancier 
 feats of skill. Level-one freestyle moves are performed by holding LB and either pushing a direction 
 on the right analog stick or pressing a face button. The level-one moves are easy enough to do, 
 and while some are more useful than others, they add a lot of variety and pizzazz to the game. 
 The additional levels of freestyle control look slightly cooler but aren't any more useful. Once 
 again, EA has failed to provide an adequate instruction manual, so the only way to learn these 
 moves is by trial and error or by going into the control-settings menu every time you want to try 
 something new. You can change players' abilities on the fly, but you won't need to do so very often. 

  Despite several changes and additions, NBA Live 07's gameplay leaves a lot to be desired. The basic 
 controls are easy to learn, and freestyle control, which is mapped to the right analog stick, feels 
 great. Using the stick to perform advanced ball-handling moves is cool, and it's just as intuitive 
 when turning a normal jumper into a fadeaway or stealing the ball. On-court actions are often difficult 
 to execute due to frequently unresponsive controls -- specifically, controls unrelated to the freestyle 
 control method. This is made worse by players frequently getting stuck in animations, most often 
 when backing the ball down or when double-teamed in the post. Dunks and layups are now mapped to 
 the X and Y buttons, respectively. This is supposed to add a risk/reward element to your shot selection, 
 but the concept is poorly executed since there's no consistent method to figure out if you'll be 
 able to make a dunk. If you elect to dunk and your player isn't going to make it, a good portion 
 of the time he'll switch to a layup, and when he doesn't, he'll clank the ball off the rim -- a frequent 
 occurrence. Hop steps aren't well implemented, mostly because they tend to move your player away 
 from the basket rather than closer. Layups and the hop step are both mapped to the Y button (hold 
 for a layup and tap for a hop step) , so it's easy to end up taking a shot when you wanted to hop 
 step. Thankfully, free throws aren't impossible this year.  

  When playing against the CPU, the overall pace of play is slightly faster than that of a real NBA 
 game. It's not the dunkfest that Live 06 was, but even on the highest difficulty, it's still not 
 particularly taxing to get to the rim. Offensive players do a nice job of filling the lanes on 
 a fast break, and they work hard to get open in the half-court offense. Should you want to run 
 a specific play, you can call one via the D pad. Defensively, the CPU is aggressive, rotating quickly, 
 fighting through picks, and double-teaming often. There are also lots of gameplay quirks. Players 
 don't get back on defense quickly, and they'll also routinely chase and then grab the ball out 
 of bounds when they weren't the last one to touch it. Rebounds often fall to the ground untouched, 
 and players frequently dribble with their backs to the basket when they're unguarded at the top 
 of the key.  

          ESPN Motion segments are streamed right to the Xbox 360.     

  Players don't "skate" around the court as much as in the past, thanks to new physics that take 
 momentum into account. This is also theoretically supposed to keep players from changing directions 
 in the blink of an eye; however, it's not uncommon to see a player erupt from standing completely 
 stationary into a high-flying dunk. The new system also causes some bizarre collisions under the 
 basket and makes it extremely difficult for a defender to keep a quick player like Allen Iverson 
 from driving right on by. To make up for the difficulty of changing directions on defense, offensive 
 players frequently get sucked into defenders, slamming into them repeatedly.     

  Online play can best be described as disappointing. Co-op play is supported, but the rest of the 
 options are limited to ranked and unranked games. You can't create leagues, nor can you participate 
 in the dunk contest or three-point shoot-out. Also, the game suffers from serious lag. We tested 
 the game from two different locations, and our experience ranged from very choppy to unplayable. 

          The player models are excellent.     

  Live's achievement points are spread out over 15 different tasks, most of which are just a way 
 to get you to experiment with the higher-level freestyle controls. Points are earned for executing 
 each category of level-three and in-the-zone moves. Playing online will net you a couple of achievements, 
 and there are a few given out for multiplayer games, as well. One particularly weird achievement 
 tasks you with playing and completing a game with four users on the same machine. Obviously not 
 everyone is going to be able to get access to four controllers, or four people for that matter, 
 so some competists might find this a bit frustrating.  

  NBA Live 07 looks great in still shots, but when viewed in motion, its visuals are uneven. Rather 
 than the flashy-but-unfriendly broadcast view found in Live 06, the game defaults to a less impressive, 
 but much more useable, baseline view. Should you want to play from a more dynamic perspective, 
 the broadcast camera is still available, sans the disorienting angles from last year. The player 
 models were one of 06's highlights, and they look even better here, in part due to the more realistic-looking 
 skin and muscle definition. Players look remarkably like their real-life counterparts, and EA even 
 went to the trouble of making sure Steve Nash's new 'do made it into the game. There aren't as 
 many player-specific shots in NBA Live as there are in NBA 2K7, but many of the more notable players 
 do have their real jumpers. Players still sweat, but they no longer perspire like Patrick Ewing 
 after running a marathon... in the desert. The blurring effect used to create a realistic depth 
 of field is occasionally overused, but for the most part, it adds to the impressive presentation. 
 Player introductions have also been improved and show off the player models and realistic arenas 
 nicely.  

  The entire presentation leading up to the game looks great, but as soon as the opening tip goes 
 up, the visuals take a turn for the worse. For starters, the choppy frame rate is still a problem. 
 Individual animations look excellent, but as was the case last year, the transitions from one move 
 to the next are disjointed or often nonexistent. Players still warp from dribbling to passing or 
 shooting, and defensive players with their backs to the basket will suddenly be facing the hoop. 
 User-controlled instant replays are a "new" feature, and after using them to check out the game 
 up close, even more flaws become apparent. Clipping issues -- such as a player's arm passing through 
 another's or the ball going directly through someone's chest -- are rampant throughout the game. 
 In fact, players constantly grab rebounds or dunk by reaching through the glass.  

  It's curious that EA hasn't chosen to integrate the ESPN license into the in-game presentation. 
 There are, however, a few new ESPN-related features, more so on the Xbox 360 than the PlayStation 
 2 and Xbox. Streaming video of interviews, news clips, and analysis are culled from ESPN Motion. 
 The video quality is adequate, and there's a wide variety of content, though at this time there 
 aren't any game highlights. You can also check out segments from ESPN Radio, and as long as you're 
 online, you'll automatically hear the latest ESPN Radio SportsCenter Update every 20 minutes. You 
 can also get updated scores and information from the ESPN ticker that runs across the screen and 
 from the news pages in the online lobby.  

          Don't be fooled. The game doesn't look as good in motion.     

  One area in which NBA 
 Live excels is its excellent commentary. Marv Albert does the play-by-play, and player-turned-announcer 
 Steve Kerr provides color commentary. The two have great chemistry together in real life, and this 
 comes across in the video game in the off-the-cuff remarks and banter between the two. Ernie Johnson 
 is joined by Greg Anthony for the all-star weekend, which means after a weak dunk you'll get to 
 hear Anthony say off-the-wall cracks like "I'd rather watch girls dunk on an eight-foot rim." NBA 
 Live 07's soundtrack is vastly improved over last year's. The well-rounded soundtrack includes 
 a wide variety of artists from around the world, including Segio Mendes &amp; The Black Eyed Peas, 
 Gnarls Barkley, Jurassic 5 featuring Dave Matthews, Rhymefest, Lady Sovereign, and Talib Kweli. 

  NBA Live 07 isn't a bad game, but it is disappointing. Live 06 had many of the pieces needed to 
 make a great basketball game, but rather than improving those specific pieces, EA added more parts 
 and didn't make any of the old stuff much better. All the new game modes are nice, but the lack 
 of noticeable improvement in how the game plays means you probably won't want to spend a whole 
 lot of time with them.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (93 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Julian7766
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  NBA live 07 was probably in the middle of the 3 basketball video games. The game was glitchy offline 
 and quite repetitive. Any shooting was annoying, Nobody could hit 3's easily. It was like everyone 
 was shooting like Shaq at the free throws except the 3's instead of free throws. The free throw 
 shooting is a bit annoying at first but you can nail em easily once you get the hang of it. If you 
 bought this game you probably wish you didnt.
  
  As for the pathetic online play, It was incredibly slow and broken. For an Xbox game this was a disgrace. NBA 
 Live 07 also was a bit slow on rosters, The roster update you could get was'nt worth the 30 seconds 
 to download it was so pointless. Basiclly about 3 guys got created and were less than 65 overall. If 
 you are new to the basketball video games. Id stick with the 2k8 series and just throw this in 
 the garbage before you get mad and smash the disc with a Hammer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PC_JOE_9
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  This game is the seventh installment in the live series. It has a bunch of great game modes, and 
 can be very fun to play with a bunch of friends. I think that the game is fun and the gameplay 
 is great. It is not that bad of a game. Slam dunk contest is absolutely phenomenal, and discovering 
 new dunks can be really challenging. Dynasty mode is half baked, but can be cool if you really 
 enjoy the gameplay. Levelled dunks are easy to perform and fun to look at. The online mode is also 
 pretty very decent. The ESPN radio thingy is awesome, and gives you reason to keep this game and 
 not really sell it to EBGAMES after a while. Overall, if you want some fun, you should buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 6, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  this games soundtrack was the best ive ever heard . but the gameplay and the difficulty werent 
 good the difficulty is either too hard or too easy the gameplays dunking is soo freakin confusing 
 i love the online play though it doesnt lag as much as they say but the lagging does get annoying 
 and it sometimes shuts off the game like once i was playin online with this guy who was away for 
 like 5 min then all the sudden the game shuts off and says no connection while he was my friend 
 and i saw he was still online so overall nba 2k7 was probably better so get that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattG2010
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  i would kill myself if i ever play this game again. the gamplay is the worst i've ever seen in 
 my life. the first time i played it, i was very frustrated. u cannot call plays at all. if u do 
 call plays, they wont work. u just have to get the ball and pray that u do something to make it 
 go in the basket.
  the graphics are good, but once u play it, u want to kill yourself.
  you cannot tell a book by its cover 
  do yourself and everyone else a favor and don't play this 
 game.
  if u say that u like this game, then u probably haven't compared it to NBA 2k7 which is the best. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportzfan8993
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  NBA Live 2007 was a solid game, but there were way too many glitches like the invisible out of 
 bounds wall. Gameplay: Not enough mini games, and the superstar moves aren't great. only some players 
 shoot like there real life cuonterparts.
  
  Graphics: Not good at all. Almost no players look like themselves in real life. The players are 
 already sweating at the beginning of the game. The baselines are too small, so you easily step 
 out of bounds. . And whenever the players go for the dunk, they seem to fly. and they go through 
 the backboards. ??
  
  Sound: The sound is alright, but there is something weird. If the away team comes up with the steal, 
 the home crowd will actually cheer. And also when the home team takes an offensive charge, the 
 crowd doesn't cheer. Value: The value isn't great because it just is plain not fun.
  
  Good Things: The dunk contest has great graphics and the announcers are pretty good. the create 
 a player mode is pretty deep.
  
  the online is way too laggy so its almost impossible to defend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riddle015
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 26, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  I cant believe I this game sucks that much. Come on I hate the free thrwo shooting in it, and rebounding 
 is almost impossible. Also the dynasty mode is so unrealistic. I mean ZKobe doesn't score 20 points 
 a game. it also missed out on playoff mode, and dunk school. Oh yeah by the way the judges for 
 the dunk contest in Nba live '07 are way tooooo strict! But after all of that I do like the fact 
 that you can shoot around while the game is loading, but I think it is really dissapointing to 
 the NBA Live series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IIIverson
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 21, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  This game is just the worse NBA game I have played in a long time. By looking at it you can easily 
 say it has the best graphics for any basketball game, but the game play is so bad that it is not 
 worth buying. I bought it for 60 and I was happy to sell it for 40 a week later, it's really that 
 bad. If you have not played the game, and are planning to buy it... DON'T. Rent it first because 
 there are so many flaws in the game such as dunking through the BACK of the BACKBOARD. Also, the 
 players movement is so bad because they walk like robots during timeouts and dead balls. The commentary 
 could also be better because one time I was playing an online game and during a TIMEOUT Marv Albert 
 said And Shaq goes for the dunk and it happened more than once. You can do some stupid stuff in 
 there such as through the legs dunk while people are in the lane. The game is just so bad. Another 
 thing that pisses me off is that during timeouts, they are actually 60 seconds long. So when people 
 are playing online they will mess around with you and call timeout and they will wait the whole 
 60 seconds. Some of the players in the game look buff when they aren't supposed to such as James 
 Jones of the Phoenix Suns. It is so easy to make shots its not even funny. Dwayne Wade will hit 
 anything inside the 3 point line, and James Posey will eat anything outside the 3 point line. I 
 am expecting a BIG improvement from NBA Live 08 if ever want to make money again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Well, I was getting tired of NBA 2k7 already since I had been playing it so long, so I decided 
 to get this one.
  First off, the graphics are beautiful, and are probably the best in a basketball game yet. Players 
 look like themselves, arenas are done nicely, and they have nice cinematics. Unfortunately, this 
 is where the game stops being good.
  The gameplay is horrid complete with bad controls. The only gameplay I liked was the slam dunk 
 contest. Unfortunately, the controls were so bad, the contest is impossible to win. Collision is 
 bad. You'll notice players can move through one another while crossing over and dunking. No matter 
 the difficulty or the score, you can bet every game goes down to the last second. The AI is so 
 weird that you can be ahead by 20 points with only 2 minutes left, and you'll end up winning by 
 only 2. Animations are bad too. I also had a problem shooting 3s with the best players in the league.
 
  At least the presentation is top notch. The announcers (if you can ever hear them) are a nice touch. 
 The soundtrack is mediocre at best.
  It's pretty safe to say that NBA 2k7 is the only simulation game as in past years to get. Avoid 
 Live at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryVanBreemen
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  It was between 2k7 and NBA. I decided to buy NBA, and it was brilliant at first. The graphics &amp; 
 gameplay was very immersive but to be honest, after around a week of gameplay i found it quite 
 repetitive. It's still good for multiplayer but i've found i dont go on it as much as i though. 
 I started as the Miami Heat (Dynasty mode) and played a match a day. I played around 3 to 4 games 
 and seriously got bored. I tried the online play and for me it really lagged hard, which it doesnt 
 do for me in any other game, beacause of this lag i just gave up after 10 mins. The co-op is good, 
 but not fantastic.
  
  Perhaps for die-hard basketball fans, but not for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidy3k
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  game play looks so real very good control mechanics very good graphics the sweat is more realistic 
 but some of it can be a little bit fake like people that don't dunk like Steve Nash but he does 
 dunk on the game the characters are more muscle tone and over all i give it an 8.3 this thing wont 
 let us go under 100 words so forget u gamespot but please up my level as level 5 please and thank 
 u yours truly ccgr it stili wot let me so bfflsbflsjbfsljasbasdjf asdfjwn ignore that  
 awl thank youe  the worst reifef 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-cubano
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  This game is personally wack in my oinion, the graphics look like 2005 games, everyone there looks 
 like plastic to me or some type of ioled up baby. When you play the dunk contest it take a while 
 for you to learn how to dunk a great dunk. As a matter a fact still haven't learned it yet, when 
 you're playing a game it's like you're playing the easiest people on earth. When i play i don't 
 miss a dunk except for when am in the dunk contest of course. I played online once and it was crap 
 shoot to me me and the guy was neck and neck for the whole game and he got the game hat same day 
 and i had it for about 3 weeks at that time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nears_puzzle
Rating: 3.4
Date: Feb 26, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I was very interested in NBA live 06 and came into this game expecting the same thing. Start up 
 the game, and I start playing with my friend. From the start I'm thinking it aint bad, but that 
 was first quarter. During teh second quarter, four members on my team had either lost their shorts 
 or their Jerseys. On addition to the fashion problem , I started dunking.... THROUGH THE RIM AND 
 THE GLASS!!! Then, I was able to make every single three, including with Shaq. Then I started dunkingfromt 
 he three point line... All in all, don't buy this game! I f you would like to buy a decent basketball 
 game, go for NBA live 06 or NBA Street Homecourt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fonsi305
Rating: 3.8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  EA Sports has gone against sports for a long time now and 2k has been better. EA's NBA series is 
 NBA LIVE 07 and it has had issues ever since it made its debut on next gen NBA LIVE 07 is no diffrent 
 it still has its issues. NBA LIVE 07 has good multimedia extras but hey i bought a basketball game 
 not a good music and ESPN feature game. When you actually play the game it has its issues
  
  The Bad
  
  1) Controls are horrible, shooting its tough and pasing is a mission.
  
 
  2) Who cares if the controls are bad when they dont RESPOND! im playing and i click pass for about 
 3 times and i go out of bounds ???
  
  3) Online is HORRIBLE.. the game lags, **** up and the gameplay moves so SLOW
  
  4) Gameplay 
 is very slow and controls dont respond
  
  The Good:
  Like i said only multimedia
  
  1) Good Sountrack
  2) Espn gives you up to the minute sports updates when your playing online 
 or off, video podcasts that are up to the minute and news news news
  
  3) good graphics the game looks good especially on an HDTV but good graphics dont make the gameplay 
 any better
  
  Summary:
  If your looking for a slow, bad online, horrible gameplay and a game with bad controls that sometimes 
 dont even respond go ahead get nba live
  
  but if you want a fun, fast paced, realistic basketball game get 2k
  
  I made the mistake of 
 wasting 40 dollars (now i know why its so low) on this game dont do it now im stuck until 08 series 
 comes out for me to switch to NBA 2k8 im telling you its a way better game
  
  And if your reading and saying hey i thought you said no bashing This review is very true
  
 
  oh and another thing this game is the type that says Xbox 360 cant read disk please remove or 
 clean disk so be patient 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imfeelinpanda
Rating: 3.6
Date: Feb 18, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  nba 07 sucks the big one. it is a complete pecie of crap that i will never play agien. the only 
 good peace of gameplay in this game is that u can shoot around when its loading. damn now thats 
 sompthing no game has. grafics are good but then agien 2k7's better. sounds ok but 2k7's better. 
 so basicly 2k7 is so much better then this game. i dont c y nba somposers this game over 2k7 when 
 all the other game magizens say that 2k7 is better. so nba better start taking 2k7  
 so buy 2k7 baskt ball games and not ea ones 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biblekid
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  NBA live 07 was amazingly bad overall, but I am going to separate the good from the bad.
  
  The Good: Graphics are amazing. The player models look amazing up close. The presentation when 
 you start the game is great, you really feel like your there and ready to watch a good NBA game. 
 I love the touch of being able to shoot while the game is loading.
  
  The Bad: The game lags bad, I have played it on three different 360's and it lagged on all of them. 
 Gameplay is TERRIBLE!!! When players run up and down the court they go fast, but the way their 
 legs move it makes them look like they are floating in slow motion! Timing wise, shooting the ball 
 is impossible to do right for the first 45 minutes of playing the game if its your first time and 
 you are trying to learn. WAY TO MANY DUNKS ARE MISSED!!! Kobe Bryant does not miss a wide open 
 dunk on fast break unless you are playing NBA live 07. I'm not saying abandon NBA live, but dont 
 get this one and see if a better one comes out next year. THIS GAME IS A HUGE WASTE OF MONEY AND 
 TIME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 25, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Hey all here to write yet another review for NBA Live. Lets face it this game has only change in 
 two things Platform and Graphics. I say that cause the perpetual argument among sports gamers is 
 that sports games are the same every year. News flash in real sports the only thing that changes 
 is the rosters. Rules dont change ( at least not drasticly) Players looks or uniformsdont change 
 much, the way any game is played hasnt changed in a while so its hard for video games to change 
 this. OK now that thats out the way lets review this game. NBA Live is a very old game with rich 
 history, but by now things should be more surreal than what they are. I understand that physics 
 and graphics have changed, but they should concentrate more on the game and not the look. The Gameplay 
 is the same as usual if you ask me. I jumped into this game knowing exactly what to expect. Even 
 though prior to this I had only played it on the PS2. The controls are the same so it didnt take 
 long to know what to do. The mechanics have changed gameplay a little though. You now have to consider 
 where your running as you have less sliding and flying easily through the air. So this is a plus 
 in some ways. What isnt good is the number of shots you miss. I heard about this and figured it 
 wouldnt be a problem for me. Let me tell you it is. I can deal with a missed jumper or three, but 
 to miss dunks and lay ups the way these guys do is shameful. The action is still a good flow and 
 you really have to concentrate more than in past games. Also the menus are kinda funky. I do love 
 that you get to practice with your fave player while the game loads.
  
  Lets talk music and sound. This game has some good music, but I am a little upset as the back of 
 the box said custom tracks and yet I have found no way to do this. I know you can play music anytime 
 you want on the 360, but custom means you decided when and what plays. Besides that the sounds 
 are real good as you hear sneakers squeak, crowds chant, and the two best things in my view: The 
 commentation and the on court chatter. You'll hear player yell to each other Im open! or Pick! 
 . Good communication. To take this one step foward since this is next gen why dont they do player 
 interviews (like 2K did) but get the real player to record dialouge. Of couse it would be canne, 
 but it would be different and with all the famous actors doing games now I wouldnt imagine it hard 
 to get at least one to two star players from each team to do this. The commentation is top notch. 
 I will admit there are some rehashed line from games past, but there is a lot of new content here. 
 From witty one liners to in depth analysis by Marv and Steve keep you into the game. Once more 
 there no more the Home team is beating the Away team. They say players names and teams names with 
 no hesistation. Although they do say things that make no sense sometimes such as during an all 
 star game youll here that the team hasnt had good focus this season or the coach has told them 
 for the last few games. Things like this tend to spoil your mood. Graphics is a mixed bag, but 
 mostly good. The players look marvelous. They sweat, they fllex, the uniforms sway, and the crowd 
 looks great. What isnt so great is the clipping and some colision detection. While I like the contact 
 you make with a defender it seems over done to the point that driving to the hoop is all but impossible. 
 That much bumping would constitue a foul. The presentation is great its simple and to the point. 
 The players (home) are introduced and is done is a good brief set up. Bottom line is the graphics 
 more than get the job done. Replay value?? Its a sports game no two games will be alike so nuff 
 said. Then theres the achievements which is always fun in any 360 game. It will keep you busy thats 
 for sure. Online -- While its great to play some one online things havent changed much. You still 
 have timed pauses, fast passed games, and the like which isnt bad. Should you get stuck playing 
 a A$$hole youll hate every moment and cant quit. So it is what it is.
  
  NBA Live 2007 is what many sports games are a somewhat true representation of a sport, but lacking 
 in many ways. We hope and hope yet we only can get so much. My guess is that this games isnt that 
 much different than 2K7 in that it plays like a basketball game. No matter what buttons you press 
 the outcome is inevitably the same get the ball in the hoop, win the game! Well thats it for me 
 PEACE and thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramansingh3
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 25, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  The game features the practice mode similar to the one in NBA live 06 for Xbox 360. The allstar 
 weekend has been brought to next gen and ESPN integratted. The game also features all the unique 
 shppting styles of NBA players. The freestye control has been taken to the next level where players 
 can switch from shooting, post, scorer, playmaker etc. during the game. Players now have the right 
 stick involved to do much more moves than in th past with the freestyle control. The in-game game 
 play isn't realistic as 2k7. The camera angles frustrate you throughout the game and the defense 
 is horrindous. You can do a blocking foul on a player on the other team on the break away and the 
 ref will call it charging. The stealing component feels lick the player is moving there hand through 
 air and the ball has no weight. Tip: EA wants to be revolutionary take some camera angles of NBA 
 games shown on tv and add some more roster updates on xbox live like 2k. If your an NBA fan don't 
 get this game instead get NBA 2k7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numba1gamer
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  I feel really bad for EA letting the NBA Live series fall like they have! I have been playing Live 
 for 10 years now and by far this is the poorest outing for the franchise. It looks really good 
 graphically... it reminds me of a girl who is nice to look at but there is nothing upstairs.... graphically 
 they are number one but they sold their soul for it. The gameplay is beyond horrible.... who shoots 
 rainbow jumpers from right in front of the basket! They game play is really slow even with the 
 settings turned up full blast. I am glad I didn't pre-order this game... I waited until until it 
 went on sale and now I am regretting buying it. I might just give it away to someone but then again, 
 I wouldn't give that game to my worst enemy to play... that would be cruel and unusual!!! Do not 
 buy this game.... do not even accept it if it was being given to you!!! Trust me!! The long time 
 Live players are preaying that EA does something about this next year!! Tell you what... I'm not 
 holding my breath!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knighttime2000
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 10, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  The nba 2007 series to a big misstep with this one. The gaame sufferrs alot. The free stick control 
 is a good idea , but i odnt think they pull it off as well. Yes they removed the invisible wall 
 that you would usually run in to but replace it with a severliy yeilding defense. At least along 
 the perimeter, it is nearly impossible to keep the ball handeler in front of you. On the other 
 in it doesnt seem like oyu can shoot over the double team... just pass out of it. If you have a 
 supperstar player he should at least have an option to go over the defense or pass out of it. You 
 will have to tweak individual settings to make the gameplay more enjoyable. i personally like the 
 free throw setup, although it may take some time getting use to. Overall its not a bad title but 
 it should have been better. Save your money and buy 2K7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulguiang
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 26, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  Since this game is released an an annual basis, this game has no improvement on gameplay whatsoever. 
 It's sad that its' counterpart on the PS2, XBOX and PC is good while the XBOX 360 version of the 
 game is just terrible. Yes it looks good but it should play good as well. Second is that EA should 
 consult basketball experts first before even thinking of creating a basketball game. Some of the 
 rules in the game is just embarrassing. Who is in charge of creating this game?
  
  Overall what a waste of another year form EA. Games should not only improve visually when released 
 into a next-generation console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgfreak
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  You would love this game if you gave it a chance. I didn't like the series but I do now it is the 
 best basketball game ive played. I was once like u pompus idiots i too didn't like the series until 
 i fooled around with it and realized that it kicks some ass. Don't hate a game cause u suck at 
 it. I used to suck but now I rule and love this game just give it a chance. Will you save EA by 
 playing this game it is awesome I like it and if you weren't such a jerk you would realize this 
 game is way cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pccrazyman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 23, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I've read so many reviews on this game that it has flaws..... graphical glitches, bad gameplay, 
 non responsive controls........ well the graphics are some of the best and shiniest graphics ive 
 seen. sure sometimes there is a glitch but what game doesnt have a glitch? nba 2k7 is supposed 
 to be so good but at least on nba live 07 there clothes stay on........ ea has always been a great 
 company and this game could be improved but it is still a top choice of mine and i have almost 
 all xbox 360 games. this game is very enjoyable especially with an hdtv. many modes of play are 
 on this game and all are very fun..... yes nba 2k7 is a good game but to me nba live 07 feels authentic. 
 the arena detail and the player models just amaze me. now its price tag is 20 dollars cheaper than 
 nba 2k7 so the only thing wrong with this game is its to cheap. well worth you money...... buy and 
 play me online. my gamertag is MRKP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboys3
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 23, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I just recently purchased NBA Live 2007 for xbox 360, only because it was $39.99 compared to NBA 
 2K7's $59.99. Heres what i thought of it.
  
  GAMEPLAY- Gameplay isnt all to great. If you've played NBA 2K7, than everything just flows better 
 than in NBA Live, the buttons are sometimes unresponsive and its hard to adjust to. Its pretty 
 funny that one of my favorite aspects of the game is the fact you can play with T-Mac while your 
 waiting for the game to load. GRAPHICS- The graphics are solid. The only problem is there are a 
 substantial amount of glitches. For example somtimes if you do a dunk with someone, they will grab 
 just above the rim and not really on the rim and hang off of it as if there hanging off of nothing. 
 Also sometimes players cut into each other and minor things like that but the replays and cut scenes 
 look so incredible. Give this game a couple years and the visuals alone will make it top 2K7.
 
  
  SOUND- The sound is pretty good, i dont know squeaky sneakers, loud crowd, pretty good. I just 
 think its funny that everytime a player shoots a 3-pointer the crowd yells 3!!!!! and that never 
 ever happens in real life.
  
  VALUE- I'd say its a pretty decent game at a good price, again the only reason i bought it over 
 2K7 was because of the price difference.
  
  TILT- All in all i say if you want to save money and get just a decent basketball game, pick this 
 one up at only 40 bucks but if you want a real quality basketball game, than go with NBA 2K7 and 
 pay the extra 20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndrewZ332
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 9, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  I bought NBA Live 07 on Xbox 360 yeah turned it on and when i took a shot the ANIMATIONS in the 
 shot are absolutly useless you can't take a proper shot! and game play useless again! EA need to 
 GET BACK INTO GEAR! THEY NEED GAMEPLAY!!!!!!!!!!!!! NOT FEATURES!!! GAMEPLAY! NBA 2K7 will beat 
 NBA Live if NBA Live keeps going on Features cause people BUY the games to PLAY them not to look 
 at the interesting features. I mean some features are cool but if i made a game GAMEPLAY! would 
 come 1st!!!
  
  All i can say is EA NEEDS to go to Gameplay!!!
  
  The Graphics are good but the animations for the graphics are VERY BAD!!
  
  and there IS WAY!! 
 TOO MUCH DETAIL in the Stadium when you turn on the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reya10276
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 5, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  Umm... what can I say NBA Live 07 has fallen short just like last years game did, although I gave 
 the game an 8.2, the reason is for it's fun factor. If you are an NBA fan and play the game then 
 you will understand. The game play if fun and although it still has the stupid free throw system 
 which I totally hate they sould've kept the meter or atleast give the user an option between the 
 two. Graphics
  -----------------------------------------
  If you're playing this game on an HDTV then you will love it, the characters are clear and look 
 like the actual players (80%) . The textures are decent and the animations while not perfect are 
 decent enough that unless you're a game reviewer like the folks at GameSpot youi will not be able 
 to tell.
  
  Sound
  -----------------------------------------
  The sound is Great! The crowd cheers after every basket which gives you the feeling you're actually 
 watching an NBA game, the fans also chant DEFENSE and the background soundtrax are good. You can 
 also year little details like the squeeking of the sneakers and things like that.
  
  Controls
  -----------------------------------------
  Grgardless of what GameSpot had to say 
 about it, the controls to my opinion are decent enough that you can play through an entire game 
 and not notice any issues. The way you control each player is great and it gives you the feeling 
 that you're in total control Unlike NBA2K7 where it feels like every move has been scripted and 
 all you're doing is button smashing to get to the basket. Online
  ----------------------------------------
  My only issue with this game is the Online play mode 
 it has tremendous Lag although it could have been the oponent I was playing. Regardless the animation 
 in the game faltered due to the lag, it forced players to miss clear open shots, layups and dunks.
 
  
  Overall the games has potential and if you're an NBA Live fan you'll love it or atleast play it 
 through the NBA season. In the end I think we NBA live players will have to petition EA Sports 
 to remove the horrible free throw system, so much for innovation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cedbrooks
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  I bought this game actually thinking it would revolutionize the EA NBA Live franchise and it would 
 be able to actually compete with the NBA 2K franchise but after about ten minutes of playing it 
 I was totally disgusted with this game. The ball and some of the player physics in this game are 
 awful. The way the ball bounces off the rim is so unrealistic. Although the hair and cloth physics 
 are good it is basically the same as Live 06. The player contact physics are horrible. Defenders 
 can just about push out of bounds every time. The player models in the game look surprisingly good. 
 They added the superstar skills like high-flyer, playmaker, scorer, and etc Still these superstar 
 skills do not make the game any better at all. I actually think it makes the game worse. EA added 
 the ESPN integration which I do not really care for that much. If I want to know what is going 
 on in the sports world I will just watch Sportscenter. The online player and ranked matches are 
 also horrible compared to NBA 2K7. Just about everything about this game is bad. I would not even 
 rent this game. I was once an EA fan when they use to actually be dominant among the rest of the 
 game companies. Now EA just makes bad games. I recommend buying NBA 2K7 which is a really good 
 game. I will be giving this game a score of 5.5 which is very generous 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dopeboy31
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  NBA Live 2007 is a very disappointing game, after last year debut on XBOX 360 being a let down 
 I was expecting a lot more from NBA Live 07. NBA Live 2007 has great commentary and easily the 
 best graphics of any basketball game on the next gen. But NBA Live 2007 also has many flaws unresponsive 
 controls is one of them also dunks start of very slow and then players seem to fly to the rim and 
 there arms fly through the rim. Another thing i was expecting from NBA Live 2007 was more customization 
 in create a player mode. Hope NBA LIVE 2008 is better ( ADD A SUPERSTAR MODE) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0v3rcl0ck3d
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  Though the improvement of several features and introduction of several others the game is still 
 not fluent with flaw filled animations. The game is unsurpassable by 2K7 as the players look realer 
 than ever, Gameplay is extra easy and the AI is alright. Overall this game is for Fun loving, once 
 in awhile bball vid game players.
  Look out for a better version of this game on the PC and PS2 and XBOX. I think the next gen console 
 has caught up with the revouloutionary Ea Sport BBALL titles. Im eagerly awaiting a Much Much better 
 performance from Ea in the live 2008 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljc32
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  NBA Live 2007 for the xbox 360 has improved since the earler release of NBA 2006. First off the 
 game has created more options for the online player which now consists of more modes like espn 
 interactive which can give you audio and video display off game highlights and interviews of NBA 
 stars. Another improvment is when you start up the game you will go straight into the practice 
 gym with tracy Mc Grady. You can there practice many moves, shoots and dunks. You can change the 
 players and have up to four players playing and practicing in the gym. There is also a create a 
 player mode which is well done as there is many options to choose from and many things to customize 
 from head to toe. This roster you create can be player in the new dystiny mode or even use the 
 player in the gym. As i mentioned there is dystany mode where you can be the control many of the 
 options from your basketball coach or trainer to trades and other detailed options in the game. 
 Also EA Sports this year have added a new control system which gives the game more selection. The 
 graphics have improved throgh the coming years and have got so realistic as you can see sweat particles 
 drip off the players from the muscle toning and footwork. Also for NBA fan they have included the 
 las vegas 2007 all star weekend which includes:
  3 Point Shootout
  Slam Dunk Contest
  Rookie Match
  Eastern And Western All Star Match Up All into total the game is worth buying if 
 you like basketball or sporting games and the controls are fairly easy but will take time figuring 
 out what does what in game situation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  NBA Live 07 in my opinion does nothing to make basketball fans keep buying this year in and year 
 out.
  
  gameplay - with the newly added superstar feature it does give it that new feature making people 
 excited about the game. I rented the game so I had to look it up on how to use the system. using 
 the RB button with your right analog stick depending on the player you have different moves from 
 360 windmills, or no look passes, to power post up dunks. besides that nothing new has changes 
 from the game
  
  online - lag is crazy here and when i played not many people were online. put it this way...... YOU'VE 
 BEEN WARNED!
  
  achievements - very easy to achieve except for one. play while 1000 people are online. never seen 
 more than 200 ever, so good luck with that. other then that, grab a couple controllers and perfect 
 the superstar feature your good to go.
  
  MUST RENT only for achievements! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abomounir
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 8, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  EA... what's going on....!? this is the worst game ever from EA... Your Soccer games are amazing 
 but Basketball... leave it to 2K...
  
  Graphics: good but not amazing.
  
  Sound: best thing in the game
  
  gameplay: the worst i ever seen
  
  value: 60$...!!! not 
 worthing 10$
  
  please give us something we enjoy playing... i like EA coz of the soccer games....
  
  show 
 us a different NBA live 08
  show us a different NBA live 08
  show us a different NBA live 08
  show us a different NBA live 08
  show us a different NBA live 
 08
  show us a different NBA live 08
  show us a different NBA live 08
  show us a different NBA live 08 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dat_Boi_SiLo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  I got NBA Live 07 because i grew up playing live and will continue to play live. I played NBA 2k7 
 and im sorry but NBA Live is better to me. Live looks and plays better than 2k7 in my point of 
 view. The Dynasty mode has come to next-gen, and let me tell you, it doesn't disappoint. I dont 
 have Xbox Live yet so i can't comment on that. The loading sequence is hidden by a virtual gym, 
 and works great. One thing i dont like is the character creation hair styles, i know it sounds 
 small, but on the court a character's hair style makes a big different. Physics have been brought 
 into the game as well. YOu can no longer go from a full speed run to a sudden stop, when you shake 
 from side to side, your player actually moves like in real life. On the other hand the game does 
 have its graphical problems, players seem to cut into each other in some sences. Also the crowd 
 actually seems to make a difference. If you are away and you are getting blown out by the home 
 team and the cowrd is loud, you will find is very hard for your players to make those key shots 
 and vice-versa. The game is amazing regardless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngmurk911
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Alright we already know what to excpect from EA Sports... FLASH, thats all you really get. The best 
 thing about this game is the graphics, the game looks beautiful, the best looking basketball game 
 to date, But the gameplay does not match it what so ever. The game glitches more than what it did 
 last year on the 360 version which is a dissapointment. If that was going to be the case they should 
 have just kept the same gameplay and added the feautures. About the feautures thats THE ONLY thing 
 thats makes this game good. They have all of the feautures you need, ALL STAR WEEKEND, 3 POINT 
 CONTEST, DUNK CONTEST, and FRANCHISE MODE. The game is not actually bad, but its definetly not 
 what its supposed to be at all. ESPN is not used in this game, its just there, 2K did an excellent 
 job using the ESPN License, EA just put it in the menu and kept it moving. The game is playable 
 but don't excpect the gameplay to be on 2K's level the slightest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightjam
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  2005 to 2007 absolutely nothing. Just about the same thing. Once again they took off wades picture 
 and put on t-mac who barely played that season in 2006. So first is all the changes in the NBA, 
 they may have added the new ball but t-mac is holding the old ball on the box. NO big deal just 
 pointing it out. Also, as gameplay goes, it truly is like the previous two. EA just hasn't been 
 into it as much anymore for some reason and the graphics of the players faces are like worse then 
 2005 or so because it seems they are trying to make them so life like that they are not really 
 life like (the players faces) . So they should work on making the players look more like themselves. 
 It is an important thing that they should work on along with other things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PRliger04
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I loved NBA Live 06 for the XBox 360. 07 is trash. So the graphics 
 are improved by the controls are ridiculous. Its actually harder to pick up a loose ball. I'll 
 stick to playing at the park. Maybe it will be better on the PS3 or the Wii. I just don't understand 
 the movement or the gamespeed. I feel like every player I use has A. D. D. It's harder to jump and 
 get a rebound. Some people say it seperates the real ballers from the fakes, well I still haven't 
 lost to anyone i've played and that doesn't even satisfy me enough to want to play it. I'm getting 
 mad just talking about it. I think i'm going to go play NHL 07 or even better, MADDEN 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_fan_81
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 21, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  EA SHOULD STOP DOING THESE STUPID **** BASKETBALL GAMES DISGRACE STICK WITH MADDEN NOT NBA MADDEN 
 EA SUCKS IF YOU BUY THIS GAME ITS JUST A WASTE OF MONEY GO NBA 2K7 NBA LIVE SUCKS NBA LIVE SUCKS 
 NBA LIVE SUCKS NBA LIVE SUCKS NBA LIVE SUCKS NBA LIVE SUCKS NBA LIVE SUCKS NBA LIVE SUCKS NBA LIVE 
 SUCKS NBA LIVE SUCKS NBA LIVE SUCKS NBA LIVE SUCKS NBA LIVE SUCKS NBA LIVE SUCKS NBA LIVE SUCKS 
 NBA LIVE SUCKS NBA LIVE SUCKS NBA 2K7'S BOX ALL DAY LOL ANYWAY NBA LIVE IS A DISGRACE NBA LIVE 
 SUCKS NBA LIVE SUCKS NBA LIVE SUCKS NBA LICE SUCKS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-MAC1992
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2006 2:12 am PT
Review:  this game is just too good for 2k7. i will admit the first 1 hour on the game is a bit iffy but 
 when you get used to the way the players shoot and the other things in the game it really is a 
 great game thats better than 2k7 by far. the allstar weekend adds the fun and enjoyment of playing 
 against your mates trying to win the three point contest, dunk ,rookie mvp and allstar mvp. best 
 hoops game on the market if you give it time to get used to. the freestyle superstar give you amazing 
 control over your players. yesterday i had t-mac in the zone and i drived it in on highfligher 
 and did a dunk behind the back and drawn the foul and got a three point play amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hisairness2345
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 19, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  NBA Live for Xbox360 is the deepest five on five basketball videogame on the market right now and 
 possibly ever. Generally, everyone has been impressed with the way NBA2K7 looks, with its numerous 
 canned signature style animations, and believe that Visual Concepts put in a lot more work in 
 recreating the NBA experience than EA. However, this years edition of Live is superior to 2kgames 
 NBA2K7 in the way it recreates an NBA experience. The game is way deeper than 2K7. I recommend 
 that you give this game a chance and ignore the reviews youve seen on IGN and Gamespot, especially 
 if youre a hardcore basketball fan that really understands the game and doesnt mind having a 
 bit of a learning curve or adjusting a few sliders.
  This game is tremendously deep. Each player is rated in four times as many rating categories than 
 in NBA2K7. Were talking categories like first step, max speed, ballcarrier speed, screen setting, 
 fast break anticipation, shooters mentality, triple threat effectiveness, offensive post footwork, 
 scoring with contact, tipins/putbacks, layup ability as well as a separate rating for layup in 
 traffic, layup/drunk aggressiveness, and teamwork. This plethora of player ratings is no doubt 
 a result of having added processing resources to use in the next gen hardware. This means that 
 players abilities and tendencies are recreated very well. In NBA2K7, Tracy McGrady is the same 
 player as Kobe Bryant, save for a few canned animations, but real basketball purists know that 
 this is not nearly the case and it takes more than unique jumper animations to distinguish the 
 two. Play against a computer controlled team in Live 07 and youll be amazed at how closely the 
 players resemble their real life counterparts in their play on the court. Play against the 76ers 
 and Allen Iverson will always jam the passing lanes and come up with steals with his gangly arms 
 as well as always leading the fast break and getting quick scores. Watch the Cavs and Lebron will 
 go to work making difficult shots and athletic moves in the paint. Watch the Lakers and Kobe Bryant 
 will own his man out of the triple threat. Late in the game expect the Lakers to get the ball in 
 Kobes hands as he is rated 92 as a goto guy and will hit those key shots to break the game open. 
 Kobe is also apt to occasionally making difficult fadeaway shots with a man guarding him very tightly 
 which he wouldnt be able to do in NBA2K7 because in 2K7 good defensive pressure on one player 
 is just as good as good defensive pressure on another. Anyone thats watched Kobe perform on the 
 court in real life knows better. The fact that Kobes player model and jumper animation is recreated 
 much more faithfully in Live 07 than in NBA2K7 is just icing on the cake.
  Each players style of play and tendencies within NBA Live 07 are recreated much more faithfully 
 because of the rating system. While everyone is impressed with how NBA2K7 has so many different 
 custom animations than Live 07, each player in NBA2K7 is a drone when controlled by the computer 
 or even when player controlled. The rating system is not deep enough to distinguish each player 
 in a sport where individual tendencies are so unique in every way imaginable. Real purists will 
 appreciate how well each player is recreated in the way that they play within a game rather than 
 with a few canned animations. I think the guys at EA did a lot more work and watched a lot more 
 tapes than the guys at Visual Concepts and Im disappointed that so many of the reputed critics 
 from certain websites gave up on the game so quickly as to overlook all of this.
  A key element that NBA2K series does not do well in distinguishing one player from another, that 
 Live 07 does extremely well, is in ball handling abilities in that its way too easy to put the 
 ball on the floor and do what you want against a defender. Essentially, Isomotion is way overpowered. 
 This has been a huge downfall in the 2K series as I had pointed it out previously in a review I 
 did for NBA2K4 for Gamefaqs. This particular flaw in NBA2K series is exacerbated by the fact that 
 defenders just dont play very good one on one defense while in Live the computer seems much more 
 apt to shut you down one on one and make you play real team basketball. NBA2K completely ignores 
 ball physics when dribbling and allows the player to dribble freely with a defender in his face. 
 Its way too easy to change directions when handling the ball and get by a defender and dribble 
 in traffic. Performing a crossover in NBA2K7 is as easy as holding the triggers and wiggling the 
 joystick. The fact that the player has to handle a basketball isnt much of a factor in slowing 
 him down and Allen Iversons ball handling in NBA2K7 isnt really different from say Jason Williams 
 in that they both handle the ball well and can break a defender down one on one equally as well. 
 Thats just ridiculous. It just turns into a one on one fest and that is the way the NBA2K series 
 has always been since they introduced Isomotion. Sure defenders rotate over to help out now compared 
 to earlier editions but basketball for all but the best players should work out of shoot first, 
 pass next, then dribble last because of the fact that it should be very difficult to get by an 
 NBA defender. And even if the defender is able to step in the way of a dribble drive, they just 
 stand there and dont offer any type of push or pressure. Even the best ball handler in the game, 
 Allen Iverson, only gets by his defender maybe half the time that he even tries to. Though those 
 times he does get by his man he usually ends up on the highlight reel making it look like he does 
 it all the time. While it is great for casual gamers to be able to so easily get into the game, 
 real basketball purists know that even most NBA guards shouldnt spend too much time trying to 
 break their man down one on one and should look to pass the ball around.
  In NBA Live 07, handling the ball as Allen Iverson or Kobe Bryant is finally an asset when compared 
 to other players because of their high ratings in ballcarrier speed, first step, triple threat 
 effectiveness, and many others that distinguish them from other players. At the same time, the 
 defenders will actually be able to contain an Iverson sometimes forcing missed shots or making 
 them pass the ball. More of their points will come from doing things like making the right cuts 
 and getting out on the fast break than compared to NBA2K7. As I mentioned previously, these high 
 caliber players are also apt to make difficult shots even though they are well guarded, especially 
 during key moments, which is not going to happen in NBA2K7. But more importantly, youll notice 
 that their teammates actually move without the ball intelligently and within their own abilities 
 and tendencies. Thats the way it should be. This just makes Live 07 that much deeper than NBA2K7 
 and does it in a much better way than a few canned animations that look good in short videoclips 
 but dont do much for the flow of an entire game.
  However, to get the true NBA basketball experience in Live 07, the sliders need to be adjusted. 
 The game speed must be cranked up because the game moves very slowly on the default setting; most 
 likely to aid in controlling the game for novice and casual players. Once the game speed is cranked 
 up, the game moves like an actual NBA game and may be too quick for some to control but that is 
 why this game has a high learning curve. As it stands, there are also way too many offensive rebounds 
 and way too many dunks and layups are missed. The computer also bites on way too many shot fakes, 
 defenders tends to pressure the ball handler a little too much (which I suspect is a setting called 
 on ball defense assist or something to that effect) , double teams tend to come a little late, 
 and the computer tends to be very lax playing interior D. But all of these facts are why the sliders 
 are there. True basketball purists will know what needs to be adjusted. Although it wouldve been 
 nice for EA to have done this for us, they set the sliders the way they did to aid the casual basketball 
 gamer who may not really know much about how the NBA game flows and just wants to have fun with 
 a videogame and it is understandable. It is still a game after all and fun factor should take priority 
 over anything else.
  Visually, this game is a mixed bag as is Visual Concepts NBA2K7. Most of the models in this game 
 are spectacular, especially for the big names like Iverson and Kobe Bryant. However, many of the 
 smaller names like Andre Igoudala and surprisingly a big name in Lebron James are pretty suspect. 
 The same is the case with NBA2K7. However, as far as individual body types and general aesthetic 
 appearance, Live is a much better looking game. Body types are much better recreated in Live and 
 court and player model textures look better. EA has been able to create the best looking crowd 
 on the next gen systems in their Madden series and Live is no exception. The crowd looks good. 
 Live 07 also eschews the corny cuts to the crowd and certain cuts to player animations after plays 
 where they mouth gibberish to teammates and refs which gives Live 07 a more serious and stylish 
 atmosphere.
  While it has been reported that NBA2K7 looks better in motion, I would have to go against that. 
 Each has their strengths and weaknesses but Live looks a little better in motion, mostly due to 
 what the players do without the ball. NBA2K7 does have great moments, such as watching any of the 
 silky smooth canned animations, and runs in a higher framerate than NBA Live, which is nice for 
 watching the jerseys and shorts swish around (which is an effect that is a bit overused in NBA2K7 
 by the way) . NBA2K7 actually suffers more from players sliding on the court. There is just too 
 much of a canned nature about the way the players move, like each movement is just an animation 
 triggered one after the other. More importantly, there is almost no consequence for bumping into 
 another player. The players just dont seem to have the weight the players in Live 07 have. The 
 players in Live move with more variety in animations, especially off the ball, creating a much 
 more authentic and dynamic look. Although Live has been criticized for overusing the backdown animation 
 (it does look awkward at times and its one big blemish in the visual presentation) , the ball handlers 
 in NBA2K7 tend to show the ball too much and thats just not what NBA players would do. Live has 
 also always been criticized for ball handlers bumping into defenders. There has to be a consequence 
 for a ball handler dribbling straight into another defender. The defender should push back, thats 
 just how defense is played, and NBA2K7 completely neglects this to have a game that seems to flow 
 more smoothly. Watch an NBA game and I dont think youll ever see a player try to dribble or drive 
 through someone without the defender pushing back. You just have to learn to handle the ball the 
 right way to get by in Live. You have to learn to work out of the triple threat and you have to 
 use the crossover moves sparingly. Yet, moving onto some downfalls of Live 07s visual presentation, 
 a major flaw is that players dunk through the backboard. EA should get this right next year because 
 it is a bit of an eyesore. Another thing I noticed is that although Shaq plays a lot like his real 
 life counterpart in almost every way, he goes to the turn around jumpshot a lot instead of a jumphook. 
 Fix this next year EA. As long as were pointing out flaws, I might as well point out that players 
 tend to step on the line a lot but that just means youll have to play smarter and look at a player 
 before you pass to him. This is better basketball anyway but it adds to the learning curve. Players 
 will setup in bounds but you have to give them time. All in all, the overall abundance and variety 
 of animations, especially off the ball, make this game move and flow a little better and have a 
 more dynamic feel than NBA2K7.
  As always, Live wins in the sound department as far as commentary and soundtrack in general and 
 that has been made clear by many reviews so I dont really feel like I should go into that because 
 this review is already long winded. As it stands, there are some very good EA Trax in this edition 
 of Live.
  ESPN integration is pretty useless in my opinion. I also dont really care about franchise modes 
 so I cant really offer incite on that. I also think the street and 24/7 modes in the 2K series 
 are pretty irrelevant. The slam dunk contest is just as good of a diversion and equally as pointless 
 if you ask me. A one on one mode is missing in Live 07 but one on one isnt really what this game 
 excels at anyway so I doubt it would have been very fun. Leave that to the 2K series.
  The freestyle superstar stuff is pretty irrelevant and is hard to even pay attention to within 
 the flow of a game. Its really only worth using the freestyle scorer moves because they seem to 
 be the most useful and practical. Using the dunk button seems more practical than triggering any 
 of the freestyle dunker animations since the only time youd be able to pull one off is during 
 a fast break anyway. Ive also read some reviewers complaining that too many dunks and layups are 
 missed. Although layups are less risky than dunks, the highest percentage shot when close to the 
 rim should be a jumpshot, although they are easiest to block, and many players will no doubt try 
 to always layup or dunk when they get in the lane and expect a guaranteed make but that shouldnt 
 be the case especially with defensive pressure. This isnt NBA2K7 you know. Even Kobe will miss 
 that driving layup with a hand in his face sometimes and you just have to accept it and get back 
 on defense. Just a little hint, do what you will with it.
  As far as gameplay innovations go, a little indicator under the player is used to indicate who 
 you will dish to once you hit the pass button. This works much better than the icon passing. Im 
 not sure when EA started implementing this but it works well. Its the best passing system Ive 
 seen because you can utilize this much more quickly and its a little more intuitive than the icon 
 passing although icon passing is available. Icon passing in Live doesnt work as well as in 2K7 
 because they only devote four buttons rather than five to icon passing. This means that your 2 
 guard will be set to the B button but once your 2 guard has the ball, your point guard will be 
 the B button. Fix this please EA. You need to have five buttons for icon passing.
  This was a long review but Live 07 deserves it. I hope Ive convinced some to at least give this 
 very deep basketball sim a shot. In many ways it is superior to NBA2K7 in recreating an NBA experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 15, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, as far as Presentation goes this game has the NBA game sweating and I give that a Perfect 
 10. But as far as game play goes I think they got a little to self involed in the Superstar stunts 
 and the whole changing the style mode. It was a good game to play against some friends but I really 
 wouldn't purchase this one.
  
  I just love the whole ESPN add-in with Real Live ESPN Radio SportsCenter updates. But it does get 
 a little annoying after hearing the same ole same ole after every game.
  
  Rent it first before you buy it. Thats what I always say. Giving this one a 8.1 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominican_fines
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Well first of all the graphics are very good, all-star weekend, dynasty, dynasty and player chemistry 
 and espn integration.
  
  Now comes the pain, well this game is good and everything but Marcus Williams dunk in Ben Wallace 
 face.... not real.
  Offensive rebound so easy to get, the defence last year was bad but this year they improved alot 
 more.
  The worse part of all is that they do dunks from under the basket like the backboard isnt there.
 
  
  Online:
  Well its the worst thing ive ever played even though ive won 2 games and lost 1 but theres very 
 much lag in this game its like if its matrix basketball man im serious.
  
  I like this game its pretty cool but they have got to improve alot more to sell i heard that this 
 is the game that have gotten more returns this entire year.
  
  Hope you like my reviews and you will expect me to make more reviews as more games come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigMansHouse
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  The features outweigh its flaws. If EA would have waited a month or two longer it would have been 
 by far the better basketball game for the year..
  
  There are still a couple of glitches like the players randomly moving during replays and sometimes 
 in actual gameplay and in the dunk competition on some of the dunks like the reverse through the 
 legs with the right modifier held down, if you don't hold down the A button long enough after the 
 gather the ball randomly flys off.
  
  The graphics are by far better than the 2K series. The players look almost exactly like their real 
 life counterpart. But the players just act to robotic some times, like when the players run up 
 and down the court or the emotion on their face when they are called for a foul, etc... They almost 
 have no emotion on there face accept during the free throws. But a least there are no flaws in 
 the graphics of the characters themself in the 2K series sometimes the players jerseys randomly 
 come off. And some times the animations of players and the coaches screw up.
  
  The gameplay is very good and easy, there is no complicated iso motion
  
  shot stick you have 
 to learn. Everything is pretty much basic: you have your triggers for backdowns and turbo, you 
 have your bumpers for passing and using your superstar mode, and you have your left thumbstick 
 for player movement, your directional pad for plays, and your right thubstick for trick moves, 
 and with the left bumper and the right thumstick you perform superstar moves. And you can change 
 superstar type during gameplay
  
  by holding down the left bumper and pressing the right bumper.
  
  Once you know all of the 
 controlls it takes the game to the HNL Whole Notha Level. 
  
  The sound is very good this year it is not as repetative as it was last year but the dunk competion 
 comentary does somewhat get repetative. Its much better though now that you don't hear Kenny Smiths 
 constantly retarded coments all the time in the dunk competition, but if you have the 2K version 
 you have to hear his darn anoying voice throughout the whole game accept in street mode.
  
  With that in mind the game is far from perfect but its still better than the 2K series because 
 of all the features that it contains. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Ivan-
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Im tired of reading dozens of reviews talking just to appear on the reviews page, it's time for 
 someone to tell the truth and be objective about this game.
  
  EA is a franchise that change the concept of sports video games a long time ago and with every 
 new console EA gave us great games that made history, but it is true that is the past years the 
 quality has gone down, also because we expect a lot from the best seller company of sports games.
 
  
  NBA Live its another mistake in the history of the franchise. But let me explain myself. The game 
 is good, im tired of reading reviews with 3.5 and 2.0 because that's ridiculous but the problem 
 is that since last year's game was a little but disappointing we expected too much from this year's 
 game.
  
  The gameplay controls are beautiful because of the complexity of the movements, for some people 
 thats a negative aspect because they think that basketball games should be a lot more easier but 
 in my opinion this is a great plus to the reality in a sports game. The only mole on that aspect 
 was the superstar movements with the right joystick that instead of helping it just made worst 
 the failure.
  
  The gameplay action is what took the game down. Basketball gamers no longer want to see impossible 
 movements or incredible dunks, we left that in the past with the NBA Jam, we want to see reality, 
 to live the game and to feel like we are watching ESPN, and this game did not care about that aspect. 
 Don't get me wrong, the incredible jumps and the superstar movements are great to watch and may 
 be fun for some people, but not to feel the game as many like me want it. The Sound as always is 
 great, with great music, good in-game comments and excellent arena sounds like crowd, players and 
 the ball in the rim etc. Its not even important to talk about the graphics because in that aspect 
 EA never fails, but who cares about the best graphics if what you are watching does not fulfil 
 your expectations.
  
  In conclusion the game is good, with realistic controls, great sound effects and stunning graphics 
 but with a gameplay that can make you pass a good time but no totally enjoy a basketball game. 
 Don't believe every negative opinion in this reviews. EA made it again, maybe its because we expect 
 so much more from this great company, but im sorry for them because each year the expectation will 
 only increase and i hope they get some time.
  
  Im Out!... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derugs
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 10, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  anyone that is curious let some other idiot buy this game so that you can play it for free. the 
 rim sounds like the brim of a bucket. wow.... horrible game.... it would be something worthwile 
 if 2k wasn't out. but then again 2k is out and has clearly set the standard. the players in the 
 game do look like their real life counterparts. IF IT WERE A STILL PICTURE OF THE GAME. people 
 would rather stay loyal to this game just because its live. ea has the minds, the means, and the 
 money to make this game top notch. don't be ignorant live fans.... just admit it, the game is trash 
 and you wasted 60 bucks. try again next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbrreennddaann
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 9, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest, i neither own this game, nor do i intend to. i am the satisfied customer of NBA 
 2k7, and i love that game.
  however, i disagree with some of the reviews posted here, coz altho i know that NBA live Sucks 
 ballz, we have to give credit where it is due, the graphics are not a 3 or 4 like some people are 
 giving it. Its because of people like that EA hardcore fans are not being open minded.
  It seems that these EA guys think all thats important about a game is the grapics, and if u are 
 all about the graphics, then by all means, rave about your copy of live. im saying this not as 
 a spokesperson for 2k, but because i dont believe in giving developers $ for a half ass effort 
 and a lack of understanding of the game itself. it is all about the gameplay, and i honestly have 
 enjoyed 2k7 so much, coz the game engine is superb. it is pretty much Fifa vs Winning Eleven.
 
  
  i do realise this isnt exactly a review. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankdrummer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I REALLY DON'T UNDERSTAND Y R PEOPLE SAYING THIS GAME SUCKS I GOT BOTH 2K AND EA AND THERE BOTH 
 REALLY GREAT GAME. NBA LIVE 07 U COULD REALLY SEE THE POWER OF THE 360 IT REALLY LOOKS GOOD!!! 
 I MEAN THE PLAYERS LOOK AMAZING U COULD REALLY SEE THE SWEAT ON THEM AND THE ARENAS MAN U COULD 
 SEE EVERY DETAIL ON THEM THIS IS THE BEST LIVE GAME EVER!! AND ANOTHER THING IF U ARE REALLY A 
 FAN OF EA U WILL SEE IT MY WAY AND IF YOUR NOT A FAN U HAVE TO ADMIT IT DOES HAVE BETTER GRAPHICS 
 THAN LAST YEARS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolhandmark
Rating: 5.1
Date: Oct 6, 2006 4:13 am PT
Review:  All I can think to say is Avoid this game like the plague . If you want a comprehensive review, 
 you should probably read what Gamespot has to say. I wish I had, before I bought this wretched 
 game. Unfortunately, I optimistically fell head-long into EA's trap.
  
  What drew me in was updated rosters and ratings (go Wizards!!) and the genuinely inspired features 
 involving their ESPN license. In NBA Live '07 you can listen to real-life ESPN radio broadcasts, 
 watch sports video news clips (from ESPN. com of course) , and check scores on the nifty streaming 
 sports ticker. There are also new game modes (well... not new, but previously missing ) that I frankly, 
 never got around to, because I was too busy digging in the trash to find the plastic wrapper and 
 security stickers I presumptuously threw out (Do you know how hard it is to make a game look like 
 you never opened it? And good luck convincing the 16 year old girl at the returns counter of that 
 fact) .
  
  With the newly included game modes and ESPN Radio tie-in, along with a slick presentation, EA, 
 you may take one step forward. *step*
  
  Now, to the heart of why this game blows chunks. What makes the experience so bad is mainly the 
 unresponsive and choppy controls along with the very poor player animations. And clipping, lots 
 of clipping. NBA Live '06 was no prize pony in this regard, either, but it was at least tolerable. 
 Live '07 is worse. Attempting to pull off any useful basketball related maneuvering is frustrating 
 to say the least. Shooting and passing are very stilted actions that just never feel right. Some 
 maneuvers work well, especially the freestyle controls on the right stick. However, when you string 
 together these moves along with passing and shooting, it become a struggle to control the action, 
 as opposed to concentrating on the game itself. Not good.
  
  EA only compounds the control issues with the gimmicky superstar controls. I've never liked them 
 and I guess that is all I can say on that. I do like the control scheme, though, especially in 
 the post. Hardcore ballers will appreciate the separate layup and dunk buttons (sometimes a layup 
 is a better choice than a dunk, no matter how close you are to the basket) , However, you can't 
 take advantage of the choice given the frequency with which players miss dunks/layups. Quite frankly 
 it is ridiculous. A 50% chance you'll miss a dunk? (guessing here) How often do pros miss dunks? 
 Not 50%, I'll tell ya that much!
  
  * (mini rant) : A dunk is HIGH percentage shot! (So's a lay-up for that matter) . That is why the 
 dunk was invented in the first place! In an NBA season you could probably count on one hand the 
 number of times a player misses an open dunk! This is not true in the land of NBA Live. If the 
 A. I. doesn't like where you choose to dunk from, then it should be made into a missed layup attempt 
 or a foul. There is no reason to miss a dunk with an open lane to the basket and a capable player. (/mini 
 rant) *
  
  With the horrendous controls and animations leading to poor gameplay, EA, take two LARGE steps 
 back *step* *cry* *step*.
  
  So where does that leave NBA Live '07? Well? Worse off than last years Live '06, for sure. An added 
 and improved feature-set with a demoted overall game experience. I guess it really depends on what 
 you think a basketball game should be. To me, responsive, intuitive controls are paramount in sports 
 games. They make up the core gaming experience. If the core game experience (the playing of an 
 exhibition game, let's say) is not playable or enjoyable, all the other features are a moot point, 
 no matter how cool they may be. The game does have some value for some people like my friend. He 
 likes to play dynasty mode and simulate season after season making trades and otherwise handling 
 GM-ing duties. In that respect this game may have some value for you. Not me.
  
  What it boils down to is; NBA Live '06 for XBOX360 was a plate off poop. NBA Live '07 for XBOX360 
 is a plate of poop with a cherry on top. Which would you want to eat? A cherry is better, no doubt, 
 but a cherry on a pile of poop will only remind you just how bad that poop really is. I'll take 
 NBA Live '06 with some syrup of Ipecac please! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DHAVIC
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 6, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Ok firsts off all the haters hateing this game are not playing the same game that I am playing. 
 This is good, belive me. Great sound graphics and all. Nba live 2006 wasnt the worst basketball 
 game. It just lack some things that made it not worth really purchaseing. But If I created that 
 game, with those sic graphics I would of released it the same way. But now we have Nba live 07 
 and this game is way better than 06 in almost every aspect, Sound, graphics, gameplay. Ai, you 
 name it. Now you can do replays and watch them from every angle on the court, Theres new animations 
 that make the game feel alot more realistic. Gameplay is allot better and solid, Just a tottally 
 improment all over. You haved All Star weekend in this one. This game is extremly good. I really 
 feel that the people giving this game a bad name have not really played it to the fullest. this 
 game looks sic, EA is setting the bar for graphics in there sports game. All of the star players 
 have there own shot and some of the mediocore ones too.
  
  Now lets discuss a few problems and really a few, there are collision problems when they dunk and 
 sometime between the players , but nothing that cant be look over, the game doesnt run completly 
 smooth all the time, But again this is not magor. The speed of the game is slow but can be adjusted. 
 But remember this game is an NBA (Simulation not Arcade) so dont expect to play it like nba jam, 
 you have to work for your offense. Thats it, I not exaggerating like these guys.
  
  All and all buy this game, and be amazed by the graphics, sound, and all the extras thats been 
 included.
  
  its safe get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_BillGates
Rating: 2.4
Date: Oct 5, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  When will EA get their act together and finally make a good game once again. Good lordly! This 
 game is nothing but bug potential . So many ways to find bugs inside this little game you call 
 NBA Live 2007.
  
  Not only is this game a rip-off, even if you plan on renting it, don't waste your $$$. EA is seriously 
 losing their quality game development.
  
  The Visual is nice, but come on... of couse XBOX360 can provide good graphics. No matter how much 
 details they put into this game, the gameplay will still determine how this game's outcome will 
 look.
  
  If you're into basketball, look no further... the NBA 2K7 lineup is the best buy for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaughnvdg
Rating: 1.9
Date: Oct 4, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I rented this GAME and took it back after the first day!!! TERRIBLE!!! EA should be ashamed!!!! 
 I was a big NBA LIVE fan in my former life!!! Real hoops fans should get 2k7!!! It's AWESOME!!! 
 For those of us who like pretty graphics combined with TERRIBLE gamplay NBA LIVE is for you. The 
 camera angles on this game all seem to be either too far or too close. Many of my friends who enjoyed 
 this series over the years are in shock at the poor product that EA has given us this year. It's 
 a SHAME to see a great game like LIVE go down the tubes but i guess it was bound to happen because 
 the 2k series continued to improve while EA decided to rest on it's laurels. Oh well, Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamstallion
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 4, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  I have loved the Live series as a whole since the days when it was Lakers vs. Celtics so that means 
 I loved it since birth.
  
  Well those days are over and the love is now really lost and I am wondering if it will ever find 
 its way to my heart.
  
  First off before I been EA is a huge company which has a reputation to up hold and it is falling 
 short of it and I think the reason is because they need to hire some more real basketball minded 
 people. I say that because after playing Live 07 for two hours it felt more like I was playing 
 NBA Jam.
  
  The graphics are great as they should be alla Next Gen and all but ever there the jersey movement 
 and starting position for the matter really suck. Why do you ask we when you view it through instant 
 replay (which is really the ony way to really get the full grasp on the grapics) the stuff looks 
 terrible... They really need to swallow some pride and ask 2K7 what it is they are doing...
  
  The game play is horrible... I do like the fact that computer can play better D and make twice 
 as many shots as you on the standard setting but on the flipside you might as well not ever bring 
 5 men down the court as the offense will take the shot that was programed and not what the Defense 
 gives them.
  
  The Jump Shot hitch is down right disgusting!!! What good is it if you put a few players real jump 
 shot form in which the hitch slows down the actual shot getting steve Nash blocked 4 times in a 
 game from 3 land. ( I still dropped 30pts in the game against my friend mind you but there was 
 no such thing as a quick pull up like in real life)
  
  Dunking through the glass and running though people... do I have to even go into this problem? 
 Its so far into the game I want to choke someone for letting it leave the test floor looking like 
 that! and I am not talking occasionally... It happens just about every third time down the court... 
 I yelled so much the neighbors called the police thinking i was being attacked (just kidding but 
 I would have had I heard someone yelling as much as I did)
  
  The CPU shot selection is just flat out high school ish... The CPU only shots it from seemingly 
 set spots and now when he is open... I give two thumbs down and hope that the guys at life down 
 sit on them like that are sitting on their own thumbs over there...
  
  I could go into more but I don't want to grow anymore bitter... Well like they said when the 2k 
 series really started taking off better luck next year for Live My $60 bucks has already gone to 
 2K7 and when it gets here like it's 2k6 brother I am sure I will be happy... oh but then i am already 
 happy with it because i got to demo it from XBOX live via a down load... there again you can see 
 the LIve is light years behind and running out of steam... If they need a guy to come in a clean 
 house they might need to give me a ring.
  
  Sincerely,
  Jam
  Just say no to Live 07 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 3, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  EA Sports NBA live franchise has long been the champion of basketball video games dunking competitors 
 for just over a decade. Solid game play, stellar graphics, and a solid fan base has been enough 
 to keep Live series floating near the top of the hoops video game genre. With the latest installment, 
 EA tried to improve on the lackluster showing of last years rushed NBA LIVE 06 on Xbox 360. Graphics 
 and extra modes are about the only improvements immediately obvious in this years iteration.
 
  
  Last year, NBA Live showed gamers the visual capabilities of next generation gaming and left us 
 slobbering for more. This year, Live doesnt disappoint in that area as EA made sure to pack on 
 even more layers of eye candy. Player models have been fine tuned (they dont start off sweaty 
 this year either) , arenas received a coat of fresh paint, and it all adds up to be one beautiful 
 game. The virtual counterparts of players share striking resemblances to their real versions for 
 the most part.
  
  Body builds are done pretty well as far as fitness is concerned, but the overall mass of players 
 seems a bit off. Although player models are done well, one cant help but notice that players seem 
 to be a little too close to the anorexic side. Take one look at Rip Hamilton in game and youll 
 see how some players in NBA LIVE 07 belong on the commercials to cure world hunger. However, it 
 does a better job of capturing the long lean muscular frames of NBA players today.
  
  Game play has long been the calling card of the Live franchise but there are different days upon 
 us. The choppy animations, slow response, and abysmal game speed are something that is inexcusable 
 on a system as advanced as the Xbox 360. It seems that concentrating on the visuals of NBA LIVE 
 07 seriously detracted attention away from other areas of development. The freestyle mode is back 
 and this time players can have multiple superstar styles. The ability to change your superstar 
 style on the fly and adapt as game situations change is a big plus. Offensive and defensive AI 
 are vastly improved and gone are the days of dunking and outlandish scores. Great job EA!
  
  Having a degree in physics, I can appreciate and notice when proper physics have been incorporated 
 and NBA LIVE 07 still has a long way to go in the area of ball physics, cloth physics, contact 
 physics, and weight shifting. Theyve made progress though, and it deserves to be applauded. All 
 in all, Live is a beauty to behold and truly exploits the power of the Xbox 360. Game play hasnt 
 seen any major changes and serves as a major blow in this review.
  
  This year marks the return of the All Star Weekend which is a breath of fresh air for all the Live 
 faithful. You can play the TMobile Rookie Challenge, 3 point shootout, slam dunk contest or the 
 NBA All-Star game. Since the All Star modes are making a return from current generation versions, 
 none of this is new but it was a much needed addition.
  
  EA also integrated ESPN into the title in a way thats never been done before. It allows you to 
 listen to ESPN radio, and receive up-to-date stories on whats going on in the sports world. In 
 addition to being able to read and listen to ESPN, you can also view interviews, highlights and 
 other video in what they call ESPN Motion. This is a neat little addition and adds depth to the 
 title. Itll be interesting to see how they flesh it out in the upcoming years.
  
  Every great empire must fall. The reign of the champion is coming to an apparent end as NBA Live 
 makes strides, but still finishes a close second behind its competitor NBA 2K7. Live has shown 
 stupendous improvement from last years edition, but overall it just doesnt pack the punch to 
 warrant 60 bucks.
  
  Bottom-line: NBA LIVE 07 is solid, but not quite there yet in terms of game play and controls. 
 Rent it to simply compare the titles for yourself. It deserves that much at least. But a word of 
 encouragement to the guys at EA Canada: keep up the good work because the improvement can be seen. 
 Better luck next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akuma7703
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 3, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  This review is based on a couple of sessions demoing (is that a word?) the game.
  
  Once again Live shows it's immaturity when compared to the 2K series. I have to admit that, since 
 making the leap to the next-gen, Live has trumped 2K graphically... but that's just my opinion: 
 2K's major graphical flaw is probably limited to some player faces. Other than that 2K absolutely 
 wipes the floor with Live... again. I agree with everything gamespot hassaid and, just to be sure, 
 checked out IGN (which has always favored Live) which gave this a score of 6.0. Ouch!
  
  I'm in no position to give an in-depth review as I haven't played the title extensively but the 
 few sessions I had were enough to make me (a college baller) sick. I only need point out two glaring 
 flaws:
  
  1. Horrendous computer AI. Cats don't always cut like they're supposed to, hardly run offensive 
 sets properly (unresponsive?) and the worst offender? Several turnovers simply because teammates 
 DO NOT STAY INBOUNDS. Example: I picked up a quick steal deep in the paint and remembered Carter 
 was somewhere up court. Quick turn and lead pass (he should've had an open lane to the basket ) , 
 but whoa... homeboys running the break- OUT OF BOUNDS. Turnover. And this happens repeatedly.
 
  
  2. How can Kobe miss an open fadeaway in the paint? Repeatedly? I'm talking 1 for 4?
  
  This game is the equivalent of a videogame blonde- dumb as all hell but nice to look at. If 
 that's what you're into, hey...
  I'm glad to see they finally fixed the skating issue tho.
  
  PS: Some pro-live reviewer's solution to the field-goal percentage problem:
  STOP DUNKING 
 ON EVERY PLAY. I gaurantee if a player tried to dunk 14 times in a quarter, he'd miss atleast 6 
 dunks. 
  
  FYI, the dunk is the HIGHEST percentage shot in the game of basketball. If a half decent player 
 had an open dunk he'd knock put it down 9 out of 10 times. Have you never heard coaches or commentators 
 say always put down WITH TWO HANDS or in the playoffs no layups ? There's a reason homes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamaside
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 2, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Anyone that is thinking about purchasing a basketball game based on any review, please do not waist 
 your money on purchasing NBA Live 2007. The game was poorly made and is not worth spending 60 dollars. 
 The best basketball game out so far is NBA 2K7, but don't take my word for it, just look at what 
 other people think too..... EA can make a good game of NFL and Fight Night, but why can't they 
 get the Live serious straightened out? I borrowed this game from a friend, and just went out and 
 bought NBA 2K7 before I played Live 07. I'm glad I did that because this Live crap isn't worth 
 you spending your money on a game you would want to play, because Live is a game not worth playing. 
 Any basketball fan that is basing a game on realism and fun, will not find it with live 07. If 
 you want to actually sit there and play a game and someone to walk in the room and not be able 
 to tell if your playing or watching the game then you would rather pick 2K7. The graphics are better, 
 because Live looks like a PS2 game on 360. The commentary is better, presentation is better, and 
 the most important thing the gameplay is better than Live 07. So you people do what you want, but 
 I would highly recommend not waising your money or time on getting the pathetic LIve 07 game. It 
 sucks. End of story.
  
  
  NBA 2K7 is #1 again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tooterbutt66
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 2, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  beleive me i have played the last years instalment and for that i dont want to touch this game, 
 the new engine that EA got for this next gen hoop game sucks @$$ and balls at the same time, sure 
 it looks good but the game is broke, these new engines that EA has put up are mostly good like 
 NCaa or madden, even tiger woods engine is better and i hate golf , if you arent interested in 
 NBA 2K7 then you should probably rent this game, it would save you many grooling hours of the day 
 just looking at NBA on your shelf saying WHY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! did i buy that game. RENT RENT RENT 
 this has been a public service anouncment to all B- BAll gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lythalweapon
Rating: 3.6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  First lets start off by saying I was a avid E. A. supporter till now. This game not only is probably 
 the poorest NBA game out there, but its flawed. The coaches walk like Raw charters from the X-Box 
 (remember them like Robocop) . And then Free-throws, HA HA what a joke. And then online freezes 
 up, crashes, connection lost, etc. What in the hell happen. NBA 2k7 has taken the reign. And sadly 
 i called E. A. tech. support and was first given the answer, wipe you disk off because it may have 
 unseen dirt/dust/smears on it. I'm 35 years old, do i look like a rookie. Smear this !!! E. A. fix 
 this before people wise up and buy other products, or perhaps take legal action for selling a bad 
 product. My opinion this product is pure garbage. Don't waste your money but it used/resale. Roger 
 Ryan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allstarmike045
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 2, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  The game is fun to play it has a couple of glitches sometime but jet again what game doesnt. Its 
 has some of the nices graphics ive ever seen way better than NBA 2k7. Now the only thing that is 
 true is that Live does not have the same game play as 2k7. But if you like NBA games you'll probably 
 be spending lots of time on that dynasty mode they have. The funnest thing to do is All-star weekend 
 you got the Roockie challenge, dunk contest,3 point shoot out, and ofcourse the All star game East 
 vs. West. Its even funner when you do dynasty mode and you go through the season and see which of 
 your players made the All-star team and which made it into an event. They also got the signature 
 shots for all the stars of the NBA and they are accurate on how the shot looks. So to sum it up 
 a fun game, nice graphics and avrage gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robnliz
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 1, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I used to love ea sports games but i dont know hom much longer i can put up with this. first off 
 the game looks nice until you start playing in an actual game. The sound is top notch and the arenas 
 look great but the gameplay is lack-luster. I waited to rent it and it was not worth it. It just 
 doesnt stand up to the quality of 2k7. if you wondering if you should get live or 2k7 i would definitely 
 go with 2k7. Hopefully ea will not let all of its fans down again but maybe that is just wishful 
 thinking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbrown3
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  EA Sports has really gone downhill, they just can't seem to keep up with other next-gen developers. 
 NBA Live 07 has so much potential, but it just falls short in every aspect of the game. I am an 
 NBA fan, so I have fun with the game either way, but if you are just a casual gamer, NBA 2K7 will 
 definetly be the game for you. Live 07 is a great improvement of Live 06, but that still doesn't 
 make it warrant a $60 purchase. If EA is going to continue to release games like this, they really 
 need to consider dropping their price. EA seems to be almost a flea market for sub-par gaming lately. 
 With the exception of NHL 07, they haven't done anything truly innovative in YEARS. I remember 
 the days when you couldn't wait for the next EA Sports title to drop because you simply knew you 
 were going to get a great product. I have really had the feeling since the launch of the PS2.
 
  
  The controls are choppy, but not unbearable. I don't like having seperate dunk, layup and shoot 
 buttons, just makes things weird. The freestyle controls are fun, but can be unpredictable at times, 
 I can't begin to count how many times I have simply drove out of bounds on the baseline when I 
 started at the wing. One thing I absolutely HATE is the fact that you cannot pass the ball when 
 you are in mid shot, leads to a lot of missed opportunities and really takes away from the realism 
 of the game. EA it was a decent try, but nowhere near next-gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Prey
Rating: 2.8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  Well, first of all the graphics in this look the same as last years verison. The gameplay will 
 throw you off, like trying to switch your players highflying move to a three pointer move!!! This 
 will give you a hard time to do that. Another thing that will throw you off is how the camera is 
 set, it's position will be on one side off the court and it's hard to see what your players are 
 doing. The only good part of this game is that they added the Nba all-star weekend. So if your looking 
 for a great basketball game, go for the 2K Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  Consider NBA Live 07 as the most underrated sports game ever. Mediocre reviews, bad word of mouth, 
 2k converters who have nothing better to do but trash talk. But as a 2ker myself who gave Live 
 06 a chance last year and wasn't as dissapointed as the average gamer was, Live once again won 
 my sympathy. Is it better than last year? hell yeah. Unlike what the average 2k converters think, 
 Live 07 is an improved game. The secret, practice, practice and more practice. And I'm talking 
 about the new Free style control. You see, Live 07 may not have 2k's eight years of gameplay engine 
 development, but its gameplay is not as bad as people make it out to be. You simply need to adjust 
 to it. It is a slower paced game than what people were used to, that's because EA smartly and finally 
 went all sim. No more free styling your way to the basket for a fast dunk. Now you have to work 
 for your points, and this is what pissed 2k converters, they don't have that slippery sliding dunkfest 
 from the past. The player movement on the court is now more realistic as opposed to 2k's robotic 
 movement. The animations I admit needs work as choppy animations do occur sometimes and framerate 
 issues during timeouts, but nothing to distract the experience. Getting back to Free styling, there's 
 alot of moves to perform and depending on who the superstar is, alot of strategy . But you have 
 to practice these moves because they aren't easy. But once you master them it's a totally different 
 experience than how the average gamer plays. The graphics is generations ahead of 2k7's current 
 gen look. The overall NBA ambience is very well presented, with player intros and a suberb All 
 Star Weekend and Dynasty mode. Not to mention the revolutionary ESPN integration, including sports 
 ticker, motion video, and up to the minute news. Put it this way, playing the new Live bball series 
 is like playing the first 2k bball games from the Dreamcast. These first 2k games were also rough 
 around the edges gameplay wise, until it got better and better with years of development. Same 
 will go with this new next gen Live series. All in all Live 07 is a totally different experience 
 than 2k7. I know cause I have both. I will be trading in for the first time a 2k game and it will 
 be 2k7. The old style current gen graphics look turned me off somewhat, and I am tired of 2k's 
 same gameplay. Live 07 is going in the right direction with its next gen looks, and overall NBA 
 feel. It will take a couple of more years before EA can polish the engine, but it will come soon. 
 And when it does all those 2k converters will once again come back and embrace EA. For all those 
 who liked last year's version, will definetly like this one as well. Give it a fair and honest 
 chance and you might have a change of heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  I didn't find NBA Live 07 on Xbox360 to be as terrible as most other readers and reviewers have 
 seemed to. Admittedly, I don't know that much about basketball and only play NBA games once in 
 a while as a rental, but I've played enough to know that this particular game is at least worth 
 a play.
  
  The controls can be a little frustarting if you want to utilize everything that the game offers. 
 There is a deep freestyle control for flashy dunks and high energy moves that light the crowd up, 
 but the gameplay gets lost while concentrating on pulling these off. You spend more time trying 
 to make the highlight reel and less time worrying about a tight defense or an actual NBA sim. There 
 is a nice sense of accomplishment that comes with a sick windmill dunk over someone, but it seemed 
 to few and far between to really make it worth doing. I also found that my guy missed the dunk 
 9 times out of 10, not sure why.
  
  Graphically, this game is nice, but no nicer than it's counterpart NBA 2K7. I'd really like to 
 see EA SPorts start swinging for the fences a little in terms of trying to dazzle the eyeballs 
 better with their visuals. Being the biggest game in town should mean the ability to crush the 
 opposition, instead it seems that 2K games has the edge once again. The arenas look nice, the crowds 
 look good and even the player models are ok, but the next-gen bar has been set too high for this 
 one to shine as bright as it should graphically.
  
  I've only played 3 games, so maybe my opinion isn't the best out there, but I was able to get everything 
 I needed from the options menu as far as which buttons do what and I was on my way. As mentioned 
 earlier, chasing a big dunk can take away your focus on playing technical basketball. As I tried 
 more and more to get the big slam off, I fell further and further behind on the scoreboard. As 
 I laid off the flash, I was able to tighten down my D and climb back into the game a bit. At the 
 very least, I like the game enough to keep playing and keep trying to figure more and more out.
 
  
  This game scores some big points online. You and a friend can go online and play on the same team 
 against another team of two in an unranked game. That alone is almost worthy of a purchase. I also 
 like that the button layout can be mapped to your custom design, making it easier to play the way 
 you want to instead of learning a mandatory button layout that may not suit you. I'm not sure if 
 you keep your custom button layout during online play, but having the option to take a guest on 
 as a teammate is awesome. If you're looking for a more rigid Sim, I'd go with NBA 2K7, if you're 
 looking for a faster, more high flying game to entertain your buddies with, go with this one. Solid 
 play, decent graphics , good sound, and great online modes make this one a rental at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viktory2008
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  You guys have probably played 2 or 3 games. With live you MUST take the time to adjust to player 
 momentum, learn how to shoot, steal, defend, etc. TAKE THE TIME AND LEARN THE GAME!!!! once you 
 figure out offense, and the freestyle controls, and defense, the game becomes really sweet. especially 
 on superstar mode, very fast paced and competitive. There are glitches, but, with a few slider 
 adjustments, and a little effort, it's no biggie. The game is good. and a true next gen title. 
 the 2k series is corny and dated. Live has a better foundation to build on, and in the end will 
 be the better game, BY FAR. Let me address a few issues...
  
  1.) Shooting and Controls
  First, when shooting stop using the players form as your indicator for when to release the ball. 
 You use his FEET now. When a players feet are set, release, he'll handle the rest. Once you learn 
 momentum, and use it to your advantage with the freestyle controls, the game opens up to you. It 
 really becomes solid.
  
  2.) Missed Dunks
  STOP DUNKING ON EVERY PLAY. I gaurantee if a player tried to dunk 14 times in a quarter, he'd miss 
 atleast 6 dunks. USE THE LAYUP BUTTON. When in high traffic situations, LAY THE BALL UP, don't 
 dunk, you'll be more successful. HOW could EA let you make EVERY DUNK, you'd then complain about 
 ITS TOO EASY TO DUNK .. then, on the other hand, if they change MORE dunks to layups you'd say, 
 WHY HAVE A DUNK BUTTON IF THEY ARE ALL JUST GONNA BE LAYUPS , therefore, in order to keep the FORCE 
 you to play smarter, they just allow you to miss dunks until you realize what the Y button is for.
 
  
  3.) Gameplay and AI
  The development time put into freestyle control for LIVE, can be compared to the development time 
 put into AI and gameplay for 2k7. Live is just really opening the door, they are just now trying 
 to merge good gameplay, with the the freestyle/arcade/flash that made LIVE what it is... and i 
 think they realize that if both 2k7 and LIVE were word for NBA word sims... basketball gaming would 
 suck.
  
  4.) Glitches
  these will be worked on. EA is moving in the right direction. What they've done with this game 
 is amazing, and will only get better. They've set the proper course. 2k7 is LAME and STUCK in it's 
 old ways, NOT a next GEN game and deserves to be played on a PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beefalo
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I want to start out by saying that I am a huge fan of NBA Live 2004 for PC and Xbox. If you didn't 
 like the gameplay of Live back in 2004/2005 this review might not be for you. I wish I had some 
 reviews of Live before I bought it, but alas I got it the day it came out. Although, since most 
 sites (gamespot included) and people seem to bash on the Live series I may not have listened anyways.
 
  I will start out with the good. The graphics in this game are amazing! I have not seen such quality 
 in graphics in a game before. This is truly a next-gen title in graphics. The player models look 
 amazing: the face, the skin, build, clothing, even the sweat is decent. The coachs look even better, 
 and the court looks amazing. I haven't seen such realistic wooden floor in a game before. A lot 
 of people have been complaining about the animation, and although I have seen some minor issues 
 I really am not seeing what they are talking about. Although it might be because I haven't played 
 much of the 2K series. There are definately clipping issues with people going through each other 
 and the ball. The biggest problem, which has been a problem in Live games of the past is that people 
 somehow go through the backboard; in fact most dunks involve an arm through the backboard! The 
 sound track is great, ESPN integration is a really nice feature and the crowd and commentary sound 
 pretty good. I wish there would be a little more control over reactions based on context; such 
 as when I sink a buzzer beating shot or hit a large dunk to take the lead etc. There is some notice 
 of it but I think it needs to be stepped up a notch. The menu system with the practice court is 
 great, but the loads between parts is kind of annoying. Online play is pretty quick and simple, 
 and for the most part pretty good. When its not lagging its a lot of fun, but most games have lag 
 for a large part of the game. The lag makes the whole game stuttery but at least you don't have 
 delays like in FPS games. Overall they need better network code but so far even with the lag the 
 games have been mostly playable. The AI in the game is pretty good. On your team they will switch 
 off when you cover someone, they will try to get open etc. Better help defense on your team would 
 have been nice however. The opposing AI is pretty damn good to. They will block open lanes, make 
 sure people are covered, if a player gets hot they will double team etc.
  Now on to why I feel this game was rushed and why the gameplay is bad. First off, Live has always 
 been an arcadey game; this version has tried to change that a little bit. For better or for worse 
 I am not sure, but I did adjust to the momentum of players and not turning/stopping on a dime. 
 But even when you are going for simulation, controls should be responsive! I don't understand why 
 there is so much delay from when you hit shoot and when the player shoots. This would be fine except 
 the amount of time you hold it down controls the shot after they are in the air, so you cannot 
 visually determine when to let go for a well timed shot. You have to know how long to hold it before 
 hand and generally you will be letting go well before the top of their arc because of this. I can 
 accept a delay from hitting shoot and actually shooting but the control should be in real time 
 so that when I let go is when they shoot. There is no defense in the game. This is a huge gripe, 
 as the computer will manage to sink every shot with even two hands in their face. You can run in 
 and dunk over three people with someone like Smush Parker, and although sometimes you might not 
 make the dunk or you get stopped, its impossible to really tell. Its kind of like a random 75% 
 of the time I will be able to dunk while 25% of the time I won't make it type of thing. The power 
 step is ruined and a seperate layup/dunk button is an interesting idea. I am not sure I like it 
 right now but that could change. Basically the inside the paint game is ruined as it is too easy 
 to just dunk over everyone but at the same time very random. Also almost every missed shot turns 
 into a fast break for the opposing team and your teamates don't seem to know how to hussle down 
 the floor. They will be ahead of the offense but will be outrun by people going down both sidelines. 
 Playing the AI is frustrating because they can make just about any shot even when playing defense 
 and its too easy for them to blow by you and take a shot without you being able to jump up. I know 
 that in real life this is probably what would happen, but they need to be forgiving as we are using 
 a controller and can't really react as quickly as people would do in real life. Playing against 
 a person is a lot more fun but in order to win you need to turn it into a dunk fest. Thats the 
 only way I can consistently score in the game.
  Bottom line: there are some flaws and issues that show this is a rushed game; defense is impossible 
 to play; and the inside the paint game needs fixing. Oh and some of the previous problems from 
 Live games such as passes always being stolen because the damn game passes to the wrong person 
 need to be fixed. It has all the modes that a basketball game should have, but it doesn't really 
 deserve credit here as it should have them.
  I did play the 2k7 demo and at first I hated it. I was hyped up about Live 07 (everybody knows Live 
 06 was crap on 360) . I got Live 07 and was floored by the look, but I played it and well it was 
 just frustrating. I went back to the 2k7 demo and really gave it a chance and I can really see 
 why it is so popular. It feels like real basketball, and although you really need to think and 
 plan your offense it still moves faster than Live! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unkkanny
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Out of the box the game isnt perfect... it has some lag issues and the camera is 10x better than 
 o6 but it follows the ball too much. That being said Live 07 is a solid game when you do tweaks 
 to the sliders. ive got an excellent formula that takes that 6.5 rating and makes it an 8.0. email 
 me and I will send you the formual through email.. complete with playbook edits. On to the review.
 
  The Good
  The graphics of the game is and A+... The court is clear and the fans react to the game really well. 
 The rim phyisics are a little off but its an improvement over last years game. The sweat works 
 better this year. The defensive AI has been made to be more of a challenge. The animations are 
 off but the way the players get into position and come off screens is good. The major poblem last 
 year was the blocked shots on the perimeter. that has been toned down by a heck of alot. The announcing 
 is still good.. a little better this year.. steve kerr doesnt do anything pre written. The return 
 of the Dyanasty mode, Season mode, The All Star weekend. The Practice gym is golden.
  
  The Bad
  The Camera tends to follow the ball and not the action.. this wll find the screen jerking 
 alot. It really takes the smoothness out of the game.. Im sure alot more poeple would have liked 
 this game if that was not part of it. The Dunks are worse this year around. They didnt put enought 
 effort into the dunks at all. The defensive AI is hard as hell. If you get the ball in the paint.. it 
 dont matter if your shaq or Earl boykins... your gonna have guys up your ass.. that is not a good 
 thing. Last but not least... centers bringing the ball up the court... I couldnt believe it when 
 I saw it. It doesnt happen all game .... but it will happen 1 to 4 times a game. The fatigue is 
 just about a non issue.. because players dont really get tired... substitutions dont happen at all 
 really.
  
  The Botom Line
  NBA LIVE 07 is better than a 6.5... I think its a shame that this game gets a 6.5 after last years 
 horrible game got a 6.4. I dont even know how this game got anything less than a 7.2 or 3. There 
 are issues but the feet planting technology is great and the players move like they are humans 
 on a wood floor. If you are a fan of NBA LIVE i suggest you get it... if you are not its probably 
 not gonna move you from animation city also known as NBA 2k7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antislipshod
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 30, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  many people say this game sucks but it really is pretty good i liked it better than 2k6 demo i 
 thught 2k6 was boring i think nba live was cheated its pretty good .People are comparing it to 
 madden its two DIFFRENT SPorts i have to say the high flyer achivments are hard at beginning but 
 ull get da hang of it. Buy this game over 2k6 i use to like 2k6 unil last year when i played the 
 game and thought it sucked 2k5 was way bettter . I dont know what Gamepot the reviwers and all 
 of u are saying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latino_rock
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the worst NBA Live I've ever played. The gameplay is horrible. The visuals 
 are the only thing worth giving this game a second look. In terms of the animations, EA emphasized 
 the fact that the ice-skating of the player was now non-existent but at time the player still have 
 that problem. Again, the artwork is always something that is always top-notch and I am not taking 
 that away from the artists at EA. It shows that all the art Directors really pushed you guys into 
 making this game look as real and detailed as possible. Quite honestly artists at EA are not really 
 at fault when it comes to the gameplay. Now I'm not pointing fingers but EA you know who's responsible 
 for such terrible gameplay. Yes, EA has wonderful interfaces, hud's and clean graphics designs 
 and the All-Star Weekend extras etc... But people want to have fun playing all those modes. Coming 
 back the gameplay, there are a couple of things I wanted to point out. The ratings are completely 
 off, and superstar player do not even dominate like they do in real life. Kobe Bryant for instance 
 is practically just another regular player when it comes to his ability from beyond the arc. Hello 
 EA?! He holds the record for most 3-Pts in a single game. Not to mention his performance last season 
 of 80+ points. It's practically impossible to make a jump shot inside as well. (In superstar difficulty) . 
 What's the deal with this new freethrow system? What a useless concept. It's actually easier to 
 make freethrows with players that struggle from the line in real life. So players that attract 
 a lot of the defense's attention are pretty much screwed when they come to the line. They try and 
 recycle past gameplay and pass it off as a new game but honestly this game is taking a complete 
 step back to what last year was trying to start. I am completely disappointed with this year's 
 version of the game. Then again, EA doesn't care about happy customers. They're just after that 
 paper and it clearly shows with this version of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Truth_07
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 30, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  Not once did i doubt that 2k6 was the best NBA franchise game out on the market, it had better 
 game play and a more intuitive control system. The graphics were never up to par which is something 
 I never did like about the 2k series but it always topped EA, UNTIL THIS YR. Live 07 has the graphics, 
 the gameplay, the control system, all the modes in previous versions and ESPN's interface. For 
 one the game play tops any basketball game I've played and believe me I've played them all. The 
 team attributes are to the T, meaning the resemble the actual NBA team and the players to their 
 abilities. Your not going to see Shaq doing windmills (like in 2k7) unless you through him in the 
 dunk contest but who in their right mind is going to do that. The online is great I haven't had 
 any lag what so ever and it's quick a simple to get started in a match. Not only that but they 
 have the co-op play which I haven't used yet but it seems like a nice feature that hasn't been 
 there in the past and would be very useful if you want to play online with a friend on your team.
 
  On to the control system, EA has revamped the WHOLE Live control system. There isn't that somewhat 
 gliding effect that was there before when you would use the turbo button, a cut is an actual cut. 
 When your dribbling the ball and go to change direction dramatically there's a slight pause not 
 jus a quick turn in the other direction, which resembles real life physics. There is a learning 
 curve because you have to teach yourself what analog movements do what and how to modify them in 
 different ways and that same goes to say for the freestyle controls. If your a true basketball fan 
 or player like me then you will find your self in the practice gym figuring out what does what 
 and with which players. In this game Shaq will not get away with an inside out move it just wont 
 happen (it may in 2k7, didn't play it long enough to find out) .
  The graphics speak for themselves there shouldn't be one person on this earth that can honestly 
 say 2k tops EA's graphics, it's not a logical statement if you truly believe that.
  All the game modes are there that have been there, a revamped dynasty mode which really causes 
 you to know what your doing with your team through management and keeping your players happy. It 
 is the most intuitive and productive way of implementing all of this. People will say Well 2k did 
 it first. Well they did your right but 2k didn't do the BEST.
  The one thing that may have grabbed people was the ESPN integration (if you didn't notice they 
 did buy out 2k's contract) . It's a wonderful tool to play around with, if your in practice mode 
 you get updates every 20 mins and you have the ticker at the bottom of the screen as the people 
 who played madden 07 may notice. The video feeds dont look all that great but it is very smooth, 
 quick and easy to use.
  Many of you may think im here just to down 2k but I'm not, I have been a 2k fan since 2k3 in every 
 aspect football, basketball you name it. I had bought both 2k6 and live 06 last yr. I took live 
 back because 2k6 was better in every aspect besides the graphics. This yr it's different I bought 
 both games again fooled around with live for a few hours, then put 2k7 in. It didn't take long 
 to realize that it didn't measure up to live 07 not even close. The control system was ok it didn't 
 seem as controlling as live and it seemed like there was this airy movement in the moves, the cross 
 overs went crisp and the cut backs wheren't realistic in any way there's no slight pause it's just 
 a change in direction like the player is on a pivot plate. Once again a lot falls on graphics and 
 as said before there's absolutely not comparison. I have two 50 plus inch TV's a Toshiba perceived 
 as 1080p and a true 1080p Sony. Not on either of them did 2k7 look like the pre-renders they have 
 in their commercial. This yr there is no contest EA wins it, if you want to argue it email me @ 
 da_truth22@comcast. net. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrett20
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  Bad, Bad, Bad, just like every game EA has made for the 360, the NHL was the only playable game 
 they have made so far. I used to love EA and every thing they made now they need to stop rushing 
 out games to make there release dates and take there time with these games and get them right. 
 I can't see why anyone would by an EA game when all they do is make bad games. It is just a shame 
 that they let EA have a monopoly on the NFL market of the video games cause madden was terrible 
 for the 360. The only way for EA to start making games like they used to, is to completely stop 
 buying them until they make good games again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lashon
Rating: 2.4
Date: Sep 29, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  What used to be the basketball game to get is now the basketball game to avoid. I was really excited 
 about this game this b/c of all the innovations with espn. I rushed to get the game, got it home 
 and was truely dissappointed. The graphics are great and thats it. The players move around like 
 lifeless robots. It even has that same lag the madden 2007 has. EA sports is really making the fans 
 of this series go to the competition. Nba 2k7 is the game to get this year. The players move much 
 more fluently in Nba 2k7 and the commentary is great. With that being said do not waste your money 
 on Nba live 2007 for the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mysterious
Rating: 4.9
Date: Sep 29, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Truth is, this game is a headache to play, it blur effects will give you massive headaches.
  I'm running it on a 40 DLP Plasma and it runs horribly on this game.
  
  The player models still 
 look stupid, even though some of the faces are great, and the coaches look amazing.
  
  But it doesn't make up, for the arcadish and bullcrap gameplay. The skating is definitely gone, 
 but it made the players move like hunchback dumbazzes.
  
  All-star weekend is stupid. The ESPN intergration is retarded, cool no doubt, but a waste of use 
 in a video game. Especially when the game itself is crapola.
  
  Audio and presentation is weekend I'm tired of Steven Kerr and Albert....
  
  replays are garbage, 
 and sometimes the dunks are so fast, unless you replay them, you don't really see how they throw 
 them down.
  
  Even HD couldn't carry this game to any type of victory.
  
  Compared to NBA 2k7 on 360... Live is a definitely Hellz No!!! As far as a purchase. And if you 
 did buy it, nice way to waste $60
  
  I spent 6 bucks on the rental and returned in 3 days. Game gave me migraines and I was too busy 
 laughing at the animations and the dry gameplay presentation....
  
  Take it from a grown adult. I'm 30, and I've played them all. This is junk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SDanger4L
Rating: 4.6
Date: Sep 29, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Nba Live has went from the one leading basketball franchise's to this utterly disguist of a game. 
 The controls of this game, adjusted by the use of real life athletic performance, seem stiffer 
 than an elderly woman tied to a tree. All this coming fron an Nba Live and EA Sports fan im wouldnt 
 recomnmend this game if u like the franchse. Allstar weekend not much of a strong asset this year. 
 3 point contest average, Dunk contest not so exciting, rookie challenge and all star game, seen 
 it all before. Look im not goin to explain everything you dont believe me try it for yourself! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jahedulhannan
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Why are the 2k fans posting here. They are giving so many low score. you bunch of haters.
  
  
  I Love this game.
  
  I purchased both NBA franchises and they are both great.
  
 
  If you like the various aspects of EA NHL 07, this game gives you the same type of options except 
 for basketball on-the-fly matchups, double teaming, changing to zone play, man-to-man, etc. Mav 
 Albert (YES) is the main announcer. They actually have in-game conversations during gameplay about 
 the players.
  
  An example would be like when Shaq will have the ball or just scored and marv albert and his co-anchor 
 discuss his impact on the game , his career at orlando majic , how he will be missed when he retires 
 soon ....... This type of broadcast in a video game is priceless!! It will be interesting to see 
 if EA can top this game in the to come. This game is 100% basketball in it's full glory. Graphics... well, 
 makes your hairs stand on end good. EA is starting to expose what 360 is capable of displaying 
 with the right developers at the helm. The only complaint i have is the free throw. Both franchises 
 basically have the same free throw system and it is hard to figure out if you are releasing to 
 early or too late. I guess it just takes more practice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed2k3
Rating: 2.9
Date: Sep 29, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Nba Live 07 is a big letdown. I grew up on live and they just kinda lost their funk. I have been 
 waitng year in and year out to see if live is gonna step up to the plate but they only run away 
 from it. The slow 30 FPS gameplay does not represent how the game of basketball is really played; 
 there is more to basketball than dunks and three pointers. Dunks are so quick that you are not 
 sure what just happend. They are alot times when players seem to blast off for a really crazy dunk 
 , which is fine when on a fast break running towards the goal but not when standing planted on 
 the floor from about 12 feet out. The graphics are good but not what they are hyped up to be, just 
 campare Shaq on Live to Shaq on 2k and askto yourself; which one truly looks like Shaq? Signature 
 shots are not what they said to be, most shots seem to be a bit clunky which really take away the 
 ability to time your point of release especially on free throws. Another flaw is the alley-oop 
 button. No matter where you are on the court; they will atttempt show kind of alley-oop (I accidentaly 
 hit the button after i inbounded on the opposite end of the court and they attempted a FULL COURT 
 ALLEY-OOP!!!!)
  So many flaws that it really makes you wonder, What did EA did this past year with development?
 
  All this is just my opinion about NBA Live 07
  
  ***Too any who had chance to read my earlier review and were offended by it , I appologize. I did 
 not solely intend to annoy and/or offend other users . Maybe i went a little too far with a few 
 of my comments since i got warned that i violated gamespot's terms of service on my first post 
 after being a member quite some time (sorry ,i'm just a tad salty about it) . :- (
  Guess that's what happens when keeping it real goes wrong. :-) :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forthefun
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 29, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  The graphics are stunning but everything else is a let down compared to 2k7. The fact is if EA 
 would not have bought the football license we would have a great football game to play right now 
 UNLIKE madden! The game-play is not smooth, sound is ok, and it is not worth the price tag. At 
 least they did let you be on the same team unlike madden! The franchise mode is practically the 
 same as last year and they did not add any new standout features to it. The view still sucks for 
 more than one person, and the angles are only good in replays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazylegzmark
Rating: 4.3
Date: Sep 29, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  This game is nothing but eye candy and nothing more. All I can say is if you really want a good 
 basketball game for the Xbox 360 get 2K7. The game play is the worst I've ever seen the players 
 AI are really bad I have never seen so may missed dunks, open shots and lay ups in one game since 
 I was coaching youth basketball for 7 year olds. It seems to me all that EA cared about was just 
 the graphics of this game. There is no help defenes open lanes to the basket so you can just miss 
 a dunk or a layup, guy who are normally great out side scorers miss way to often. To much lag on 
 fast breaks make it hard to get the ball down court. Freestyle moves don't work as smooth as last 
 years game. I'm so upset with this game that I will never buy an NBA live game ever. I'm making 
 the switch to 2K. Sorry EA you just lost another loyal customer to 2k sports. Don't worry I still 
 love Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaplayboy3k
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 28, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Let me say this first and foremost. I have purchased NBA Live every year since '95 when it was 
 on SNES. So I am in no way a hater of EA or the series. This game is really lacking in almost every 
 phase. I see that most are impressed with the graphics, but I really cant tell a big difference 
 from last years version. The only thing they have going for them this time is All-Star Weekend, 
 and even that is due only to the fun factor of the three point shooting contest. EA has to realize 
 than when people buy this game, 60 bucks is worth more than Marv Alberts voice, and a couple of 
 360 dunks. The gameplay just isn't there. The player movement is so unrealistic. ANd to top it 
 all, its just not fast enough to create any excitement, regardless of the sliders. I advise anyone 
 who really wants a fun yet realistic bball game, do what I did and buy 2K7. I hate to say it because 
 I am such a big fan of EA Sports and their series of games, but the 2k series won this time very 
 easily..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankunc23
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 28, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game that looks great and feels real. The arenas look awesome and the players look 
 more real than ever. Everything is great except for a few details. The gameplay is lacking compared 
 to 2K7 as far as the fast breaks and the shooting animations. It is easy to miss a dunk or layup 
 in this game even when some are wide open. A little tweaking in the setting menu fixes the game 
 to your liking. All in all, I will say that this is the best basketball game this season and hopefully, 
 next season will be the perfect basketball game ever!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g_hart
Rating: 4.4
Date: Sep 28, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Before I start, I'll go ahead and say that Live 07 is marginally better than last year's version. 
 Now, to what's important. I am a fan of EA Sports' games, but this one hurts. Even with all of 
 the negative comments about NBA Live 07, I still decided to give it a try. The only reason I'm 
 not angry about wasting money on this game is because the guy at the store felt sorry for me and 
 let me swap it out for NBA 2K7. I have to admit, I would have probably given Live 07 at least 5.2 
 rating if I had never played 2K7. I hate 2K fan boys because they are so arrogant, but they got 
 this one right. NBA 2K7 is miles ahead of Live 07 in every department except maybe graphics and 
 sound. Horrible frame rate and the fact that the players have a two second delay every time you 
 take a set shot were more than enough reasons for me to re-insert the game in the case that it 
 came in and run back to GameStop the next day. I can understand EA trying to be different and innovative, 
 but it's aggravating to see that they are only taking half-inch steps up from the crap they put 
 out the year before. If nothing else, they should only charge half price for a game that's only 
 halfway between mediocre and garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giflow
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 28, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Its a shame they put all this money into creating this game and it feels so ancient.
  Let me start off saying i am no EA sports hater, i just simply want the most accurate and best sports 
 simulation game out there and live didnt quench that thirst at all.
  The player and coach models are a little more sharper than 2k7's but they animate like looney tunes 
 or something, they move very unrealistically compared to 2k7, and last i check more people prefer 
 realism ,and not only that, but there postures and moves look so unnatural, so the graphics are 
 outstanding when you pause it ,but when their in action its another story.
  
  Sound is average nothing innovative, nothing really caught my ear but it wasnt bad or anything, but 
 i feel like its something these next gen systems can do better with the commentating, im tired of 
 these canned sound bites.
  
  Gameplay is so unrealistic i read game pro's review and it said the a. i. was good, thats a lie, defenders 
 dont close the lane and they act so unrealistically ,they block jump shots too frequently ,its 
 just not how N. b. a. games are played, offense is very easy ,the game is also slow compared to 2k7, (and 
 i dont feel like adjusting the speed every time i play) . For example i put game on allstar and i 
 spent the first 2 quaters pressing the wrong buttons (use too playing 2k7) but still wound up coming 
 back and beating the mavericks with 76ers, just cherry picking iverson because the great A. I. (not 
 iverson) of the opposing mavericks offense never took advantage of the missing defender, just too 
 arcadey and 2k7's street mode beats their arcade style of play. Overall just being real this is 
 a game is for kids they might be satisfied with a new live title and simple gameplay if your looking 
 for b-ball simulation you'll be dissapointed, but if your looking for a new prettier live, well 
 here you go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewleggee
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 28, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Nba live 07 is by far the best basketball game to date. It looks superb and plays the way real 
 basketball should be played. If you notice any reviewer giving a low or subpar rating, you can 
 continue reading their review and realize their education must of not reached higher then 4th grade 
 at best. With this being said I feel this game needs some time and thought invested into it to 
 actually be able to appreciate and comprehend the finer features and different game styles this 
 title has to offer. Unlike NBA Jam from many years ago, which was easy enough for a toddler to 
 control, and any NBA game since, this game actually feels and operates like real basketball. You 
 do not float across the court like an ice skater because that is not how real basketball players 
 move. You cannot turbo your way to the hoop and dunk it on an unsuspecting defender because humans 
 do not have a turbo button nor do real defenders stand in their tracks clueless as you take them 
 to the hoop. All the new features are fantastic and are great additions to a game [Nba Live 06] 
 that had great graphics but little to no added game modes at all. Not to mention the graphics are 
 the best thing I've seen on any system to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geekwauk
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 28, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  This game got better at gameplay because of the player movement like how the move off of cuts and 
 screens. I also love how they put in really life shots so you can pop jumpers just like how tracey 
 does in real life and now it looks just like him. I also thought the fatigue of players was better. 
 I am glad they kept the shootaround at the start and then you could go to the main menu. They could 
 have improved dynasty mode a little better because it really hasn't had a change in a few years 
 and they could have had the sexy cheerleaders and the mascots. i recommand this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrycee
Rating: 5.1
Date: Sep 28, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Im just so disappointed in EA , To them i think , That they think this is a game. Takin our money 
 and seting back snoozing . Last year it could of been ok but now its horrible . Right ! it shouldnt 
 be about graphics only . They should of steer it all up and put some funk in it . Damn !!! they 
 stonk the whole game up. But should of known , The work of EA.. I think last years graphics were 
 good but the gameplay was terrible . I, ve been playing this game since the 90's and I just cant 
 believe how EA fell off. Im retiring from ea and just join the 2k clan its much better. One thing!!! 
 I just wish they would give those Football licesnes back , because they dont deserve them at all. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioKunn
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 28, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  I actually thought Live 2006 was great, even though I had been an NBA 2k fan since it came out 
 for the Dreamcast. But this is a new season and things have changed. I went to EB yesterday and 
 with so many conflicting opinions out there decided to pick both games up, I popped 2k7 in and 
 I have to admit I was floored by the smoothness of the animation, the spot on player movement, 
 the graphics are absolutely outstanding, I was having so much fun playing I didn't want to shut 
 down to pop live in, but I did - here is my review.
  From the start I could immediately see the difference in the framerate and animation in the practice 
 arena with T-Mac it just couldn't compare with the speed and movement of the players on 2k7 (the 
 layup and dunk animations are a bit awkward looking) . Then I started a full game (with the same 
 teams I had played with on 2k7 Lakers vs Suns) , I couldn't find a camera angle that suited me as 
 well as the one on 2k7, the pace of the game was much slower and the player models while all in 
 all great looking, did not animate nearly as well or accurately as 2k7, I'm a Laker's fan and Kobe's 
 jumpshot animation on Live looked hideous compared with 2k7. Suffice to say I didn't even play 
 through a full game, I shut it off started a franchise on 2k7 and played another game. Honestly 
 I'm not a Live hater and if you just buy Live and have nothing to compare it with it's a passable 
 game, but when compared to 2k7 it's no contest! Hope this was helpful for anybody on the fence 
 as to which NBA purchase to make. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankfrankie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  Yea i have read some of the reviews for live 07 on the xbox 360 and i dont think it is as bad as 
 people say . i am 2k fan and i am kind of dispointed in this years game its only fun online cause 
 the dynasty is boaring ( franchise) and i never did like the 24/7 mode but it did get better and 
 i still would rather take live. online is great to and for trhe person who said the game is so 
 wack they would rather only watch the espn. thats a shallow opinion becuase the online mode itself 
 is decent and its a fun game with a nice online community. And with the espn video's tick intergration 
 the value is welllll worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vleboy26
Rating: 2.2
Date: Sep 28, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  I just played by a friends house and im glad i didnt waste my money you can tell its an EA product 
 they must have only worked a month on this game its just that bad the goal sounds like a trash 
 can when the ball hits it and when your shooting the ball the frame rate pauses alot every play 
 you can dunk on the whole team its just too unreal they havent made a good nba live since 1997 
 the graphics are the best thing on this game but you hardly notice becouse the gameplay is so bad
 
  
  dont buy this game and no im not a 2k fanboy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nabiscoboy
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  dude im a fan of nba live i dont think its better than the 2k series but it still does a good job 
 of makeing nba games. i was scared for this one to come out honestly. cuz the trailers looked sooooooo 
 good and the players looked positivly life like. then i went to my friends house and played but 
 the gameplay was well... recycled the dunks and stuff kept coming back just like in 2oo5. i mean 
 EA just has to realize that good graphics wont win good reviews. EA makes soooooooo many good sports 
 games how come they do mediocre on nba live? i thought it be good but alas im dissapointed sorry 
 nba live nba 2k6 and 2k7 is where to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buttery33
Rating: 4.7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Omg... i had 2k7 in my hands at the store , but the EA fan in me said get the Live or you will regret 
 it. I have always purchased EA live. Dammmit. bad bad choice this year. I played it for 7 hours 
 straight trying to find something i like about it. Nice Graphics and the espn thing nice . that 
 sums it up. everything else about is garbage. I feel really ripped off. No true fan of videogame 
 basketball will like this game at all. Hyper animations, horrible gameplay. I could gone on about 
 how upset I am about this years Live and why but it doesnt deserve anymore time than i have already 
 wasted on it. Next payday i will suffer returning it for the small in-store credit and use that 
 to purchase my first 2k title. Sorry EA another fan burned and lost. I will from now on make sure 
 i rent your titles first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  I Love this game.
  
  I purchased both NBA franchises and they are both great.
  
  If you like the various aspects of EA NHL 07, this game gives you the same type of options except 
 for basketball on-the-fly matchups, double teaming, changing to zone play, man-to-man, etc. Mav 
 Albert (YES) is the main announcer. They actually have in-game conversations during gameplay about 
 the players.
  
  An example would be like when Shaq will have the ball or just scored and marv albert and his co-anchor 
 discuss his impact on the game , his career at orlando majic , how he will be missed when he retires 
 soon ....... This type of broadcast in a video game is priceless!! It will be interesting to see 
 if EA can top this game in the to come. This game is 100% basketball in it's full glory. Graphics... well, 
 makes your hairs stand on end good. EA is starting to expose what 360 is capable of displaying 
 with the right developers at the helm. The only complaint i have is the free throw. Both franchises 
 basically have the same free throw system and it is hard to figure out if you are releasing to 
 early or too late. I guess it just takes more practice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDon326
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 27, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I really gave it a chance but EA dropped the ball on this one. I thought it would be better than 
 this but it wasnt. The graphics and the soundtrack were amazing but dont judge a cover by its book. 
 When i got into the game it was a totally different story. I keep seeing the same dunks over and 
 over. Lots of the shot animations are exactly the same with a few differences for players like 
 shaun marion. Im dissapointed by EA. I turned my live in the next day i got it...... Im sticking 
 with 2k.... sorry guys. Im dissapointing too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is far better than last years. The All star weekend is back and the presentaion is better 
 than last year, the commentary is just as great as last year. Everything about this game is great. 
 The gameplay may need a little work but its not that bad where you cant buy the game. The ESPN 
 intergration just adds to the game that much more. I love that feature. It was a great thing to 
 add to this game.
  
  If your not sure which one to get, rent them first, then make your decision, but this is not a 
 bad game it just depends on what you like and dislike in a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freddyg17
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 27, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  To begin with I have played NBA Live from day one, but this was the worse of them yet. I am not 
 going to lie, the graphics were amazing, but thats the only good thing I can say about the game. 
 For starters the game doesn't run smooth at all and the freestyle controls look soooo animated, 
 I mean it just doesnt look natural at all. When you do a freestyle dunk, 90% of the time your hands 
 go through the rim, this is not 360 quality. And once again the dunks dont look natural. I remember 
 when Live first introduced the freestyle system on the Xbox, I LOVED IT!!! Everytime I did a freestyle 
 dunk on someone it felt good, like I was in the game or something, for the 360 I just dont get 
 that same feeling. You can't even play defense on the game, if you try to body someone up like 
 you could do in the past Live, they just simply run right past you. And when you dunk its like 
 you jump right through the person, I thought that EA was suppose to correct this problem for this 
 year, but it looks like they dropped the ball again. To sum up all the bad, the new shot system 
 is wierd, cant play defense, and it is way too arcadey, no physics in this game at all. It just 
 seems like its an unfinished game. I am trading my Live in to get 2K7, you should do the same if 
 you haven't already brought the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Honeal2g
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 29, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I mean i really enjoy playing live but, this year the 2k7 demo came out so i decided to try it. 
 game-play was realistic when dribbling and moving with or without the ball kinda of a dunk fest (hard 
 to stop the computer or a friend) otherwise its amazing, as for Live it feels like the same game 
 but improved graphics with a lot of new features its not quite there but they are one step closer 
 to getting it right. the other thing about live i really think is messed up is the fact that when 
 you start goin down the court after a steal or made basket the game slows down and i mean like 
 matrix slow for some reason and that can really effect your game.
  
  couple days now since i owned it..... trying to see if i can trade it in..... never again will i 
 buy LIVE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 29, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the problems that I didn't like about Nba Live. Last year the player models look 
 great but they didn't have any facial expressions when something happened. They wouldn't be mad, 
 happy, or sad after a call or a play. This year they added facial expressions and the player models 
 don't look as good as they did last year. It's like the face and body complexion looks so off from 
 last year's version. This year they added a new dynasty mode which wasn't included in 06 xbox360 
 version also included in this year is all star weekend and superstar mode. If you are new to the 
 whole superstar mode like me you'll get a little upset. It seems to me like you have to click on 
 two buttons to switch around what kind of superstar mode your player has and also you have to click 
 on the modifier button and either the shoot, pass, or dunk button to make this superstar move. 
 It's a little annoying at times because you end up throwing the ball away or making a turnover. 
 I guess is going to take me a while to get use to. The stadiums look great in this year version 
 a little better from last year's 06 everything from last year is back with those 3 additional things 
 I just mentioned up above. If you're a graphics fan like me. You'll be a little disappointed when 
 you see the player model of this year's Live. Those were some of my issues with some of the nba 
 live from the past they never keep the same model always do some changes and end up with something 
 that look great make it look worst by just adding facial expressions. But I guess is better than 
 just looking at your players with a straight face. If you're a fan of Live you won't be disappoint 
 it's still a great game a little bit better from last years. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
