-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA Street Homecourt
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/nbastreet4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Slightly simplified gameplay is outstanding.
 dunks are better than ever.
 player animation is smooth and realistic.
 eclectic soundtrack is a joy to listen to.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Value hurt by a lack of gameplay modes.
 graphics filter hurts more than it helps.
 it's often nearly impossible to pick up loose balls.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.2, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,360 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports Big
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Basketball
Date: Feb 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Deep on gameplay but light on content, NBA Street Homecourt's Xbox 360 debut is ultimately a great 
 one. 

  When the original NBA Street hit the scene in 2001, it took the over-the-top basketball formula 
 established by the NBA Jam series to the next level. Since then, enormous, rim-rocking dunks, intentional 
 fouls, and blatant goaltending have been a part of nearly every play. Rather than simply adding 
 more content and possibly making the latest game in the Street series too complex, developer EA 
 Canada has trimmed the fat and focused almost entirely on simplifying and perfecting the gameplay. 
 NBA Street Homecourt is easier than ever to pick up and play, and almost all of the new moves and 
 dunks are fantastic, but thanks to a shallow career mode and a limited number of other gameplay 
 modes, there aren't enough ways to enjoy it.  

          Once again, the dunks leave Mars Blackmon asking 'Is it the shoes?'     

  NBA Street's 
 fast-paced, over-the-top gameplay is back, and it's as good as ever. The trick stick has been removed, 
 but the new simplified controls work very well. Basic dribble moves are mapped to the X and Y buttons, 
 and the really crazy stuff is performed by hitting one of those face buttons in conjunction with 
 a shoulder button. As always, the more moves you make, the faster your gamebreaker meter fills. 
 And if you really make a defender look bad, you'll earn a bonus for your trick points. As crazy 
 as they are, the series' dunks are so frequent that they've almost become routine. Almost. Homecourt 
 has breathed new life into dunks by adding a few twists. For starters, teammates will sometimes 
 get down on all fours at the top of the key and act as launching pads. All you've got to do is 
 run up to them and jump, and you'll soon find yourself high in the sky heading toward the rim for 
 a vicious dunk. The biggest addition to the dunk repertoire is the double, and sometimes triple, 
 dunk. A meter fills as you hold down the dunk button, and the longer you hold it, the more powerful 
 your dunk. If you release the button too late, you'll get denied by the rim, but if you time it 
 just right, you can dunk the ball, catch it, and dunk it again. If you do this during a gamebreaker, 
 you can dunk the ball a third time. Multiple dunks are both awesome and awful. It's great when 
 you're the dunker, but as the dunkee, it's maddening to lose a close game as a victim of a double 
 dunk. It's bad enough when you're playing against a friend, but it feels downright cheap when the 
 CPU does it.  

  After you've performed enough tricks and dunks to fill the gamebreaker meter, it's time to unleash 
 some pain. Once the meter is activated, you've got a limited amount of time to score, but you'll 
 want to take some time to perform as many tricks as possible because the more you refill your meter, 
 the more points your bucket will be worth. As usual, the moves and dunks you can perform here are 
 completely over-the-top, even by Street standards. While the game's focus is mostly on offense, 
 you'll need to hunker down on defense if you're to rule the streets. Goaltending and fouling aren't 
 just allowed -- they're encouraged. The way you play defense is largely unchanged, and for the most 
 part, it's very satisfying, especially when you're blocking shot after shot. The only negative 
 aspect of the gameplay is that it's often very difficult to pick up loose balls, particularly if 
 you're on defense. The CPU even has a difficult time picking the ball up and getting it back to 
 the baseline after a bucket.  

  The one area in which Homecourt is lacking is the number of gameplay modes. You can play a basic 
 game without tricks and gamebreakers or play games where points count only if they're scored with 
 a full trick meter or a gamebreaker. However, none of those modes are particularly interesting. 
 Online play offers up the same games, as well as leaderboards. While the game runs well online, 
 it would have been nice for there to have been some sort of true online career mode. Because the 
 other modes are so shallow, nearly all of the game's value is found in the Homecourt Challenge. 

  Homecourt Challenge is where you play on your local court, eventually make a name for yourself, 
 and take on real NBA players on their homecourts. You start by creating a baller, but rather than 
 altering individual features, you select from one of a handful of generic heads and then merge 
 it with the heads of two NBA players. This means that you can finally find out what the love child 
 of Steve Nash and Yao Ming would look like. It's every bit as horrifying as you might imagine. 
 Outside of being sort of creepy, the create-a-player feature is quite limited. After you've created 
 your Frankenstein baller, you assign him a position and playing style. Then, you head to the court 
 where you can round out your squad of three by picking up some no-name locals. Once your squad 
 is assembled, you'll play pickup games against other local players, and eventually, you'll get 
 to take on teams made of NBA and even a few WNBA players. The rules for victory vary. Sometimes 
 the winner is the first to score 21 or the first to lead by three points; other times, you'll only 
 be allowed to dunk or take jump shots. Your created player's attributes improve slightly after 
 each game, and when you reach a certain level, you can max out one skill by designating it as a 
 "freak skill." This makes your player nearly unstoppable in one aspect of his game, and knowing 
 you have a deadly shooter, shot blocker, or rebounder is invaluable in tight games against the 
 CPU. You won't want to get attached to your teammates because you'll constantly be adding and dropping 
 players to improve your team's talent level.  

  Part of the appeal of the NBA Street series has always been the great player animation, and Homecourt 
 does not disappoint. Dunks are satisfying not only because they change the score, but also because 
 they look powerful, leaving fallen players and bent rims in their wake. You never know what mind-blowing 
 dunk you'll see next either. It might be a reverse, or a reverse with a flip, pump, spin, and a 
 windmill. These moves look even better, thanks to a consistently snappy frame rate. The players 
 look realistic, and because the game's roster is mostly made up of the NBA's better players, they're 
 almost all instantly recognizable in-game and look even better in the replays. The real-life courts 
 on which you play vary greatly in style and design. Most of them aren't instantly recognizable 
 locales, but whether it's an indoor gym, beachside court, or urban setting, they all look nice. 

  It's odd that the developer decided to muck up all of the great-looking animations, players, and 
 courts with a "retro" look. Everything is run through a filter that gives it a sepia tone. The 
 idea was to make the NBA players' homecourts look as they might in home movies or pictures. This 
 might make sense if there were  any  old-school players, but it's a safe bet that Carmello Anthony's 
 home movies weren't shot with an old 8mm camera. There's no option to turn the effect off either. 
 Eventually you can get past it, but it's still lame.  

          Unless you look like a combination of both AI and T-Mac, morphing two NBA players into 
 one isn't the ideal way to create your own baller.     

  The game's audio also has a bit of a retro feel to it, but it works because it's cool. When you 
 bust out a gamebreaker, you'll do so to the synthesized funk of Herbie Hancock's "Rockit." The 
 outstanding soundtrack features artists, such as RJD2, Quincy Jones, The Jackson 5, DJ Shadow featuring 
 Q-Tip &amp; Lateef, the Herbaliser, and many more. On the court, players will talk trash, which 
 itself is nothing new, but here it actually doesn't sound supercheesy.  

  There's a lot to like about NBA Street Homecourt's debut on the Xbox 360. The controls are easy 
 to learn, the gameplay is as tight as ever, players look great and move well, and the soundtrack 
 is top-notch. As any good game should, Homecourt leaves you wanting more, not only because it's 
 so much fun, but also because there isn't enough to do. Earning achievements by performing tricks, 
 playing online, and leveling up your character will keep you going for a while, but the Homecourt 
 Challenge doesn't offer up enough depth, and the game is lacking in other modes. However, there 
 are worse things you can say about a game other than it left you wanting more.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (99 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2009 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Though short and light on content, NBA Homecourt is a fun basketball game with plenty of over-the-top, 
 eye-popping dunks and maneuvers. The game takes its inspiration from street ball, as opposed to 
 the usual NBA Live or 2K titles. Homecourt does an admirable job of capturing the "essence" of 
 street ball, through personal stories narrated by players such as Carmello Anthony and Rip Hamilton 
 about their rise from child prodigy to NBA star. In this way, the game effectively depicts basketball 
 as a metaphor for hard work, optimism, and self-discipline -- a positive message that's rarely conveyed 
 in urban, hip-hop themed games.
  
  Beyond its aesthetics, Homecourt features some entertaining gameplay that's easy to pick up and 
 play. Instead of going for realism, Homecourt allows players to execute the most impossible dunks 
 and ball-handling tricks one can imagine, which makes for plenty of "oh snap" moments. Players 
 can also take the game online and test their skills against other aspiring street ballers. But 
 the relatively short career mode and limited online match options makes this one more of a rental 
 than a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fubulu
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  If flashy moves and graphics are what you want with a mix of the old NBA Jam game play style then 
 this game is for you.
  
  HomeCourt doesn't really have a story mode, but one main feature called Homecourt challenge. In 
 this mode you take your created baller, start a local team, and go against other teams. After awhile 
 tournaments will become available. 
  The game isn't overly long but the achievements will bring some extra life to the game since you'll 
 need to do the 'create a player' thing twice. The on-line mode seems pretty lively but the games 
 I played were a bit laggy at times which did cause some problems.
  
  The graphics in NBA Street are rather good. A little too shiny but the character models look good 
 as do all of the moves. Everything moves as realistically as they could since some of the moves 
 can't really be done. The courts also look good but feel a bit bland in the details areas.
  
  The sound in the game really isn't too bad. You can hear the "SWOOSH" when the ball flys through 
 the net, or when it bangs off the backboard or rim. I never heard of any of the artists on the 
 soundtrack but I never noticed any lyrics either so I didn't have to suffer through bad rap music. 
 On the other hand I don't remember much of the music because I was really into the game. Voice 
 work is amusing but nothing special. Sound effects aren't that bad either but nothing special.
 
  
  The control in the game is rather smooth and once you get the hang of the controls you can really 
 pull off some cool moves. That's a plus when the moves look so complex but I do wish there was 
 a tutorial for the game play because for someone who hasn't played a game in the series in a number 
 of years might have some problems with just jumping into the game. The trick system in the game 
 is very simple to get the hang of and looks cool. The AI is pretty much brain dead on the lower 
 settings so you might want to up the difficulty. 
  
  I'd recommend NBA Street home court as the perfect weekend rental with friends. Maybe if it was 
 under $30 I could see it worth buying.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: satanwershipsme
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best as it gets. If you had to play either one, I recommend Homecourt. If you 
 have been locked in a cellar for 10 years or so, This game is great for people who really don't 
 play basketball or really don't watch the NBA at all this game makes it look good. I mean if i 
 had the chance to run up and and dunk the ball and then swing on the rim to catch the ball again 
 to dunk it man I would be the Shaq only with a slight difference (skin color, height, weight, and 
 not a total fool when it come to the stupid game) . When I first learn about EA BIG (the company 
 who started the idea) I thought that it would be a sports game only with fat people? But to my 
 surprise this was a franchise they should be making for decades to come. From this one to the first 
 one it grew a lot from when it started. This is by far a game to teach your kids to play? Think 
 of it if you don't teach your kids to play sports game like Homecourt it will tell them that
 Hey if they can do it why can I do it". But if you teach your kids to play games like Grand Theft 
 Auto 4 they'll think they can run around and pop a cap in someones a**. But if you kids to play 
 game like Doom 3 they'll turn into a person in trying to be the joker from Batman The Dark Knight 
 (I don't mean any disrespect to the joker) . But the most games that kids should not play is games 
 like Disney games or Nick games either. Think of it games that kids see on TV makes them think 
 like they can stay kids forever. An one thing leads to another and.... BAM!!! My kid is now in 
 jail because they have just punched the crap out of a guy dress like Spunge Bob because he is not 
 really Spunge Bob when he found out when he knock the Spunge Bob over when they saw him at a them 
 park.... What I'm mean is if we teach our kid to play video games based on sports maybe just maybe 
 they will think that they could be just like Kobe Brynt (except about when he had sex with a under 
 age girl... or was that R. Kelly... Who cares they both did something stupid to girls even when 
 there are kids looking up at as a role model) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VIRGIN_ISLANDER
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of streetball, which is why i loved the nba street series. When i first got this game 
 i was really excited but that all changed within the first 20 minutes of playing the game. Compared 
 to the previous nba street games this one is a major step back in terms of content and game play. Yeah 
 it looks good, but why didnt they just build on the formula they already had.
  The moves this time around seem to come out at random (BRING BACK THE TRICK STICK!!!!) , and there 
 arent as many as vol.3 or even vol.2 (what a shame!) , create a player content sucks and it seems 
 as if the intention of the game is to dunk your way to victory because of the fact that it is near 
 imposable to shoot the ball. I mean come on, the smallest player in the game can plaster any shot 
 you put up and this only makes it more frustrating in games where only shots count (and thats where 
 i drew the line) . They really made shot blocking way to easy to the point where the game just feels 
 like a dunk contest
  Home court had some real potential in being the best nba street game ever but EA decided to just 
 kill the nba street series i loved so much. I really hope the next nba street game is more like 
 vol.3 with more moves and more content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFurious78
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  This game does a great job of continuing the tradition of fun multi-player gameplay that was found 
 in previous NBA Street and, prior to that, NBA Jam titles. I've spent countless hours now playing 
 pick up games against my friends, and its always a good time. There's nothing more satisfying than 
 avenging a previous loss with a spectacular slam-dunk to win the game. There have been some changes 
 (for the better) to the gameplay. Instead of just running down the court and dunking the ball, 
 the focus has shifted to using trick/special moves to evade your opponent and build-up your gamebreaker 
 level bar. Once it's full, you can perform a "gamebreaker" which automatically subtracts one point 
 from your opponents score, and, depending on how many trick moves you can get away with, can grant 
 you a basket worth up to four points. The potential for a five-point swing can make for some pretty 
 impressive comeback victories. The main problems I have with the game are encountered in single 
 player mode. Previous NBA Street titles had a large variety of unlockable bonuses that you could 
 attain, such as classic NBA players, new outfits and new courts. This installment is noticeably 
 lacking in these. There are a few unlockable outfits, but they're pretty basic and boring, and 
 the number of unlockable courts has shrunk significantly. Customizing your created baller has lost 
 some of the luster found in the predecessors to this game. Another problem I had in single player 
 was the opponent AI. On the medium difficulty setting, it becomes too easy to steal the ball, and 
 scores quickly become lopsided. If you up the ante and switch to "hard," it becomes almost impossible 
 to even score against the computer. A happy medium would have been nice. So in conclusion, this 
 is a great game when you have a human opponent, but the single player campaign is less than impressive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadw_genx
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  NBA Street Homecourt starts out with some really good music and a decent narrative to pull you 
 into the game. Once you play your first bit of basketball, you will immediately notice that this 
 game is quite unlike similar predecessors like old-school NBA Jam and others.
  
  This game is quite sim feeling. Shots will not always be made, dunks will sometimes hit the back 
 of the hoop, passes and steals are possible but not that easy to pull off. In other words, this 
 game feels real. As a result, you can't help but to get immersed in the game. You will love playing 
 this on your local console with your friends. 
  
  Overall, this game is good and well worth the likely 20 dollar bargain bin price it likely carries 
 at a store near you. If you like simulation style gameplay with an arcade concept, then this game 
 is a perfect fit for you. It is the closest you can get to the court without actually being there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 7
Date: May 30, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  alright folks here you go. another nba street and boy its good. this one is not the best in the 
 series but as its own game it is a must have. it offers a great story line with an amazing stable 
 of characters. although the create a character could have been better its not the worst. the game 
 has a long story mode and offers competitive gameplay depending on your difficulty setting. i personally 
 like the way your baller goes up levels and the skill modifiers are perfect bringing an rpg element 
 into the world of street hoops. i grew up playing basket ball and this makes me feel like im there 
 again. so here it is. a good story line with solid graphics and good selection of ballers. the 
 downfall is the game can get repetitive at times but still remains an addicting quality that will 
 have you saying...... OH YA BROTHER...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterSinister6
Rating: 8
Date: May 18, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  To me the NBA Street series has (or had) classic status and I always loved it. The energy it brought, 
 the big-mouthed announcers and the creativity the game had. I have to admit this game had creativity 
 but too much of anything is bad. The first time I played this game the backflip dunks looked kind 
 of cool but then after a while it started to look ridiculous. C'mon man Shaquille Oneal doing a 
 backflip dunk........ NOOOOOOOOO! That definitely doesn't go together. But all and all the game 
 had a pretty solid street challenge mode and the buttons are different but easy. This game lack 
 the big mouth announcer that the other two had, but I'm not necessarily say that that's a bad thing. 
 Those announcers can be pretty freaking annoying. Saying ''Oh My God That was a crazy dunk!'' every 
 five minutes isn't exactly entertaining. 
  
  I would only recommend this game to the die-hard fans of the NBA Street series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srdjo_123
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  I like this game but its too easy. I mean you can block almost any shot the shoot but so can they. 
 So that means you have to do dunks and ohh do they look good. When you dunk you have to hold the 
 dunk button for diffrent types of dunks like if you get in on perfect you can do a double dunk, 
 But the dunks are all the same for EVERY player jumpman hangman ext... There is also a new feture 
 gamebreaker where if you give off enough tricks done by your charector you can go and get extra 
 points for your tricks and the trics look good in this mode. There is a wide veriaty of carecters 
 from every team in the NBA and now to the best part of this review the score.
  
  
  
  This game is good and it has some good things in like lots of charecters and courts and more but 
 it also has some bad things like its easy and unchallenging in every way and for every player out 
 there even the one you can make the moves are exactlly the same . But what i forgot to put up there 
 is you can make your own charecter well sort of you can name him and make his home town name and 
 a little bit of his face but you gotta pick 2 NBA stars and use there faces to see who your charecter 
 looks like. 
  
  
  So ill give it and 8 and a 4 out of 5 if your are a basketball game fan or a sport game fan go 
 and get it I recomend game stop but if you are new to these types of games I recommend gamestop 
 buy it used so if you dont like it you can exchange it or just return it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohfrontline
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  NBA Street Homecourt is EA Canada's latest game in the 4 game series. It definitely is worth getting 
 if you like the series, or if you like an arcade style sports game in general.
  
  This is a great game, with outstanding gameplay and a bunch of crazy new moves for the player to 
 master. there is a homecourt challenge mode, which is almost like a storyline. You also get tons 
 of gamerscore for doing basically nothing, so if you like achievements, that's yet another reason 
 to buy this game.
  
  There is a new feature called "double dunking", when you time the dunk just right, you can catch 
 it and dunk it again, scoring two points. It's hands down my favorite feature in the game, and 
 it's really exciting when you do it during a gamebreaker.
  
  All in all, a great game, just what I expected from the NBA Street games, I would recommend it 
 to anyone, from hardcore sports fans to people who know nothing about basketball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranbir_flame
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  This is the fourth game in the NBA Street series. The most significant change you might see is 
 that you no longer use the trick stick. You use the X and Y button plus the turbo buttons to do 
 moves. The moves and fakes performed look more like break dancing than actual B Ball moves. The 
 graphics have also improved since the last game. The Street Challenge mode is the main mode in 
 the game where you start as a nobody and eventually become a somebody. You have your home court 
 which you cant customize like the last games. You start by creating a player by mixing faces of 
 well known basketball players. This creation mode is weird but its OK. The Street Challenge is 
 fun with different variations in the games from shot only games to game breaker games. You can 
 also do double dunks in matches where you dunk the ball and catch it then dunk it again for two 
 points. Unlike the last games your created player cant be 100% in all attributes but it depends 
 if you are a FWD, GRD or CNR. The only thing missing in this game is content. This time EA tried 
 to perfect the gameplay so you may feel that the game needed more content. Otherwise this game 
 is Brilliant and a must play for all basketball fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitar-Dunnie
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  NBA Street debuts on the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3, so we expect it to be a notch up from the 
 NBA Street V3. Unfortunately, it's not quite that way. 
  
  Unlike V3, Homecourt has taken a lot away from the Career mode. Instead of recruiting a long list 
 of recruitable characters, including legends, on V3, you are left with the not-as-good players 
 to recruit. You can only recruit 3 members too, which is bad compared to recruiting up to 5 players 
 in V3. 
  
  Career mode is also disappointing because it's the repetitive nonsense over and over again. You 
 choose what challenge you want to take, play the game, and win or lose. If you win, you advance 
 to the next area. Try that many times... it gets old. Plus, you can't create a court or have Dunk 
 Contests and random tournaments. It's like the game is trying to disappoint those who loved the 
 NBA Street V3 career mode. 
  
  Graphics are nice in the game, but they aren't exactly top-notch.
  
  The gameplay gets very 
 repetitive and frustrating at times. Your team may end up with terrible players or the other teams 
 you face may feel like they are cheating. Even the achievements aren't great. You can probably 
 get all 16 (that's right only 16) achievements in a day or two. 
  
  This game is alright for a rental, casual gaming when you're bored with other games, or for trying 
 to increase your gamerscore. 
  
  I'm a little disappointed because I thought this game would be awesome. But you'll probably play 
 it a few times and get bored. Don't get suckered into buying, please just rent or borrow it first. 
 You'll thank me later.
  
  If you want a good NBA Street game, I'd suggest NBA Street V3 over this. It's cheaper and a lot 
 better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Homecourt is an arcade 3 on 3 basketball game that includes a lot of NBA's best players. You get 
 to take on NBA's best in different types of challenges like for an example.. win a 11 pts by just 
 using dunks.. or first team to lead by 4 pts, etc. 
  
  The graphics are excellent and contains a lot of different animations which flows very well. All 
 the NBA players are modeled amazingly well. The different courts are nice as well.
  
  The music is nice and the game has a lot of nice tracks. The trash-talk is varied enough that it 
 won't get annoying too quick.
  
  The gamplay is what makes the game worth playing. The controls are very easy to learn and after 
 a couple of games you'll be able to dunk and do trick plays.
  
  The thing that hurts the game the most is the shallow modes that comes with it. The career mode 
 is just a bunch of challenges until there's nothing to do. The multiplayer part is bare-boned and 
 I had fits of lag once in a while. At least most of the achievements are ridiculously easy to get.
 
  
  This game is a great rental if you like these types of games. I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGENT02
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Homecourt is a wonderful addition to the series, but it's the least revolutionary jump between 
 versions thus far. In fact, some things have even been removed in this version... no more super 
 court customization and no more colorful announcer (I really miss this) .
  
  Grapahically, it's superb and it helps you kind of get over how it kind of feels like a slightly 
 watered-down, albeit prettier, version of V3. Either way, it's still an addictively fun game to 
 play.
  
  PROS:
  
  - Looks great
  - Player trash-talking is a welcome addition
  
  
  CONS:
  
  - Nothing really new
  - No more announcer
  - No court customization like V3 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katsuro_Irai
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a big fan of NBA street games. I really enjoyed NBA street volume 2. But I had 
 a lot of fun AT FIRST. But after a while of seeing all the same double dunking over and over again, 
 the same ball handling moves which you will have a variety of 8 moves that look almost the exact 
 same, and the officially boring human step which you can do just about every time you get the ball, 
 it gets boring. stealing the ball also became way too easy, it made the game hard to do ball handling. 
 Also, one of the dunks include doing the human step and a front flip. That is a complete copy of 
 NBA jam. I had fun with the demo because I thought there would be more. I was let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SIack3r
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Everything about the game (before I got onto the court) was impressing me at vast levels. But once 
 I started playing I got bored quickly and was getting frustrated by all these stupid un-real double 
 back flip slam dunks.
  
  The graphics we're stunning, along with the realistic passes by and surroundings. The sounds were 
 also very real. Hearing the sneakers squeaking on the hardtop and the passers by clapping, along 
 with the distant car noises and rustling trees. The background of the game was top notch.
  
  But, I wanted a realistic street ball game and obviously without doing my revision of the series 
 didn't know what it was like.
  
  I won't be buying any home court games again but I'm not staying away from the NBA games all together. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JtAgentX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  First of all, when I first popped the game in the 360, I was amazed to see that the NBA street 
 series kept the Old School feel. It's the best feel in the series, and they didn't mess anything 
 up. The overall game is good and has solid game-play. The new Double/triple dunk feature is too 
 addicting to me. It's the only thing I pull off when I'm On line.
  
  Another cool feature is the way you can create a baller. You choose the baller that describes you 
 the most. The series story mode builds up on the NBA Street V3's protect your Home court style 
 and increase your reputation game-play from NBA street Vol.2. okay , so the game contains a little 
 bit of both.
  
  I have one complaint though, or maybe two. Why are the trick point counters at the bottom of your 
 game breaker meter is not present?
  
  And also, the NBA street series is supposed to have easy controls. This was the hardest NBA Street 
 game I ever played. It's still easy, but there is a lot of Difficult elements. Other than that, 
 it is still an OK game. I had a lot of fun and the music's awesome.
  
  If you see this game, GET IT!!!! it's addicting and it's only 20 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pianoman4life
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This year's NBA Street takes you to more reality based places that current famous NBA players have 
 grew up on. The general theme for this game is very well done. And the graphics are very showy. 
 But, the gameplay isn't as great as previous titles.
  
  Good = Dunkalicious
  Bad = Brick
  
  Gameplay
  Dunkalicious: Awesome dunk moves, create-a-baller is pretty straight 
 forward, Homecourt Challenge is easy and fun to follow, gamebreakers are amazing, game loading 
 is pretty quick
  Brick: Repetitive with the computer even at a win or lose situation, not as much variety of dunks 
 and trick moves as previous versions, gamebreakers aren't that varied
  
  Controls:
  Dunkalicious: Easy to use controls, buttons show up to steal which helps even beginners of the 
 series
  Brick: D-pad controls are weird, sometimes not responsive when on defense
  
  Graphics
  Dunkalicious: Player models are awesome, graphics are slick, movement of everything 
 is smooth
  Brick: Umm... iono... the menu is boring?
  
  Sound
  Dunkalicious: Catchy soundtrack, sound effects are very accurate and explosive, ambience of the 
 background and the players comments make it feel like you're in a street court
  Brick: Players can get annoying with their comments, music sometimes gets repetiive
  
  Overall
 
  It's a good game. It just gets old pretty fast. But, I enjoy playing this game and is great to 
 play with friends. Just watch out when you play against the computer. It gets kinda boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petshopboy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for NBA 2K8 to hit stores, so I decided to give Homecourt a shot to fill my basketball 
 needs for a while. I've played all of the original NBA Street games, and I think that this one 
 is a really good addition.
  
  The graphics in this game are awesome. Jerseys flow with the wind, the courts look great (although 
 it would have been nice to see more spectators around) , the player models are fantastic for the 
 most part as well. The dunking animations look pretty good for the most part as well.
  
  The sound in the game is a little disappointing. I think the collection of music is okay, but it 
 would have been nice to have an announcer or at least some people on the sidelines cheering or 
 jeering your team. The narrator guy is pretty good and has some decent dialogue, but I like the 
 guy in the previous street games a little more (I'm not sure if this is the same guy or not, but 
 he sounds a little different either way) . There are some voice-overs by 'Melo and Rip Hamilton... and 
 I think that's pretty much it. It would have been nice to have some other names in there.
  
  The gameplay is really what this game is about, and this is where you can have a lot of fun 
 or get frustrated pretty easily. Double dunks are cool, and may seem easy to pull off, but get 
 a little tougher as you increase the difficulty. I preferred the use of one trick button or the 
 right analog to pull off moves, but you can get used to the two buttons after some time. One really 
 annoying part is the shoving though. It's one thing to steal the ball, but it is another to just 
 level the guy to the floor to pick it up, which happens way to frequently. It doesn't matter how 
 good your handles are, getting shoved in the back by Shaq will almost always jar the ball loose. 
 It is an annoyance that probably should have been taken out. No tutorial to learn the controls 
 doesn't really help either. Homecourt challenge is a fun and semi-lengthy mode where you can improve 
 your player and recruit stars to your team. There isn't a dunk contest anymore, which kinda sucks. 
 It also would have been nice to be able to customize your player a little more. I liked the ability 
 to edit/unlock dunk moves and trick moves to add to your arsenal as you saw fit in the previous 
 installments.
  
  Overall, I would recommend Homecourt to any street ball fan that is looking for something a little 
 more over the top than your average simulation. The game definitely does not feel as complete as 
 it could be, but it will keep you busy and it is a fun distraction (especially if you are looking 
 to pass the time waiting for the simulation b-ball games to arrive) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noambartouv
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  The game is really cool for the first 5 days but then u realize that: woops ive already done everything.... 
 and then its basically boring cause you've seen all the tricks all the moves and theres nothing 
 left to see...
  Also the no fouls and the no outs pissed me off! seriously when the ball is going to cross over 
 the lines of the out its like there a wall there... its really stupid... Also the game has to many 
 tricks repeated.. every player has something like 10 tricks which sounds pretty good but when you 
 look at all the players you see that there are 3-4 types of people (every type has the same tricks) .
 
  Also the game has really boring modes.... and the game breaker mode sucks.
  so what im saying is Don't buy it unless ure sure u wont get bored after a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Tyrant
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  One of the games I had in mind while purchasing my 360 was this one. While I always have been a 
 fan of Street basketball, V3 left a sour taste in my mouth, not living up to my expectations after 
 the great V2. With the coming of next-gen, I got my hopes high. And, gladly, I wasn't disappointed.
 
  
  Graphics: 9.0/10
  Cartoony-style players combined with awesome courts and great color-usage. A pretty game.
  
 
  Sound: 9.2/10
  Fitting soundtrack, great in-court voices. The effects are also transcribed very well.
  
  Gameplay: 
 9.5/10
  This is where Homecourt gets the grand prize. Featuring the basic modes, only adding the deep Homecourt 
 Challenge, where you create your baller to take on the players from around the US. But it is on 
 the court that counts, and you can make all types of tricks and dunks, varying from simple ones 
 to ones that would make Skip to My Lou jealous. Of course, you have to have handles and hops to 
 do it all.
  
  Overall: 9.0/10
  Homecourt is a deep Streetball game for the fans who want to have fun. HArd to let go and very 
 addicting, it is necessary for anyone owning a next-gen console, and that likes basketball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomerb21
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 17, 2007 1:01 am PT
Review:  Never having been a huge fan of the NBA, but a big Orangemen fan, I thought it would only be right 
 to pick up a game sporting 'Mello on the cover. In two days I made it through the campaign mode 
 one and a half times on medium difficulty and got 900/1000 G (all but the online, which I didn't 
 try) .
  
  The game had great graphics, and for the most part was fun to play. Moves and such got a little 
 repetitive, however. The play style was fairly easy to get accustomed to, and there were different 
 game styles (i. e. dunks only) to keep it somewhat fresh.
  
  The videos that introduced each unlocked court were heartwarming, and followed the dare-to-dream/rags-to-riches 
 theme of the game. However they all repeated themselves on the back end of the campaign, which 
 seemed a little unnecessary.
  
  All in all, I'd give it a B- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zath5
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 9, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  Well to start off, i just wanted to say that i owned the first two Street games and loved them 
 when they were on the gamecube. I got this game a while after it had been releases hoping for a 
 fun game that had enough variety to play for awhile. Well i was wronged. This game is LOADS of 
 fun but the Homecourt Challenge mode is shorter than Gary Coleman on a bad day. I played it through 
 in one day (around 5 hours) . They tried to add different ways to win the games but it still comes 
 down to shallow gameplay with a limit to number of dunks and moves. If you really want to play 
 this game because you follow the NBA street series, play the demo and play it frequently and you 
 will come down with the gameplay of the real game minus the un-fun online play. My rating 7.1. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyuzfuny
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 7, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  The gamebreaker is activated. I dribble the ball, break dance around it, throw it off a guys face 
 and then jump off my players back towards the hoop, only to throw it up to my teammate overtop 
 of me so that he can put the ball away. Welcome to NBA Street Homecourt.
  
  NBA Street began with a PS2 game, and has slowly evolved to where it is now. If youve played any 
 of them before, just know that this is the same game with shinier graphics and a strong online 
 component.
  
  But for the rest of you, this game is truly an experience. When you fire up the game, youre met 
 by a very East Side feel. EA actually did a good job of nailing the feel of it, even though it 
 feels a bit forced at parts. (Having the other team insult you before the game in an in-game engine 
 cutscene is kinda pushing it.) But everything is very smooth and feels good.
  
  The main mode here is NBA Street Challenge. In this, you create your own player (With a pretty 
 sweet player creator) and then recruit two more players to make your team. From there, you have 
 to take your team through a series of challenges against other teams. You either have to be the 
 first team to 21, or the first team to get a 3-point lead or some other variation. When it comes 
 to actually getting on the court, the game really shines. If you havent played this game before, 
 you will be shocked by the simplicity of pulling off insane tricks. All you have to do is use your 
 Y and X buttons to do tricks, and then modify those tricks using RB and LB. Its all very smooth 
 and is a lot of fun. The only problem here, though, is depth. The game gets very repetitive, as 
 you might know if youve played a game in this series before. There just isnt enough tricks or 
 dunks to keep you experimenting for very long.
  
  But, on a more positive note, this game looks stunning on the court. Everything animates like youve 
 never seen, and the player models look fantastic. The movements youll see will really remind you 
 youre playing on a powerful machine. Things like a player waving to you to jump off his back towards 
 this basket, or watching your player grab his head after you hit your head on the backboard.
  
  The online component also helps this game a lot. The AI is great, but playing against a human 
 is much more satisfying. There arent a ton of options, but just know it all works well without 
 much lag.
  
  So, to buy or not to buy, that is the question. I would say this game deserves a definite rental 
 before you buy it. Thats what Ive been doing, and I know personally I wont be buying it. It 
 hasnt changed enough from its previous versions to make it worth a purchase to me, but if your 
 new to a rental, I would definitely purchase a used copy of this game.
  
  Positives: + Amazing animations and graphics
  + Sick moves
  + Online play
  + Decent soundtrack
 
  
  Negatives:
  - Lacking depth
  - Not a very strong online component
  - Sometimes tries to hard with the Street Feel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakjbt
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  this is a great game but is missing things from NBA strret v3 like making courts dressing your 
 character etc but the gamplay has improved alot to give it bonus points.
  i didnt want to get his game much i traded in 5 games and this was the only game i was able to 
 gt because the darkness and dead rising were 18+
  (damn age rating stystyms!)
  but in the end this was a good chice even though i traded in 33euros worth of games!
  
  the 
 gamplay is great especially with the dunkin the combo stystym is amzing and they have added new 
 moves like jumping of player backs foe the ultimate dunk!
  there are a few gamplay modes (no dunking contestes: (!!!)
  pick up games to 21,7,30etc
  then 
 there are matches like gambreaakers only up to 30 and they all seem to work out fine.
  
  the graphics are ni9cly done but the colouring is were real points are scored it givves of a real 
 street atmosphere.
  
  the sound is great with great music and sound affects.
  
  value isnt great for the story mode but its good while it lasts. its fun tp play with friends or 
 online on a rainy day.
  
  online: havent played it yet bbut have ssenn it on youtube etc and looks dedcent.
  
  8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samster3345
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 19, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The NBA Street franchise has brought flashy, extravagant, and extremely unbelievable gameplay 
 to consoles over the past few years. The amount of content found in previous installments of the 
 series has always kept players returning for more as newer, more over-the-top versions are released. 
 From the incredible acrobatic slam dunks, to the customization of your own unique Baller, to 
 the incredibly easy and stable controls and gameplay, the series has been highly praised by gamers 
 and critics the world over. The latest game, NBA Street: Homecourt is a good entry but falls short 
 of some of the standards set by its predecessors. It ultimately brings together what may have been 
 a rushed project, bittersweet and short, yet fun while it lasts.
  
  The premise of this game is the same as any other NBA Street game before it. Just glancing at the 
 box brings to your mind; another street ball game and you would be correct to a certain extent. 
 Yes, this game has some of the most famous NBA players playing basketball, with street rules applying, 
 but thats not all to it. This game boasts the most over-the-top, jaw-dropping, and incredibly 
 ridiculous dunks of any basketball game ranging from front flips, to helicopter spins, to double 
 and triple dunks, all ending in one tear-jerking, and satisfying slam through the rim. On top of 
 that, you can perform great tricks to trip up your opponents and remove any heavy defense. You 
 also have your trusty Gamebreaker meter which you can fill up by performing tricks and dunks. In 
 the end, using your game breaker will deduct one point from your opponents team, and allow you 
 to perform tricks fill up your points meter a second time and add multipliers that, upon making 
 the shot, can add up to six points to your overall score.
  
  Along with the awesome slams and tricks, you are given the opportunity build a custom Baller, 
 put your homecourt on the map, and boost up skills, all through the games story mode AKA Homecourt 
 Challenge. Although this mode allows you to create an unstoppable player and homecourt team to 
 wipe the floor with the competition, you are limited to what you can do in terms of physical customization, 
 so dont expect to have as much in-depth character customization as you would find in such games 
 as Oblivion, or Saints Row. The matches throughout the main story mode are very repetitive, and 
 offer nothing more than the same old matches over and over again, with varying goals. For instance, 
 there may be a match where your goal will be to reach 21 points, but it may be a shots only game, 
 or a Gamebreaker points only match. A bit more depth could have been added to Homecourt Challenge, 
 simply because of the fact that all of those modes can be found in the main menu by going to the 
 game mode selection screen. It looks like the Homecourt Challenge is just a useless ploy to customize 
 your ballers skills, simply because of the fact that everything that can be done in that mode 
 is accessible from the beginning, leaving behind any need for anyone to unlock extra content with 
 the exception of superficial add-ons for your create-a-baller mode, already lacking any in-depth 
 customization. Many of these negative factors lead to a game losing its luster; still, the game 
 retains some of its value for a lot longer than it should.
  
  Ultimately, this stems from the games look, feel, and sound (where the strong points are) . The 
 graphics are fantastic. The player models are very detailed and lifelike. Surprisingly, the movements 
 and transitions while playing are very smooth, with little to no clipping. I have yet to see an 
 NBA game as fluid as this one. The controls seem complex but are extremely simple. While performing 
 one of your players spectacular dunks, you can mix it up a bit by doing different variations and 
 moves altogether all just by holding either the left or right bumper one at time, or simultaneously. 
 When your player isnt about 20 feet in the air trying to nail a Stocking Stuffer, or trying 
 to hit an alley oop, you can perform some good looking tricks to try a loosen up any defense ganging 
 up on you. Be warned though, as easy as these moves can be done against your opponents, the same 
 can be said about your opponent doing the same to you. However, you can counter these tricks by 
 either pressing the Y or X button at the right moment when an indicator pops up over your players 
 head. This add-on makes the game feel too easy at times and, when playing with a friend, can cause 
 the typical 5-10 minute round to turn into a 25-30 minute yawn-fest. The rest of the controls are 
 standard to any basketball game, with the exception of the Y button, which is used to shove your 
 opponent and have them lose their balance.
  
  Most if not all basketball games containing in-game music have forced me to turn the music off 
 completely. It was all different in this game, although some of the music was a bit loud and annoying 
 when using the main menu, playing an actual round has the music blending incredibly well to the 
 gameplay. The speech in the game is spot on adding realism to the overall experience, with fluent 
 and funny dialogue. The game also has local multiplayer, and Xbox Live multiplayer capabilities. 
 Playing with someone is very challenging, and is always fun. There always seems to be one Joe out 
 there looking to be the craziest and most creative of the bunch, and the game is extremely easy 
 to jump into, so dont expect anyone to be a pushover, as even a beginner can show a veteran whos 
 boss. Hours and hours will be spent on playing multiplayer with your friendsguaranteed!
  
  Homecourt is a great game. There is just not enough to this game to call it a superb or perfect 
 one. With extra content, a bit of tweaking on the multiplayer, and a better create-a-baller mode, 
 like those found in previous versions, the game could have been so much better. However, the solid 
 gameplay, controls, multiplayer, and graphics save this game from a more dreary demise. High on 
 gameplay, and looks, but low on content, NBA Street: Homecourt is the choice for anyone looking 
 to enjoy an over-the-top game of b-ball. --FatedHayabusaX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PizzaWizard13
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  -Gameplay- [8]
  This game makes a simple basketball game to the extreme. Its loaded with double dunks and create-a-player 
 (up to 3) .
  
  -Graphics- [9]
  This game has really great graphics, the sun the shine on the floors the facial expressions are 
 all great.
  
  -Sound- [7]
  The music isnt that great but it keeps you going and its fun to make up your own words to the songs. 
 Players chatting are funny you just have to listen, then you will laugh.
  
  -Value/Story- [7]
  You go around the country to cool locations and play basketball. You can enter 
 tournaments and earn nicknames for your created players.
  
  -Final Thoughts- [8]
  this game has great multiplayer and online capabilities 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas10soa
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  nba street homecourt is an alright game, but feels like too much time was spent on the graphics 
 and not gameplay.
  
  what i mean by this is that the gameplay is not deep and not enough has been put towards it.
 
  the courts all look verry similar
  the moves all look verry similar
  even gamebreaker moves dont look that great
  
  like i said though the graphics are brilliant 
 and all characters look verry cool and realistic.
  
  the sound also aint too great, the crowd will talk smack too each over but it gets a bit too repetitive, 
 after youve heard the same person say whats the score whats the score? you kinda get fed up. the 
 tracks are also quite annoying, giving you good song....... oh wait a minute it aint even the proper 
 song its just the tune of a great song with no singer at all.
  
  overall nba street homecourt is a flop you could enjoy it but for $50 i certainly didnt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loulantosdotcom
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I started this game with very little faith. My anticipations were decidedly low, and I had intended 
 to keep them at that level. But the more I played the game the more the game seemed to open itself 
 up to me; special moves and sequences popped out of the wood-work and the game became quite a deep 
 little number. The nature of the homecourt challenge is as an addictive a game mode as you could 
 want; the evolution of your own lo-fi baller is engrossing in its constant rewards and incentives 
 - I especially liked the way you could select specific skills that your character excelled in, 
 and the way those skills were instantly noticable over others once you put them into practice. 
 I'm a person with no real interest in the sport of basketball, but I found this game had a high 
 repeat factor and kept me entertained for many hours. Surprisingly good stuff. Try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xploded
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 25, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Hi.
  Gameplay:
  It takes good ol' NBA street gameplay, what could be wrong with that. Its an amazing game and the 
 gameplay doesn't get old. Something I would like to mention is the trick remix and the controls 
 work better then previous games. Its simply GOOD. They even made the game use the d-pad, which 
 is an outstanding achievement.
  9/10
  
  Graphics:
  Look at the court, look at the players, look how nice the game looks, how well the gamebraker is 
 settled, how nice everything comes in. It is just outstanding, well no, not gears of war, but defiantly 
 worth to be mentioned. I mean since vol.3 i expected more, and i got what i wanted. MORE. Look 
 at the screenshots they simply look fantastic. 9/10
  
  Sounds:
  Remember the players dirty talking on the court in V3, well here it actually sounds that way. But 
 there is a downside, the music isn't all that great, and their could've been more tracks to make 
 the game feel better. But its alright, nothing to run home about.
  8/10
  
  Value:
  Yeah, the game is short. But its damn fun unlocking teams and stuff. Online is fun when you find 
 a decent guy to play with, not otherwise. There is a bit of replay value, but not alot. But it 
 sure FUN. The courts are really fun to unlock, so that adds. 8/10
  
  Tilt:
  Stays at a 7. They could've made it LONGER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360-0wnage
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  i love this game alot but there is some down points i will get on to some off them later first 
 i will start with the up points
  
  Lets start with the improved amzing graphics yes they are very gd and very realistic i allso love 
 the way yuo can push other players over =)
  kk the gameplay is very hard but it takes some time to get use to but in the end it is all worth 
 it so that is one off the bets good points about this amzing game.
  I will also like to say that the sound is allso verygd
  
  Online
  
  I havent tred it out 
 yet but i will in the next week so when i do i will get back to this review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAnconia
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I have just recently purchased an XBOX 360 and got Gears of War and this game. I was suprised at 
 all the changes they took with the game.
  
  Instead of the cartoony over the top action its been taken back to a realistic looking basketball 
 game with over the top action. I dont really like it all that much. The thing i loved the most 
 about these games was that it didn't look like any of the other traditional basketball games. The 
 tricks are not as easy to execute either. You start off creating a character but with fewer options 
 than in the past. Instead of choosing clothes, hair color, face and skin color you get to morph 
 a pre made head with two recent basketball stars. Not impressive at all, then through the game 
 you only get to wear Jordan brand clothes and shoes, and he isnt shown at all throughout the game. 
 You also choose a style of player that you want as well. He can play like Shaq, Carmelo or a number 
 of other NBA Stars. Next you start the Homecourt Challenge to level your character. At level 5 
 you get to choose a Freak Skill which will max out that aspect of your character and supposedly 
 give you some type of special moves. I haven't seen them yet. On the last entry the more moves 
 you completed you would get a trailer from your body movements that changed from orange to red 
 and you knew you were ready to slam dunk on someone's face. Now, there is none of that. It took 
 some getting used to but i am growing to like it. Its simpler but also more repetitive. Throughout 
 the Homecourt Challenge you get Rip Hamilton and Carmelo Anthony talking about the courts they 
 grew up in and how they worked hard to get to where they are. Not really inspiring at all, after 
 a while i just skipped through the small movies. It would have been better to save the money spent 
 on having those players come in and develope a more in depth career mode focusing on your player. 
 Cause thats all you are concerned with anyway right? How hard would it be to draw up 7 different 
 story lines (cause who is gonna complete 7 Homecourt Challenges anyway) with rivals, focus on YOUR 
 beginnings, rating your popularity at home. Building rec centers and basketball courts with your 
 name all over it. Then finally oh i dont know, signing a NBA deal. The problem with these games 
 is that its just one basketball game after another without any drama or action. How awesome would 
 it be to have a rival that reallllllllly hates you and does anything to knock you over and steal 
 the ball from you, then you finally go Off da Heezy and then slam dunk right in his face? Also 
 you cant create any female ballers either. Im sorry, but i liked having a female on my team. Usually 
 a center with a bunch of power so it would throw off my other opponents. Also the customization 
 in the other Volumes was so much more satisfying. I would create ballers looking like my friends 
 so they wouldnt be so bored watching me play. And it always helps to have people rooting for your 
 team. Now what they took away in the cartoony presentation, they replaced with crazy dunks. The 
 Double Dunk has got to be the greatest addition to these series, and also the Launch Off Double 
 Dunk is so fun to watch when you got a gamebreaker. Getting 6 plus points is oh so satisfying. 
 It took a while to get used to all the new stuff, all in all, they did improve upon the series 
 in terms of gameplay but suffered the career mode and options. Please please let there be a massive 
 redo on the career mode, which would send the next entry into legendary status im sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenix18562002
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This is a review written by a NBA Street fan who just thinks that game is overrated by many and 
 needs to say what he thinks about it. In short:
  
  Good: Double-dunk, descent music, good graphic, trick mixer button (but only the name of it) , 
 voice of the guy who did the intro to cut-scenes
  
  Bad: Game play, repetitive, lack of tons of features, no bench, the sole fact that the game was 
 made and it feels like beta version of finished product. First off all I need to point out that 
 I am a huge fan of NBA Street series and thats why this review may seem a little harsh, but 
 I think everybody knows how it is when somebody screws up something that you love. If thats your 
 first street you may like it, but if you hardcore about the series you will not be pleased. So 
 lets get into details.
  
  The intro is nice with different ballers showing off their skills. We get to see the first look 
 at the games engine, and the first thing I noticed is how dark it is. Everything seems like its 
 in shade and there is a brownish aura surrounding the game. Main menu looks unimpressive, however 
 I didnt buy the game for the menu, but for the mad tricks and monster dunks. So as I started the 
 game I got annoyed for the first time (and definitely not the last time) when I was unable to check 
 what kind of stats the ballplayers have. The rating 20 and blocks/boards look nice, but that 
 doesnt tell me much. Plus there are only four players to choose from each team? That is a little 
 cheap considering there are 12 on a team and you know around six or seven of them. As I try to 
 look up legends team I found  Oakland legends/all-star players. Who, what, when??? Where is Stretch 
 and Bonafide? (I actually found out that they are available on Xbox Market. For 300 points. ARE 
 YOU F******* WITH ME!!! That is the cheapest move I have seen this year. Shame on you EA) . When 
 I looked at my choices of game play (Game to, Dunks-only, Shots only) I decided to pass and take 
 upon my favorite game mode in, the career mode. When I entered it I was surprised to not being 
 able to choose baller height, weight and skills and I was very annoyed at that outcome. I understand 
 why they did that, but why oh why couldnt I make a white player with descent jumping skills? Also 
 you have the opportunity to see how your player would look like if you cross two ball players face 
 features together. The word I am looking here for is  bizarre. Why would you ever do that? Sorry 
 EA, but we have yet to find a way for two men to have an offspring together. After picking up my 
 teammates I was ready to play (this time you are allowed to have 2 other players in your team. 
 Bye-bye bench) . The good addition is ability to change the level of difficulty each time you load, 
 but enough about that lets play
  
  As I mentioned before the game has very retro look it. (Is gray and brown retro color? I thought 
 white and black is. Maybe its like 60s retro when you had TVs, but not really) . So I got the 
 ball and the first thing I tried to do is some tricks. I faked out myself when I tried to use the 
 stick to execute them. This time EA decided to give you two buttons for tricks and a trick mixer 
 button. As fun it sounds its not. The tricks seem very repetitive and they dont look nearly as 
 cool as previous series. So after five minutes of dancing around with the ball and couple of shot 
 clock violations and completely abandoned tricking I decided to put some points on a board. The 
 Sky-High dunks look cool although the lack of signature dunks is annoying. On the other hand the 
 new double dunk feature is a good addition. Also the ability to call for your teammate for a pick 
 or for him to launch you (he lowers himself and you can jump of his back for a dunk) adds to your 
 offensive repertoire. Unfortunately after couple of games you are familiar with every thing that 
 game has to offer. After couple of days of playing I was able to finish the game. I wish I didnt 
 do that. Last edition of the game, when you were good enough you had a chance to get picked up 
 by a NBA team, or get challenged to a dunk contest and you were also able to buy cool stuff for 
 your player. This time around you are able to unlock Jordans sneakers and some jersey that look 
 plain ugly. I kept on telling myself that is okay as soon as I get my Homecourt on a map I will 
 be able to customize it and pimp it out. Surprise, surprise I found that I get a gym, and thats 
 it. No option of buying a logo, lights, stands, graffiti, null, nada, nothing. I just unlocked 
 all off the sneakers and jersey. Oh joy!!! In those kinds of moments you really feel cheated by 
 life.
  
  In regards to music I was mildly pleased. Nothing that really caught my ear like some songs from 
 previous editions, but music is actually one of the stronger points of this game. In game sound 
 is okay, with some smack talking going on, but its not the same as having Bobbito Garcia as play-by-play 
 commentator. He could really lay down the smack. The graphic is good, the motions are fluid and 
 its not hard to recognize who is who. If only your player icon wouldnt look like he is a regular 
 crack abuser all would be good. The movies with Melo and Rip are giving some good climate to the 
 game, its only shame that there are total of five of them or close to that amount. All that said 
 I dont think that game should be close anywhere to 60$. Its not worth that. I wished that they 
 would move the release day for six months later so they could really work on it. It just blows 
 my mind that they would not include so many features and added so little. I waited for that game 
 for so long and it was lost time, because that game is one thing and one thing only. Disappointment. 
 Its like waiting for that hot girl across the street to come back from college so you can have 
 fun again like last summer. The only thing is that when she comes back, she is fat, addicted to 
 cigarettes, lost some teeth, uses tons of make up to cover her inner repulsiveness and got mad 
 stupid from all that pot that she smoked. You just wish you could go back in time and get the old 
 version, the one that you liked instead this. Cest la vie NBA Street, cest la vie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MVfalcons83
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This game gets pretty boring. At first I loved it but then i felt like i kept doing the same thing 
 over and over. I liked the NBA street games before this one. They were great until this one came 
 out. I was really disapointed when i played it. They took out so many good stuff that were in the 
 other games. Why would they get rid of all the good stuff! Its not that bad but it just could have 
 been alot better. This game ruined NBA street. I can't believe they made this worse. They did the 
 same exact thing that def jam did with def jam icon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammy_m20
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Very solid graphics with great dunk and shot expressions, overall very strong graphics, 
 especially the small cutscenes.
  
  Gameplay: Very tight, solid gameplay although a bit energetic and hyper at times. Although overall 
 great controls throughout.
  
  Sound: Suprisingly better than average sound and some good music and songs in general.
  
  Value: 
 A pretty straight forward game, very light on content which is one of the few drawbacks of NBA 
 Street Homecourt.
  
  Overall: A great game, although due to the short Story Mode i would highly suggest renting NBA 
 Homecourt first before purchasing it. Overall great solid gameplay, better than average sound, 
 and somewhat good graphics, NBA Street is a great game.
  
  -Sammy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 7, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  NBa steet homecourt is crazy good. How can gamespot give it suck a low score. I am not a fan of 
 nba games and well I just found one that I love. NBA street homecourt lets you do all the sweet, 
 crazy moves you could only wish you could do and let you do them. This game is just the bomb and 
 I know whats good and whats not. This game is just so fun when you have a group of good friends 
 just goofing off and want to play a sports game. The gameplay is nice and easy to get down and 
 once you have it down you are good. The graphics are not to bad, but you can still have bad graphics 
 and still have a good game. the sound is all there and good and the value is up there too. Thanks 
 for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foller21
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game i thought it was going to be like other nba street game but boy was i wrong 
 this game is nothing like it previous game's but the game is interesting and you may feel like 
 your just a street player that suddenly became the King of the streets this game is simple plain 
 and fun but every game has it flaws and this one is that campaign mode is short and not lengthy 
 it kind leaves you in doubt. All in All this is an Excellent game that really show's the features 
 of next-gen consoles and if you like sport's this may be the game for you but just give this game 
 a shot before say it's good or bad for your on a scale of one to ten this is a 8.7%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 10, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  Finally, got a game that's really, really good! I had an averageness streak of purchased games, 
 and now, finally, a great title!
  Been buying NBA's Street installements for a while now, and allthough they're never bad titles, 
 they also never rocked my boat , up until 360's version.
  The graphics are amazing..., fluid like Prince of Persia, lively, funny, with a personality, each 
 one of them. The surroundings are very detailed, and the shadow effects are brilliant. Everything 
 in the art department is beautifully made, like a piece of art handcrafted. So why not 10? It could 
 have more diversity. And because it's so good looking, I'd wish I had more to dazzle.
  Gameplay is also one of the stronggest aspects of the game. Controlls are responsive, intuitive, 
 and the coolness of the players is hillarious and yet realistic. They talk to each other like they 
 have a life on their own.
  I read some comments (usual BS I may say) , about: oh it's so easy... oh! I'm a NBA Street pro - 
 whatever that means... - and it's so easy ..., anyway the usual... . And yes it's easy, but just 
 if one plays on easy, I don't understand these ppl... why don't they play on expert then?
  Value: not the stronggest point, but good nevertheless. It has, perhaps an over-american flavour, 
 with all its cultural idiosyncracies, but it's sorta cool and nive to watch. At least it has some 
 added value.
  Now for its weakest point: the sound. Somewhat a disappointment. Why? EA, allthough with allways 
 a too mainstream approach for my taste, they usual manage to throw a few nice tunes (never has 
 good, hip, as..., for instance Crackdown, where they got DJ Krush and Amon Tobin - how cool is 
 that huh?) . Not this time though, not this time. Music is too flat , lacks personality, that on 
 other aspects the games is filled with. In-game sound is good though, the sneakers sound in the 
 pavement, the ball's sound, their conversations, very good. Too bad about the soundtrack.
  All in all, a great sports game, that combines realism with over-the-top action, and mostly with 
 lots and lots of personality. A keeper! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazin_Ice
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 27, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  The first time I played an NBA street game was on the good old gamecube. I was simply hooked on 
 the zany unrealistic moves and tricks. I simply couldn't wait to dunk the final basket and make 
 the whole net shatter to pieces. Very satisfying.
  
  2 days ago at Blockbuster, I noticed NBA Homecourt sitting on the shelf next to other next gen 
 games. I was sent on an immediate trip to memory lane remember all the fun I had with the previous 
 installments. So I picked up the 5 day rental.
  
  Another 2 days and its sitting in its box on the ground mixed with a bunch of other games of mine. 
 Not because I haven't played it yet, because I got bored of it and just don't want to play it anymore. 
 I found it fun for awhile, but the crazy physics can only take you so far. The story mode is just 
 a brick wall of repetitive matches with no variation except those tournaments which is just another 
 set of matches with nothing different in them. Graphic wise, I wouldn't say its a big leap, but 
 its not too bad. Disregarding the very weird lighting effects where its very bright sometimes and 
 somehow turns red and blue during gamebreaker which is just a very head turning part of playing. 
 Sound wise, what happened EA? what happened to those awesome tracks that you used to have on your 
 games? Ive noticed this lack of good music in a couple of new EA games (NFS: Carbon) . Now its replaced 
 with some cheap instrumentals that can hardly match or keep up with the fast paced gameplay of 
 Homecourt. Otherwise the sounds of slamming a ball from 15 feet in air into a hope is pretty good. 
 The online components arent very classy either, its just playing single player with a real person, 
 nothing different at all, hardly any rewards for doing good online except two achievements, so 
 it wont keep people on it for a long time.
  
  Overall, NBA Streets first crack at the next gen world looked like a current gen effort. If this 
 was on the ps2, xbox or gamecube I would've given this game a better score, but when a game comes 
 out on the next gen console, you expect a little more then just dunking 21 times, washing, repeating 
 until you cant take it anymore. Homecourt would be a very good game to rent, but sadly its just 
 another one of those games that just shouldn't be valued at 60$.
  
  Since Homecourt was the first NBA Street series appearance on next gen consoles, I think it still 
 has time to develop and get into more in-depth gameplay features to be the fun and zany games we 
 all loved on the current gen consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Tran
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 24, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is so awesome, that i really want to play all the time. You guys should check this out 
 to know how much fun it is. If you play just 1 time, and you will feel very fun. Try it. And i 
 think this is the best nba street everrrr! Although i just play the demo but i think it so much 
 fun with the real nba star in the world. They are good and look alike as they are supposed to be.. 
 The graphic on the X box 360 is a lil bit better than ps3. if you compare to each other , you will 
 know it, and it 's easy to recognize. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TCisGod
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  NBA Street Homecourt is the fourth game in the NBA Street series. In it you play 3 on 3 games of 
 basketball and do crazy tricks and dunks for points that fill up your Gamebreaker bar that will 
 let you do even crazier tricks when its filled up. Most of the game is spent playing Homecourt 
 Challenge Mode. In it you create a baller and play against other ballers to gain respect and eventually 
 make a name for himself. There aren't very many game modes in Homecourt. There's only Homecourt 
 Challenge, pick up game, and practice. There is also online play but it won't keep your interest 
 for too long. So if you are a fan of the NBA Street series you will be pleased with Homecourt. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antonius86
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 6, 2007 5:20 am PT
Review:  I love this game when i first got it. The graphics is simply breath taking. The players have organic 
 feel after every dunks and shots.
  
  The Homecourt is my favorite. Being able to customize your character based on two professional 
 ballers in todays games. Kind of cool to be able to work on the skills by do that skill in the 
 game of 21.
  
  The online part needs some work on , because it took me a while to find a host and play that host. 
 Keeps coming up with this game session not available. So in order for me to play online is become 
 a host and wait for someone to join. There are not a whole lot of modes to enjoy from.
  
  For anyone that likes NBA Street or basketball, should really get this game as it gives you the 
 feel of what the xbox 360 can do in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoKeR360
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 3, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  I purchased NBA Street: Homecourt, around a month after it was released. It was my first purchase 
 for a basketball game on the Xbox 360. Here is my thoughts on the game.
  
  Gameplay
  A high point for the game. You have to love being able to rush down the court, and making a beautiful 
 slam dunk. With tons of different ways to pull off dunks, you wont be disappointed. The special 
 moves you do to get a gamebreaker are pretty cool. They dont seem to realistic, but the game makes 
 it look real. Some parts are annoying where you keep getting fouled.
  
  Graphics
  This is one of the better graphic games on the 360. It doesn't look photo realistic, but it is 
 almost there. If you're concerned about graphics for this game, you shouldn't be. Some people may 
 not like the overall feeling of around the court, because some of the colors, but i enjoy it. This 
 game is not in the same layout as a game such as NBA Live.
  
  Sound
  Some of the in game voices may get on your nerves, but other than that the music is great. It fits 
 with the game and is good.
  
  Value
  You might get tired of this game, the campaign seemed short for me. If you get tired of it you 
 can always try out on Xbox Live, which i thought was hard. You can always go for achievements, 
 or create a new career and choose different players and stuff.
  
  Overall this is a great game. If you liked NBA Street Volume 1,2, and 3 you should definitely check 
 this one out. If you haven't you can always rent it first.
  
  Overall - 8.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lil_Mo-Mo
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  once i got the hang of it. i couldnt put it down it can get challenging but its all worth it. the 
 graphics on the xbox 360 are amazing. the homecourt challenge is extremely addictive, the changes 
 from the previous version are extremely evident. its really worth the money. i love the fact that 
 it has a custom soundtrack and online play. now the gamebreakers, im speechless.... they are sooo 
 amazing, the trick combos and the dunks are sick. im happy that the tricks have upgraded through 
 each version. i've been a fan since the NBA Street days and i will continue to be a fan forever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjakybob
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 19, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun but once you have mastered it and got all of the 1000 easy achievements 
 it gets old quit, but its good to throw in from time to time. I was quit disapointed in it because 
 NBA V3 was so well done and each Star in the game had their own dunk but in Homecourt after you've 
 seen all 10+ you've seen them all. The tricks are really sick no matter how many times you use 
 them but it gets annoying when your a high lvl and your guy or girl stil falls. When you first 
 try this game the first thing you will notice is the awsome graphics but you will also like the 
 dunks as well even though there the same ones over and over there still reall sick ones to try 
 out, one of the best things about this game is the GameBreaker and the little intro music in the 
 backround and its really neat to see where all the NBA players hail from when they score, its also 
 really sick when you land a triple duck. Now even thought the dunks are fake in this game they 
 are well done b/c they look real.
  
  The Good: Graphics look real good on the 360, Dunks and decks are cool, easy achievements, online 
 multiplayer, you get to see what you would look like if you where one of the nba stars sons.
  
  The Bad: Dunks get old quick, online has tones of lag and peopel quit almost every game, the 
 story mode is to short Achievements: Extreamly easy, for the online ones just get a friend to help 
 you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stellos5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  The game lacks the number of players that should be in it. Where are all the legends?! The slam 
 dunks are intense and amazing, but get to be tiring. The game is extremely repetitive; however, 
 it is very fun and a good game that doesn't involve a lot of in depth play to enjoy. It is a bit 
 rediculous, but this is what NBA Streets is all about. I find it fun and I'm glad I have it as 
 a part of my collection. After playing it for a long period of time, I would not recommend going 
 out and buying it if you don't already have it. I say this only because of the amazing games that 
 will be releasing this summer and fall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tidalkr4ken
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 14, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  This game is great! The awesome dunks and shots look so great. The flow of the Character's movement 
 has a beautiful next-gen feel. This game amazed me, because a lot of people told me not to get 
 it, but it turns out to be excellent! The people that told me not to get it is the people that 
 haven't played it!
  You can get the feel of this game after 2 or 3 games. The beautiful dunks including the double 
 dunk look so great. There are a lot of game modes, but not quite enough to enjoy this. Overall, 
 this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 10, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun to play. It's crazy, it's got great graphics, and the music is really 
 good too. That alone should tell you to get the game, but perhaps a little more detail.
  
  The graphics are really good. They give the feel of old school basketball street courts, of course, 
 how the hell would I know? But they do. The sound is really good with some great old school jams 
 in there. The only problem is the one Herbie Hancock song that plays when you get the gamebreaker. 
 Wish they could change it up a little.
  
  Gameplay is where this really shines. The basketball mechanics are really sound. They do a really 
 good job of accyrately depicting basketball play. Right up to the point where the craziness steps 
 in. That takes it over the edge, but that is where this game maintains it's playability for the 
 masses vice only the sports fans. This game can be played by everyone and would be enjoyed too.
 
  
  Do yourself a favour and get this game even if it's your only sports game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  I really try to give every game a chance before I pass ultimate judgement, its a decent way to 
 live in a world where most entertainment is either stale or simply played out. Imagine my shock 
 when I put on a game that I already deemed NBA JAM imposter and actually had one hell of a good 
 time. That is until the repetition consumes and drives you mad.
  &nbsp;
  GAMEPLAY
  Almost every person in the world has a secret passion for B ball or some aspect of the game, and 
 with that deep desire to slam dunk and win the game or step in at a&nbsp; clutch moment with unrivaled 
 defense, all non-dribblers can rejoice! Homecourt serves up a massive slab of joy being able to 
 either use well known NBA stars or create your own hybrid version and take it to the streets. With 
 this no holds bar rules excluded game, fans&nbsp; of the actual NBA should be warned...&nbsp; its 
 not very fun to get beat up Mortal Kombat style in a game blessed with a need for coordination.&nbsp;&nbsp;
 
  &nbsp;
  VISUALS
  Right off bat I got to pick on the presentation. Not only did numerous people complain about the 
 overly retro video look of the game, but many feel that it hampered the overall quality. Not true 
 I say! Like the game NBA JAM, you have subject matter that is&nbsp; solely based from a world of 
 real people and rules that have boring stuff&nbsp; like physics and gravity. NBA JAM was great&nbsp; because 
 they took that stuff and tossed it out the window with no disrespect intended and still came out 
 with a fun game that fans and newcomers could equally enjoy. In Homecourt you have this same joy, 
 and all nonsense aside you could still choose to play games without all the funny power ups and 
 boosters.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  &nbsp;
  AUDIO
  I must be a real sucker for the 80's or Beverly Hills Cop. Either way this game and its whole feel 
 from introducing players and homecourts down to tid bits of music that plays inbetween loading 
 screens, all of it felt right! Which is the least I can say that seems nice since the whole retro 
 thing really wares thin after about 10 hours of play. Never has one felt so good about being able 
 to play custom soundtracks during a game, but then you'd might miss the awesomely spoken trash 
 talk that never&nbsp; bothers.
  &nbsp;
  EXTRAS
  So not only do I get tons of Jordan apparel for smashing on NBA stars and bench warmers, but I 
 get even more worthless&nbsp; crap such as video clips and new soundtracks within the game. Not 
 the most glorious of goodies, but achievement points are pretty nice none the less. After&nbsp; playing 
 through the game, you guessed it... in Homecourt mode,&nbsp; you'll notice a majority of&nbsp; your 
 points are earned by mopping the courts with their respective home town boys. In all honesty anyone 
 who is hell bent on&nbsp; getting these points and never touching this game again could do just 
 that, if they can stomach the mind numbing challenges that hardly vary.&nbsp;&nbsp;
  &nbsp;
  OVERALL
  Is this a game worth owning, no. Is this my cheap way at attacking all those 
 jerks who hussled me back in the day by not praising a NBA JAM remake, not at all. The bottom line 
 on this one is you&nbsp; HAVE TO BE a hardcore fan of unruled sports and with that at least a fan 
 of&nbsp; basketball. If you can't stand the sport or don't care for taking an elbow while shooting 
 the&nbsp; deep ball and getting no whistle, then this game may please some. But its surely not for 
 many, so rent it first or play with a friend, you might actually enjoy your 1st hour more than 
 you'd expect.&nbsp; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  This is the first time I have ever played a street game, and it was actually fun. The cutscenes 
 are done with style and nice voice over by who seems tto sound like T-Mac. The graphics are not 
 going to be the best on the 360, but they pass.
  The invisible walls are dumb, but they serve a purpose and don't take any away from the fun. The 
 gameplay and homecourt challenge mode is fun, but could probably be beat in a day.
  The soundtrack is horrendous, and repetitive especially when it comes down to the gamebreaker sequence. 
 The player voices are funny.
  This game is clearly not going to be for everyone, but if you like basketball then you should probably 
 have a good time. It's fun for when friends are over and stuff, but otherwise AI is just too dumb 
 to compete.
  All in all, unless friends are over constantly, you're not going to get 60 dollars out of this 
 even though achievements are rewarding. This should be a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rudigus
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  pro: graffics was great movement was most of the time great
  cons: way too short game customizing your player is the worst i've ever seen you don't even get 
 to create your court you can only play 1 on 1 on online
  
  okay, the graffics in this game is pretty good, even if sometimes it can be a bit to shiny. the 
 movement pretty much always looks smooth, especially doing the dunks and all those sweet double 
 dunks. But I did like the controls to the tricks in volume 3 a little bit better, it just seemed 
 so much smoother for me. the create a player is so bad, you hardly get to do anything in this game, 
 choose a couple of nba players and morphe them to make your guy, and thats it, its done. volume 
 3 you got to choose height, how fat or skinny the guy was, facial hair, hair colour and hair style, 
 then you got to buy some really cool clothes for your guy, thats not even in this game. and then 
 you didn't even get to create your own court like in volume 3, you just name it, i thought this 
 was called homecourt. to me this game is a step backwards in the series, in gameplay, i remember 
 i used to play volume 3 for ages, and made so many different characters, I mean i loved the gamebreakers 
 better in the other one. I was way disapointed in this game, hopefully they do better next time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 4, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  NBA street homecourt plays just as well or maybe even better than the previous games of the series. 
 however, playing this game felt much more repetitive than the other games prior to this release. 
 i'm not sure completely why that is, perhaps the fact that you can't change the certain moves that 
 you do, or the dunks that you do. yes, the double and triple dunks are insane and friggin sweet, 
 but seeing them over and over gets old, and really fast. perhaps this is simply because this is 
 the first nba street game made for the 360, or maybe they just decided that what is there was enough, 
 but whatever the case, it isn't enough. that game is fun, but the game only lasts so long before 
 a change is needed in gameplay. let me see my guy do different dunks, let me see him do different 
 moves for God's sake. all that experience i'm earning and i'm not learning any new moves? come 
 on, my guy should be better than he is after playing 40 plus games against all those nba guys in 
 homecourt mode. overall, it's a fun game, if you can only play it for about 20-30 minutes at a 
 time, but if you are like me, the gameplay doesn't last any longer than that amount of time at 
 each session. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 30, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  nba street courts bread and butter is its story mode where you create your character and represent 
 your hood in other courts around the country. but its only enough to get you buy for a little while.
 
  
  gameplay - 3 button combos and little defense makes this game simple for new comers. once your 
 meter is up your ready to do a game breaker which can get you up to 4 points in one shot. besides 
 that its your standard arcade style sports game. your character is set to a skill level you pick. 
 if you want your player to be a dunker, or a passer you can do that.
  
  achievements - very easy to get the 1000 points if you want to put the effort into it.
  
  overall 
 - its didn't have much replay value and i couldn't get pass the story mode since it was the same 
 stuff over and over. its a good pick up if your not playing anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdmetal2101
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10- The game plays smooth the only issue is when there is a loose ball it is really 
 hard to pick it up or to get the rebound. The double dunks are really cool and are easy to do once 
 you get the hang of it. The way the gamebreakers have changed is great you can get more points 
 now.
  
  Graphics 8/10- Good graphics but not the best ever the player models look good but what were they 
 thinking when they did the two superstars mixed with the made up person? The courts are all unique 
 and look great.
  
  Sound 8/10- Sound is good it has a pretty lame soundtrack but the actual gameplay sound is good 
 you can hear them trash talking after making it which is pretty funny. Each special double dunk 
 has its own sound with it which adds to the fun arcade style of the game.
  
  Value 6/10- This is the big flaw of the game because after you get done with the Homecourt Challenge 
 mode which should only take you a few hours and you have all of the achievements which is also 
 very easy this game is pretty much over with and there is nothing to do so definitely do not pay 
 the full 60 dollars for it. The online isnt much fun at all either.
  
  Tilt 8/10- Overall the game is very good for any basketball fan or street game fan. Just remember 
 how short it is when purchasing it. Online fanatics dont buy this game you will play it online 
 twice and then youll be sick of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 25, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Arcade-style basketball was originally defined by the NBA Jam arcade games of the early- and mid-90s, 
 but EA's NBA Street games have always represented the genre's peak. With NBA Street Homecourt, 
 the series arrives on the latest generation of consoles, and the fundamental 3-on-3 over-the-top 
 streetball gameplay is still pretty good, but a glaring lack of features fans of the series may 
 have come to expect limits the depth and lasting value of this offering.
  
  Like all the games in the Street series, Homecourt puts you in control of a three-person team on 
 a street basketball court, and the gameplay here is still tight and enjoyable, though not quite 
 as deep as in the last Street game. In addition to all the standard basketball elements of passing, 
 shooting, stealing and the like, here you're encouraged to pull off flashy trick moves to fill 
 up your gamebreaker meter. Activating your gamebreaker deducts a point from your opponents and 
 lets you pull off some extra-flashy moves for more points than you can score otherwise. The trick 
 stick of the previous Street game is gone and here you'll perform trick moves by pushing the X 
 and Y buttons, modifying the movies with the left and right bumpers. Performing tricks in this 
 way feels a bit more random and disconnected than it was previously, and it certainly makes the 
 overall game feel a bit more simplistic.
  
  There are a few new gameplay elements in Homecourt. For one, teammates will occasionally kneel 
 down near the basket when you've got the ball, providing a platform for you to jump off of and 
 go for a high-flying dunk. The biggest addition in Homecourt is the double dunk, a move which allows 
 you to score two points on a dunk (more on gamebreakers) by dunking the ball, bringing it back 
 above the basket through a feat of superhuman physical prowess, and dunking it again. It's a pretty 
 great concept and the dunks themselves look great, though the dunk meter makes them perhaps a bit 
 too easy to perform. In fact, the game overall is very easy on the easy and normal difficulty settings, 
 though setting the game to hard or expert makes the dunk meter disappear, requiring you to rely 
 on your own sense of timing, and makes the opposing team considerably more aggressive. You can 
 jump into pick-up games, gamebreaker battles or games that do away with tricks and gamebreakers, 
 but the heart of Homecourt is the homecourt challenge mode, in which you create a baller of your 
 own and guide him to the top of the streetball world. This mode is also where it becomes obvious 
 just how much is missing from this game. You start by creating a baller, but your options here 
 are pretty limited. For starters, you can't create a female baller, though it's not as if there 
 aren't any in the game. You'll play against Diana Taurasi, Sheryl Swoopes, Lisa Leslie and the 
 like. What's more, you don't have that much control over what your baller looks like. Rather than 
 letting you design the dude's features, the game morphs together three heads, a generic one and 
 the heads of two NBA stars, to create your player's look. You can choose the three heads that get 
 merged into one, but that's as far as your control goes.
  
  From there, you're put onto your own homecourt to take on some challengers, and again, you have 
 no control over the look of your court. In a particularly goofy touch, there's even a big H (as 
 in Homecourt) in the center of the court, and you start off wearing jerseys with this same H on 
 them, though if you're more comfortable shilling for soft drinks, you can sport Sprite gear from 
 the start as well. Considering how much control the last street game gave you over the look of 
 your baller and your homecourt, it's hard not to be somewhat disappointed by the lack of control 
 you have here.
  
  As you progress through the homecourt challenge mode, you'll face better players and recruit better 
 players to your team. You will also improve your skills based on how much you use them, and on 
 a few occasions you're given the option to choose a skill to max out. Playing through the homecourt 
 challenge, taking your baller from small-timer to streetball superstar, can be done in a matter 
 of hours, which also speaks to the game's lack of content.
  
  Aside from this, you can also take the game online, though here too, a more robust feature set 
 would have been nice. Games are always one player against another, so there's no options for teaming 
 up with some friends. You're given the standard game types to play -- pick-up games, gamebreaker 
 battles and so on -- and after each game you're automatically kicked back out to the main online 
 menu, meaning that if you want to keep playing with your friend, a new game needs to be set up 
 and joined each time. The presentation in Homecourt is quite good. The courts are particularly 
 attractive, most of them vivid recreations of actual places like the courts of Venice Beach or 
 Carmelo Anthony's homecourt of Cloverdale. The players themselves animate really well and look 
 fine from a distance, though when the camera pulls in close on a player it often appears as if 
 his eyes have rolled up into his head. The sound is pretty good overall, as well. An upbeat, old-school 
 funk soundtrack gives the game a terrific summery vibe. This game does away with the announcer 
 of earlier games, so all you hear is the sound of the game itself, along with chatter amongst the 
 players, which is great for the most part, though a few of the taunts pop up a bit too often. (If 
 that one dude says Off your eyeballs! one more time I'm gonna punch him in the face!) If all you're 
 looking for is a game of street ball with some great on-court action, Homecourt delivers that. 
 It plays tight, flows nicely and looks terrific. But if you enjoyed the depth offered by the gameplay 
 and features of the last outing in this series, you may be disappointed to find that so much of 
 that is missing from this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: second_XD
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  You have to play the game with the computer first................ then play your friend (who's had 
 it for about 3 weeks) . Becuase this game, only shows practice thats IT. It has nothing to do with 
 the old versions... V1, V2, and V3. You just have to get used to it.
  
  I'm in love with, the Trip-Trackin, Wrist-Wrappin, Rim Wreakin, DOUBLE DUNK! Its a special feaure 
 witch puts the ball in between legs, after a dunk... COMPLETELY CLUELESS!
  
  And the game breaker control, the new one. Is even sweeter than ever, (Just dont get the ball stolen) ) ) ) 
 lol. Have fun with this game... Create your own nickname, if you find it out how.
  
  I will never tell.
  But...
  
  I do recommend this game, who like second chances, try your 
 best, at hand at this new videogame, try your best... but its a shame, its only for the Xbox 360 
 and PS3 console. pshh... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harm0n1ca
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for what feels like years, so the hype and expectations for this 
 game were huge. I did take into account EA's current trend in their games (see Def Jam: Icon review) 
 but I had faith that this game would not be completely ruined. So, after a sleepless night playing 
 the solo campaign, I'm glad and relieved to say the game easily lives up to my expectations in 
 every way.
  
  From the moment the game loads you are sucked into the world of Homecourt. The cool music, excellent 
 graphics, and sepia-like tones of the art all exude 'old school', and from there it just gets better.
 
  
  The gameplay is fantastic fun and not to scruffy either. While there is an obvious opportunity 
 to just run up and down the court in a constant fast break, this does not take advantage of all 
 the options in the game, and you will find yourself rewarded for taking time on the plays. You'll 
 be able to take great pleasure in drawing out your opponents, then sliding past them to take it 
 down the middle to the hoop, or dishing off to a team mate to take advantage of a 2 point play.
 
  
  On top of this, the game awards experience points for the moves you use during each game. For example, 
 if you spent the whole game dropping three's, or blocking and catching rebounds, the experience 
 points after the match will be awarded to the relevant skills, ie. shooting and block/boards. This 
 provides a little encouragement to take it easier during matches and not just break on every play.
 
  
  My only concern about this game is that there won't be enough of it. The online feature so far 
 has been too laggy to be an enjoyable experience, and while this game is a favourite among my friends, 
 I'm worried that the single campaign will end too soon. This is because none of the other games 
 were long enough in my opinion (can't have too much of a good thing) , and on top of that this is 
 a next-gen game, the majority of which have suffered from the problem of not having enough story 
 length.
  
  All in all though this game is excellent fun, again like many other EA titles with a great opportunity 
 for improvements for future sequels, and I'd be surprised if many fans of the genre were totally 
 disappointed with this addition. I just wish these kinds of games lasted a little longer.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 24, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Achievements: Easy
  
  Pros: Fast and funky gameplay; great sound track; top quality graphics and animation; career mode 
 is well defined and addictive
  
  Cons: XBL dumps you out after matches; defending is quite tough; poor manual and no tutorials
 
  
  NBA Street Homecourt is an arcade-style take on the game of basketball and features no-holds-barred 
 matches with the emphasis on tricks, combos and spectacular dunks. Matches feature 3 vs 3 basketball, 
 on various homecourts (local park and sports halls) , where you pull off various tricks &amp; combos 
 to both score baskets and build up a Game Breaker meter. Once filled, the GameBreaker allows you 
 to pull of uber tricks for bonus points and extra baskets.
  
  The Homecourt Challenge play mode adds basic RPG elements to the game that allow you to create 
 a custom player and build a team to take on various challenges around a US homecourt circuit. Beating 
 each of the challenges boosts your players stats and allows you to buy bonus items plus recruit 
 better team mates. The Homecourt Challenge is a lot of fun and the RPG elements work really well, 
 drawing you further into the game.
  
  XBL play is good fun; even when Scooby beats you 10-0. The game play is fluid and there are none 
 of the usual lag issues that effect other sports games (e. g. PES) . Strangely, in a private match 
 the game dumps you back to the menu after the game. Tiger Woods does this as well, so I think this 
 is a deliberate ploy by EA to make you use their pointless lobby system.
  
  The graphics are superb and everything is given a sepia-tone wash which adds the the 70s retro 
 feel of the game (the sound track also features many 70s ghetto funk tunes) . The player models 
 are excellent with detailed textures, including sweat, whist the animations and crazy moves are 
 fluid and fast. The sound is also good, with the players shouting instructions and taunts that 
 form a key part of the play: for example, they will alert you to a combo move. The sound track 
 is superb, even if it borrows a couple of tunes from Tiger Woods, and features an eclectic mix 
 of modern Hip-Hop and 70s Funk (Im love 70s ghetto funk so I might be biased) .
  
  The multiple play-modes, XBL and a fairly lengthy Homecourt Challenge make NBA-S-H good value for 
 money. The achievements are well designed and promote the full use of the games tricks and moves. 
 It might be said, however, that they are a little on the easy side.
  
  NBA Street Homecourt is a very good game and a nice alternative to the usual 360 fare. You do not 
 have to like basketball to enjoy the game (I dont) ; and to be honest it is about as far removed 
 form basketball as you can get. If you enjoyed the film White Men Cant Jump, and fancy yourself 
 as a court king, then NBA Street Homecourt might well be right up your street! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhawk887
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  I paid 60$ for this game... I've had it for about 4 days, and I'm already very sick of it. The Gamespot 
 review raves about its deep gameply depth and its lack of content... I COMPLETELY disagree.
  
  The gameplay is very light, the moves are SO repetitive I find myself doing the same moves 
 all the time... and while they are pretty cool, they get really old. Also, the content truly is 
 lacking, but it sufficient to keep you occupied for 20 hours probably... the replayability of the 
 game is terrible, but I haven't tried it on Xbox LIVE so that may add a lot. Even when gamebreaker 
 is achieved or activated, the moves once again become really repetitive. The alley-oops, off a 
 teammate's back, and team dunks are all superbly animated and the game for the most part plays 
 smoothly (except the left thumbstick is a little weird, making it hard to pick up loose balls) . 
 The graphics are not exceptional, but they're almost next-gen (I feel like some textures are washed 
 out) . But, after about six gamebreakers I just got sick of it. I want to return this game ASAP, 
 do NOT buy it. I must say though, for once, I actually like EA's selection of music, it's actually 
 VERY good. I'm very critical of music, and this game has some really, really eclectic and enjoyable 
 music. Don't buy this game, rent it if anything. I loved the original NBA Street on PS2 but am 
 very disappointed with this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resist1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 20, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  EA did a great job here with this game. A few draw backs first. ITS SHORT, and what i missed in 
 perticular is the Old school legends.... and where the hell is MICHAEL JORDAN?. Other then that... the 
 moves, tricks, balances beatifully. Fluid motions and graphical eye candy galore. Smooth animations 
 move ur characters along with the ball, at any speed/rate or direction. No awkward shifting or 
 position changing. Flashy dunks, and Superb sound effects to boot. Very hard to score on Top difficulty 
 level, but thats what makes it good. Def a keeper and a winner again for EA! some things that were 
 a huge minus to me, were lack of customazation options. the game forces you to customize depending 
 on how you play each game. Not a good thing. Should have kept it by giving u award points and letting 
 you customize your character to your pleasure and desire. I never wanted my guy to dunk, so in 
 order not to raise his stats i had to keep away from the basket, how stupid. I would have rated 
 it higher but the create baller mode and lack there of features for it, and options and freedoms 
 definatly did not make me a happy man. With that said, if you want some fun, and flash and trash 
 talk to your friends on how you supposedly dunked on them as if you were Lebron James Then this 
 is the title for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgiff1010
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  When I started playing NBA Street Homecourt, the first things I noticed were the graphics, and 
 the gameplay. The graphics in this game just make the characters to the point of realism. And every 
 trick is so smooth, fortunately you don't normally seeing guys going through one another in this 
 game. When your playing Homecourt Challenge mode you will notice you'll have around 4 or 5 challenges 
 up on the screen. Games can be real short as first to lead by 3 or a shots only to 30. It will 
 get somewhat repetitive. And when I say that I mean that you will get tired of playing all those 
 challenges. I only did all the short challenges and I still got to the max level of 20 before I 
 beat the game. I don't know about you, but if I was charging the lane, and Ben Wallace is standing 
 there by the hoop, what would you be more afraid of happening. Getting a hand the size of a frying 
 pan grab the ball from your face, or getting stuck in his afro? Personally, the first one happens 
 to much. When you get this game and play on multiplayer you will notice that almost every person 
 will go to NBA All-Stars and grab a shooter, a blocker, and either another blocker, or a dunker/blocker. 
 And how hard is it trying to dunk with Kobe when Shaq is guarding the hoop. Very frustrating. Now, 
 the question. Is this game worth the $60? YES but then again, NO. Why I say this you ask? People 
 get a game because of one or the other, the usually play with themselves pun-intended on campaign 
 mode, or invites friends over for multiplayer. Don't get it if your only playing it for the campaign 
 experience, but do get it if your into multiplayer. Though, this game isn't worth the $60, I would 
 say $25, $30 at most. Rent it from gamefly for about 2 weeks and then return it because by then 
 you will have sucked the life out of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentalchaos28
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  NBA Street Homecourt is the 4th street-basketball game from EA Sports Big in 6 years, and the good 
 news is that this is once again an excellent sports game from any perspective. The game is extremely 
 addicting, pretty to look at, and has much of what makes makes the Street series a staple in gaming. 
 The problem though is that the game doesn't have nearly enough modes to play in, and it ends up 
 making this a lesser game than some of its predecessors. The gameplay in Homecourt isn't groundbreaking, 
 but it is still extremely fun to play. For those of you who haven't gotten into the games yet, 
 NBA Street is a 3 on 3 basketball game where virtually anything goes. Pushing, offensive fouls, 
 goal-tending and much more are encouraged and needed to excell at the fast-paced game, which is 
 all about its trick system and dunks. The dunks in the game are stunning un-realistic, with players 
 double-dunking, jumping off the basket and doing flips into the air for extra points towards a 
 gamebreaker. In the gamebreaker, you can pull off virtually any move you can imagine, with added 
 bonuses for doing tricks and the potential for a hefty 6-point dunk if all goes well.
  
  The main single-player mode in the game is Homecourt Challenge, where you create a baller by fusing 
 the heads of two NBA stars and one random character to create your player. Then you essentially 
 travel accross the U. S to play on the actual homecoourts of NBA stars such as Chris Paul, Carmello 
 Anthony and Rip Hamilton. On each court you play on you'll find a number of challenges that you 
 and your two selected teammates must complete, like Pick-up games, quick pick-up games, and gamebreaker 
 battles. Though all of these tasks are basically the same idea of winning a game, they are all 
 fun to do, provided you're playing on a challenging difficulty setting.
  
  At 12 to 15 hours in length, Homecourt Challenge is far and away the meatiest, and best portion 
 of the game, but it isn't without it's shortcomings. For one thing, the create-a-baller concept, 
 while somewhat clever, is really quite bare-bones in that you can only choose your player's face. 
 Also, despite the mode's length, the constant sameness in the matches and incredible ease in the 
 normal difficulty setting make it feel awfully repetitive at times. It's still the best mode in 
 the game, but inclusion of variety would have made it so much better.
  
  When you finish the game, there's really only one meaningful option waiting for you, and that is 
 online play, which, sadly, is disappointing in Homecourt. All the gametypes available in single-player 
 are there in multiplayer, but you can't customize basic things like play-to scores and there are 
 no online tournament options. Back when the original Street came out, the options present here 
 would have been more than adequete for online, but in this day and age, three should be way more 
 to do online.
  
  Really, once you're done with the online and Homecourt Challenge, you're done with NBA Street: 
 Homecourt. Unless you find playing tiresome exhibition matches with the computer A. I fun, and you 
 want to see what Street is like without personality in the snoozable back-to-basics mose, you wont 
 play the game to the fullest the developers hoped for. Again, in a time where games are 60 dollars, 
 the features present are poor.
  
  At least the game is presented nicely, for the most part. The game definitely has next-gen character 
 models and animations, especially in its dunks, but an un-needed sepia tone present in every game 
 you play makes game look unusual at times. The sound is also a mix-match, mostly for the better 
 with it's soulful track list, even if it seems like only 5 songs are played through the whole game. 
 The presentation is one of those aspects that Street games always perfect, and this is not an exception.
 
  
  I should stress, looking back at this review, that despite these issues, Homecourt is a must-play 
 game. Period. There is a significant lack of ways to play the game, but if you like b-ball, there's 
 no better way to play it on the current generation of consoles today. And in the end, that's a 
 testament to a true franchise. In an age where sequels are hardly impressive with the more of the 
 same formula, it's telling that Street is fun to this day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownthrilla
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 17, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  NBA Street Homecourt is best in the NBA Street series. In the game your basically a baller who 
 needs to make it to the NBA and put your homecourt on the map, thus the title homercourt. There 
 are many modes , but the main is Homecourt Challenge (or somthing like that) . You start with making 
 your character. You choose three players in the NBA and make a character using their genes. Kinda 
 cool actually. The game has superb gameplay and good graphics. The thing that bugs me that Aarron 
 Thomas said is that the screen is suppose to look like its being recorded on an old video recorder 
 which makes no sense because the majority of the player in the NBA aren't old enough to have been 
 recorded with a camera like that. This game is also a good game to get achievments out of. I easily 
 macked out 840 points in 4- 6 hours. Online in this game isn't really impressive simply due to 
 the fact that the characters always look like they're lagging. Overall this is a highly recommended 
 game. Whether you're just a minor NBA watcher or a die heart fan, I highly suggest this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  NBA Street Homecourt, is one of the first good sports titles to be released thus far. It has the 
 feeling of the old NBA Streets and adds some new gameplay. There is a few tweaks and content from 
 other games not shown in this one but does it hold up? Here is my review for NBA Street Homecourt!
 
  
  Gameplay -
  
  There is no doubt in my mind that the gameplay feels almost the same as the it's predessors. There 
 is lots of new moves in this one, and spectacular new dunks. The dunks are definitely the shine 
 in the game. There's dunks jumping off your own teammates, double dunks, heck, even triple or team 
 dunks. Homecourt is crazy when playing and you'll be like WOW that was a nice dunk.
  
  If you played the demo then your sure to know what your up against in the retail version. Somehow 
 though, in the demo, the AI wasn't so bad. Most of the time when playing Homecourt Challenge or 
 any mode, your teammates or the opposing team usually can't get the ball. They either can't get 
 the ball as in your blocking their path, or their blocking your path. It's kind of bad how they 
 have the AI but that doesn't always stop you.
  
  There is four different difficulty modes that you play through what is like a career. It's called 
 Homecourt Challenge, and it's pretty simple to get the hang of it. You get teammates, earn new 
 ones along the way after facing rivals, and gain new clothes. In this game your not going to buy 
 clothes, or always earn them, you just get them along the way, which is another reason to play 
 the game, besides the achievements.
  
  There is 16 achievements in this game, all obtainable, and not impossible. Some for doing ten tricks 
 a game, some for doing three double dunks, and others for just leveling up. Leveling up is pretty 
 addicting but the highest level in the Homecourt Challenge is 20 and you can probably get that 
 while playing through the entire game.
  
  Graphics -
  
  The graphics are very colorful. During gamebreakers, the colors change mixing it into what seems 
 like a painting. You'll be amazed of the colors you see, but it gets kind of distracting sometimes 
 and most of the game has a retro color feel. There is not really much blurs in the game, and the 
 graphics hold up pretty well besides the faces. It's just like what you would see in NBA 2K7, just 
 more graphically detailed in the background, and on the court.
  
  Sound -
  
  During Homecourt Challenge, you won't here any type of music. Just your guys trash talking alot. 
 You only here music in the menus, which is a bummer, but that shouldn't stop you from playing. 
 You can of course put on your own music, and still enjoy the game. The nice sounds are people getting 
 pushed down, which is humoring. You'll here a lot of grunts in the game, which is probably the 
 best sounds in the game as well.
  
  Value -
  
  This game lacks value then the other NBA Street games. Homecourt challenge will take you probably 
 8 hours if you play through, and on the hardest mode, possible 10 hours the most. The multiplayer 
 won't keep you to busy online, as it's only two players, but locally you can play up to four, which 
 is nice. There isn't many new or old modes in this game, which they could have done. They also 
 should have added another career mode or something to enlist you into playing again and again. 
 There is one achievement making you play the game again as another created baller. After that the 
 game pretty much is over unless you want to play multiplayer. Unlocking all the gears can take 
 you up to five hours if you try to, but doing this will be the only other reason to play by yourself.
 
  
  Bottomline-
  
  NBA Street Homecourt is one of those games your really going to be WOWed at. It's really fun and 
 enjoyable but the lack of modes to keep you playing will end in a matter of days. It's a good idea 
 to rent this game if your not willing to play online, but buy it if you want to WOW your friends 
 when they come over.
  
  Thanks for reading and hope you enjoyed this review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --ScorpZ --
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is just short of perfect the only thing about it that wasnt good was how easy it is to 
 block. But com'on who cares the game is great it has the right amount of impossibility in it unlike 
 V3 where people could pull of a 720000000 degree slam. And the gamebreaker sysstem is probaly the 
 best in NBA street ever. The dunks are realistic and sooo ridiculously amazing. Like the slaming 
 throught the legs than catching it (still on the rim) throwing it up running of the backboard like 
 Neo from the matrix and slamming it down again on your opponent. And then on top of everything 
 the out of game feature like the court bio's showing you the history of the court and the player 
 who made that history. And then going to the courts after the player says I Could Never Lose On 
 My Homecourt, It just won't happen beating them and taking the court from them. The only thing 
 that could be changed about this game is the blocking system but if it wasnt easy to block it just 
 wouldnt be NBA street. Thats why this game deserves a perfect score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 15, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Why did i spend 60 dollars on this mind numbing game . I played it for a bit, got my 1/2 hour enjoyment 
 and that was it. This game should not be marketed as a game . I expected a little nore depth but 
 what was i thinking.
  At best, save your money and ONLY rent as if you already own NBA 2K has street games built into 
 it's game.
  Even the courts are very darkish looking. It looks as though there is no sunlight. If you like 
 all the mindless limited tricks this game is for you, otherwise split the rental fee with a friend 
 as the 7.99 blockbuster rental fee isn't even worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonius05
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 14, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  I love this game when i first got it. The graphics is simply breath taking. The players have organic 
 feel after every dunks and shots.
  
  The Homecourt is my favorite. Being able to customize your character based on two professional 
 ballers in todays games. Kind of cool to be able to work on the skills by do that skill in the 
 game of 21.
  
  The online part needs some work on , because it took me a while to find a host and play that host. 
 Keeps coming up with this game session not available. So in order for me to play online is become 
 a host and wait for someone to join. There are not a whole lot of modes to enjoy from.
  
  For anyone that likes NBA Street or basketball, should really get this game as it gives you the 
 feel of what the xbox 360 can do in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDDichard07
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  NBA Street Homecourt is an OK game that could have be a lot more if they had kept what had worked 
 in previous series and added the little things that are great about this game.
  
  Good:
  Homecourt is the same old NBA Street Game that we have all learned to love.
  Graphics and videos 
 are interesting to say the least...
  Dunks and tricks are wild and everything you could hope for in a game like this.
  The ability 
 to the dunk the ball for not just 1, or 2, but 3 whole points.
  The campaign/story mode is just like we're used to so I can't complain.
  Different outfits to 
 choose from that do different boosts.
  Player designs are very nice.
  Great soundtrack, that fits with the game perfectly.
  The leveling system is done almost perfectly.
 
  
  Bad:
  Gameplay misses all the things we loved from NBA Street V3, like Dunk Contests, Create-A-Shoe, 
 Trick-Stick, and build your own Gamebreaker.
  Gameplay also lacks enough modes and gets repetitive very fast.
  The weird little filter on the 
 graphics doesn't look good.
  Create-A-Character is horrid, you can only look like an NBA player or a disgusting combination 
 of 2.
  Loose balls are near impossible to pick up.
  Lack of courts is a real problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Very arcade style gameplay to the game. But the single player get's dull quickly . Also 
 , there is barley any customization in the game. The gameplay in this game also can become TOO 
 simplistic. Graphics - The majority of what you see is the colors blue and red. There are some 
 cool looking things throughout but the graphics can really be annoying. It would look alot better 
 if they didn't make stuff blurry and just retained normal color. Sound - The sound of this game 
 is really fun. A song plays for what you are specificlly doing. If you get a gamebreaker a special 
 song plays (i'm sure you'd be familiar with it)
  
  Value - The multiplayer is really what should be the shining aspect of this game. But unfortunatly 
 , it's extremly laggy. Most sports games are laggy online but nba street is a game that can't afford 
 to be laggy and ruins the game expierience. Good Tilt - only good basketball game out for 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duminakan89
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 7, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Since the inception of the NBA Street series into the gaming lexicon countless gamers outricked, 
 outdunked and gamebreaked the best the NBA has to offer. Now EA Big brings us yet another addition 
 to the series in NBA Street Homecourt, the fourth installment of the over the top franchise. Yet 
 again you play as a created baller who is again a nobody and you're expected to beat as many other 
 ballers as you can in order to increase your reputation and that of your homecourt.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  EA Big has done away with the trick stick as in previous installments, now mapping 
 the x and y buttons in order to do tricks. Unlike before you can't just go crazy with doing an 
 unending combo of trick moves, the mechanics of the game are much more fluid allowing for an unprecedented 
 look of realism. Yes its still over the top, but now it looks slightly realistic. Stealing is now 
 more intuitive as according to what button is pressed you have to match that button in order to 
 get a steal. Probably the best addition to the series is the ability to do double and triple dunks. 
 When timed right players can do double dunks giving them extra points when doing so. The mechanic 
 of gaining experience allows for the player to focus more on playing than in allocating points.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The character models are really detailed in the xbxo360 version of the game, sweat has never looked 
 this good. Though I felt EA Big limited themselves with just having the sepia style graphics. Another 
 thing of note is that this is the first 360 to support 1080p.
  
  Audio:
  
  EA again delivers big with the soundtrack, hitting players up with both old school hits and new 
 retro style jams. The soundtrack directly compliments the action in NBA Street giving you this 
 different look of the NBA, away from the Hip-Hop limelight. Another good addition is the exclusion 
 of an annoying announcer, instead you know have your players commenting on the action giving the 
 game more of a street ball feeling. Also of note the commentary by Rip Hamilton and other NBA stars 
 gives the player a personal connection.
  
  Modes:
  
  The problem with NBA Street Homecourt is that it lacks enough single player modes. After playing 
 the homecourt challenge you won't really be up for playing single player further. As for the online 
 it is really really fun, and there are no problems whatsoever with lagging.
  
  Final Verdict:
  
  With the new additions to the gameplay and the crazy fun online, NBA Street 
 Homecourt has breathed new life into the series. But after obtaining the achievements and beating 
 the Homecourt challenge there won't be much that will entice you to continue playing this game. 
 I'm a big fan of the series but it hurts me to say that the single player is lacking, and that 
 maybe this installment is only good for a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstar_Sinada
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 5, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Fans of the NBA Street series can't go wrong with homecourt. The gameplay is upped from the previous, 
 with crazier dunks and moves. The graphics are the best in the series easily, and overall it is 
 enjoyable game after game.
  
  For those who haven't played any NBA Street games, they are basically the equivalent of NFL Blitz, 
 but obviously on the basketball court. Players can pull off insane cross-overs and moves, extravagant 
 dunks (and now double-dunks) , and there are no fouls whatsoever. The game takes a little bit to 
 get down, due to the tricks/steals/double-dunk aspects of the game. Players can use the X button 
 to do cross-overs, or the Y to do tricks. These tricks can be changed up with the LB or RB, which 
 modify everything from dunks to passes. Doing mad tricks fills up the gamebreaker meter, which 
 is a bit different than I remember in other games. Instead of pulling off a super dunk, when you 
 activate a gamebreaker, it enters a mode. The other team loses 1 point, and you then bust out tricks 
 to fill up the gauge, with the possibility of scoring 1-5 points on the line.
  
  So overall, the gameplay is similar to the other Street games, but a bit better in most aspects. 
 The single player has no boss characters anymore, and feels more like random games interrupted 
 by the occasional standard tournament. No more story or crazy characters, just you making a name 
 for your homecourt.
  
  The achievements are rather easy, only 16 total, and I got all within a couple weeks. The only 
 really difficult one is 10 ranked matches in a row online, but if you are decent at the game, it 
 shouldn't be too hard.
  
  Overall, Homecourt is a rental for those new to the series, and a buy for those craving some over-the-top 
 basketball. The game definately leaves you wishing the single-player was longer. No worries, just 
 take what you've learned online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snackdaddy
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The NBA Street series is definitely one of the best within EA BIG, however, the newest installment 
 of this beloved series feel a bit watered down. If you're new to the franchise you'll be blown 
 away and since you're unaware of previous features you'll undoubtedly love this game. However, 
 if you're familiar to the NBA Street series you'll see some things have come and gone, some of 
 which should have never left.
  
  Character creation is the first feature that has seen the most severe change. Forget all the tweaking 
 we once enjoyed on previous versions of this title. You're given the ability to select a position 
 - Forward, Guard or Center. Then within each position you're given the ability to select a player 
 type. Each selection give you a small description ie. plays is like Lebron James or Kobe Bryant 
 , etc... Next you'll get to select your face from a list of pre-set faces, maybe 15 in all, I didn't 
 count though. From there you can morph the head you selected with that of two other NBA players, 
 very strange and unless feature IMHO. Then its onto naming your character and your homecourt .
 
  
  Next is the basics... All the mechanics are back, X and Y do tricks, while A passes and B shoots. 
 Each shoulder button modifies the above mentioned action and some results are incredible, others 
 are nothing new.
  
  The best feature in NBA Street has always been tricks and dunks and In similar fashion to previous 
 titles your player can pull of all kinds of insane and eye popping moves, however, this is also 
 one of the next noticeable features that has been stripped down. Again we return to the arena of 
 customization - Unlike in NBA Street 3 which had a laundry list of dunks and tricks you could unlock. 
 Homecourt has ZERO. Yes, you heard me right... zilch, nada, nothing...
  The dunks and tricks your player has will stay the same throughout the game. (However, and this 
 is a BIG redeeming quality that saves the game from being a frustrating downgrade. ) The other 
 NBA players you recruit throughout the Homecourt Challange mode have varied tricks and dunks, but 
 still nothing that shows the variety that has been in previous versions.
  
  Now we'll step away from the bad and downgraded to the fully enhanced and impressive realm. The 
 graphics on NBA Street Homecourt are just plain fantastic. The player models look incredible and 
 the court and environments are equally as impressive. I played at 1080i which yielded a clear and 
 crisp picture while the animations remained clean and smooth. The visuals overall were much better, 
 yes the graphical power of the 360 will do that, but EA went with a bit more realistic and grittier 
 feel; a great change in the series.
  
  The audio was impressive as well, but not in the usual EA Trax kind of way. There is actually very 
 little music that fills the game. What really makes the game standout in this regard is the ambient 
 sound. The players' talking and jabbing, their shoes, cars driving by, birds, spectators talking 
 and even people's cell phones ringing. Very nice touch to the realism.
  
  Another good change to the series is the Gamebreaker feature. We've become familiar with the impossible 
 to stop gamebreaker. A feature that has always been there to show off the flashiness of the game, 
 but really added little in the area of strategic gameplay. Homecourt changes the gamebreaker is 
 a new way and it ended up being a great change. When the gamebreaker starts your teams works ups 
 points by performing tricks and passes, as your score goes up as does the number of baskets the 
 gamebreaker counts, a maximum of 5 points, but this time the defending team can steal the ball 
 and make it into THEIR gamebreaker. Sometimes flipping possessions several times. For me this was 
 the best change within the Street series. The gameplay and strategy really excel here.
  
  Overall the game is visually stunning and I found myself on several occasions with a huge smile 
 on my face as my character flipped through the air. Unfortunately, after several hours it got repetitive 
 and the lack of unlockables and customization hurt it. It definitely lost out a lot in the depth 
 category. I rented this title on Friday evening and by Sunday morning I had beaten the game, gotten 
 a second character half way through the game as well as gotten all but 2 achievements. 900 out 
 of 1000.
  
  Great job, but maybe Homecourt 2 will show off some of the customization features that were dropped 
 from 2 and 3.
  
  Great rental... not worth the 60 bones to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metspeter
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 5, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  it is pretty fun, not really a good game to buy. it is good for you to rent. very sick dunks, sick 
 tricks, but it has limits of tricks. Repeating tricks is boring. it is good for you to rent out 
 and try the game. Very easy achievements. you could do it. i did it for 1,000 less than a week. 
 i made a mistake, i bought it i thought it could be so awesome game, but when i completed the game 
 less than a week. i have to tell you i felt like sucker, i should rent it instead of buying it. 
 i could buy Graw2, but oh well but thank goddness i had someone who wanted it. i am going to sell 
 it. i advise you guys to rent it out first, if you guys really love it then buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game with guarded optimism. It seemed like every street since 2 was the same game. 
 A lot of people will play this for 5 minutes and think it is. The reality is that this game added 
 enough small bells and whistles that it makes it for an entire new experience. Homecourt challenge 
 has several different types of pickup games, you can give teammates the boot when an NBA player 
 becomes available. The game itself and the way it plays has a hint of NBA Jam in it and you will 
 notice this almost immediately.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  Surprisingly, EA came through on the gameplay with flying colors. In an area where NBA Live heavily 
 lacked, NBA Street is flawless. Glitch free and easy to learn. The button scheme and controls flow 
 perfectly with the game. Online has ZERO lag. Menus are very easy to navigate through. Graphics: 
 8
  
  Graphics are what you would expect from EA BIG. Accurrate but a bit exagerrated/ The hoops and 
 nets don't have that real look but they still look decent. The parks and courts are what save it. 
 The courts and areas the courts are in are on point. Cloverdale looks PERFECT.
  
  Sound: 9
  
  Great music on the menus and vibrant sound effects. The sound isn't based on real 
 basketball sound effects and almost sound generic to a point where I can't give the sound a perfect 
 score. Based on the type of game it is the sound is pretty impressive.
  
  Value: 8
  
  Homecourt challenge will keep you playing, even though it is simple and basic. There isn't abundance 
 of modes and the game could use a few more BUT the games and progression through homecourt challenge 
 keeps the replay value just good enough. The acheivements the game has fall within the flow of 
 the game so they help keep you playing.
  
  Tilt: 9
  
  Great game and as I said earlier, it's the best NBA Street since NBA Street 2. If you get the hang 
 of it or if you are a fan of the street series you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trojan10
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  NBA Street: Homecourt is a great new game for the xbox 360. It is the best game out of the Street 
 series, which says a lot. The gameplay is amazing and it keeps me playing it at least an hour a 
 day. Once again multiplayer is where it is all at. In my opinion, this is the best sports multiplayer 
 game out on the market. Creating your baller and leveling him up is very addictive. It is especially 
 sweet once you max out your baller, you can take him online. i give props to EA for giving us this 
 option. THe only flaw with this game is lack of gamemodes, but it is still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destructiontalk
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Well I just picked up NBA Street: Homecourt for the Xbox 360 Lets start off with the story its 
 pretty basic You get together a team then try to beat all the the other high ranking teams and 
 take over there homecourt. You level up after each game no matter if you win or loose the game 
 if you loose however you dont get as many skill points. The gameplay in this game is awesome you 
 will seriously hurt your fingers playing this game with the awesome diffrent tricks you can pull 
 off each trick you do you get points and rasies your gamebreaker bar. Once you get that all the 
 way a your team gets the ball a little white circle will appear in the middle of court you get 
 the ball to the circle press the Y button and then it shows a little move by the player with the 
 ball and you can bull off A kickass shot and even get 2 points with a douple dunk. But I have found 
 it Very hard to score with jsut basic shooting I've found myself to rely on dunks only to score 
 which ar3e only worth 1 point. The grpahics on this game Are the best that I have seen in Basketball 
 game so far. Overall Ea has managed to make a good sports game ofr next gene. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t-mac720
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  dis game is da basketball game ever its sooo fake but dats the best part i mean im so sick of original 
 non fake bball games its so fun and exciting to see da dunks and all dat good stuff even if ur 
 not a bball fan get dis game its a must have and plus if u want achievments dis is one of da eaasiest 
 it more easy than fight night round three so to end dis i say JUST BUY DA GAME!!!! DO NOT RENT 
 IT !! and if u need help in anything message me and ill do my best peace! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bremsy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  I had a lot of expectations after NBA Street Vol. 2 and 3. What I loved about those games were 
 the tricks and combos and the eventual gamebreaker. However, the gamebreakers seem to detract from 
 each game as the series progresses.
  The dunks in this version of NBA street is the best feature. It is rather fun to do a double dunk 
 or jump off someone's back. Alley-oops are what I remember them being and it's a good thing that 
 wasn't changed. Basic dunks are still around and look almost the same in the previous games as 
 well. The basics are still there and that's what you need in a good sports game.
  Blocking shots are as easy as I can remember. That isn't always a good thing as this may not bring 
 about as much of a challenge from the CPU or other players. What I have found other people doing 
 is clearing the laneway with fake alley oops for the CPU to jump and take both of you out so that 
 someone else can take the 2 or 3 point shot in order to run away with the game. This can be very 
 aggravating at times. You are more likely to see this from a human player that doesn't know how 
 to play.
  Someone mentioned in a previous review that stealing is too easy. Well, on easier difficulties 
 it is for everyone. Some people on the more difficult levels of play have to time the steals perfectly. 
 When the CPU has a gamebreaker, good luck at trying to steal. 90% of the time they execute their 
 gamebreaker with at least +3. At least winning isn't too easy to come by.
  Now why was the gamebreaker bad this time around? Simple: when the gamebreaker is activated by 
 anyone, the player with possession of the ball starts to break dance when you hit the trick button. 
 Modifiers just make it more ludicrous. The other team steals the ball or gets possession, they 
 get the gamebreaker and your metre empties. In previous entries as well, the gamebreaker seemed 
 much more fun to pull off. In this one, the gamebreaker doesn't have any realy special dunks or 
 shots to pull off like in Vol 2 or Vol 3; it pretty much only has what you can do without the gamebreaker.
 
  This is more or less a rental first. Previous NBA street titles tend to fade into obscurity in 
 about 4-6 months. Expect this one to be the same as it does not improve too much on the previous 
 entries. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swetegiy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  I would recomend this game to anyone... Plays like V3 but alot better dunks and upgrading your 
 charatcter clothes earns you more points... The use of actual NBA players is also a plus.. The 
 single player is fun and doesnt take long to get achv... but when you play online be ready for 
 some tough competition.. things they could have done would be like a 1 on 1 vs computer or something 
 of that sort.. story is pretty good as well showing how you made it from nothing to something.. 
 what else can I say keep a look out for the next one more jams hitting people and like half court 
 dunks would be nice as well.. when you up your character to 100 in shotting you can sink a shot 
 from almost anywhere 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimo8
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  Look, this game is just not that great. When I played the demo, I thought it was awesome, then 
 I checked out the real version and enjoyed the single player mode as well, until it got old. NBA 
 street V2 was by far the best for me and I would still play it now. Dribbling was fun, but not 
 the end all be all of it. I can barely take a shot, layup, or anything unless I dribbled myself 
 silly first to get them out of the way. NOT FUN. The two player mode though was what broke the 
 camels back on this one, please don't turn in the review without playing two player of this game. 
 Dribble is non-existent, it will get stolen, every shot blocked, every alley-oop blocked, it looked 
 like a circus with everyone bumping into each other, I had to quit. Stick to single player or rather 
 just don't play it, they sapped all the BASKETBALL life out of it. Play NBA 2K7 street, that is 
 good stuff. Notice the previews and how they mainly show dunks, they won't dare take a shot unless 
 it is WIDE open. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nas-tmayne2k6
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 28, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Nba street homecourt is the followup to V3. Supposedly superior.
  Let me cut through the BS, If you are reading this review I assume you have some knowledge of the 
 series and the game.
  
  This game has LESS than V3, NO create a court, MEAGER create a player options, NO clothes, tatoos, 
 jewelry to buy. LESS dunks, LESS dribble moves.
  The game consists of the challenge which allows you to upgrade you psuedo created player. takes 
 about 4 hours to finish, then you go online, face opponants online, In game after game of run down 
 the court, jump off the back of a teamate from the three point line for 2 or three points which 
 are UNBLOCKABLE. shooting jumpshots is pointless. they get blocked easily. It consists of stealing 
 and dunking, period end of story. To make matters worse, the online disconnects at random times, 
 end players glitch to where they quit on you and you get handed the loss, or they quit and they 
 dont get a loss. This game gets stale VERY quickly.
  
  Graphics- Great, some comical animations such as missed dunks where the players leg gets stuck 
 in the hoop. Graphics are quite pleasing to look at
  
  sound-decent soundtrack, trashtalking in the games, pretty solid
  
  control- sluggish, movement 
 is kind of a chore, moves are easy
  
  replay value- good if you like oversimplified versions of an already simplfied
  watered down 
 game, nothing to warrant 60%, would be better as a coinop 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  To start out, I would like to say that I have been playing NBA Street since day one. My buddies 
 and I loved the original when it came out on PS2 and I have been hooked ever since. Having said 
 that, this game has the best gameplay of ANY NBA Street PERIOD!!!
  
  Gameplay: HUGE dunks, awesome handles, solid D, coupled with a fluid framerate. Gameplay doesn't 
 get more enjoyable than this.
  
  Graphics: Great graphics. the players look amazing as do the courts and the surrounding areas. 
 60 FPS also makes the game look buttery smooth!
  
  Audio: Great overall sounds and no cheesy announcer makes this a very fun game to listen too.
 
  
  Overall this game is easily the best in series even without a ton of stuff to do. Making your own 
 character is awesome and leveling him up is addicting to say the least. Playing with buddies is 
 also a blast and even pickup games are great. This is a must have if you like any NBA Street games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tnayshuss
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 27, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  NBA Street Homecourt is a beautiful looking and beautiful playing game. The players move with great 
 fluidity, and the dunks are simply stunning. (although not enough variety in my opinon)
  
  As far as the replay of the game goes it should be a lot better. It would be nice to run a custom 
 tournament, and it would be even nicer to run one online.
  
  That being said, I would have to say, that it is very dissappointing that there are no legends. 
 Although, the word legend is used in the game, I would hardly consider Carmelo Anthony a legend. 
 It would be wonderful if the same legends from volume 2 were in this game.
  
  But as a whole NBA Street Homecourt is a great game, very fun to play online, and offers enough 
 strategy to keep me playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuDvAyNe_OwNs
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  So this game I would have to say did NOT live up to the hype. That being said it is a Great game, 
 not a Superb game but a great game. There are the good things and the bad things.
  
  First the graphics.... Excellent! I have no clue where alot of people are stating that they are 
 not that good. I play all my games on a 150 HD Projector Screen and the game looks amazing. Everything 
 flows so smoothly and fast and its just looks damn good. I know it's not a GOW but we won't see 
 a game that looks that good untill Halo 3 or GOW 2 comes out. Gameplay.... Quick, smooth, non-realistic, 
 Iverson jumping higher then the rim, the spins, and the al-mighty Triple Dunk all make this gameplay 
 Outstanding. The game really makes itself here. You can flow so many moves together in a short 
 amount of time and run in for the dunk. The only bad thing is that when you are playing and throwing 
 like 10 moves together and the defender pushes you ghe stops everything in motion and knocks you 
 out of rythum.. what is that? Big sigh there.
  
  The sound is horrible in this game. Even with all volume at it's loudest its hard to hear much 
 going on unless something big happens.... Plain and simple does not live up to my expectations of 
 EA.
  
  I won't even say much about the Create A Baller...... Just plain HORRIBLE
  
  Overall the game is GREAT. It has it's flaws and its strong points. Honestly I don't really watch 
 or play basketball but ever since V2 came out I have played Street.
  
  Pros:
  Fast paced
  High Flying Action
  Beautiful
  Dunks flow great
  
  Cons:
  Very limited 
 in the dunks and moves you can do
  Sound
  Customization
  Getting pushed in the middle of 10 move combo stops you
  
  Overal an 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyAl
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 27, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to say this game is trash because that would be a lie... I enjoy the arcade aspect 
 of the animation like running up the backboard and things of that nature... it has that comic book 
 appeal and alters whats real with prime animations. The trash talk is pretty cool and I appreciate 
 the fact that the girls sound like girls when they talk trash... I love hearing women talk smack- 
 what a turn on... The problem with this game is: after you play for about an hour, there is no 
 real desire to keep playing. I bugged out when I saw the double dunk and the nice ally-oops but 
 after a while, it just became repitive like a scratched record... (for the younguns, when your 
 parents records got scratched, it would just keep repeating the same notes over and over) . I am 
 still baffled as to how the creators of this game sat in a board room and thought the create a 
 baller options would fly with the general public. If you are going to have testers come in and 
 do surveys, go to the hood or to a real place and send some people who aren't representitives so 
 they can get real feedback. And don't use the pro's to decide because anything having to do with 
 themselves- they are going to like it.... Everyone has mentioned the lack of strategy other than 
 goaltend and dunk but the thing that bothers me is the lack of depth in the movesets. the button 
 press with the bumpers leave you with little control of what you are actually doing... I would 
 have rather had the analog controls be position sensitive. The back to the basics mode should have 
 been basic play without highend tricks to add something for us people who just enjoy the nitty 
 gritty of playing ball... No matter what they do to this game... no matter how they jazz it up... 
 no matter how they make this game, it will always be a little brother to my first time feeling 
 of playing NBA Jams. This being the 360, they should have made it sandbox style where you can walk 
 around the hood and interact with people... Maybe walk around and shoot around with the locals 
 and do a few things to impress them so they come and watch you play at the tournement. This game 
 is like a hooker at a black tie affair. Sure she is dressed up in classy attire for the evening- 
 but in the long run, she is cheap and ran down underneath it all... Should you buy it? sure if 
 you need a quick fix and something you really want is coming out in a month... at least you will 
 have a good piece of change on the buy back... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jump_Man7
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  In this game you have to be tricky, and get every chance you get at making a score. The players 
 jump like kangaroos on steroids, so you have to trick them out with pump fakes, ect. This stuff 
 is basic. Now when it comes to the tricks, this game is insane. HAve you ever seen Yao Ming breakdance 
 before? Steve Nash throwing the ball in everyone's face? All in this game. Now they added two different 
 trick buttons, with RB, and LB to cutomize them. The only problem with is that everyone has the 
 same tricks. It would be nice to give the ballers individual styles. Now we come to gamebreakers. 
 The key to a Homecourt game. To get a gamebreaker, you msut fill up your Gamebreaker bar, then 
 go in the center of the court and press Y. You get the Gamebreaker ball (and the ability to dance) 
 and must do countless tricks, and passes, and finally make a score to get a few more points then 
 average. Also the opponent lsoes 1 point, which is nice. But they also can steal your GB by taking 
 the ball away from you.
  
  Presentation:
  
  This game doesn't have alot of game modes. Homecourt challenge is the only thing you'll be looking 
 forward to. You take a created character, and build a legacy and blah blah blah. Nothing we haven't 
 seen before. Just keep getting your rep up, and get new uniforms of course, new players on your 
 team, and try to become a legend. They never think of anything else do they? Meh. Still fun. Every 
 NBA team is in this, but only four players are on each team, with three to choose from to be on 
 your team. And yes, AI is on Denver's team in this game.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  
  This game is very good. Any gamer who likes sports games will have alot of fun. But this game is 
 a multiplayer game. Without it you're screwed. But with it you can play countless games of mayhem, 
 and nothing making sense, so it all evens out.
  
  Get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozyriz1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  - solid, challenging gameplay hasnt bored me out yet
  - the dunks are off the chain, and the double dunks are mind-blowing
  - there not nearly enough 
 tricks to pull, same goes for the dunks
  - gamebreaker battles are intense
  
  Graphic:
  - the graphic is amazing, easy on the eye, and i dont mind the filter that much neiher
  - players 
 look so, so, so real, it's crazy
  - the environmnts around the courtes is BEAUtiful
  
  Sounds:
  - believe it or not, i actually miss DJ Bobbito Garcia haha, but the in-game speech 
 really makes up for it
  - the playlist is very well picked, ABC after you win a game makes you feel just great
  - just 
 love the BANG when you dunk, and you can hear that spring when you swing back up to double one 
 up
  
  Value:
  - really hurtin
  - the video cut scenes are waste of times, developer should have spent that money on more contents, 
 like fully customizable players, kicks, n clothing
  
  Overall:
  - yea, it is pretty next-gen , so if you're the series' fan, cop it Ozyriz... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shizzam911
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 25, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Everyone has this game reviewed really good but i think the game play comes down to just goal tending 
 and dunking. So much is repetitive and the game should have more features and options to creating 
 your home court and your character. There is no story mode and there is a lack of motivation to 
 go further. I'm glad i only rented this game and didn't spend 60 dollars on this. The online is 
 okay but the laggy servers lost the connection with my game so i get a loss even though i was winning 
 by ten and about to win. The game also has really good character models and good animations but 
 runs it through a crappy filter. Finally there are no crowds or any spectators like the original 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_chad_slater
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm mostly comparing this game to the earlier ones in the series. I will start off in saying where 
 they failed, there's not enough content such as custimizing the player, or earning different things. 
 The main thing i miss the most is the Hall of Fame players that nbastreet Vol 2 and Vol 3 had. 
 Why the heck did they take that out. You were also able to do more different dunks in the the other 
 games. But despite the things they didn't put in this is still an amazing game, they've revamped 
 the tricks and defense. So the gameplay is super. It is still a lot of fun. The graphics are great 
 very real and give a good feel of streetball. The thing i'm most impressed with is the sound and 
 presentation. It adds greatly to the feel of the game. I recommend this game to anyone who has 
 been a lover of the Nba Street franchise, and if your new check this game out by buying or renting 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alamagoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  god this game is good. the rosters are great. so what there are 4 players per team, the amount 
 of teams are incredible WNBA players are in the game. The players look exactly like themselves 
 and the homecourt challenge is well worth the playing time. They have almost every single pair 
 of jordan's and the face customization using NBA players is very cool. These dunks are just downright 
 funky. there a single, double and TRIPLE dunks and especially for now, I'm seeing new animations 
 every day i play it. must have for anyone with a next gen system. its a fun game even if your not 
 so big on basketball 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbriceno
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  Although NBA street possibly has the best graphics i've ever seen on a game of this genre I was 
 disappointed in the fact that the customazation was lacking and the Online play was a bit frustrating. 
 I was pissed off at the fact that when you play someone online you don't have the option of giving 
 that player a rematch, you always have to look for another game and sometimes that takes a while. 
 I did notice a lag at times durinjg the online play but sometimes it was funtioning correctly with 
 no lag at all. I really wish they send out a patch for that. I also wich thay would have included 
 NBA legends.... WHY ISN'T JORDAN IN THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-man23
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Well, let me start off by saying I really enjoy this game, but it really let me down. I would have 
 loved it beyond all belief and given it a 10, if it was the first game in the series. However, 
 it is the fourth, and may be better than the first two but is not as good as Volume 3. Volume 3 
 had so many more trick options with the trick stick (which i loved and miss) . Also, i am from New 
 York and always loved Rucker and The Cage and have and still play there, but they are left out 
 on Homecourt. Also, and this is my biggest dissapointment and my favorite part about Volume 3l: 
 COURT CREATOR! It was so simple and deep and easy to jump into and create a sick court but is also 
 absent in Homecourt. All putdowns aside, I enjoy homecourt to a great extent. The new additions 
 to the gamebreaker (like being able to activate) or dunking (like double dunks which allow you 
 to get up to 6 points with gamebreaker) and off the back dunks (which just plain own) along with 
 an updated linup and quick, fast, and easy online play, this makes this game great. Although, in 
 instalment five, i'll be looking out for some of the things that were left out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpjdog69
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 23, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  Most Disappointing. Not enough game modes. Very repetative, too many dunks, not enough custimation, 
 or should I say almost none at all. Where are the unlockable legends? Why is the create a baller 
 so lame? And my biggest gripe of all would be the EA servers for on-line play. They are down right 
 horrible. I have a cable modem and the on-line play is choppy, and slow compared to the single 
 player modes. And there are not enough game modes for on-line either. Vol 2 is by far the best 
 nba street game. This game does not even come close to that, I thougt the progression of the game 
 each year should get better not worse. What a waste of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gre3nWorld
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 22, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  really good game, better than the other one's but needs better songs. If you really like the franchise 
 you are going to like this one. Simply amazing!! blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah !!!!!!! blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoonToBeT2k7
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Well, picked up Street last night, and amidst positive reviews, I found some things that differentiate 
 what others have stated. The graphics of Street are the best in a basketball game to date and the 
 gameplay is *okay*. Too many steals and just the overall lackluster defense the computer plays 
 ruins the experience. The career mode is extremely repetitive and lacks customization of almost 
 everything. The create-a-baller is the most disgraceful create-a-player I have ever seen. The one 
 thing that annoys me more than anything, is none other than, the trick remixer and the lack of 
 dunks. All you do in the game is dunk, it is impossible to score by shooting because players can 
 now jump 1200 feet in air. The dunks are constantly repetitive and the double-dunks are so pointless. 
 NBA Street Vol 2. set the bar way too high and this game doesn't close. This is not a biased opinion, 
 but if you love doing the same dunk and stealing the ball every single time the A. I. gets it (even 
 on the highest difficulty) , then this is the game for you. I give it 2 thumbs down. The only thing 
 that is positive is that EA can actually get one of their basketball games to run smooth.
  
  P. S. There isnt even an instant replay function. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shivi123
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is crazy. The dunks are just out of this world. No other game has ever had dunks like 
 these. The tricks are so different from the previous games, although some have been carried on. 
 The only bad thing about this game is that it has very few gameplay modes. There's no season. Also, 
 you can't put your created player in a custom made team and use him in a pick up game so that's 
 really bad. But the gameplay is just so amazing and so much fun it just shadows all that miniscule 
 faults of this game. This is a great game for it's value and it's REALLY fun to play with a bunch 
 of friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WOUslimshady
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Honest to god this game is awesome. I created my own baller right of the bat and got into the action. 
 That is the best way to start I think. Within an hour I played multiple games while increasing 
 my player's skill and level. The tricks and dunks are what make this game so special. The graphics 
 are clean and sharp, but sometimes it is hard to see which player is which; the camera angle is 
 far enough away where I cannot notice which guy is Melo and which is Roy. Overall this game is 
 well worth every penny. Achievements are incredibly easy. I got 250 achievement points in 45 mins. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 21, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while since I've played an Nba Street game being that is been so long I feel like I'm 
 a little rusty playing nba street. If you've played any Nba street game in the past you know this 
 is a 3 on 3 full court basketball with off the wall dunks and tricks which makes the game really 
 fun to play. This is an arcade type of basketball game. But in this one there's a mode that you 
 can pick up a regular type of pick up game which wasn't included on the other versions of the nba 
 street franchise which is cool. You also have 4 difficulty levels to choose from. You get to create 
 your own street baller and level him up by playing pick up games on the street and become a legend 
 like in the previous installments of nba street. The graphics look great it has to be by far the 
 best looking nba street game so far. The art design of the game looks cool and flows with the all 
 around theme of the game. If you're into picking up basketball games with a lot of neat tricks 
 and off the wall dunks than you should definitely check this game out this by far is the best nba 
 street game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgamer90
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing NBA Street games ever since July of 2001. Ever since then the games from this 
 series have been my favorite NBA game. And I must say that... the title still holds true today, 
 February 21st, 2007.
  
  As soon as you start the game you are welcomed to great looking bold menus filled with pinstripes 
 with an retro documentary feel to them. I started out creating a baller. When you choose to do 
 this it sends you right into an intro of what your homecourt stands for. It's great. Then you go 
 out and pick a guy who plays like an NBA player. To modify his looks you must go to the morph create 
 a player. You then choose 2 players and morph them along with the player you already have. A players 
 looks all depend on how much you morph with the right analog stick. I've came to a conclusion that 
 there's about 30 street ballers to choose from and about 30 NBA players. Combine that with the 
 shape the morpher is which is a triangle. Triangles are 180*. 30x30x180= 162000. There's around 
 162000 different combinations of create a players you can make... amazing. Well I decided that 
 I look like Kobe and V. C. so I took them together with a street baller that has my skin tone and 
 gotten a person that looks very much like myself.
  
  Once you get done creating your baller there's a message telling you to go straight to the homecourt 
 challenge. After I was done creating I did. The homecourt challenge is very reminiscent of NBA 
 Street V3. You first set up your team and your homecourt and then you get into games. Different 
 games have different challenges like win by scoring 7,21, or 30 pts. first or win by getting a gamebreaker 
 and more. When you beat some number of games you get to face an NBA player at his homecourt. I 
 first faced Carmelo. Before I faced him it showed a documentary about his life. It was great. Even 
 though it was only about 30 sec., it told just about everything about his homecourt and how he 
 grew up in it. The A. I. in the game is better then in previous years. The players really really 
 play their D. The controls are exactly the same as the demo. If you haven't played the demo then 
 the trick stick is now gone. In replace now are pressure sensitive buttons. The move or the speed 
 of the move you do is determined by what button (s) you press and how hard you press it (them) . As 
 you win more games your baller gets better and better. But it depends on what the player does during 
 the games. Example... if he shoots a lot his shooting will go up, dunking, dunking will go up, 
 and etc. Once your player gets to level 5 you can pick a master skill for him. This will boost 
 whatever area you want you player to be good in all the way to 100%. Because of this the game is 
 very well balanced. It also is when it comes to actually playing the game. Gamebreakers can go 
 back and forth now since they can get stolen (and not the cheap way like in NBA Street Vol. 2) . 
 Because of this playing with other people is lots of fun. I played one online game and I have got 
 to say that playing online is flawless. The game I was playing had no lag at all. Even though I 
 got whooped (8 to 22 lol) it was still fun.
  
  Now on to the graphics. This game looks AMAZING. When it comes to graphics Gears of War is to 360 
 FPS games what NBA Street is to 360 sports games. Yes I said it. Flame me if you want. The game 
 is gorgeous folks. It looks better then the demo. The players are bold and smooth and the backgrounds 
 are almost photo-realistic with deep textures. All this moving in 60 fps with a retro vibe is like 
 buying candy for your eyes.
  
  The music in the game goes perfectly well with the whole vibe. The songs in the game are funk r/b 
 hip-hop along with some underground and some retro jams. All I will say is this... Mix in the Jackson 
 5 and the Average White Band with great underground artists such as Haiku Detat and Q-tip and you 
 got yourselves a great soundtrack. Really this is the best one EA has come with in any of their 
 games ever. The audio is typical EA stuff which isn't a bad thing. Sounds of block shots and dunks 
 are great and the player chit-chatter isn't annoying either. I no longer miss Bobbito lol.
  
  I've seen many people say they aren't getting the game because it's made by EA. After playing 
 the game I must say that you guys are missing out on a MASTERPIECE. The game is one of the top 
 10 best 360 games so far and definitely is the best sports game for the 360 out now. Really as 
 the demo is a great representation of how the game plays the demo doesn't give the whole vibe and 
 feel to the game. Really if you are questioning whether or not to get the game please rent it. 
 Please play this game. I urge you too. If not you are truly missing out. This will go in the books 
 as the best NBA Street game. Yes folks... it beats out NBA Street Vol 2. EA has done it again folks. 
 They have gave us a great NBA Street game. Now I'm off to play some more of the game lol.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Sound: 10
  Value: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Tilt: 9
  
  BGAMER90'S FINAL SCORE: 
 9.1 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
