-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NCAA Basketball 09
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/ncaabasketball09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 College atmosphere captured well.
 Deep playbook options to customize style of play.
 Easy-to-learn controls.
 New pick-and-roll mechanic is simple and effective.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dribble moves rarely work.
 Defensive AI is not consistent.
 Response times during gameplay often slow.
 No online team play mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.3, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 109 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Nov 17, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Thanks to a new game engine coupled with improvements to atmosphere and online play, NCAA Basketball 
 09 is a good game. 

  In previous years, college basketball gamers had a choice between EA and 2K's college offering. 
 However, with the departure of 2K from the market, EA's NCAA Basketball 09 will be the only college 
 basketball game in stores this holiday season. Luckily, EA has improved upon several nagging gameplay 
 issues, resulting in its best college basketball effort to date. The most significant change for 
 the series, formerly known as NCAA March Madness, is the use of the same game engine used in EA's 
 NBA Live series. This has led to improved player and ball physics, dramatically reducing instances 
 from years past when the ball seemed to teleport to different spots on the court. This has allowed 
 EA to focus on improving upon the college atmosphere of previous titles.  

           No college basketball game is complete without male cheerleaders.      

  As in earlier 
 NCAA Basketball titles, the attention to detail and graphics is impressive. All 328 Division I 
 teams are represented, and most arenas are exact replicas of the school's gym, with mascots and 
 cheerleaders adding to the ambiance. More fan chants have been added this year, taking the total 
 to 400, of which half are school specific. Dick Vitale, Brad Nessler, and Erin Andrews return to 
 provide solid commentary. To add to the collegiate feel, EA has also added team tempo control and 
 unique team playbooks, which causes each team to play the same on the virtual hardwood as they 
 do in real life. Game tempo control dictates the speed at which teams play, and each team is supposed 
 to excel at a particular speed. Team tempo dictates the speed at which each team excels and, while 
 it causes the CPU-controlled teams to play more like their real-life counterparts, the impact on 
 user-controlled teams is questionable. For instance, if you're an up-tempo team like North Carolina, 
 you're supposed to shoot early in the shot clock to stay within the appropriate tempo, but the 
 benefit and rationale for doing so is unclear.  

  In dynasty mode, you can choose any of the three tempos, which gives you the option to play in 
 whatever style you'd like. Before each game, you choose three areas to focus on in the game, such 
 as spread out the attack, or manage fatigue. You'll get coaching tips from the sideline depending 
 on which areas you choose to concentrate on with EA's new coach feedback system. EA has partnered 
 with the National Association of Basketball Coaches (NABC) , which means actual coaches are giving 
 the majority of the in-game tips. While the tips aren't always helpful, the college atmosphere 
 is enhanced by seeing Rick Pitino and Billy Donavan stalking the sidelines.  

  Revamped playbooks and signature play calling are also a welcome addition. In previous years, there 
 was little need to run set plays due to how easy it was to get to the rim and dunk the ball. However, 
 with the new game engine, set plays work well and are needed when you're playing as one of the 
 less-dominant teams. Because right analog dribble moves (renamed "quick-strike ankle breakers") 
 aren't particularly responsive and a gravitational-like force sticks the offensive player to his 
 defender, set plays are needed to free up a player for an open shot. You can even customize your 
 playbook to add the plays you run the best. Defensively, there are several trapping options, as 
 well as zone defense not seen in the pro games. These defenses can be effective, and with the ability 
 to quickly call different plays utilizing the signature play calling, it is easy to develop a unique 
 style of play suited to your team's strengths.  

  Another new feature that is done well is the pick-and-roll control. By holding the left trigger, 
 your closest teammate will come over to provide a screen. After dribbling off the pick and releasing 
 the left trigger, your teammate will roll toward the basket, causing the defense to either switch 
 defenders or get caught behind the play. This technique leads to either a great low post shot or 
 an open jumper from the guard. It's an effective technique and one that doesn't feel cheap or unrealistic. 

  However, not all gameplay flaws have been addressed. The most frustrating gameplay issue is the 
 lack of control on both sides of the ball. On offense, the aforementioned quick-strike moves don't 
 work well, and often you'll find yourself stuck in an animation that prevents passing, shooting, 
 dribbling, or whatever you're trying to do at that moment. In addition, passing without the use 
 of icon passing is risky and unpredictable at best. For example, you might find yourself on a three-on-one 
 fast break, dribbling directly at the defender to force him to commit. Once the defense does commit 
 to the ball handler, you could find yourself stuck in an animation where you pick up your dribble, 
 delaying the fast break. Then, when trying to pass to your teammate breaking to the basket to the 
 right, you see the ball go in the other direction to your teammate that stopped five feet from 
 the basket. This forces you to use the direct-passing icons, which work well. However, often you 
 will find a slight delay in the ability to shoot the ball after performing a direct pass, leading 
 to frustrating missed opportunities.  

  Defensively, trying to play the passing lanes will make you want to pull your hair out. Your opponent 
 will be passing the ball around the perimeter, and even when you've timed your steal attempt perfectly, 
 the ball will often go right over your head. Or worse, the ball might go through your hands. Then, 
 for some reason, without hitting any buttons or even trying to play the passing lanes, you steal 
 the ball. It's all very frustrating.  

  Dynasty mode is largely unchanged and remains quite deep. You can pick a school and coaching tempo, 
 recruit players, schedule games, and allocate resources for training and game planning. However, 
 authentic schedules from this season and the ability to play only one season are absent. New is 
 the dynasty yearbook, which allows you to look back on previous seasons' top performers. For true 
 simulation gamers this might be frustrating because unless you're playing 10- to 15-minute halves, 
 the stats just won't match up to those of other teams in the country, making it hard to have a 
 player named All-American or break school records. But, because dynasty mode is solid, this won't 
 be a major detraction for most gamers.  

           Real coaches add authenticity to this year's game.      

  The user interface of NCAA 
 Basketball 09 has been upgraded and is quite user friendly. In particular, the online menus are 
 much easier to navigate, and several game modes such as Game of the Week, NCAA Rivalries, and Classic 
 Matchups enhance the experience. In addition, the new Rival Challenge allows you to track other 
 users online who play as rival teams, teams in your conference, or who also use your team, and 
 challenge them to games quickly without the need to enter a lobby. The major letdown of the online 
 mode is the noticeable omission of online team play. With most other EA Sports titles going in 
 that direction, it was a bit surprising that NCAA Basketball 09 didn't add this option. At least 
 the online content that is here runs well and is lag free.  

  While there is no question that NCAA Basketball 09 still has some gameplay issues to correct, the 
 addition of game tempo control, custom playbooks, effective pick-and-roll mechanics, and easy-to-use 
 play calling options has made this game a viable alternative to the NBA titles for casual and hardcore 
 gamers alike.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kingamez
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2009 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Alright, lets start with graphics. They are incredible. Other than the Madden games, this game 
 has the best graphics of any major sports game to date. The animations are smooth and realistic 
 but with some glitches (the ball sometimes stutters when your player shoots and is close to getting 
 blocked) , but they don't have much of an impact. So as for graphics, I couldn't ask for more. // 
 10
  
  Next we go to sound. The menu music is meant to sound like a college band, and for the most part 
 it's fine. The announcing could be better, but honestly all sports commentary in video games get 
 old and repetitive, so I can't penalize this game for being like any other. They do add in a lot 
 of Dick Vitale's signature sayings, but honestly he just gives me a headache. // 7
  
  And the gameplay. I'll start with actual in-game gameplay. The game isn't too realistic. Driving 
 is too easy. A ton of layups are missed. Open jumpshots from the CPU almost always seem to go in. 
 Bad shots, like fade-away 3 pointers, get swished way too many times. The gameplay gets frustrating. 
 Now for the dynasty gameplay. Who doesn't like the idea of taking over a school and coaching them 
 to the top? If you're that person why are you even considering buying a basketball game.. The simulation 
 is so flawed. Teams are too similar in their abilities. Recruiting is very easy. My A+ ranked teams 
 are always out of the top 25 when B teams are ranked number 1. There are definetely flaws with 
 the gameplay.. // 6
  
  The game is good if you're a basketball fan. If not then you won't like this game. It has given 
 me many headaches because at times it can be so unrealistic. My advice would be to rent it first. 
 If you survive the rental period with no headaches or thrown controllers, then this game is for 
 you. And i will commend you, seriously... let me know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamereviewer371
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 2:47 pm PT
Review:  NCAA Basketball is surprisingly good this year. The graphics are outstanding, and the game-play 
 is pretty good. One of the new features of this year's game is the new "set the tempo" feature 
 where you have to set the tempo, or else you will make a lot less shots, as well as you will create 
 many more turnovers. With the new "set the tempo" feature, it makes it more of a strategy game 
 than the past NCAA March Madness games. I would highly recommend this game to any sports fan or 
 college basketball fan. NCAA Basketball 09 is definitely worth buying and playing. I also think 
 that this year's game does a great job of portraying the true college basketball atmosphere. The 
 developers did a great job with the stadium graphics and the fan graphics, and they did a great 
 job with each team's student sections, as they had several different chants, and they were loud, 
 which helps show the true college basketball atmosphere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemo4444
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  Ncaa Basketball is a fun but sometimes frustrating game.
  
  In Dynasty, you can choose any school you wish, i chose North Carolina for example. The first year 
 i lose to the second round in the tourney to Butler. 92-65. That's where it gets frustrating. The 
 simulation does not make any sense at all. Pepperdine wins the national championship and Denver 
 is the #1 rank for the next years season. And playing UNC my second year i go 6-22 even though 
 being projected to win the ACC. The first 4 years can be a little confusing but after that, it 
 starts to make sense again. From what happened the earlier years, with Denver being so well, they 
 start to get recruits and i guess they are the next powerhouse... Well at my first four years at 
 UNC i had #1 recruiting class and #2 the year after that, so it takes a while for your freshmen 
 to start making an impact. Well now im 16-1 and its working out so far.
  
  Gameplay- The new tempo addition can be more of a challenge than something to be likeoh this 
 is fun..". You have 3 choices, up tempo, balanced or half-court. I prefer balanced because you 
 can do half-court and up tempo determining your teams opponent. It is incredibly hard to drive 
 the lane. Kinda impossible unless your on fastbreak. The gameplay is pretty fun i have to say.
 
  
  Graphics- They are pretty nice, but a lot of look- alikes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broskiii
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  So i havent played a EA sports basketball game since NBA LIVE 99. I've been deticated to the 2k 
 series and have loved all of them. However, I only really purchased this because 2K dropped the 
 ball and doesnt do college series any more.
  
  pros:
  
  This game is pretty good. I absolutely enjoy playing it. The graphics are great. Gameplay is fun. 
 Crowd response is good. I absolutely love the new feature on LIVE that allows you to see people 
 around you that are rivals to play them. that is clutch.
  
  cons:
  
  plays sometimes look fake
  players make weird impulse glitchy looking moves when shooting down 
 low
  online play so far has not been very smooth
  
  other then that
  this game is awesome
  I played it for a good 5 hours last night, and did not get sick of it. 
 the commentating is good other then them saying the same stuff about being the best senior in the 
 nation, and mentioning like a new person each game. 
  
  but again
  i definetly would reccommend this to friends. ea sports impressed me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucamet85
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I love college basketball. I have never been truly loyal to the 2K game or EA sports game, but 
 the last few years I have bought College Hoops 2K simply because it's been a better game. However 
 this year there is only one choice. The game is good. A lot of people assume because it isn't great 
 that it stinks, but really it's a good game. The graphics are amazing and the college basketball 
 atmosphere is definitely captured. Brad Nessler, Dick Vitale, and Erin Andrews do a good job of 
 background noise but in games where they are not featured (which can be quite a lot if you aren't 
 one of the top schools) you won't miss them. The game uses the NBA Live engine which vastly improves 
 the game. I'll start with what is good in the gameplay. The controls are fairly simple, calling 
 plays is also simple. My only problem with the controls is that when you do a direct pass, it doesn't 
 drop the icons as soon as you pass. This can be very frustrating if you are running a fast break 
 and you throw the ball down the court and as you press X to dunk your player chucks the ball to 
 your small forward. Or when you make a pass to a player getting open off a screen on the three 
 point line and when you go to shoot he throws it over to your shooting guard. The shooting system 
 is poor. It is too easy to master and whether you make a shot or not mostly depends on the skill 
 of the player, not how well you master the shooting controls. With adjustments to the fouls you 
 can get a more realistic type of game. If you go with the default settings you will actually have 
 times where you will only have a couple fouls in a 10-15 minute half. This kind of takes the steam 
 out of end of game scenarios if your opponent or you has to foul them 6 times to put them in the 
 bonus. I would definitely suggest turning up the frequency of shooting fouls as well as in air 
 collision fouls. The foul shooting system is kind of weird and took a little time to get used to, 
 but once you do it is actually incredibly easy to make free throws. The biggest change to the gameplay 
 is the new tempo meter. You basically choose whether you want to be a half court, up tempo, or 
 balanced team. If you are an up tempo team, you are expected to play pressure defense, force turnovers, 
 have short possessions, and get points on the break. On the other side if you are a half court 
 team you are expected to work the clock, take good shots, and play good fundamental defense. Obviously 
 if you are a balanced you have to play something in between. Straying away from your tempo is usually 
 a bad idea. If the tempo meter is not in the area that your team is set for your players ratings 
 will go down and it will be almost impossible to make a shot or stop the other team. So if you 
 are set to play as a half court team, you are going to be in trouble if you are playing like you 
 are Memphis or North Carolina. The tempo meter was a good idea that I think they just overdid a 
 little bit. It makes the game more realistic, but oftentimes is too severe and can just be annoying. 
 Dynasty mode is still obviously the biggest game mode. You can choose to start a dynasty with either 
 whatever team you want or whatever team offers you a contract, and some of the teams that do are 
 actually pretty good (Washington, Boston College, Iowa, DePaul) . Even if you do choose a bad team, 
 it's not that difficult to get them to the top. I made Central Michigan into a top 10 team in two 
 seasons. Why is it so easy to have success? The recruiting system is a little difficult to figure 
 out, but once you do, you can pretty much sign whoever you want. Besides that dynasty mode is just 
 playing with your team throughout the season. Along the way you will get alumni challenges like 
 winning your home opener or winning a nationally televised game. If you complete the alumni challenges 
 you will be rewarded with a new facility of your choice which will give a permanent boost to your 
 players ratings based on what facility you pick. But then otherwise the dynasty mode is not any 
 different from what you would expect. Try to take your team to the Final Four and so on. The game 
 features many of the early season tournaments which is pretty cool (Maui Invitational, NIT tipoff) . 
 Your first year things are pretty great. It's when you start going down the line in your second, 
 third, and fourth years that things start to get kind of weird. One, the player progression system 
 is seriously flawed. Tyler Hansbrough is the best player in the game when you start and his overall 
 rating is an 89. By my second and then third seasons there were over 20 players in the game who 
 had overall ratings above 90, even a couple who were as high as 97 and 98. Because of the way recruiting 
 goes, the mid majors get too powerful. I just think something is wrong when the top teams in the 
 country are Old Dominion, South Dakota State, and teams like that. Also if you are coaching a mid 
 major team and have success often times you wiill get invitations to join bigger conferences. Unfortunately 
 the game is not smart enough to actually invite you to a conference in your area. In a dynasty 
 with Holy Cross I got invited to leave the Patriot League and join Conference USA. In a dynasty 
 with Harvard I got an invitation to join the SEC. And with a dynasty with Central Michigan I got 
 invited to join the Big 12. Also, if you do choose to join a new conference, it looks pretty stupid 
 cause often times your uniforms have a conference patch which doesn't change and the conference 
 logos on your court also do not change. One other complaint I have is that there are too many good 
 teams. There are around 50 or more teams that have an A- ranking and very few that rank anything 
 lower than a B-. One fun thing is the game has plenty of classic team's, from last year's championship 
 winning Kansas Jayhawks, to Carmelo Anthony's Syracuse team, to the 2001 Duke team, pretty much 
 every team to win the NCAA championship in the last 50 years. It's kind of fun to see how certain 
 matchups play out (I had a blast playing with Patrick Ewing and 1984 Georgetown) , but eventually 
 it just becomes a side show. Overall, NCAA Basketball 09 is a good game. Not great, but if you 
 love college basketball I would definitely recommend picking it up. If you are just a casual fan, 
 I would advise on renting it first or waiting until March or April when the price drops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch13blitz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This game so far has been fun overall. I am a huge 2k fan and it still doesn't fill the void in 
 my heart but.. it will have to do. The tempo feature is something that i really like. If your big 
 into playing online or against other friends then i'm sure that you will really enjoy this feature 
 as well. If you control the tempo and play towards your style, your players will play better and 
 make more shots. 
  The historic teams are cool, but lets be honest, how many people will really play with all those 
 teams? not me, unless i want to see how good Larry Bird is from 3-point range. But you can play 
 online games with those teams but thats just not my style i guess.
  The free throws on this game are probably my biggest grip. its awful, sometimes its so hard to 
 actually see the bar. they really need to make it bigger or easier to see. I have a big t. v. and 
 i still cannot see anything.
  I'm just starting the dynasty, so I don't have too much to say about that except i wish it had 
 a legacy mode like 2k (thats the feature I miss the most)
  The rosters that come with the game aren't the greatest. Just in one team alone there is a starter 
 missing and a couple guys in the wrong class. and this is with a top 15 school, so its only going 
 to be worse with other schools. I'm still waiting for named rosters, hope to god that they are 
 good. Also there isn't any name recognition for the real names of the players.
  All of you who are 2k fans, give the game some time but hopefully it will grow on you. Its still 
 an upgrade from CH 2k8. The game play is different and frustrating at first but it will get better. 
 lets not forget all the problems that 2k8 had wrong with their game as well. At least rent the 
 game before you choice to hate it (and play it more then 2-3 hours)
  Finally Erin Andrews is Hot and you cannot see her (at least i haven't found out about a way) . 
 Come on! 
  7.8/10 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
