-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NCAA March Madness 07
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/ncaamarchmadness07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great-looking player models.
 Using the lockdown stick to D-up players works well.
 player and crowd emotion add to the college atmosphere.
 Freestyle control makes dribbling a breeze.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Absurd ball physics.
 Too few game modes.
 Not enough camera angles.
 Shoddy player AI.
 Too many fouls.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.0, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 280 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Jan 17, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Beneath numerous flaws there's a decent basketball game in March Madness 07, but you've got to dig 
 too deep to find it. 

  EA's March Madness series was a good, but never great, series on the original Xbox. It seemed as 
 if every year it would get a few new things right, but it could never quite get over the hump to 
 achieve greatness. Now, smack in the middle of the real college-hoops season, EA has brought the 
 series to the Xbox 360 for the first time. Perhaps EA should have waited a little longer than midseason 
 to release NCAA March Madness 07, as its many flaws taint an otherwise decent game.  

          Not all mascots are cute and cuddly.     

  March Madness 07 offers up just a few game 
 modes. You can play a quick game; participate in tournaments such as the NCAA tourney, NIT Season 
 Tip Off, or Maui Invitational; and take the reins of a college basketball program in dynasty mode. 
 There is no basic single-season mode, which is a large oversight since not everyone wants to deal 
 with the responsibility of running a program. Many of the game's menus are difficult to navigate, 
 and as an added bonus, it appears to be impossible to back out of certain screens. The tournament 
 brackets are poorly designed and remain blank until you select an individual game.  

  If dynasty mode is your thing, you'll find a lot to like here. Most of it will be familiar to veterans 
 of any college sports game; you'll need to recruit players, schedule games, and allocate resources 
 for training and game planning. And of course, there are the negative situations that real coaches 
 get to deal with -- players will break rules, athletic directors will bug you about your job performance, 
 and talented players will sometimes leave school early. One neat new feature is the school-pride 
 upgrades. The school's alumni will challenge you to accomplish goals such as winning your home 
 opener, recruiting certain player types, and winning televised games. Your rewards for accomplishing 
 these tasks will help your team and program improve, and they range from cheerleaders and pep bands 
 to new campus facilities like a study hall or practice gym. Hardcore hoops fans will be disappointed 
 to learn that teams do not have their official 2006-2007 schedules in the game, and they'll have 
 to manually craft their team's in-game schedule to match that of the real team. There's an NCAA 
 Tournament selection "show" at the end of the season, but it's nothing more than Dick Vitale and 
 Brad Nessler tossing out generic commentary over static screens showing the seeds.  

  March Madness uses the concept of team intensity and player composure to mixed results. Players' 
 composure will rise and fall based on how they're performing. The better they play, the more confident 
 they are, which makes them play even better; and if they stink up the joint, they'll probably continue 
 stinking it up some more. In practice, it's tough to notice any impact that player composure has 
 on the game, so you're better off not worrying about it. Team intensity is reflected in a meter 
 that slowly fills as your team makes big plays. Once you've filled a couple of bars, you can hit 
 the left bumper and press a direction on the right analog stick to have a player wave his arms 
 to fire up the crowd or pump himself up. When the meter is full and there's a break in the action, 
 you can unleash an impact moment. Once activated, you're able to dance with cheerleaders, interact 
 with the crowd, chest-bump teammates, and even get in the face of an opposing player. After you're 
 done with the theatrics, the crowd will be whipped into a frenzy (or, if you're on the road, they'll 
 be nice and subdued) , giving you a bigger advantage. Some people might find the impact moments 
 to be a little over the top, but they're integrated nicely; they aren't all that frequent, and 
 they're quite entertaining.  

          Shooting hoops while the game loads is a nice touch.     

  From a gameplay standpoint, 
 March Madness 07 is inconsistent. Just when you think it's getting good, some obnoxious flaw will 
 rear its ugly head and ruin the game. But there are a number of things it does well, and the controls 
 are one such example. March Madness 07 eschews NBA Live's three-button shooting scheme for the 
 friendlier two-button setup, where one button shoots and another performs dunks and layups. Live 
 fans will appreciate the inclusion of the excellent freestyle control, which lets you perform a 
 variety of dribbling moves with a flick of the right stick. Floor general play calling lets you 
 quickly choose an offensive or defensive play to run by tapping the D pad. There's even an overlay 
 on the court that shows you where you need to be. The lockdown stick is another nice addition to 
 the mix. When you're on defense, you can move the right analog stick in the direction of the player 
 you're guarding. This lets you play them closely, enabling you to prevent them from receiving a 
 pass, cutting to the hoop, or getting position down low.  

  The game does a great job of capturing the college atmosphere. Big schools have the stands packed 
 with crazed fans who will do anything to help their team win. Smaller schools have empty stands 
 and fans who are more apathetic to the on-court proceedings. Of course, there are cheerleaders 
 and pep bands to spice things up, and a number of the big-name schools have mascots going bonkers 
 on the baseline. Players will exhibit plenty of emotion -- they get hyped up after a monster dunk, 
 and they'll react negatively after getting whistled for a foul.     

  It's frustrating, then, that there are so many nagging issues to bring the game down, especially 
 when so many of them could be easily solved. Key among these is the absurd number of foul calls. 
 It feels as if a foul is called every time a player drives the lane, goes for a steal, or tries 
 to block a shot. They'll even get called when nobody is near the person with the ball. It's not 
 uncommon for there to be 20 fouls called in a game with five-minute halves -- that's a whistle every 
 30 seconds. Turning the sliders all of the way down lessens this problem a small amount, but both 
 you and the CPU will still be victimized by some questionable officiating. Another glaring problem 
 is the ball physics. It's assumed that all games are being played on Earth, which would lead you 
 to believe that the ball would perform, at least somewhat, like it has every time you've touched 
 one. But realism, gravity, and common sense have no place here. The ball will frequently change 
 directions in midair on its own, pass through solid objects, speed up for no apparent reason, and 
 even teleport from one place to another. This makes rebounding a futile endeavor, as there's no 
 way to tell where the ball's going to go. It also makes it rather difficult to take the game seriously. 

          Chances are good that there will be a foul called here.     

  As a matter of fact, the ball seems to be more intelligent than some of the players. They do a 
 nice job of running the floor on fast breaks, but it's a whole different story in the half-court 
 set, where they will literally walk around with their back to the action and stare at the crowd. 
 They also have a penchant for catching the ball when standing out of bounds. Your team does spring 
 to life when you call a play, but as easy as it is to call plays, it's not something you want to 
 have to do every time down the court. At least there's a way to get your players to play hard on 
 offense, because there doesn't seem to be any way to get them to play a lick of defense. The lockdown 
 stick lets you cover one player effectively, but this effort is usually for naught as your four 
 teammates let the other team do whatever they want. The lack of defense is frustrating when playing 
 the CPU, but it flat-out ruins the two-player game, as it quickly devolves into dunkapalooza since 
 you can just stand around at the top of the key until the opposing center decides he's had enough 
 of things and leaves your center wide open for a dunk.  

  At least the game is nice to look at. The arenas are gorgeous, and many of them are near-exact 
 replicas of their real-life counterparts. It's easy to get distracted by the way the hardwood reflects 
 the lights, the rotating advertisements courtside, or the team mascots. Even the generic courts 
 for the smaller schools look nice. The player models are outstanding, and though they aren't based 
 on real players, they're surprisingly realistic. It would be nice for there to have been a few 
 more body types, but the few that are here are detailed, if not a little too buff. As attractive 
 as March Madness can be, there are still a number of ways it could have been improved. The frame 
 rate isn't always smooth, and it could stand to be faster. Individual player moves and dunks are 
 top notch, but the transition from one move to the next is quite often nonexistent. At any given 
 moment, it's easy to spot some sort of clipping, be it the ball going through a player's head or 
 two players merging into a hideous two-headed basketball monster of doom. And while the small rotating 
 advertisements on the sidelines are fine, it's disgusting that players are subjected to an ad for 
 an insurance company that pops up in the middle of the screen... while the ball is in play!  

  Thanks in no small part to raucous fans, the inclusion of a number of fight songs, and a handful 
 of pep-band staples such as "China Grove", "Jungle Boogie", and "Funkytown", March Madness sounds 
 quite nice. Even the embarrassingly bad " (EA Sports) It's in the Game" song is good for a laugh. 
 However, there is one aspect of the audio that is sure to alienate a few people, and that is the 
 inclusion of Dick Vitale. To most of the college-hoops world, Dickie V's enthusiastic color commentary 
 is synonymous with college basketball, but to a small number of people, he's the anti-Christ. One 
 thing both camps will agree on is that he repeats himself here far too often, as does Brad Nessler, 
 who otherwise does competent play-by-play.  

          The Cameron Crazies don't really need much help getting amped up, but if you want to try 
 and get them to go completely insane, you can use an impact moment to do so.     

  Online play is limited, offering only ranked and unranked games. To add insult to injury, online 
 games are occasionally choppy, and even when they run smoothly, they quickly devolve into steal-and-dunk 
 fests. The game's 1,000 achievement points are spread out over 25 tasks and require you to reach 
 simple goals such as share a roster online, pump up the crowd, get 22 assists, and play an online 
 game. Those who covet points will be pleased to know you can get a good 600 to 700 of them in less 
 than two hours of play.  

  March Madness 07 isn't a bad game, but it clearly could have used more time in development. The 
 players and the courts look great, but you can only admire the graphics for so long before you 
 realize they're hiding some pretty mediocre gameplay. Like a talented yet inconsistent freshman 
 that hones his skills in the off-season, there's potential here, but the developers need to spend 
 more time working on the fundamentals.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Xbox 360-NCAA March Madness 07
  
  Review 150
  
  Released: January 17, 2007
  Publisher: EA Sports
  Developer: EA Canada
  Game Genre: Basketball 
 Sim
  ESRB Rating: E for Everyone
  
  Gameplay: 50%
  Graphics: 30%
  Durability: 20%
  
  Gameplay (4/10)
  I expected a lot more from a next-gen game, especially since the NBA Live 
 games have been so impressive. To begin with, the camera angle is insanely awful. The game is anything 
 but smooth, and there's a huge lack of reality. The default halves of 10 minutes are not nearly 
 long enough to get a full game's worth in. The new composure system is a great idea that was not 
 developed nearly as much as it should have been. I haven't even seen composure affect the team 
 yet.
  
  For examplethe first game I played, I used the Akron Zips. They have a decent team, but not tournament 
 quality. I played against the #8 Gonzaga Bulldogs. I won 67-27 with the default settings.
  
  As if that wasn't enough, many aspects of the game are just plain awful. The fatigue system 
 outright sucks. There is no fatigue on the default settings. I never had a player get tired. To 
 top that off, there is also no setting for automatic substitutions (which, with no fatigue there 
 is no reason to sub anyway) . The free throw system is way too easy, there are way too many fouls 
 and, as I mentioned before, a horribly inaccurate scoring system.
  
  Graphics (5/10)
  The graphics are also very lackluster. The camera angle (as I mentioned earlier) is very far away 
 and also switches when the ball reaches different areas of the court. This results in a lot of 
 disorientation that is nearly impossible to get used to.
  
  Durability (5/10)
  
  Overall Score (4.5/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  EA needs some competition in the NCAA basketball 
 market to keep them trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFrieden0928
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Flicking the right stick endlessly and crossing hordes of pathetic college players is what I have 
 been doing for the past day, that BS belongs in Last Gen. The game simply doesn't make any stride 
 for realism and simulation. The game plays at a lightning fast pace, but not in a good way. When 
 did these althetes attain superhuman abilites? I have never seen anybody in the NBA, Nor the NCAA. 
 Steal the ball 25 times, in 3 minutes and never miss a shot in the fast break, the game plays like 
 Live 03. which was good in.......2002. LOL. This is game is so poor that I can't even make a Actual 
 Literary Review for this. The graphics look like they belong on original Xbox, the Animations are 
 horrible and the players look like they are flexing on the floor. The College Atmosphere is here, 
 but its dragged down by too many problems, the game's load times are covered by up a Practice Simulation, 
 and takes about 45 seconds, The Create-a-player is too complicated and unfriendly. The controls 
 are simple but isn't intuitve and free as 2k, and the Dynasty mode delivers some enjoyment but 
 its still very blank. if you look deep into the game maybe you can find something satsfying, but 
 thats not likely gonna happen unless you have no knowledge of basketball, nor gaming. But the game 
 can be fun in an Arcade and comic mischeif sense, but you can't take this serious. some thing is 
 just wrong with EA. 2k destroys this crap in every respect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 23, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  If you ever played College Hoops 2K7 and afterwards gave NCAA March Madness 07 a try, there is 
 no way you could say anything good about it. Compared to College Hoops this game is trash. Everything 
 about it is worse, but mainly the look and feel of the game. NCAA looks like crap and the controls 
 are awful. I look at all of these reviews and people are giving this god awful excuse for a basketball 
 game 8.0 plus and I just wish I could know whether or not they have tried out the competition. 
 Apparently EA Sports believes all they have to do is put together some garbage and fans will support 
 it regardless of how terrible it is. NCAA March Madness is awful, and even picking this game up 
 just to get some easy achievements is out of the question because you can't stand playing the game. 
 If you want to play college basketball on you Xbox 360 stay away from this and pick up College 
 Hoops. Later &amp; Good Gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hgporto
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 18, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  If you're into fun, basketball, excitement, then this is your game! NCAA March Madness 07 for XBOX 
 360 is a great game! Gameplay is awesome, the crowd is insane! The mascots, school pride! The intensity 
 control is a great add too, very realistic and also a great boost to gameplay! Although, some minor 
 problems do not let me say that this game is perfect, like the ball physics, the graphics are great, 
 not perfect, and the AI is not one of the smartest. Still, a great must-have game that will keep 
 you busy for hours of extreme fun in the dynasty mode or online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Braelen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 21, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  how do you transfer your roster from this game to nba live 07. for example, i have a dynasty from 
 this game and i want to transfer my roster to my nba live dynasty so i can make all the 235 people 
 i created and put on a rating of 99 to be in my nba live dynasty if you know how to do this please 
 post on my text how to do this! please! please please please anyone, please help me out on how 
 to do this please. and i will thankyou on your  
 will win next year and for all the haters your team wont stand a chance from kansas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: habs1988
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 2, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  After playing both march madness 07 and college hoops 2k7 on the 360, i determined that mm 07 had 
 better graphics, especially in terms of stadiums and crowds (mascots, cheerleaders etc) . The environment 
 of the games was great, and very realistic. I also didn't find a lot of difference in gameplay, 
 to the contrary of what i had read beforehand. I also rather the freestyle control right stick 
 opposed to ch 2k7's shot stick. It is much harder to crossover and spin with buttons and shoot 
 with the stick as opposed to the opposite. Overall, better than i expected and just as good or 
 better than the 2k version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilsimon04
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, if your a college basketball fan then this is the game for you!! Excellent 
 graphics and features!! This game is definately a must have!! and it has every single college basketball 
 team in the country, not just all the well known schools! I also believe it is better than all 
 the other basketball games out but yet that is just my opinion, but if you buy this game then i 
 promise you that you will not be disappointed in it. To cut to the point, just buy the game it 
 is well worh the money you will spend on it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UNCCShannon
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 22, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  The heading should say it all. I got this game to change things up a bit b/c I have been playing 
 College Hoops for around 3 maybe 4 years and have not played any other EA Sports game except Madden. 
 Well this was by far a bad decision. I will give some pros/cons:
  
  Pros:
  -Awesome graphics
  -Floor general and the D stick are awesome
  -You have ESPN updates
  -Dynasty 
 mode is great
  
  Cons:
  -Fouls, fouls, fouls (and did I say fouls) . Just try to take a charge and see who gets the call. 
 It is ridiculous how awful the foul calling is in this game it just wants to make you sick sometimes.
 
  -Where are the coaches? I miss not seeing coaches like in College Hoops
  -Passing is a joke sometimes (You think you are passing to one person then it goes to a completely 
 different person.
  -I just have 2 words, Dickie V. I would much rather hear Bill Raftery talk about 2-3 zones with 
 man to man principles
  
  Those are just a few to get you started with but don't just take my word go out and rent both College 
 Hoops and March Madness and I am pretty sure once you get into the game play aspect of it you will 
 be choosing to opt out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BonesNFG
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 14, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I feel this isn't the best march madness but it is a great game to play. The graphics are good 
 and I like how you can interact with the crowd. They changed up the gameplay a little since the 
 march madness for regular xbox but it's still the same fun march madness. This game is a must own 
 for all college backetball lovers. I feel that EA always comes out with the best college basketball 
 games and once the rosters come out for this game it will make it complete. Definitly buy this 
 game if you like previous march madness games, you wont be disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Contrary to the reviews I have seen, NCAA 2007 is surprisingly good. Love the way the game plays 
 and the presentation of the Dynasty mode. Sure, like most games there are a couple of quirks. Most 
 of this do not detract from gameplay. The types of bugs you will find are things like some stats 
 not registering when you look at team stats. But again this is few and minor. As to the issue of 
 too many fouls .... well you can set the foul level to what you like. If you think the fouls called 
 are too many, just set them to a lower level. If you think you would like to play faster, set it 
 faster. Point is, the game is extremely scaleable. So, to the nay say I say go play again and this 
 time pay attention to all the features. To those that have not purchased the game but have put 
 it off becuase of these reviews, go buy it.... you won't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrycee
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  So far this game is better than NbA Live 07 ten times better. It doesnt match up again NBA 2k7 or 
 Collage Hoops 2k7. Im just so dissapointed in EA sports ,I use to love all there sports games but 
 for the Next Gen Consoles ,They did a very aweful job. Now that there will be a All pro football 
 guess i will stick with the 2K series ,It only makes sense ,they make better sports games.. This 
 Collage game feels like a real collage game but it feels really weird in the gameplay department. Shooting 
 doesnt still seem right and its hard to make a foul shot. Maybe next year EA will get better ,Im 
 not givin up on them completely yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Savages_Havic
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Well I gave this game a chance, and its just horrible in almost all aspects. There are a couple 
 of descent features in the game, but with the horrible gameplay combined with the glitches / flaws, 
 College hoops 2k7 is easily the best college basketball game out there. EA just isnt the same company 
 it use to be all its sports titles are pretty much 2nd rate to 2k series with the exception of 
 their hockey title. Its a shame you cant buy the rights for college teams or players or im sure 
 EA would have already bought the license and try to elimanate the competition because clearly the 
 2k7 sports series is the overall better company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_wrong80
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  Personally I think the game is still moving forward with improvements. The graphics are a big improvement, 
 from realistic facial expressions to the lifelike arena. The new defensive control is a great new 
 feature, but while playing I did get a little stressed out do to the numerous fouls the computer 
 was getting. The sounds are almost realistic, making you feel as if your actually watching the 
 game. I personally think the gameplay is better than the older brother NBA Live 07...... and I 
 do recommend it to anyone who loves basketball games I like it and I dont regret buying it.... 
 my grade: B+ -- A- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaughnvdg
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 25, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  EA, EA WHERE DID YOUR GAMES GO? It's a shame to see a great game maker go down the tubes. MM 07 
 is ok. CAN'T TOUCH College Hoops 2k7!! The graphics are pretty good but for some reason EA is lacking 
 in substance AGAIN. The lack of AUTHENTIC fight songs, attention to detail of player models (e. g. 
 NOAH from FLORIDA) and player movements is unacceptable for a product that is supposed to be made 
 by a PREMIRE game maker. If 2k can do it why can't EA do it. These guys are just in it for the 
 money and it seems like all their FANBOYS out there do is ACT like these games have the makings 
 of GREAT EA SPORTS GAMES OF THE PAST. I think this will be my last go round with the MM series 
 unitl they FIX IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramansingh3
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 25, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is revoultionary it shows what true college basketball is like. That your teammates have 
 to be involved and defense is key. This game plays like a college basketball game . There is no 
 one man show. One player won't be able to split the defense throughout the game. The playcalling 
 is great. The key to winning is playing great defense and calling plays. The defense is the most 
 unique I have ever seen much better than last years. Through the defense you can make big plays 
 like for example if a player is double-teamed it will be much harder for the player to pass the 
 ball and likely be a turnover. The college impact such as homecourt advantage is so real to the 
 NCAA game. The homecourt advantage will drive a burst towards your teams success if your on a role 
 and cause the away team some problems. The beginning similiar to NBA live on Xbox 360. While the 
 game loads you can shoot aroung and practice. Before you play a game you have options to play a 
 mini-game to give your team a boost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDDichard07
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 24, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  Good:
  Amazing graphics that really show what the XBOX 360 can do for a fast paced game such as March 
 Madness.
  Electronic Arts does a spectacular job recreating the feel of what it is like to be at a college 
 sporting event or even watching one on television.
  Dribbling and offensive controls are fairly easy, so newer players of March Madness can pick up 
 on the controls easily, while veterans to the game can come in ready to play but still be able 
 find and work on new strategies, with the free style dribbling abilities.
  Mascots, jerseys, arenas, and player models look terrific and really help the user get into the 
 game.
  Intensity Meter helps build the college atmosphere.
  Mini games in the loading screens really make the game that much better.
  Player composer meters 
 add a whole new element.
  
  Bad:
  The button to take a charge is also the same button to reach in/ foul with.
  Player intelligence 
 isn't the best and practically ruins the game.
  No real season mode that doesn't allow someone to just play through 4 years without controlling 
 every aspect of the team.
  Lack of game modes
  Fouls show up every 2 seconds and slow down game play immensely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyAl
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 24, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  Been playing since the game came out... I have yet to play dynasty mode but I have been playing 
 with a few small-time schools on play now mode. I like the small gym effects and it does add the 
 grittiness of not working out and taking the SAT's lightly therefore you are in the slum school 
 of Long Island/Brooklyn instead of chillin with the crazies at Duke. Where are the block shot animations? 
 Why does everyone shoot a like. Why are there 50 types of sneaker but no Big afro's or dreadlocks? 
 Why is there more excitement of taunting your player with the intensity meter 3 blocks full then 
 the impact moment ? Sure you don't really slide much like the previous games but tell me how I 
 can running towards the sidelines with the ball then all of a sudden it goes into a canned animation 
 of me squeezing through 2 defenders towards the basket (nice animation though) ? Thats the killer 
 for me in the long run. You have shoddy framerates that transfer into smooth animations... Its 
 real stupid to have your choppy ass frames running your man to the basket then convert into a smooth 
 a crossover then back to choppy... Remember the old baseball games that first bought motion capture.. 
 Remember how the animation of your man taking practice swings had a smooth flow then it would do 
 a visual click as he went back to his game framerate... that happens all day in this game... I 
 am just curious as to how the guys at EA sports can sleep at night knowing their very children 
 have EA games and poster all over the place and instead of drugs under their bed- they are probably 
 hording old 2k sports games in fear of losing parental trust. How do they feel around the office 
 knowing there is a company that is handing their asses to them on a yearly basis... With all of 
 that aside, there are a few things to like about this game... you do have a feel of satisfaction 
 of being able to hands-on control emotion... This is a concept I have wanted for years but it just 
 wasn't done completely right... Good Idea though... In 2K7 you don't control the emotion but you 
 can see it in how they play and feel it with-in... Your bench and your coach show emotion and without 
 gimmick names, it plays out better than MM07... I keep hearing about how great the player models 
 are... They are OK... I don't see the hype about it... I personally feel 2k7's models are more 
 true to form... The fact that MM07 didn't even attempt to switch up anything around different player 
 animations for individual players is down right insulting... I do appreciate that they have a verticle 
 attribute aside from dunk or block to determine how high a player jumps... Its kind of redunant 
 to me in 2k7 to have a 5' 8 guard that can throw it down on a 7 footer but barely leaves his feet 
 for a block shot or rebound if you have those set to low... Overall... MM07 is a decent game that 
 would have been lovely if the 360 weren't such a powerful machine and hadn't shown me that so much 
 more is possible then what I am seeing... If you need a fix for some fast play and a weak team 
 that will quietly and unskillfully cut your 20 point lead to 4 right in front of your face without 
 you being able to do anything about it... check out MM07... If you are looking for a better overall 
 game in which the same weak team will do the same thing but do it because you refuse to call a 
 timeout after you star player threw away 3 straight passes which lead to 3 long range baskets... 
 the play 2k7.... I will end with this... To all you old EA fanboys who admitted live sucks but 
 were too proud to try 2k sports, you have a reason to cheer and run to the store now because this 
 game is the best EA b-ball of next gen which in term is like being the smartest kid in special 
 education class... Peace... aL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alschlager
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 23, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  March Madness 07 does justice to College basketball and its fans. For the first time in years, 
 I can say that EA is definitely headed in the right direction in one of thier sports franchise 
 games. The gameplay alone is something that college fans will enjoy because of the realism. No 
 more 100 point games for your star player. EA did something that most fans of sports game have 
 been waiting for years. The ability of the computer AI to learn as the game goes on. If your star 
 point guard is able to drive down the lane for an easy bucket, he may not be able next time. After 
 a few cases of success, the chances are the AI of the computer will key on that play. For instance, 
 if my PG has scored 8 straight points, I will start to see double teams and less chance for my 
 player to make things happen with the same play over-and-over again. I got so frustrated with previous 
 versions of College basketball games because of the exploits and the ability to score whenever. 
 On the more difficult levels you will see more and more of this AI. If you are the type to get 
 ansty and want to score quickly, you will lose by 20 points. This game isn't for you if you don't 
 have the paceince for setting up an offensive play. In EA's first attempt on the 360, they are 
 headed in the right direction. There are a few bugs that GAMESPOT review did point out. In their 
 case, it was a major flaw and needed to be fixed before playing again. Personally, I felt these 
 flaws didn't outweigh the EXCELLENCE of everything else. In fact, I didn't even notice theese (minor) 
 flaws until GAMESPOT pointed them out. Everything else around you (stadiums, the crowds, student 
 sections, bands, the animations of the players) drowns out these flaws. But I do agree with GAMESPOT 
 that these flaws need to be corrected on the next version, but they do, in no way... hinder your 
 expereice in playing MM07. The Dynasty mode is as deep as ever, with the new unlockable upgrades 
 for your facilities, student sections, bands etc. This, like many of the previous versions, has 
 an excellent indepth in developing a coaches strategy and recruiting for the next year that could 
 potentially busy for atleast and hour between each game. If you are familiar with previous versions, 
 and you like how its setup, you will enjoy the improvements in the Dynasty. I am not sold on the 
 point system for rankings (AP 25 and Coaches Poll) but I will play a full season before deciding 
 on that. I will come back and update this review. The only thing its missing is the more presentation 
 of inbetween game. Maybe every Wednesday and Sunday night on the calendar have a Sportscenter show 
 to give more presentation value inbetween games. The Lockstick on defense was a NECESSARY addition 
 and can't beleive someone hasn't thought of it before this game. It has helped with the realism 
 on defense on stopping guards from driving the lane for an easy two. Obviously Centers have a tougher 
 time guarding a point guard but when you have someone just as quick as the person with the ball, 
 you won't see the overuse of the drive of the lane. I've heard some criticsm on the number of fouls 
 called. My personal opinion is that its just the right amount called. In every sports game, I've 
 always felt they do not call enough fouls/penalties during the game. I have my setting at 15 minute 
 halves which I feel is the PERFECT amount of time for realistic stats and gameplay. I recieve somewhere 
 between 15-25 calls on me per game. A good average is 20 a game which is REALISTIC. I haven't played 
 5 minute halfs so I can't comment if EA purposely increase the amount of fouls to keep stats realistic, 
 but at 15 minutes its PERFECT. Your typical college game you watch on TV will have 3 - 5 guys in 
 foul trouble which right there is 20 fouls between two teams. I've yet to see anybody foul out 
 of any game, so I think the criticsm is unwarranted and people are not used to the realism of a 
 basketball game. The post play in the game is one of the major plus points that I must point out. 
 The post play in this game is so realistic, I find myself using it more often than not. I just 
 love watching the guys fight for position. If you are playing against a excellent defender down-low, 
 you will see alot of intercepted passes. If your guy is dominating down low, you may see some dunk 
 action. But one thing is for sure, if its working often, you will start to see more double teams 
 on your big guys once they get the ball. Overall, This game is a MUST HAVE for College basetball 
 fans, and sports fans alike. If you were looking to play something similar to previous released 
 College basketball games which don't have the realism that this has, this game isn't for you. EA 
 does have a ways togo to be the perfect baseketball game, but it took a huge stride this year in 
 what I feel is the BEST SPORTS GAME on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altshauf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  ok, after getting some bashing on the boards, and some support in my pms i just want to clarify. 
 guys, i coached high school basketball last season. i played organized ball all of the way through 
 high school. the life that i have lived is a sports life. basketball was always first. people on 
 here may say that i am not a gamer because i dont play games like gears of war , halo , lost planet 
 , or lego star wars . just a sports freak. it is all i knew growing up. that is why a defending 
 this game so much. even if it does have (minor) flaws.
  
  I HAVE HEARD ENOUGH OF THE NEGATIVITY THAT I FINALLY HAD TO WRITE A REVIEW OF WHAT WE ARE REALLY 
 SEEING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  i dont get it. i just dont understand. bashing bashing bashing. what a joke! this game is exactly 
 what i wanted to be. THIS GAME IS AN EXCELLENT BASKETBALL SIMULATION. if you like arcade style 
 basketball then go play 2k7. gameplay is a 6 on gamespot? what abuncha idiots! people are upset 
 about turnovers because players jump in the passing lanes. WHAT DO YOU THINK PEOPLE TO IN REAL 
 LIFE? oh, you are going to pass it to the man i am defending diagonal across half court? i will 
 just let you have it. could you imaging what roy williams, bob knight, or rick pitino would do? 
 here is a crazy idea... if a man isnt open, then dont pass him the freekin ball!!!!!!! i love it! 
 if i screw up it makes me pay. the gameplay is the sole reason that i just cant play 2k7. it is 
 so unrealistic. have any of you ever played HELP SIDE DEFENSE? how about a multiple option, continuous 
 motion offense? probably not. you probably dont understand how the game is really played. one great 
 thing that ea has done is provided that multiple option offense. in 2k the game is designed that 
 on an offensive play you have one option. thats it. oh, and if you want to score in 2k then you 
 are going to score. if you want to you can put up 70 pts with one player. try doing that here. 
 i wont happen. you know why? it is more realistic. another great thing is the contiuous offensive 
 motion between the perimeter players. try this. bring the ball up with the point and work it around 
 . pass off to one of the two wings, and watch your point guard and wing trade positions away from 
 the ball as both posts on either block try to seal out to get position. B E A U T I F U L!!! THE 
 ONLY GAME THAT DOES IT. GUESS WHAT TOO! THAT IS THE WAY IT REALLY IS IN COLLEGE BASKETBALL. the 
 graphics are the main problem with the game. the character models arent great, but then again are 
 not terrible. i suspect that they will be a focus for next year. players do not sweat all that 
 much when their ncaa counterpart pours water from the pores. the courts look solid, but the fans 
 could use a little more work. then again, i would rather the gameplay be more realistic than the 
 fans. i am satisfied with the graphics. dynasty mode could be a little more fun. i personally do 
 not see the reason for starting out with kansas, kentucky, arizona, florida, or ucla in dynasty. 
 the dynasty was designed to BUILD a team from the ground up. i start off with teams like long island, 
 holy cross, centenary, towson, or portland state. BUILDING THE TEAM IS WHAT DYNASTY WAS MADE FOR. 
 i could see using your favorite team in play now, tournament, or online. dynasty is only 30 seaons 
 long, and i would like to see it more around 50 seasons especially if you only get to upgrade facilities 
 every once in a blue moon. personally i would like to see it a little easier to open up school 
 pride features. especially the ones that affect the atmosphere inside the stadium. the facility 
 upgrades are solid, but i dont know if you really need them. i would rather be able to design upgrades 
 to my arena that i can see . also, personally i think that it would be fun that instead of just 
 allocating points to watch a recruit that you could actually play or actually watch the game that 
 he is participating in that week. emails are a major annoyance when simulating from week to week. 
 i will say that at least the recruiting is not all messed up with contacting freshmen through juniors 
 in high school. that takes way too much time. i will say that i wish that it would clarify if you 
 are recruiting a highschool or junior college player. lastly, please make it easier to move around 
 in coaching positions. i like to BUILD.
  
  game modes? why would you want a mascot game? exactly, you dont! so they didnt put it in this year. 
 they have dynasty, tournament, online, and play now. now, create a team would have been superb, 
 but that is something i will be hoping for next year. also, could we bump up the rosters from 12 
 to 15. make the last 3 as walk ons for the year. (maybe a hold tryouts in the dynasty summer session. 
 but all in all, there are plenty of game modes. learning curve- i say around 30-60 minutes as far 
 as gameplay goes. the passing game is the toughest thing to learn since we have been spoiled passing 
 on the 360 with the 2k series. OVERALL- THIS IS SIMPLY PUT THE BEST BASKETBALL SIMULATION ON THE 
 XBOX 360. EA SHOULD HAVE CHARGED $70 FOR IT. AN EXCELLENT START, AND I CANNOT WAIT TO SEE WHAT 
 EA HAS IN THE FUTURE! *UPDATE* okay, so here are the biggest flaws
  edit players pre-dynasty - you cant edit players' attributes, but can edit their height, weight, 
 etc.
  fatigue- unlike live fatigue IS present in this game, but it really does not play a factor in the 
 game, as the impact is minimal. although, the cpu does sub at a beleivable rate. playing its top 
 8 or 9 guys (sometimes more) in the rotation.
  school pride- upgrading facilities is what really affects the ability to bring in a bigger student 
 section, crowd, more cheerleaders, and a pep band. you cannot go in and change them youself.
  dynasty movement-you dont really get to move around that much in this dynasty mode. personally 
 i like to move around and take over crappy teams to build them. you can only do this after your 
 contract is up in this game. player display- to me it really is not a huge deal, but i would agree 
 that i would like to see the name, number, or position directly underneath the player rather than 
 in a little circle in the bottom corner of the screen.
  stats overlay- i do get a little tired of the stats not showing up on the screen in game. especially 
 the foul situation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skihawks
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  --Graphics are outstanding. The arenas are alive, the scoreboards work, the crowd reacts intelligently 
 and the player models are solid.
  --Atmosphere -- This game definitely captures the atmosphere of college hoops.
  --Teams -- Every 
 1-A team is in the game
  --C. A. P. -- Ability to customize player faces (i. e. Tiger Woods) is excellent.
  --Animations 
 are smooth
  --Game modes -- Pre-season and post-season NIT and NCAA tourneys and a deep dynasty
  --Addition 
 of names catelog (ala 2K) makes naming players easy
  
  Cons:
  --Frame rate -- I don't care what producers at EA say, 30 FPS sucks. It makes the game appear herky, 
 jerky at times.
  --Fouls -- I like strategizing with players in foul trouble but way too many fouls called, even 
 at the lowest settings
  --Need more hair options in CAP
  --A. I. needs a little work but still a very challenging one-player experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I have not purchased an NCAA basketball game since 'Mello was on the cover. There have been great 
 strides of improvement since then, but like most EA games, this one seems incomplete.
  
  The game looks great. The graphics are nice with a great college feel to them. Most of the floors 
 I've seen are spot on for their real life counterparts, but the arenas don't seem to match up. 
 And to be really picky, all the cheerleading uniforms are the same, and my Arkansas State University 
 Indians still don't seem to have Red, our secondary mascot that's been around since 2002.
  
  The game have a great college atmosphere with cheering fans wearing the school colors, cheerleaders 
 and bands. This time around, the bands amazingly play something other than just the school fight 
 songs - just like real bands. To add to the fun, there's also a school pride rating now. Along 
 with more fans in the bleachers, you can impress the alumni to unlock new training facilities that 
 boost your player stats.
  
  The gameplay is great, though it doesn't play much different than my old 'Mello copy. A huge annoyance 
 is the play in the paint. You just can't do it on anything but the easiest difficulty level. If 
 you can ever manage to get inside, you'll be fouled before you can shoot. If you're forced to shoot 
 from the outside, you had better get the ball to someone with a high composure rating. Even then 
 though, it's iffy. This is especially true if the other team is working toward the next feature, 
 the impact moment.
  
  The impact moment is the first plus factor that doubles as a negative factors. As you do well or 
 poorly in the game, your players get + and - signs over their heads. Along with helping their composure 
 level, they help the team move toward impact moments. These are like the momentum swings in this 
 year's NCAA Football, but there's a finality to it. Your team gets a great boost while the other 
 team is negatively affected, but then the meter empties and you have to build toward another impact 
 moment.
  
  The bad thing about impact moments is the frequency vs. animation varieties. Between you and the 
 computer, you can sometimes get 10 impact moments in one game. When you get the meter built up, 
 you wait for the ref to blow the whistle and then trigger it with the left bumper. You then move 
 your player around to varied parts of the court to interact with your teammates, opposing players, 
 the crowd, the band, or the cheerleaders. It seems like EA only created one animation for group 
 you can interact with. And again, with up to 10 interactions in one game, these can quickly get 
 old.
  
  Another plus/minus factor is the new free throw system. The minus is that the game explains how 
 to use it at the first foul of each game. Along with that, the game displays it so fast that you 
 can't read it all until you've seen it several times. With the new system, you pull the right thumb 
 stick down to start the shot, then after the ball gets to the player's forehead, you push the stick 
 up to complete the shot. Keep it stead and straight up and down, and you'll make it.
  
  Probably the worst thing about the game, next to frequent lock ups, is the half-ready recruiting 
 system. There is no real way to narrow the recruiting field down except to choose by position. 
 The only way to sort through them is by name, offensive skill and defensive skill. There is no 
 way to sort by interest in your school, so you have to sort through each player individually to 
 find out if they're interested at all in playing for you.
  
  And again, the game crashes. I've had mine crash about twice as many times as I've been able to 
 finish a game. I'm going to try to trade the disk for another copy, but I hope you have better 
 luck that I do.
  
  Overall, this is a good game with a good college feel to it. You may want to rent it first though. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
